So we're gonna kind of go into a new uh Sunday school class. This Sunday school class is gonna be about suffering. So we're shifting from holiness. and now moving to suffering. There might be some relationship between the two, but that was uh merely a coincidence. So today we're going to examine suffering from the macro level. In the subsequent classes, we will examine it in more details. So beginning with the good news, we are rapidly approaching the end of all of our suffering. And even we are rapidly approaching the end of the possibility of any suffering. This is quite literally our last chance to suffer. Now I'm sure that many of us are very happy about this fact. If we have repented of our sins and put our trust in Jesus Christ as our only means of salvation, In just a few short years, we'll be in a place that is beyond suffering, beyond sin, beyond brokenness, and beyond despair. We will understand completely all that God has done, and we will know that it was for good. In fact, we'll not only know that it was for good But we will come to see that it was for our good. See the distinction I'm making? Not only is it for good, just out there in general, bringing God glory, and that's all wonderful and and good, and we'll talk about that. But we'll also come to realize that the suffering and the pain and the misery that happened in our lives was for our good And this is one of the wonderful things that um many theologians have been bringing out, especially as of recently, is that there is not this juxtaposition or dichotomy which Between God's glory and all good. We often get into that kind of debate. Some people focus on all good, some people focus on God's glory. But really, if you think about it, it comes together And in Deuteronomy, God says, keep the commandments and the statutes of the Lord, which I'm commanding you today, for your good. You see that? The commandments of God are for your good. So we're going to see that not only has our suffering resulted in the great the greater good of the universe, but it actually resulted in our greater good as well. We will see that God's grand design uh excuse me, we'll see God's grand design, and our lips will be full of praise. We'll be glad that the suffering is over, but we will not be glad, uh we'll put it differently, that we will We will thank God that we went through the suffering. From the grand perspective, right? We'll say, Praise God, I'm so glad that I'm not suffering anymore, but I'm glad I went through it. Because you had a design plan that it was for our good. We'll see God's grand narrative and marvel at the beauty. Think of it this way. The Bible talks about that everything we do will be recorded in a book Right? And usually that's in context of judgment. Sometimes rewards as well. But what I'm what I'm arguing here is that we all have a book. And not it's not just full of the bad things you did and and the good things you did, but it's full of your story Okay? And and when we see God's grand design individually, it'll be a book that we won't want to put down. We'll read that book and see the Not only will we see the book of our lives and see it's uh a wonderful tapestry of what God's doing in our lives, but we'll see the story of the grand narrative of history. And we'll say, this is a wonderful story. We'll want to not put it down. And we'll also look at other people's lives and be very interested in their stories. Even now, many Christians recommend, and I do too, picking up a good Christian biography. Right? Because it's encouraging. You see their pain, you see their struggle, and then you see what God was doing in that. And it's very encouraging for us. And what I'm saying is that's a grand narrative truth, and many of us will never find our way in uh into a biography But you have biographies and have it, and they will encourage people for all of eternity. Since we know that life is like a vapor and is here today and gone tomorrow This means that for the vast majority of our existence, we will not live by faith, but we will live by sight. We now see in a mirror dimly, but then we will see face to face. Now we know in parts, but then we shall know we shall know fully, even as we have been fully known. In heaven we will understand how it is that God can be both good and sovereign And have yet and yet have allowed evil to happen. We'll see evil in the world in general and the people of God in particular and understand what God was doing in all of us. this. So again, right now we live in uh faith. We don't we can we don't really understand things. Right? It's actually really interesting we go into Isaiah. Um the diff di Isaiah is constantly contrasting the true God from the false God. And one of the more famous uh contrasts he makes is that the false gods cannot predict the future. They don't know the future. The true God is the only God who knows the future. Unfortunately, we have some Christian theologians who are currently trying to deny that fact. But again, I just point you to Isaiah. That was the actual test of the difference between the true God and the false God. On a side note, if you study other religions, what you'll come to realize is the Bible is the only religion that predicts the future. It really is. Or at least predict the future accurately and specifically. None of the other books have prophecies Right? They dare not have prophecies because they've been shown to be false prophets. In fact, some of them do, like Joseph Smith, then he has been shown to be false prophets. But anyways, I digress. Only God knows the future Well, interestingly enough, in the same context where God says, I am the true God, only I know the future, he also says in that context, and only I know the past. It's weird. Like, what do you mean God only knows the past? I know the past. Everybody plenty of people know the past. Unless you have like amnesia or something, everyone knows the past. What's going on here? Why would that be a test of of the true God versus the false God Well, the true God is the only one who can tell you why the things happened in the past. Right? Historians are always wondering why did this happen? And what is the grand narrative? And where is this all leading to? What's the significance of the events today? We're always wondering that, right? What's the significance of the Obama administration becoming president? What happens if this? Why did all this happen? We don't know. And it takes years and years to figure out the full significance of an event. But what I'm saying is even when we get the glimmer, we won't fully understand until it is revealed. But one day we will Come to fully understand. One day we will no longer see in a mirror dimly, but then we will see face to face. We will no longer know in part, but then we will fully know as we have been fully known. That's incredible. As we have been fully known by God, so we will fully know our lives, fully know each other, fully know God. So in heaven, we will not only understand why evil has happened in the world in general, but we will understand why evil has happened to the people of God in particular, and on a more personal level. We will know why God allowed suffering and pain in our own lives and in the lives of our loved ones. If you've ever been around someone who's suffering, if you've ever been someone suffering yourself, one of the most terrible things about the the experience is a sense that it's totally gratuitous. That there's absolutely no meaning to it. That if if I wasn't going into this suffering, I would be better off. See, this suffering is just something, a trial that I'm going through, and I just want it gone. Does anyone experience that? I just want this thing gone. It's of no benefit at all But the the the the the truth of Christianity, the truth of the Bible, is there is absolutely nothing that is gratuitous. That yes, I'm not saying that we should not want suffering, but to simply say this is meaningless suffering that has no purpose whatsoever. I want it gone. It's just not true. I don't like this other people. God always answers our prayers in ways that we would agree with him if we knew what he knew Right? If you knew what God was doing, if you knew what he knew, you would understand your suffering. And one day you will. There is no such thing as gratuitous suffering. God is working wonderful things in our lives. We just have to believe it. So, while we remain on earth, so that's a grand narrative. That's what we're getting when we come to see fully God's plan But while we remain on earth, we live in this tension because we don't know. It does seem gratuitous. We're not sure why God is allowing these things in our lives, or allowing these things in our loved ones' lives. So we we live in this tension of trying to figure out how does our experience of suffering and pain and heartache relate to the character of God. How could God love me and allow these things to happen to me? Do you see that you see the uh you see what I'm saying? That we live in that tension, right? We know that God is loving. We know that God is kind. We know that our pain is not gratuitous. But then we try to figure out, well, how does that relate to this pain and heartache? This suffering that I'm going through. What's going on here? It doesn't seem like if God really loved me, or God was really kind, or God really had a great plan for my life that I would be going through this pain. This is called the problem of evil on an individual level, on a macro level, which we're going to uh primarily focus on today, so kind of give you a taste of what's going to happen. happen. I'm going to primarily be focusing on the macro idea of evil. And I'll explain that in just a second. In the future classes we're going to be primarily focusing on the micro level of evil. uh what's going on in my life and how do I deal with it, how do I have a right perspective. So what's the macro? We talked about the micro. That's how is it happening to me in God as a good and loving God. But the macro level of the problem evil goes like this If God is all good, all love, omnibenevolent, and he is all powerful, omnipotent, then evil would not exist. So if there's an all-loving God out there And there is an all-powerful God, then evil could not exist. That's how the problem of evil goes on the macro level. And the question is why? And the argument goes something like this, because if he was all good, he would not want evil to exist. And if he was all powerful, he would not allow evil to exist. So since evil does exist, God must either be not all good or not all powerful. That that's that's the argument of the problem of evil. If you haven't uh run across this, well I'm glad you are running across this with me in a safe environment. So we can deal with this. But this is a very common objection. In fact, this is probably this argument dates thousands of years and uh is probably what was usually thought of, some people would even say it's the Achilles heel of theism I definitely don't believe that. But it is argued that way. This is the single strongest argument that you're going to encounter out there, and even atheists themselves say this, against theism, against the idea of God. So how should we respond to these things? At first it seems quite plausible. There's nothing that seems immediately fallacious about the argument, especially if you've heard it, this is the first time you haven't heard it There doesn't seem to be anything immediately fallacious that seems to be actually quite plausible. So the question is, should we all just pack up our bags and go home? I hope not. Consider Paul's words in Colossians chapter two. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you, and for all who have not seen me face to face, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love. to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is in Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. So unpacking this, notice that Paul struggles greatly that every believer, whether he has met him or not, would be encouraged We 'll be knit together in love and to reach all the full assurances of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery which is in Christ. What does he want? He wants us to be united He wants us to be encouraged, and he wants us to come and understand the full assurance of the mystery of the knowledge of God which is in Christ. So how is Paul going to accomplish this mighty task of edification of believers? Does he point to some brilliant or profound argument? Does he come up with an argument that's the defeater of all defeaters that just can't be stopped? Is that what he's going to do? No. Rather, he points to Christ. He says concerning Christ In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And if you're curious where I'm at in Colossians, that's Colossians 2, chapter verses 1 through 3. Okay. But uh concerning Christ, again he says Christ is in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Jesus Christ is the storehouse of all wisdom, truth, and knowledge. You need go no farther than the bosom of Christ to get everything that you need. As someone once said, all truth is God's truth. I'm putting it differently, all truth can be found at the bosom of Jesus Christ. So if we rest on the foundation of Christ, we will not be moved As the wind blows and the storm wak rages on our house, we will stand because we're built on the rock, which is Christ Those who try to build on any other foundation are building on the sand. And when the same wind blows and the same storm comes, they will not be able to stand We all go through the storm, but some of us have the rock Christ, and some of us have any other foundation which is merely sand, and the house will tumble Let us never forget, what we win people with is what we win them to. Are we winning people to Christ or are we winning people to something else? Or put it more personally, have we been one to Christ or have we been one to something else? Something else. Again, if you've been one to something else, you're on a shaky foundation because the only foundation for the believer is Jesus Christ. And what am I talking about and what does this have to do with evil? Well the reason that this is important, because again, at the end of Paul, you gotta see what this Christology and what does it have to do with anything? Well you have to look at verse 4. Why does he bring up Christology? Why does he bring up That Jesus Christ is the foundation of all knowledge. Colossians verse 4. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. This Christology has a purpose, right? The purpose is that Jesus Christ is where we gain our knowledge. He's our foundation, foundational truth. Presuppositional, apologetics, or presuppositional anything. Our presupposition is Jesus. And if you're founded on Christ, you won't be persuaded by plausible arguments. Now if you were here with us when John preached this uh passage, he emphasized the fact that it says plausible arguments. Notice it doesn't say ridiculous arguments. Or silly arguments or foolish arguments, if that's plausible, reasonable, convincing. And the fact of the matter is we often caricature other people's positions because we just don't know them But once you any position that's a widely held position is plausible. That's why it's widely held. Right? You if you don't understand their view and it's not plausible to you, that's because you're an outsider looking in Once you come and understand their view and understand a few things, you will find it's plausible, especially if you adopt certain presuppositions and all kinds of things. But my point is, if you always think that the other view is implausible, you're gonna have a real problem. Because one day that bubble will break. And one day you'll realize that the other side wasn't quite as absurd as you thought So, but but that should be no problem for us, because here we have in the text the Bible already tells us that the opposing view are plausible. The fact is they're not true. And the only way we can know this is if we're anchored on the rock of Christ so that we cannot be led astray. So before I deal with the problem of evil, I want to stress our proper attitude should be when we encounter any problem So before we go particularly into evil, let's just think about what should we do as we encounter any problem of our faith and what we see in the Bible and what we are hearing. The question is, are we going to suspend our faith until the problem is fully resolved? Or are we going to trust that there is a solution until we find it? Or are we going to trust God even if we don't find that solution at all? So here's what I'm saying. Here you are walking around not having any problems. Never heard of the problem of evil. You weren't thinking about the problem of evil. Then you show up in this class and now I'm bringing you this problem of evil, right? And you just wonder what do you got there? Maybe you don't have much Okay? What do you do in that situation? That could be the problem. It could be anything. It could be anything out there. You can be a college student and hear uh whatever. You see what I'm saying? Hear something that's opposing your Christian beliefs What are you going to do? Are you going to suspend your faith and say, you know what, I'm not sure if Christianity is true anymore. I'm going to wait until I can resolve this issue to decide whether I'm going to be a Christian. Are you going to do that? Right? Or you're going to suspend your judgment and say, you know what? I may not be able to answer this objection. I've never even heard it. Or even I have heard it and I don't have a good answer yet. But you know what? I know Jesus Christ. I know that he is the truth, he is the way, and that no one comes to the Father except through Him. And so even though I can't resolve these issues, I know my Savior and I know that He was And so my faith is rock salt. That's what I'm saying. That that's the that's the reality that we have. Because if you don't have this foundation, you will if you live long enough and your head is not in the sand completely You will eventually hear something that you don't know immediately how to answer it. Now fortunately, there's really no new objection. And so if you're patient enough, you usually can find the solution. But what I'm saying is be solid on Christ. Trust in Christ. Our our faith should not be based on our ability to demolish arguments, but it should be based on a personal relationship with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We should have our faith based on our personal experience of tasting that the Lord is good, having a personal experience of being regenerate by the Holy Spirit. And having God testifying in our hearts that we are, in fact, children of God The first question that we should always ask when we're dealing with a problem and we don't yet currently see the solution is what do the scriptures say? A passage in Isaiah perfectly illustrates this. We read Why do you inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter, should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living, to the teaching and to the testimony, and they do not speak according to this word, it is because they have no done. So what so what's going on in our passage? What's going on is that Isaiah is condemning the peop is the people of God at that point, right, his contemporaries, because when they're trying to gain knowledge, they're going to these necromancers and they're going to the mediums. They're trying to get knowledge from these. And actually we have a famous example of someone doing that. Um and his name is of course Saul. You remember that? He's not getting an answer from God, so what does he do? He goes through a medium, a necromancer, and they call up Samuel. You remember the story? Right? And he's ultimately condemned. What's really strange though? Is that remember that Samuel tells him that he's gonna die in the battle? And he's like really messed up about this. He doesn't want to eat, right? But then he still goes out to the battle It's just so weird. Like why would you go out to the battle? You wouldn't catch me there. Anyways, it makes me wonder if he even believed it. That's what I'm trying to get out there. But the point being is We're not to inquire me uh to mediums and necromancers. We're not trying to go to these other sources, right, when we really should be inquiring from our God Now most of us aren't going to mediums. Somebody's going to them because there's one down the street from me that has a little sign out there and it's still up there. Somebody's going to them, but hopefully none of us are going to them But the the applications can be still brought to us. Why? Because the the principle being here is there is certain knowledge that we can find in the scriptures that we shouldn't go and look for outside sources for. We should go to the scriptures. Now, this is not saying that we cannot use Google. Google is fine. There are plenty of things that aren't in the Bible that the Bible does not address that we can go and talk to our managers or anybody else about But the thing that the Bible does address, we should go and find out what do the scriptures say instead of going to these other sources. What what we can d derive from this, or what is just usually called, is sola scriptura. And it's a reformation principle, but as we see from the our Bible passage here, it's not a reformation principle really. It's a Bible principle that's a reformation affirmed. So what do the scriptures say? Jesus in his high priestly prayer said, sanctify them in truth. What's truth? Remember Pilate said that? What is truth? Well here's the answer. Your word is truth. And as you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. Sanctify them by truth. Your word is truth. Right? What's the truth? What's the foundation of all of our knowledge? It's Jesus Christ. There's no coincidence that Jesus Christ in him is hidden all the the wisdom and knowledge of God. And then he's also called the Word. Jesus is the Word He's the word made flesh. The point being, though, is we need to be sanctified by the truth, and we can find the truth in and through his word, because his word is truth. What I like about this passage Now also is the the latter part of it says, and you sent me into the world, and so I have sent them into the world. You see what's going on here? As the Father sent the Son into the world with uh with his orders and his mission. And Jesus was the word, and Jesus had the word full flowing through him. We saw that last time when we was battling Satan, right? He was always quoting the word. When he was battling the Pharisees and the Sadducees, he's always what do the scriptures say? Jesus, the word, is always using his word. It's wonderful. But as the Father sent him into the world to accomplish his mission, it so says that also the Son had sent us into the world as his ambassadors. And how are we going to accomplish this? Right? Go therefore into all the nations, baptizing and making disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. How are we to accomplish this? How are we to fight the world, the flesh, and the devil? Sanctify them by your word. It's through the word. That's why it's the the armor of God, the sword, is the word of God. He sends us out with our equipment for those who have military backgrounds. God doesn't send us out there without a gun He sends us with armor and with a gun, and that gun is the word of God. That's how we discern the truth. The God who cannot lie has given us a word that cannot err. It is this word that God has equipped us to attack the world, the flesh, and the devil. Therefore, as we ta as we endeavor to take every thought captive. And bring into submission every false doctrine, we must first determine what do the scriptures say. So let's examine the problem of evil and their three premises. What are the three premises? God is all love, God is all powerful, and there is evil. Those are the three premises. Well, does the scripture say that God is all love? Of course it does. The scriptures declare, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. It tells us God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. It tells us, and every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change The scriptures is absolutely clear. God is omnevolent. God is full of love and God is full of goodness. He is holy, holy, holy, holy. Right? We are not holy. He is completely and wonderfully holy. There is no darkness in him. He cannot change. He is unchangeably good. Not only is he good, he will never not be good. And he never was not good. Scripture repeatedly and clearly teaches us that God is good. So what about God being omnipotent? What about God having all power? Well the Bible declares that God created the heavens and the earth merely by speaking it into existence. This kind of power is unfathomable Can you imagine? Just being able to speak that which does not exist into existence? It's unbelievable to conceive of it. Everything was spoken by God into existence out of nothing. Ex nihalo Jeremiah describes this act of God's creation in this way. Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and outstretched arm. There is nothing too hard for you. to do. See what's going on here? He's looking, Jeremiah is looking and saying, You created all this? What could you not do? This is this is the high You could do this, you could do everything. Job declares, I know that you can do all things, and no purpose of yours can be thwarted. The angels for all of eternity will declare, hallelujah, salvation and power and glory belong to our God. And if that wasn't good enough. Revelation says, describes God as the Lord our God, the Almighty, Almighty, Omnipotent. God is omnipotent. There's no question that the Bible declares that God is omnipotent. Now Okay, I must say this. Real quick about this idea of omnipotence. Don't get confused about this. When it says that God is all powerful and he can do anything, that means that God can do all things that are possible. Just have to throw that out there because people always get these absurd things. Could God, who is all powerful, kill himself? No. That is a contradiction. That is absurd. He cannot do that which is absurd You cannot have a married bachelor. You cannot have a circular square. So that's just a little caveat. When we think about God being all-powerful, we think that God can do all things that can be done, not things that cannot be done. Sorry, I just had to clarify that. Alright, keep going. God is all powerful. God is all good. What about evil? What does the Bible say about evil? Does evil exist Well, even a cursory reading of the scriptures reveal that evil exists. The entire narrative of the Bible is built around evil entering into God's good creation at the fall, and Jesus Christ Coming to destroy the works of the devil, coming to destroy death, hell, suffering, and bring in a new and everlasting place where peace and word and virtue and holiness reigns. You cannot make sense of the Bible If it's all an illusion, if evil doesn't exist. Furthermore, just thinking logically, if evil ex is all an illusion, then that illusion itself is evil It's evil to delude people and think that evil exists when in the fact it's not. So you have a logical contradiction. Evil must exist because we experience it. Even if it was an illusion, that illusion itself would be evil Okay. So we see from the Bible that the Bible clearly tells us that God is all loving, that He is all powerful And that evil does exist. So the atheist has told us that God cannot be all these three things cannot coexist. God cannot be all good. God cannot be all powerful. uh also exists. But the Bible tells us God is all good, God is all powerful, and evil does exist. Who are you going to believe? Are you going to believe the atheist or are you going to believe the Bible? Hopefully you will believe the Bible. Hopefully, you will not walk in the counsel of the wicked, you will not stand in the way of sinners, and you will not sit in the seat of scoffers, but you will delight in the law of the Lord, and on his law you will meditate day and night. You will put your trust in God's infallible word instead of your fallible thinking, and uh you and your house will serve the Lord and trust Him. So, even if we were in a position where we had to affirm these three facts, which we we actually are in that position, but we couldn't understand how that could possibly uh they could possibly coexist Right? Even if we couldn't reconcile the issue is what I'm getting at. This should be enough for us to rest our faith in Jesus Christ. We know the premises are true, we know all three exist, and we know that they must be able to be compatible somehow, even if we can't figure it out. should be sufficient. Fortunately, we're not in the position of simply saying, I know they must be compatible, but I don't know how. And we're going to look at how these things, how these things can be compatible in just a moment. But I want to show you this idea of even if we can't figure out the solution, we can still trust in God. I want to show you my favorite example of this, and it's from Matthew chapter 22, starting in verse 23. So please start on your Bible there. It's Matthew chapter 22. Starting in verse 23. We're going to see how we can do that, how we can believe God and yet not understand some things. And actually have some real problems. So that's Matthew 22, starting in verse 23. I'm going to begin reading. The same day, Sadducees came to him who say that there is no resurrection And they asked him a question, saying, Teacher, Moses said, if a man dies and has no children, his brother must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. Now, there were seven brothers among us. The first married and died, having no offspring, and left his wife to his brother. So to the second and the third, down to the seventh. And after them all, the woman died. In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her. Now we're all familiar with the story. Hopefully, we're familiar with the story, and we automatically hear Jesus' answer. And unfortunately, because we're so familiar with the story, we often miss what's actually going on. We often think the Sadducees again with caricature, they're a bunch of idiots, they don't know what they're talking about. Jesus is gonna school these little children. Okay? That's you totally if you think that then you you missed it. And we need to d get rid of Jesus' answer for a second and really understand what they're wrestling with. And their argument goes something like this That the resurrection cannot be true, because if the resurrection is true, then all kinds of absurdities follow from that One of the absurdities would be that we have in the the law of God that it's called leverant marriage that God commands in certain situations when no offspring is produced. That the brothers continue to marry the woman. That's God's command. In fact, a guy was killed in the Old Testament for being inappropriate in his levered marriage vows. This is serious stuff. This is God's command. You must do it, okay And so you must uh one guy dies and the next guy is obeying God and marries her and he dies and so forth, off of the seventh. And so if the resurrection is true Then this cannot be the case because then she'd be married to all seven men. You can't say, well, the other six were illegitimate because they they were legitimate. They were commanded by God. So this is a real problem And so you can just imagine that the Saraces were going around asking all the Pharisees and all the Bible believers of their day, how do you fix this problem? You've got to think. What would you answer? Now you might again want to pull out Jesus' answer again and say, well, there's no marriage or given in marriage in the old uh in in the resurrection. The problem is where in the Bible does it actually say that Where do you find the text of the Bible that says in the resurrection they will not be given in marriage? You only find it one place, and it's here So before Jesus uttered these words, you wouldn't have had that solution. You would have only had the problem. Now the Sadducees should have believed God's word. Why? Because God clearly tells us that He clearly tells us that there is a resurrection. Isaiah twenty-six says, Your dead shall live and their bodies shall rise. You who dwell in the dust awake and sing for joy. For the dew is a dew of light, and the earth will give birth to the dead. So we clearly see the resurrection in Isaiah twenty-six. Daniel twelve is even more clear. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt And those who will uh those who are wise shall be shall shine like the s the brightness of the sky above, and those who turn many to righteousness like stars forever and ever. So clearly in the Old Testament It's clearly revealed that there is a resurrection. So I showed you the problem. I showed you that the Bible clearly tells us that there's a resurrection. But let's look at Jesus' answer. This is found in verse 29. But Jesus answered them, You are wrong, because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels in heaven And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God? I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. So you can see how politically correct Jesus was. He was not beating around the bush. He clearly tells them, you are wrong. You're wrong. You're spot out wrong. And what is the reason why they are wrong? Two reasons are given. The first is you don't know the scriptures. The second is you don't know the power of God. Two reasons. You don't know the scriptures, you don't know the power of God So what's the solution? So well we don't have to hear these words from Jesus. You're wrong. We need to know the scriptures and we need to know the power of God. And then we won't be like these Sadducees Now you you have to again wonder why why does Jesus so once he gives those two reasons, you should have believed the Bible. What's embedded into those uh those reasons is that you should have known the Bible And you should believe the Bible. Because when the Bible speaks, you're commanded to listen. They would have known the scriptures, they would have believed it, they wouldn't have been wrong. The second thing is what's embedded in that idea of you don't know the power of God is you have limited the Almighty. You you're thinking that God can't get around your little problem. God who created the universe, God who gave you intelligence, He can't get around your problem? You have limited God's power. You believe God's word even if you don't know the solution because God is bigger than you And God knows the solution, and he's not obligated to tell you the solution. So don't it's just amazing to me how we think that if we don't know the answer, God doesn't know the answer. It's incredible. It's incredible arrogance to think that. And that's what the Sadducees did. And that's what many do to God today. They can't figure out the answer, so there must not be an answer. And even God doesn't have an answer. That's wrong. So then Jesus finally shows them in the scriptures, he points to the present uh tense verb of the verb to be, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, showing them that even in the Torah, even in the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Old Testament, they should have known that God was in fact a Um to God of not the living, of God not of the dead, but of the living and the resurrection was biblical. Now again, why does he point to uh why does he not point to Daniel twelve? Why does he not point to Isaiah twenty six and other scriptures? Why does he point to the the present term present tense of the verb to be? It's because the Sadducees, like all heretics after them, or almost all heretics after them, had a revised canon. They they decided, you know what, we don't really like uh all the other books besides the first five books We still want to be considered Jews and Orthodox and followers of Yahweh, so we we can't throw out all the Bible. But you know these first five books are not nearly as uh problematic for us. And so we we like these books. And and all those other books, the Psalms and the Proverbs and all no, we don't want that Too much stuff about not loving money and all that stuff's not good. We're not doing that. So they had a revised canon. And so Jesus, the master teacher, which is incredible, he said, you know what, even with your revised canon, I'll still show you that you're false that you're wrong. Otherwise we can do this with Jehovah's Witnesses. They've corrupted their Bible and the Bible's a total distortion. But the amazing thing is they haven't distorted it enough. And you can actually even point to um you can even point to their scriptures and still prove the deity of Christ comes. It's really amazing. Scott is the same thing uh going on here with Jesus. So what's the point that I'm trying to bring out in all of this that we need to believe the word of God and what the scriptures teach even if we can't fully explain the answer. These people back then didn't have the answer to the problem. Now they could have speculated, right? I'm sure somebody out there speculated Jesus' answer. But they would not have known for sure that was the solution. There could be many solutions. You could have said, well maybe they'll just marry the the first one and the other six would be nullified or something. There could have been many different solutions. They just wouldn't have known the right solution because God's word didn't reveal it. But they were still expected to believe in what the scriptures say, even if they don't have all The answers. And that's what I'm trying to say. Even if we can't get all the answers about the problem of evil, we're still expected to believe what the Bible says. We should not try to put God in a box. We should ask, what do the scriptures say and believe it We should not be surprised if God has left certain things mysterious. God tells us this in Isaiah, uh Deuteronomy 29. He says, the secret things belong to the Lord our God. But the things that are revealed belong to us and our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law Now we often get these two categories confused. There's these secret things that belong to God, and there's these revealed things that belong to us and our children forever. But often we're not interested in the revealed things. We're just not interested in that. We want to go after the secret things. And this is totally dissolution, right? The secret things belong to God. The things revealed belong to us. The point being is there are secret things. There are things that God has not revealed. We just don't know at all. One of the secret things or the mysterious things that belong to God is the origin of evil. The Bible never tells us the origin of evil. Sure, we have Adam and Eve disobeying God and introducing evil into the world. But even before Adam and Eve disobeyed God, we already have the serpent who 's disobeying God and in rebellion. And that's in the very beginning. Later on we get some more details about the serpent. We find out it's uh the serpent, we find out that it's Satan And we find we get some hints that there was some pride and some kind of re uh rebellion in heaven and all these other things, right? But even there, we don't get a full explanation of evil. We never get a philosophical uh diatribe about how in the world did evil form into satan's heart. We don't know. We also don't know even when Satan tempted Adam and Eve How did evil uh was evil able to tempt and override and and end up convincing Adam and Eve to fall into sin? We don't know. The Bible simply doesn't tell us. This is one of the mysterious things, uh the mysterious things or the mysteries, the secret things that belong to God. Furthermore, if that wasn't convincing enough, the Bible explicitly calls evil a mystery. In 2 Thessalonians 2. 6, when Paul is discussing the coming of the man of lawlessness, that's the Antichrist figure, he says this. And you know what is restraining him, that's the Antichrist, s now so that uh he may be revealed in his time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out. A lot of good stuff, a lot of interesting stuff. Who's a restrainer? Who's being restrained? We're already dealing with the mystery of lawlessness. In other words, there are things about lawlessness, there's things about evil that are mysterious. And this is even in the New Testament that we just don't know. Putting it all together, the Bible clearly affirms that God is an all-loving God and that He is all powerful and that evil does exist. It also declares that evil in many respects is mysterious. We will not have all of the answers. But this is the foundation of our belief. And this is all we had. Again, we should be satisfied. But fortunately, there is more that can be said. We can actually unpack this a little bit further. So when we have that argument that an all-powerful God and an all-loving God would not want evil and would use his power to stop it , And so since evil does a good, then God must not be all-powerful and all-loving. There's actually a fatal flaw in this argument. And here's the fatal flaw. It presupposes and assumes that there would be that an all-loving God would never allow evil and never have any good reason to allow evil. In other words, that there would never be a morally sufficient reason for an all-loving God to allow evil to exist in the world. Did you see what I'm saying? Because an all-loving God, which is what we believe, right, has allowed evil in the world, and we know that the all-loving God did allow evil in the world for a morally sufficient reason. That's if you're a Christian at all, you have to believe this. And so for the atheists, they would have to show us that that is impossible. Then all loving God could not have a morally sufficient reason for allowing evil The problem is no atheist could possibly ever show that. How could they ever possibly know if there wasn't a morally sufficient reason for evil? Is everyone tracking what I'm saying here? Hopefully it's not too complicated. Now, because of this, because of this solution that's been that's been uh discovered and and and argued, especially gaining more popularity uh recently then the logical problem of evil really isn't a problem anymore. Even atheists have had to admit that they cannot show that there is no morally sufficient ground for an all-loving God to avoid evil So now the problem of evil really isn't a logical problem, and most atheists on the academic level at least will not say that these things are in fact incompatible. Now the the solution is quite easy. Um but again it might have if you never thought about this before and it you it might not have come to you. But you still should have believed God even if you couldn't figure out the solution. Now notice, I haven't actually given the morally sufficient reason. I just said that there could be a morally sufficient reason. I haven't provided the morally sufficient reason. But the point being is I don't actually need to provide the morally sufficient reason because I don't need to know the moral su the morally sufficient reason for there to be a morally sufficient reason. It would have to be the atheists that have to prove that there could not be a morally sufficient reason. Now, most people unfortunately don't don't recognize that, so they just jump ahead and try to provide the morally sufficient reason. But again, you don't need to do that All I have to do is uh postulate a possibility of that more sufficient region so so I can continue to believe in uh these three premises and have no problem with it. Now, I think again we can go further than that, and there have been reasons given what that morally sufficient reason could be. And the defense or the reasoning of that is called a theodicy And that word theodicy, if you don't familiar, comes from two Greek words, theos, uh, which means God, and the dikhayos family of words, which means righteousness or justified. So a theodicy is an argument that tries to seek to justify or show the righteousness of God in the face of evil. So there have been given theodicies. But the ultimate theodicy, the ultimate defense, is there's some morally sufficient reason out there. No one needs to know it. But we're going to look at some possible reasons for that that have been given. Now again, we need to recognize that some of these answers that I'm going to provide for you have more or less biblical support. But none of them, you're never going to find a scripture that says this is the problem evil and this is the solution. You're not going to find that. You're going to have little snippets and little pieces of the Bible that kind of explain this. So I'm going to give some theodyses in a little time that we have. So the first theodicy is the free will defense. God created creatures that were uh that had free will, and this is a great good. With free will, creatures can choose to do good or to do evil. If creatures were forced to do good and prevented to do all evil, it seems that it would be impossible for them to remain free. This is a very long-standing argument of free will. So, God creates these creatures which we will. That's a great good. As free will creatures, they can choose to do good or evil. Of course, we have the biblical narrative. Satan and Adam chose to use their free will in negative ways and chose to do evil, and that is the origin of evil. That's the free will eventually. Uh and and and even the free will defense can also explain things uh like um creatures even currently today, uh more evil be encompassed by creatures today. How could Hitler go kill all these things? Right. Well he has a free will to do it. And he exercised his free will in that negative and evil way to exerc uh to kill. And and God has given Hitler the ability to choose to love or choose to kill. Okay? And he decided to use his free will in a negative way. That's the free will defense. I'm gonna have to move faster these. The second is the inherent imperfection of a creature. This is actually an interesting one. Here's what it says: God is the only perfect being. He's the only passable perfect being because if any other being is going to be imperfect in comparison to God. See what I'm saying? God is omnipotent, you are not God is uncreated, you are not. God is necessary, you are not. So inherently you are always going to fall short of the perfect God. You're inherently imperfect. And so this combines with the free will defend. See what it says. So there's always going to be a discontinuity between you and God. It has to be that way. And so now if you have free will, you can decide to try to bring uh get closer to God. Try to get closer to his perfection. Try to gain in strength. Try to gain in holy. You see what I'm saying? You can try to bring closer to God, or you can pull farther away from God. You can start getting closer to that imperfection, to that distancing from God, inherently in your creation. If you get far enough away from like God, what do we call that? Unrighteousness, unholiness, ungodly. You see the words? Unlike God. The more you are like unlike God, now you started getting into the realm of evil So evil comes from free will creatures deciding to go further away from God and to be ungodly, unrighteous, unholy, getting further away from God, an inherent imperfection morphing into evil Third argument. The existence of evil magnifies the presence of good. Here's the argument. Again, if you go out there at night, right, you see a dark night and there's no light pollution or anything like that Okay? It's just completely dark. What do you see? You see beautiful stars. Look out there right now, what do you see? You see nothing. Why? Because under the black canvas of darkness the brightness of the light shines. So this argument is that evil magnifies good. Because there is evil, that good is magnified better. And so God would allow evil to showcase his goodness and just goodness in general. The fourth argument is called a soul-building theodicy. Here's what it says. That we need evil to produce certain goods. We need evil to build certain characteristics within ourselves, certain virtues. There's certain virtues of of perseverance, right? Of faith. How could you have faith if you only had faith? Right? How could you have perseverance if there was nothing to persevere? Right? How could you uh be courageous and help people out or do something like that if there was nothing like that? And we see many scriptures like this, uh counted all the worry when you go through sufferings For suffering produces patience and patience produces so forth. You see what I'm saying? That in through the struggle, we have these virtue-building qualities within us. Alright, that's the fourth deodic. The fifth is the full display of God's glory. Very similar to the other one. Here's what it says. If you had no evil, you could not see all of God's characteristics If in there is no evil at all, how would you ever see God's wrath? How would you see? There'd be nothing to display his wrath How would you ever see God's grace? How would you ever see God's patience? How would you ever see God's lung? You see what I'm saying here? Without evil, God's full characteristics couldn't be displayed. Likewise, your full characteristics could not be displayed. Additionally, consider the cross. You cannot have God becoming incarnate and laying down his life for sinners if there is no sinners and no people to murder the Savior. You need evil to accomplish somebody's good. The sixth theodicy would be the grand narrative theodicy. This is saying that again the same basic concept that without evil you could not have this grand narrative that we have in the scriptures You couldn't have the the the Bible and the story is full of tension and twist. Good and evil uh uh heroes and villains. You need evil to have this. And I actually kind of like this one because consider this for a second Think about your favorite story. Right? What I don't need any but I like Harry Harry Barn. I've never read Harry Barn. I I like um Lord of the Rings and I like other Narnia books Just are just some examples. Think about those stories, have you ever seen them? They always have a villain. They always have evil. They always have conflict Right? There's always a conflict and a resolution. They need evil. Imagine wiping all the villains from any of your favorite movies. It wouldn't be a very good book It wouldn't be a very good movie. You need evil to have a grand narrative. That's the grand narrative, the Odyssey. Can't have God overcoming evil if there is no evil in the world. The seventh is the punishment and redemption, the Odyssey. This says that again from the biblical narrative, that we as fallen creatures live in a fallen world. And so the pain and the suffering that we have here is part of that inherent fullness and is really a punishment uh from God because of humanity's wickedness It's also a grace, it's also a redemption, because that uh through uh suffering, many times people are led to repentance Or put it differently, even though we live in this fallen world, God showers his grace upon us, despite this reality, and it leads many people to repent and believe in God. So that's the punishment, a redemption, the Odyssey. But rapidly running out of time. I'll get these other ones really quick. These are weird. So don't attack me if you don't like them. Just giving you some of the theosities people have given. Here's some of The best possible universe, the Odyssey. Again, this is weird. Here's what it says. This is in fact the best possible universe. None of us are in the universe building business. You've never built a universe, you don't know what it takes to build a universe. So you cannot possibly know whether this is the best possible universe. It says that this is in fact the best possible universe to accomplish the greatest good. Now you gotta be careful here and understand what they're saying. They're not saying currently we live in the best possible universe. But they're saying that through evil and through pain and through suffering it's producing the best possible universe. And so the new heavens and the new earth is in fact going to be the best possible universe. and that these preconditions, the world that we live in with suffering, pain, and death, are the best conditions to produce the best possible universe. Alright, you don't have to like it. I'm just telling you what it is. Now this one is really weird. It's called the Mini Universe 's Theodicy. And so what this would be is that this we live in one of many universes, or one of many possible universes. And even though this isn't the best possible universe, this is one universe, and this is in fact a good universe. Think of it this way That this could if you think about universe is like a book. This isn't the best book, but this is a good book. And this is one of many good books. And in this good book, we deal with evil, suffering, and pain. And other good books, maybe we don't. That is the many possible universes' theodicy. And lastly, there's the incomprehensibility theodicy, and this says that the ultimate answer for evil is so great that the human mind cannot possibly fathom it Or put it differently, it would be unhelpful for him, even if he could fathom it, it would be unhelpful for him for him to currently know it. Even more modest than that. God has just decided not to tell us yet So that would be the un uh incomprehensibility, the Odyssey. A few other quick notes is we are not in the very best position to know the outcome of any action So as we think of evil, and we'll get into this in more detail next time, as we think of evil, we often what we call evil today is often not evil. We often think of something this is evil, and then we later come out and find out that it is evil. So this isn't deny all evil, but it does say that sometimes when we look out there and our perspective of evil is is kind of messed up. We often call that which is good evil and that which is evil good. So we don't actually know all the evil that are out there And make a make a note. Um I gave you lots of theodices. We don't need any of them. We need to trust in God. But some of these theodices are helpful. Often that these theodices will help explain a portion of evil. They'll explain natural evil. They'll explain moral evil. So usually one is not good. Usually having several of these and trying to figure out as much as the Bible reveals, as much as we can possibly think of, is helpful I think I'm gonna stop there. Um yeah. Um yeah, I'm gonna stop there. Any any questions, comments, or concerns about any of those wacky theodices or anything else that we talked about Okay. So you didn't ask me the question, so I'll I'll just give it real fast. Um the problem with the atheist problem the atheists have a problem here though. Not only uh they have a serious problem with the with the problem of the evil thrust. Because for them to uh one of the premises is that evil exists. Remember that? All powerful God, all loving God, evil exists. Well in the atheistic worldview, evil does not exist. There is no objective evil. There's only subjective evil, there's only opinion Right? There is no the evil is uh a distortion of the way the world ought to be. But for the atheists, there is no such thing as the way the world ought to be. It's just the way that the world is So one of the things that you can also, if you're ever engaging with an atheist, is point out to them, is you have to assume evil exists, and you can only a necessary precondition for evil to exist is that God exists To try to argue that God doesn't exist. This is completely fallacious reasoning. You have to assume God to then disprove God Absolutely problematic. I just want to throw that out there. Um the problem of evil is really not a problem. We've been talking about um the philosophical problem of evil And we'll probably not go back to this, we're probably going to talk about the experiential problem of evil. And there is a difference. There's a there's a there's a uh philosophical problem where we understand the solution of of the problem of evil, and then there's the actual experience, and don't get them confused Right, don't use these arguments when someone's suffering. Right when they want a friend and a hug. Going around and beating them up philosophically is not is not the way. Let's go to the moon in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, I thank you