Good morning. This morning we're going to be taking up our study of creating a systematic theology of missions. Trying to understand what's the big picture of missions. All systematic theology means is what does the Bible as a whole, holistically, say about missions? We're doing that because evangelism is really just a subset of mission or mission. Missions in the singular is the grand mission. That's what we're really looking at. Missions in the plural is usually used as uh overseas missions. Applic missions in the plural is the application of that one great mission and and just submissions, little missions of of of accomplishing a great mission. And evangelism sometimes is viewed of missions that's done in your local context. So missions is usually the application of the grand mission overseas. And evangelism is the application of the mission locally. So you can see that these terms are just uh really describing uh little subsets of the same thing. They're not fundamentally different. Not everyone agrees with this terminology anyways. We're transitioning from our study about how to share the gospel with cult members. We did that of course because it was a brother in the church. uh brother and sister actually in a church that was going to be engaging cult members, transitioning from cult members to back to the theology. And the purpose of this is that we're always trying to balance theology with practice the mental aspect with the actual application of that mental process and bringing that into real life. We're always looking at why we do something and then how we do it. That's kind of the thing. So by way of review, let's go back over what we had covered up until this point. We were centrally trying to answer the question, why are we here? What is the purpose of my life? What is the purpose of my life? We saw the answer of this was the Great Commission found in Matthew 28. 18 through 20. There it says, And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore to make disciples of all nations. baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you, always to the end of the age. The Great Commission is centrally about evangelism. It's about spreading the good news, making disciples And making disciples. The question though is how does this text fit in with the rest of the Bible? How does the Great Commission Uh it's in the middle of the Bible, it's in the beginning of the end of the gospel, right in the new beginning of the New uh New Testament. How does this relate holistically to what came before and what comes after? Is this text just a text in isolation from the rest of the canon, from the rest of the scripture. Or is it centrally tied? Is it in isolation? Or is it centrally tied to the rest of the Bible? I'm going to argue that the Great Commission is centrally related to the meta-narrative of the scriptures. The whole Bible is related to this Great Commission. It's not coming out of here willy-nilly all by itself. And so, what's the very first text that relates to it? Well, I would argue the very first text is, well, the very first text of the Bible. That being Genesis 1. 1, we start from the very beginning. There it says, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. This is God's first act that we discover in the Bible. The question arises, why did God create? What was the purpose of creation? Even in the beginning. Because the beginning just tells us that in the beginning he created, but it doesn't tell us why. We need to go elsewhere. Was God lonely? Is that why he created? Was God bored? Did he lack anything Did God create because he needed something? Well the answer is of course no. God has self-sufficiency known as God's assayti He is a necessary being. God must exist. We and everything else that's created is a contingent being. It could or could not exist And it once did not. That does always exist. He has being within himself. This isn't just philosophy, but this is found in the Bible. John 526 says 5. 26 says For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. No one else can say that, that we have life in ourselves. No, we don't. We need food, we need water. We need the earth to survive on. We're dependent upon something else. But God and the Son have life in themselves. Acts 1722 says, The God who has made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and of earth, does not live in temples made by man, nor is he served by human hands as though he needeth anything. Since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. God does not need anything. Rather, he gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. He provides everything, he's a recipient of nothing in the sense of uh of of being in need. He's totally self-sufficient. So why did he create if he didn't need anything? Well, Romans 11, 36 gives us an answer. For from him that's God, and through him, and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. God created so that to him would be all things for his glory. He created things for his glory. Man was created for the glory of God. He was also created, man, being, was also created with a mission. And we discover that mission by combining a few texts. Let's leave the first text. Genesis 1. 26 says, Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. Jumping down to verse twenty-eight, it says, And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves. on the earth. So from these texts we see that God creates man in his image after his own likeness and he gives them dominion over all of creation. And then verse twenty eight goes on, God gives them a command, he blesses them. God's command uh God's uh commands or God's blessing. He blessed them, then he gives that command, and told them to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. Not only to fill the earth, we're to subdue it And then have that dominion again over the fish of the of the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So that that's one of the text that we need to put together. The next text is in Genesis 27, 8, 7 through 8, and verse 15. There it says, Then the Lord God formed the man of the dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And the man became a living creature. And the Lord Dot planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed So he's it's re is re is going back over the creation of man, and it specifically said God creates the man, then he plants a garden, then he puts that man in the garden And verse fifteen says, Then the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden. Again, it's emphasizing this. He wants us to see it. And why did he do that? To work it and to keep it So when we put these things together, we recognize that here is God putting man in the garden. He's telling, he's blessing him, telling him to multiply. fill the earth, subdue the earth, but he at the same time he's not ever to stop being a keeper and a worker of the garden. The the idea is the earth is subdued by him expanding the garden and and and his population growth. uh into the entire earth. The the mission of man is to fill the entire earth with image bearers, those who fill are are essentially in some sense a statue of the glory of God. People who bring God glory. The whole earth will be full of the glory of God. Well the question is, did man succeed in his mission? Did did man w was man able to fill the earth with glory images of God and to extend the Garden of Eden and subdue it and subdue the earth? Of course not. He was an utter failure. The fall happened in Genesis chapter three, that the devil came. We don't know the story. The devil came, attempted Eve. Eve disobeyed God, did not trust him, gave the the fruit to Adam, they disobeyed and they were kicked out of the garden. We see this uh this idea of man falling short of the glory of God and falling short of his mission Found in Romans 3. 23. There it says, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. To sin is to fall short of the glory of God. This is not what God created man for. God did not create man To be a sinner. God created man to be an image-bearer to bring himself glory and to fill the earth. And our sinning causes us to fall short of that glory of God. Fortunately, though, in Genesis 3, right after the fall, we have a ray of hope. And that ray of hope is found in the proto -evangelium Which is Genesis 3. 15. There it says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. So there's going to be these two seeds, but ultimately the seed of the woman, singular, the seed, the man. Right? He singular will bruise your head. Not the not the the the the seed of the devil, but your head, Satan himself. So it's a cosmic battle being played out between Between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent, but this cosmic battle will ultimately conclude with the singular seed, the Mashiach, the Messiah, crushing the head of the devil. So let's continue to trace the story though for what happens after the the proto -evangelium. What happens after that? The promise of the gospel. Well, Genesis 4 traces the lineage of the seed of the serpent. This is Cain's genealogy. And we see Lamech and his polygamy and his evilness and wickedness. uh giving us uh um what that lineage was is very wicked and evil. Then we have the genealogy of Genesis chapter five, which traces the lineage the lineage of the seed of the woman through the genealogy of Seth, the seed of the of Cain and in Genesis four, and the seed of Seth, the godly lion seed of the woman. And Genesis five. When we get to Genesis six though, we have the unfortunate reality of the an utter apostasy of the godly line of Seth. They're no longer there. Here's a sample of that Uh Genesis six five says, And the Lord saw the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil, continually. And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. So the Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I made them, but no one found favor in the eyes of the Lord. So here we see a stark contrast between the original creation when God saw and it was very good, to now God sees the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually It says God regretted. We looked at that last time and saw that that meant that God had sorrow. He had anguish. This was not the original plan of God. This is not what man was supposed to be. Man was supposed to be uh again, the earth was supposed to be man was supposed to be extending the garden. It's supposed to be his image where bringing glory to God. This is not bringing glory to God. This is blasphemous. This is not the right image. So, what does God do in response to this? Well, we saw that I will blot out men whom I have created from the face of the land. He sends the flood. This is to purge the earth of the evil. Again, this was the opposite of the intent. Man was to be fruitful and multiplied so that God's glory could be multiplied, not violence and evil and wickedness. Interesting enough though, this idea of God 's glory filling the earth through human beings Will in fact happen. And we see this in a few scriptures. Isaiah 1119 says, They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain. For the earth, which by the way is the holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Wow. As the waters cover the sea, what makes the sea the sea is the fact that waters cover it, right? Is the same way the earth will be covered with the full knowledge of the glory of God. We see this also in Habakkuk 2. 14. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. How is the earth going to be full of the knowledge of the glory of God? Well, there's many ways. One way the earth will be stored and and the the sin will be uh eradicated so that natural creation itself will perfectly display the the glory of God. But not only that, there will be people on the earth who are full of the knowledge of the glory of God. The entire earth will be covered with human beings. No maybe tribe, tongue, nation. and and people. So that that's the mission. That mission is not accomplished in Genesis 6. The act the opposite happens, instead of being full of the knowledge of God, it's full of the hatred of God. And distortions of God. So we have the flood. But what happens after the flood? Well, we have a second fall. We have Noah being described as the second Adam And him falling like the first Adam. He falls into sin. He falls into sin even in the same way through the fruit of the uh through the fruit of the vine, well through the the fruit of a tree. Not only do we have parallels between Adam, the Adam and Noah, but we also have parallels between Ham and Cain. Just like Cain uh tet took his father's sin and and really just took it and ran with it. So we see the same thing with with Ham. He does commit a gross sin. He's that it's not just sin is not isolated to the original parents, but sin is infecting the entire the lineage, the seed But in the same way that it seems like all is over. This we're back, nothing is nothing has been succeeded, everything is failing, it seems like. But Look what we have. We have another gospel presentation. Just as we had a gospel presentation in Genesis 3. 15, so we have a gospel presentation also in Genesis 9. Here's what it says. Genesis 9. 26. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge Japheth and let him dwell in the tent of Shem. and let Canaan be his servant. So we have the blessing of the God of Shem. This is identifying the seed that will destroy Satan. This is identifying the seed that will destroy the head of Satan. with Shem. And in fact we know that. It's going to be going to Shem , the woman first. Shem, uh woman, actually Noah, Shem. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Judah, David, Mary, Jesus. Again, all the way down. That's eight. Okay. So we got the identification of the Messiah coming through Shem. Not only that though, we have the promise that God is going to bring Japheth, the Gentiles. into the tent of Shem, that that the Gentiles are going to be united under the Mesha under the Messiah. So then when we get into as we continue on the story though, so what what's gonna happen? We got this promise, we got the fall again, we got the promise. Well what happens? Well it's the same thing that happened prior to that All the way from Genesis 5 to Genesis 6, we have the total apostasy of the people of God. We see the same thing happening in Genesis chapter 11. That's the Tower of Babel incident. Here's what it says. Now the whole earth had one language in the same words. The whole earth. This isn't, and what's going to happen, Genesis 11 is regarding the entire earth. It's not just regarding a portion of the earth. The whole earth had one language and the same words. And people migrated from the east. They're doing right. They're spreading out. They're filling the earth, right? They're obeying. It's not good. That sounds good, but let's see what happens. They found a plain in the land of Shina. That's Babylon, by the way. That's an ancient name for Babylon. And they settled there. And they said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone and bittermen for mortar. And they said, Come let us build ourselves a tower with its tops in the heavens And let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth. And the Lord came down. It says, verse 4, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the earth. So them trying to make a name for themselves is the exact opposite of what they're supposed to be doing. They're supposed to be making a name for their God. They're supposed to be imaging God and bringing Him glory. Instead, they're focused on themselves. Not only that, they specifically said, we don't, we want to make a name for ourselves instead of being dispersed over the face of the earth, instead of doing what God commanded. He continues, verse 5. And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower that the children of man had built. And so we have the Lord coming down and to see the city in the tower. Now this is obviously irony. They're supposed to be building this thing up into the heavens, but the Lord is having to come down from the heavens to see They're a little puny little city, that's divine irony here. Verse 6, and the Lord said, Behold, they are one people. One people. See, humanity is one. They have one language, and this is only the beginning of what they would do. You think you think the Tower of Babel's bad, you should see what hu hu uh united humanity would do And nothing they would nothing they propose to do will be impossible for them. So w when it says um that this is only the beginning of the things that they will do Um nothing will be impossible for them. But I think that's alluding to is the fact that if humanity is united, okay, that the level of wickedness that they are capable of doing is just off the charts. That they would gather together to kill believers. In fact, this is what we see maybe alluded to in Genesis 6, with the earth being full of violence. And this is also Um what we see in the end times of united humanity. And what did they do with that united humanity? They do extremely gross evil. And what evil is that? They try to wipe out the people of God I think maybe that's being alluded to there as well. Okay. So what is God's response? Verse 7, come let us go down there and confuse their language, so that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord dispersed them over the face of all the earth and left off the building of the city. Therefore it it was named was called Babel, because the Lord confused the language of all the earth. And from there from there the Lord dispersed them over the face of all the earth. So again, this story of Babel is so important to understanding our Bible because it's the birth of the nation. The story is not just explaining why it is that Chinese people in America don't have the same language It does explain that, but it's more than just simply understanding the phenomena of language, but it it is explaining the birth of nations together. Nations were divided so that th the war could continue to go on, that the world would not be in such a state of evil that it would force God's hand and destroy them, or more likely, or equally likely, should I say, is also keeping people united so that they wouldn't wipe out the people of God. What 's what's fascinating about this, and when I was studying this, it hit me like a uh like a pile of bricks, is I realized that language Isn't an obstacle for emissions or evangelism. It's the only thing that allows missions and evangelism to be possible at all. We think it's such a waste of time and so frustrating. Why can't It's just wonderful to recognize that language is actually what makes missions possible, not a barrier to missions. And the reason is because instead of the nations being focused on wiping us Christians out, by and large, most of the time they're more worried about what nation over there is doing They're too busy focusing about that nation and worrying about each other than to be usually worrying about Christianity. Christianity has thrived because of political upheaval. Truthfully. And that's what God did here. Also, to see how the seriousness of what Babylon, how central it is in the Bible, we need to go to the last book of the Bible Revelation 1812. And you'll see this. We're going to do this again. But you'll see that we need Revelation often to make sense fully of Genesis and see the overarching, sweeping realities that happened in Genesis. Look what it says in Revelation 1812. Remember, Shina is Babylon. Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. She has become a dwelling place of demons, a haunt of every unclean spirit, a haunt of every unclean bird, a haunt of every unclean and detestable beast For all nations have drunk the wine of her passions of her sexual immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxury luxurious living. Then I heard another voice in heaven say, Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues, for her sins are heaped up. high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. Jumping down to verse 23. For your merchants were the great ones of the earth, and all the nations were deceived by your sorcery. And in her was found the blood of the prophets and of the saints, and all who have been slain on the earth. So we see that Babylon is being described. as this great harlot that has seduced the kings of the earth, that seduced all of the earth. Look at the look at the the parallels between this Babylon and back in Um back the the Tower of Babel, it says in verse 5, for her sins are heaped high as heaven. And God has remembered her iniquities. Now what was the tower they were building? And how high was it supposed to be? Into the heavens. There's a clear illusion here. That Babylon, high as the heavens. This makes sense because we need to recognize when God split up the nations, he split up he split the nations up from an apostate people. So that false religion, their f the the apostasy from God spread everywhere because we divide up It's like dividing cancer. It spreads everywhere. You divide up apostate people and they didn't become unapostate by doing that. They were apostate all over the place. So the question is, what's God going to be doing about these apostate nations? How how is God going to undo the apostate nations? Remember, the plan is to have people filling up the entire earth. Last time the nation filled the nation to apostate or the nation because the people were united. Last time all the people were apostate, what did he do? He sent the flood. But then we have the Noadic the Noad covenant with promised he won't do that. So God is still not happy, he's not pleased with this, but he's not going to destroy them through the flood. What's he going to do? Well the answer is found in Genesis chapter twelve, immediately following the Tower of Babylon's in it. From your Bibles there. There it says, Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and from your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make you a great nation, I will bless you, and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing, and I will bless those who bless you, and I will dishonor And him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the f families of the earth shall be blessed. Look at verse 2 again. And I will make of you, Abraham, a great nation. A great nation. Against what? All the other nations. It is many nations, but Abraham's going to be a great nation, a greater nation than them. Now not only that though, he says, and I will bless you. It's going to be a blessing. And I will make your name great so that you will be a blessing. So the the the greatness of Abraham is tied into the fact that he's a blessing and he's going to be this great nation. This is an exact opposition to what the ungodly people did in um In in Genesis chapter 11, of them trying to make themselves great. But God makes Abraham great. And then I love this, verse 3. In you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. The same families that were just cursed, just a chapter before, in him is going to be the blessing Now the question is, how is it going to be accomplished that in Abraham all the families of the earth are going to be blessed? How is God going to use Abraham to fix the problem? Of the Tower of Babel, the nation's gone apostate. Well it won't be by his physical seat Israel. How do we know that? We can just go to Romans 2, 17 Look at a few things there. Look what it says. But if you yourself, if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God We can just go to Romans 217. There it says, you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law And boast in God, and jump down to verse 23, you who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law. For as it is written, the name of God is blasphemy among the Gentiles because of you. So here's here's the amazing thing. Is this text is saying that Israel, who boasted of the law, in fact broke the law. And that's the history. of Israel. They were disobedient people who constantly broke the law of God. And instead of the nations being blessed in them, remember Abraham, the families of the earth are going to be blessed in them, the Gentiles Well what does it say here? Because of you, the name of God is blasphemy among the Gentiles. They are cursing the Gentiles. Physical Israel. They curse the Gentiles. They cannot in any way possibly be the blessing that's promised to the Gentiles. It's the opposite Rather, it's not the Israelites, it is rather Jesus, the true Israel, the true Son of God, the obedient one. We see this made explicit in Galatians 3. 8 Which says, and the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham saying, in you all the nations shall be blessed. So, the gospel was preached beforehand to Abraham in our text that we just looked at. It's the gospel of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is going to be how the nations are going to be blessed. How? How through Jesus Christ? By his death. John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world But in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. See here? That Jesus Christ was sent because of God's love for the world, for the cosmos, for the nations. So much so that he gave his only son Jesus Christ. Why? That whoever believes in him Those who would trust, those who would believe in the gospel, will be blessed. Blessed how? Should not perish but have eternal life. But the purpose, 17, it gives us the purpose. The purpose of God sending his Son, Jesus, into the world, into the nations. was not to condemn the world, the nations, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Jesus Christ is reconciling the world to himself. He's bringing back the nations. He's being a blessing to them. How do we know this? Many people try to pollute the gospel to think that you're not saved until you until you make a decision. You're not saved or damned until you make a decision about God. Christ. And so that they do that because so therefore if you never hear about Christ you somehow are not responsible. And so that people who never heard are will be automatically saved. But that's not the gospel at all. That's the complete opposite of the gospel. Verse 18. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe, those who don't know, are condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Jesus Christ has saved the world, not to condemn in the world. The world was doomed. The world was in great apostasy Jesus was sent to rescue them. We see this also in in John one twenty nine. It says the next day, this is John the Baptist speaking, the next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the Jesus is the Savior of the world. He takes away the sins of the world. But this salvation, this gospel, this good news, does not come apart from faith. Ephesians 2. 8. For by grace you have been saved through faith. It's not just that God just reconciles the world and it doesn't matter if people hear or believe or come to understand or have faith. No. They need to believe, they need to have faith. Grace through faith And we see that also in Romans 10, 14, which says, how then will they call on him whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? How then will they call on him whom they have not believed? You cannot please God without faith. And how are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? They can't believe in whom they've never heard I've heard. They need someone to proclaim the gospel. That's why it says, and how are they here without someone preaching? They need a preacher. They need someone out there sharing, evangelizing, witnessing to their neighbors, being ambassadors for Christ. But my favorite is this And how are they to preach unless they are sent? The question is, have we been sent? The fundamental reality is they need to be sent to preach so they can hear, so they can believe, so they can be reconciled. Have we been sent Of course we have. Matthew twenty-eight eighteen. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven on earth has been given to me. Jesus is the boss. It's a parallel for uh a paraphrase of that. Jesus is the boss. Jesus is C E o Oh. Jesus is the new Adam who takes ownership of the earth. That which Adam forfeited to the devil? Jesus came and put to shame the devils. He kicked them out. He took over. Now Jesus is the boss. And what does he do with that authority? Go therefore to make disciples. You're sent. Go there and make disciples of all the nations. Again, think back. Think back to Genesis Chapter 11, the nations. Those nations that were broken off, those apostate nations, go and get them from me. That's what Christ is saying. Those are my people. Go grab them We have been sent. We're to make disciples of all the nations, the very nations that were cursed in the Tower of Babel. Would have baptized them in the name of the Trinity, in the name of the God, the one God, which is divided into three persons, the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Not only that though, not just to make converts, but to teach them and to observe all that I've commanded Fully, full unity, full maturity. And behold, I'm with you always to the end of the age. This mission is for all of us. Everyone in this room. This mission is for all of us. And the reality is Christ is going to be with us until the end of the age. The age will end when the Great Convention is over. You think the Great Convention is over? You think there's enough people saved? You don't understand. You don't understand history. That's what history is all about. You know, here's the question. We've been sent, we've been called, but what will be the outcome of all this? Will in fact Christ get his victory? Will in cr in fact the story of Genesis be complete? Will the nations, the entire earth be full of the glory of God? Will the Garden of Eden be extended to the ends of the earth I think the answer is yes. Let's look at Revelation 7-9. There it says, after this I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all the tribes and the peoples and the languages. standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes and palm branches in their hands. People from a great multitude that no one can number. Huge. Every nation. All tribes, peoples, and languages. It couldn't be any more clear, but you see languages? That's how people groups are defined. Isn't that how people groups are created? Dividing the languages? And every one of these foreign languages will come and bring your glory unto God. All the nations will be baptized and be brought in. We see this also shown in Revelation 21, 22. Which says, and I saw this talk about new heavens and new earth. And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty, and the Lamb. And the city has no need for sun or moon to shine in it. For the glory For the glory of God gives its light and lamp and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. And the gates will never be shut by day or by night, and there will be no night there. Excuse me. Uh the the gates it will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will again they will bring into it the glory and honor of all the nations The nations will be part of the new heavens and the new earth. And they will bring the glory of all those nations. God's going to get glory. God divided the nations, and now he's going to rescue them. He's going to save them. He's going to bring them back. So we started with the question of what was the purpose of your life? Why are you here? What are you doing here? What's the meaning of all this? And the answer was found in the Great Commission. That's the purpose of our life. But even if you ever think, what am I doing here? Go back to Matthew 28, 18 and rest in there. The purpose is to disciple the name. to bring God in glory. But we end, now we end with the question of what is the purpose of all history? We end with the question of what is the purpose of all of history? Began with the question, what's the purpose of life? And end with the question, what is the purpose of all of history? We find the answer to this in 2 Peter 3. Verse 3. There it says, Scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires. They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved. That with the Lord one day is a thousand years and a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises, as some count slowness But it's patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. This scripture is mightily twisted many times. times. It's mildly twisted and and said that this is just saying that God, this is God's general will or prescriptive will for all people to be saved. Fact is the scripture says teaches no such thing. Now, I'm not saying that the Bible doesn't teach anywhere that truth, but this is not what it's saying. What's happening in the context is we have scoffers saying Hey, you know what? The world's going the same way. I thought Jesus Christ was coming back. Apparently not. Everything's going the same way. It's all good. Don't need to worry about this. It's not real. And the Bible saying is is saying that the promise of his coming is not slack. Because with God time is different. God sees time different than us. God is patient, long suffering. A day is a thousand years, a thousand years a day. What's a few days? Nothing. Nothing in the divine timetable. This is nothing to God. But rather, he's patient. Why? Why why is history continuing to go on? Wishing that none should perish, but all should reach repentance. Who the who are the nuns? Because there would always be more and more people being able to be born and born and born and he would always want these people to be saved and so we'd never know history. The reality is history is going to end when the very last elect person is saved. He doesn't wish for any of his elect to perish, but that they all should reach repentance. Once the last rep uh last believer is converted Seeming to be very closely connected also with the last martyr to be killed. Maybe he's gonna the last person gonna be converted is doing martyrdom. I'm not sure how that's gonna work. But the end of history will begin. And this is made explicit in Matthew 24, 14. And there it says, and this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all the nations. See that? A testimony to all the nations. Once the Great Commission is complete, or whatever. And then the end will come. But Mark's version says, Mark 13, 10, and the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations. Once the gospel is proclaimed to all to all the nations. the nations Once the last convert is converted, once the last martyr dies, I'm guessing in in in connection with all that, what will happen? The end of the world will happen. The whole point of history is the completion of the Great Commission. It's the completion of the original mission of man It's the purpose of our lives. Therefore, the purpose of history and the purpose of our lives are the same. It's the Great Commission. It's the original mission given to Adam. It will be complete. What was that mission? Again, Habakkuk 2. 14. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the earth. The Garden of Eden will in fact extend through the entire earth. The earth will be filled with image bearers bringing the glory of God to them. God's plan will in fact be accomplished in the end, God's grand prescriptive plan. Let's meditate on this last scripture. Let's hear it. It's wonderful. Revelation 22 says, Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright and bright as crystal, flowing. Flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb through the middle of the street of the city. This is the New Jerusalem. Also on the other side of the river, look at this. The tree of life. Where do we see that? Where's the tree of life at? Where's the what's the thing that we got kicked out from? We got explicitly kicked out of the Garden of Eden so we couldn't take part of the tree of life and live forever. Well it shows back up here. The tree of life I love this, with its twelve times of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for other were for the healing of the nations. Nations will be healed, they'll be brought in, they'll be back in the garden. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. They will see his face And his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more, no more darkness, no more wickedness, nothing accursed. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. Ever. God will get his victory. The Garden of Eden will in fact extend throughout the whole earth. The mission of man will be accomplished even by man Jesus Christ. And he's using us as his soldiers to go out there and win the nations. Remember, the mission of God is the mission of man, to take over the entire earth. And missions is the mission of God. Taking an individual segment of going out there and trying to grab this nation and that nation and this person and that person. And evangelism is just missions in your own local area, in your own culture. That's what we're doing. That's the mission of man. That's the mission of us. That's the mission of history. That's the purpose of everything. Let us go in the strength, knowing that we have the victory. Knowing that we go. and and what we're doing when we're sharing the gospel with our neighbors, our friends, our family members, it's not just an isolated event. But we're doing the very thing, the very meaning of history. It's all about that. Everything else is a distraction. This is the what we're here for The Great Commission. To spread the knowledge of God like the waters of the sea.