Let's open our Bibles to First Kings chapter eighteen. First Kings chapter eighteen. Can I have someone read verse forty-one through the end of the chapter, please? And Elijah said to Ahab, Go eat and drink, for there is the sound of a heavy rain. So Ahab went off to eat and drink. But Elijah climbed to the top of the Bent down to the ground and put his face between his knees. Go and look towards the sea, he told his suit. He went up and looked. There's nothing there, he said. Seven times Elijah said, Go back. The seventh time the servant reported, a cloud as small as a man's hand, is rising from the sea. So Elijah said, Go back Don't until they have pitch up your chariot and go down before the rain stops you. Meanwhile the sky grew black with clouds, the wind rose, a heavy rain started falling, and they have rode off To Jezreel. The power of the Lord came on Elijah and tucking his cloak into his belt, he ran ahead of Ahab all the way Thank you. Lord, we we understand that people that are there as us have your help, Lord. It's interesting the way this is presented to us and And hell, probably we saw the sermon, the fastest man on earth is Elijah or but also it took him seven times Lord which was I thought was amazing. It took them seven times to pray to you Lord to have you fulfill your promise. That was kind of the interesting to me because I just thought you'd do it automatically. So as we uh come here to your your study this evening, uh let us let us gain insight into our interactions with you and our relationship with you. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right. Um Let me just open it up initially and then we'll see uh what happens. Um Did anybody find anything interesting, questions, comments, concerns about the sermon, or even as we just read this text? uh about this text. I find verse very word two very interesting. Because that makes total sense to me. If you look at how Um agent breast squat and then you just put your head down between your knees. But I think when most people talk about it, I think you go down on your knees and you bat. But I'm like, it's totally obvious to me at least that he's squatting like the agent breast it and then he put his head in front of the knees afraid. But most of us single prayer as that down underneath the second. Yeah, interesting. No, thank you for yeah enlightening. I I have to admit, um I had a hard time visualizing exactly what was going on here it it seemed to be some posture of prayer. I I kind of imagine I guess him, you know, on his knees, I guess, with his legs kind of wide. So not like this, but kind of like this. And then, you know, his face kind of in between. I'm like, that's kind of a strange way. Yeah. It's kind of a strange way of describing that, but that's what I assumed it's saying, but it sounds like like you know you having more experience with the Asian culture like yeah I know exactly what this to me uh that's what it would be because that's how the Asians rest when they um aren't in trouble they'll go down and bow their heads before before. No. Their elders and stuff like that. I I've seen this, so to me I was like, oh that's but it is good. I think you mentioned something in the sermon about it. People are like, we have no idea what that is, you know. Yeah. Um so I I I d I check out the commentaries sometimes and especially when there's peculiar things. If I know what it means I I don't need to really check them, right? But sometimes I'm like, huh, this is kind of strange or I think I know what it means, but and I just happened to stumble upon this and I read in the commentaries them saying basically We don't know what he's doing. Has he passed out? Is he praying? And to me, and I can show you this. Actually let's go there real quick. Let's go to James chapter five. I think without even going to James chapter 5, and that's why I kind of asked you all, what did you think was happening, and you all recognize this contextually. He's going on top of a mountain. He declares to a king that it's about to rain. He's doing this seven times. He's bowing down in some sense. It's quite obvious that he's praying. But It's always interesting to me that people that think they're so smart can miss some of the most simple things. Right? That God resists the part I think and and gives grace to the humble. So can can somebody read James chapter five Verse 16. Verse 16. Verse 16. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. Wherever the righteous person has great power as it is working. Keep going. Elijah was a man with a name Like ours, and he prayed fervently that it would that it might not rain. And for three years and six months it did not Rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. Amen. Matthew. Ask me another mic, please. Couple. Um, right there, right? So it and we're gonna talk about this in a second. He prayed fervently that it will not rain, and then he prayed again, and it did rain. Do you see that? Very clearly. Well w what Bible is James reading? The same Bible we're reading. And James can see very clearly, apparently, what a few commentators can't see, and what the congregation could see, namely that it's quite obvious that Elijah is Praying. Now one other thing I'm gonna we're gonna come back here. Maybe we'll see. Um there's other things I wanted to bring out in the text, but I want you to see how James and the New Testament reads the Old Testament. And they're reading it the same way that I'm reading it. I learned it from them. They didn't learn it from me, obviously. Namely, that this is our book. This isn't just, oh, that's really interesting about the Old Testament and that's how God used to work, but God doesn't work like that anymore, and there's nothing we can really learn from it. You see, sometimes we can do that. Sometimes people can do this, what I would call extreme dispensationalism, and basically that's just the Jews book. We're the New Testament believers, so there's nothing to see here But the problem with that is that's not how the New Testament interprets the Old. See, when James looks at that, he doesn't just say, well, how fascinating, how interesting. That's all about them, but nothing about us. He says, hey, we'll just like Elijah. That was his point. Elijah was a man just like we are. Elijah prayed and God answered his prayers. Then how powerful must our prayers be as well So what I'm just encouraging you is when we read the Old Testament or read any portion of the scriptures, we should be reading it like it's our newspaper. This is us, this is our story Now, it is true that they are in a different dispensation. They are in a different time period, that they are in a different covenant. So for example, Elijah's worshiping God by sacrificing a bull on an altar. Would we do that today? No, because we're in a new covenant. But do we worship God? Yes. So sometimes you do have to cross the uh theological barrier or the covenantal differences. But Elijah's a man of God just like we're a man of God. Elijah prayed just like we're to pray. And so we should be trying to show continuity between the old and the new and not stressing discontinuity so that we see we act like we can't learn anything from it. Very good. Um and you have to demonstrate at some point uh what uh what you've seen. Sure, go ahead. Ah, there it is. Down here. There it is. It actually looks like a bow too. There you go. So if you wondered what Elijah was doing, he was bowing in an Asian style. Is that fair? I I think so. An Asian bow. Perfectly reasonable. As an Asian, these are Asian people. Um okay any other questions, comments, concerns about the sermon or about our pastor, go ahead. Um any questions are important how we should not So you mentioned something toward the end of the sermon um how we should not open sorry not how we should not operate in our own strength into You know, tap into Lord's strength and not do it on our own. So I just want to know how does that look and how Would you um say you uh go about that? I mean, 'cause I don't know I've done prepare for things or um Uh, you know, I stayed up late on certain things and like, oh man, I wanna get this or am I operating my own strength or am I Okay. So that was an application of verse forty six. The hand of the Lord came upon Elijah, he girds himself up and he runs in front of the chariot. And so the application of that is we just like Elijah need to not operate on our own strength but operate on the power of God. That's what you're talking about. Um well in this case specifically could Elijah, a non Olympic runner, or even an Olympic runner on steroids, as I tried to point out. The fastest runner on steroids today could not do what Elijah did here. Not even close. In fact, as I tried to say in IT this is interesting I'll say it again, the fastest man that ever has been clocked ever, and there's no reason to think anyone's ever been faster than him because again most likely he's on steroids because pretty much everybody now professionally on steroids. They just whether they get caught or not. Does that make sense? So these are we're looking at the fastest numbers ever because they're they have uh steroids. Also there's millions of dollars and there's tons of people. There's a whole lot of reasons to believe that these are the fastest people that ever exist. The steroids is a big part of it. He was clocked a hundred meters, a hundred. That's a track. Track has four you know sections, two curvy parts, right? And then two straightaways. So a hundred meters is the straightaway portion. That's it. A hundred meters, he was clocked at nine parts. Which is about 28 miles an hour. Okay. The fastest marathon runner, still amazing, 13, half a marathon, excuse me, 13 miles. Clocked at four minutes and twenty-two seconds per mile on average, which is unbelievably fast. Like There's nobody in this room I believe that can run anywhere close to a four minute and twenty-two second one mile. Not even probably not even one lap. To be honest, if you tried to race with that guy one lap, you probably couldn't do it. Because it's just that fast. Does that make sense? East guy is flying. Well, if you if you compare those two numbers, what you discover is the fastest half marathon runner is running half as fast as the fastest sprinter. Does that make sense? So he's running 14 miles an hour, this guy's running at 28 miles an hour. Okay. That that's how those numbers break out. Well Elijah, which I tried to do the math, and it's not perfect. He could have been running faster, probably not running slower Elijah had to have been running at least 20 to 25 miles an hour if they said go and the chariot's going and he's just immediately running ahead. But it doesn't seem like that in the text. It seems like he tells uh Ahab to go off. Ahab goes off, it starts to rain, then the Lord empowers him, then he catches up and then exceeds it. So when exact how many minutes we don't know. Was it five minutes, ten minutes, twenty minutes? We don't know. So there's some portion of time where he has to catch him. So he can't be going the same speed. He has to be going way faster to catch him than exceed him. And that's why I'm saying that um most likely Eliza is running about twenty-five to thirty plus miles an hour, which is as fast as the fastest man and a hundred meters, which is twice as fast as the fastest uh uh half marathon. I say all that to say that's awesome. That's amazing. That's incredible. No one's ever done this. No one ever will do this ever again. So back to your question. Could Elijah rely on his own strength to do such a task? Probably not. I mean just imagine put a gun to your back and say run thirteen miles right now. I doubt many of you would be able to do it. You just got kill me, right? You just gotta go one mile, that's it, two miles, who knows, and then you just be you have to shoot me Because I can't do it, let alone these feats. So in this case, Elijah was empowered to do the impossible. And under these circumstances, he had no other choice but to rely on God's power. No. Has God called you to do the impossible? Well, let's turn over to see. John chapter 15, let's turn over And this is this is the application. And if I'm going off track, let me know and we'll try to steer it back in. But John chapter 15 Somebody read John chapter fifteen, beginning at verse one, I'll tell you when to stop. And my father is the highest thing. Every branch be that bears fruit taketh away, and every branch that bears fruit repurges it, and that it may be Bring forth for the fruit. Now ye are clean to the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself. Except you abide in the vine, no more can you except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I am him. The same brings forth much fruit. Alright, so this wonderful, beautiful parable picture Illustration of Jesus. He is the vine, we are the branches. If we are in him, we have life. If you take a branch off of the vine, how much life is there? And the branch. It's gonna die. Right? But it's going to die naturally in and of itself because the branch is dependent upon the vine for its nutrient. It doesn't have its own root system. It's getting all of that energy from the rest of the ecosystem Of the vine. Jesus says, I am the vine, we are the branch. If we're attached to him, we can bear much fruit. But can we bear any fruit when we're not attached to him? No. You can't bear anything. You're gonna die. He says that explicitly. Apart from me you can do what? Nothing. Nothing. Now what is he saying? Apart from me you can't walk to the store? Well that's true too, by the way. But that's not in contact on contact, that's not what he's saying here Because in him we live and move and have our beings. So apart from God we can truly do nothing. We won't even exist. But again, that's not what he's saying here. He's talking about spiritual strength, spiritual nourishment, and when he's talking about you can do nothing, meaning you can do nothing as in bear fruit. What is the fruit that he's referring to? Fruit, spirit, spirit. Which is? And against this, there is no law. How much of those can you do outside of him? None. You're not going to produce any fruit of the spirit outside of connection with Christ. So what I'm saying is just as it's impossible for Elijah to run those thirteen miles at thirty miles an hour, so it's impossible for you, picking on you for a second, to be a good father to these children in a Christian way Outside of his grace. To be a good husband, to be a good worker, to be faithful, to be kind, to be forgiving, to not be embittered, to not be driven into this passion or that passion. You are utterly dependent upon God. So what does it mean not to rely on your own strength? Not thinking that you got it yourself. Not thinking I'm the one I'm holding this marriage together. I'm holding this family together. It's from my own hands that I provide for all of these. No. No, you work hard. That's true. I'm not saying that you're not involved in this, but you need to come to a posture of total dependence upon God and recognize God outside of you, I'm gonna ruin everything. Everything. And I'm just not just picking on you. That's true for all of us, isn't that? We should walk in total dependence on God and say, God, if you don't hold me together, I'm gonna be a cancer in this church Do you realize that? Outside of God's grace working in your heart, your presence here will not be for good. It will be for ill. Because this is a Christian church. Well we want Christian fruit. And we want fruit coming out instead of thorns. And we're close. This is a close church. It should every church should be a close church. We're family, right? And we could either produce fruit together or we could produce Thorns. And what happens when a thorn hits a fruit? It starts to bleed. Right? And we could either be people who just hit each other with thorns and causes other people's fruit to bleed, or we could be fellow fruit together. So I'm just simply saying to answer your question question and a very broad level is to recognize you can't do this by yourself. You really do need him every hour. The tough times and the good times. You need his presence. And what we're going to see next time is what happens when God withdraws a little bit. Or however you want to say it, God withdraws a little bit, or Elijah kind of goes off in his own direction. What happens to the great Elijah man, the great man of God, when he's no longer resting in the vine when he's no longer depending on the power of God. That's just a sneak peek of what we're going to see next time. And the great Elijah is not going to look so great anymore. And I'm saying that's true for all of us. All of us were might be so far we've been okay, I guess. How about that But if we start walking away from the Spirit, if we start walking outside of grace, if we start distancing ourselves from God, you'll start to see the very nice gentlemen become kind of snippy. Right? Does that make sense? We've all been there, haven't we? We've all been we've all been there. We've all kind of right, a little bit of flesh came out. Because we stopped walking with the Spirit and we started depending on ourselves, and we just don't want to do that. We want to rely fully on the grace of God. So that that's what I would simply say is recognize your utter dependence on Upon him. And I've seen this in my own life. I'll tell you one quick story about this. I remember when I was, I got saved at 15, God providentially moved me from down the street over here to Kentucky. I guess he he kinda sent me into the wilderness. I was all by myself. It was just me and my grandma all by myself. And actually God he leadeth me. He taught me. He led me. I was growing greatly in the Lord. And I became And I started to think I got this whole Christian thing. It's like riding a bike. Right? I'm good. And I thought I I was really making a lot of progress and I really thought I was good. And one day I decided to challenge the devil I remember being at the playground and I challenged the devil and said, The devil you can't even stop me. I've conquered you. Yeah. It my spiritual life went like crashing down immediately and then for the next couple of years it looked very poor. Until God restore with me again. That's a real story, it really happened. I'll never do that again, at least I hope not. To arrogantly challenge the devil and think that I had defeated him. I hadn't defeated him. That was just God's grace in my life, and I think God said, Oh, you're proud. He withdrew And I went crashing down until he restored me. So do not depend on yourself. Depend on God. Another story, you know this, I don't think the rest of you know this. Last year, around this time, actually I was transitioning from a contractor into the federal government. And God had paved the way for me to go into the federal government. And I had been working through them for like six months, but there was something that I didn't know that was gonna happen, namely Trump was going to win. Which whatever, why isn't that gonna affect me? Well that was January fourth. And I had a start date, January twenty fourth. A couple weeks later. I got a call on like January 7th that says, hey, there's a hiring freeze. You remember this happened? There's a hiring free. They said, hey, the hiring freeze, the government's shutting down completely. We need to hire you immediately I said, okay, great, God is paving the way for me. And so they said, you need to quit your job today, call me on a Friday, you need to quit your job today, you'll start on Monday. So I did, thinking, and I asked them three times, are you You want me to quit my job in like twenty-four hours? I said, Yes, we need you to come now, otherwise you're not gonna be able to get in. So I quit my job on Friday. On a Saturday, I got a phone call. Oh, we've made a terrible mistake. That you actually weren't on the list. We'll try to get you in two weeks from now. I didn't say we'll try to get you. We'll get you in two weeks from now, don't worry. And I thought I don't have a job. But I thought, okay, you know, it's gonna be fine, I'm just gonna be unemployed for two weeks, no big deal. Right? I tried to call my job back, they said, I'm sorry, we terminated you. You're outside of the system. You know. You're you're done. I'm sorry. So then a week later, I'm just gonna I'm two week vacation I guess, stress case in not a vacation. Two weeks later, I mean one week later, before I was supposed to get the job, they called me back and said, I'm sorry, we're not hiring anybody The job is no longer available. So for the first time in my life, since I've been married, really, I became completely unemployed Floyd. I remember being in Glen Burney at the Social Security office applying for food stamps with the crazies. Have you ever been there? There's crazies people there. They're barking and stuff. I mean there's like literally crazy people there. And it was unbelievably humiliating and humbling. Right? And the end of the story was God paved the way. But I'm just simply saying, God can take you down in a moment. You think, um this I got this resume, all this and all that. He can take it from you in a moment and put you right on the ground. And you think, oh I guess I did need him all along. I guess it wasn't my own strength that I was doing any of these things, that I was being sustained by God. That's my long answer of saying, what does it mean that we're how do we not rely on our own strength? By recognizing it doesn't come. From us. And by asking God for His provision. God, give me this day our daily prayer. God provide for me and my family. Do you need to pray that prayer? Yes, you do. Because outside of that, God can snatch it all away. Just like He did To me. A single day I went from having a good job to being totally unemployed. He can do that. Read the book of Job. I'm sure you all have testimonies like this, or you've seen this in other people's lives. God just brings down the mighty in a moment And in my case he brought me right back up. It was amazing. He brought me to the ground, begging on the streets to write back. It was amazing. Anyways, so depending on God is recognizing where your source of strength is And power and provision and trusting on him. Just one more caveat on that. I'm gonna say something. It's a little controversial, but I hope not. You're as holy as you want to be Or put differently, you're as holy as you ask to be. You might think, There's a stronghold in my life, and I can't overcome it. Yeah, you're right, you can't overcome it. But can God overcome it? Can God break down that stronghold? That bondage? That thing that's entrapping you? Have you asked God? Have you pleaded with Him? And have you continued to press Him? Do you see that? We can say I can't do it. I I'm just and put fill in the blank. I'm just Italian. I'm just this. I'm just that I'm just but God is stronger than any Italian There's no Italian in here. But any Italian heritage. Is that not true? God is strong in any bitterness, any pain, any whatever is that stronghold that can't be defeated by you. Amen. It can't be defeated by you. But it can be defeated by him He has the power. But again, God resists the proud, Jane 4. 6. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. You gotta know your need before you can ask him for his provision. If you think you got it, or you think it's impossible, you're never going to ask God, God, I want to I want to kill the Amalekites in my life. What did the Jews of old say? But they're too strong. God said, Come and obliterate them. They said, But they're giants and we're just grasshoppers. And again we look at those people and think, Oh, you have little faith, why didn't they just believe? And yet we have Amalachites in our light that we say the same thing and we say, Well, it's just too strong. I was just too young. We make some kind of excuse of why we can't destroy them. And you can't, because we're relying on our own strength instead of relying on So that makes that make sense? Does that answer your question? It does not mean we don't work hard. It doesn't mean that we don't strive. No, we should strive and work hard and do all those things. But it does mean we don't depend on any of those things. Elijah never could have done this outside of the power of God, and neither can we. Any other thoughts or comments or questions about I just want to say that it's usually when we are at a speech that's hard to work. Yep. That's that's We have to put your head because we can quality based on justice. Because we are not going to have this list. We're not going to make it. And when we relinquish the control of supposed control that we think that we have. Yeah. And just start our day of prayer and end our day of prayer. And come together when these doors are open. We sit on a few ideology time we can get in, it it's gonna make the difference in your life and so and coming together with people, fellow believers that Amen. No, you're a hundred percent right. And and actually I remember somebody saying that several months ago downstairs I believe. Maybe maybe it was the day the evening service after I got into But I think somebody said after what happened here, we have never oh they themselves, I think they said they themselves have never gone to God in prayer as much as they did after what occurred. Does that make sense? That trials, tribulations, afflictions, and pain have a way, even just falling on your face, have a way of driving you back into the source of power Like nothing else before. That's what Paul says, that he has this thrown on the flesh that when he is weak, he is strong. Because again, this goes back to when we think that we're strong we can fight with our own hands, but when God chops our n legs off, we just like God I need you You become totally dependent upon him. Right? Talking about pressing into prayer, pressing into church I I see people lose their jobs and all of a sudden they found a lot more time. And you might think it's because they they no longer had to commute to and for work. I don't think that's part of the reason. They lost their jobs and I saw them every single time the church building was open I I don't think it had anything to do with the extra free time they had. I think they realized, God, I need to get connected with the source of power and I need you to store and they pressed in deep on God. Have you not seen that? When bad things and tribute and affliction happen, we have a tendency to press deep on the source, which by the way is a good thing. Don't let anybody change. If you see your need and cry out, Jesus do it. The only encouragement is to see your need more. Don't wait until God taps for you to realize you need him to walk the whole time Sometimes we need that. Sometimes we need a little an affliction to drive us out. And that's why he's so good to us, even when that happens. Any other thoughts or comments or questions? Okay, what I want to do is I want to dive in a little bit more on this concept of prayer. Prayer. So how many times did Elijah pray for the widow's son to rise from the dead? Three times. Which means it didn't work the first time, the second time, or the third time. But after three attempts, in the same day, he rose from the dead. Right? How many times did Paul pray that the thorn of the flesh be removed from him? Three times. And God eventually said, No. And made it very clear that his grace was sufficient for him. And that's why the thorn of the flesh was not removed. How many times did Jesus pray to go on a ghess enemy? Three times. And God made it very clear to him. The answer was no. Also, uh there was no more time to pray the fourth or fifth time, remember? Eventually the the guys came and grabbed them. So there was no more time. But he prayed three times. And so it's tempting to make three times the magical number. And yet, if you do, what do you make of this text? How many times did it take Elijah to pray to get the rain to come? Seven. Seven. Seven no, you're right. Seven times. So which is it? Is three the magic number? One in the magic well, is one the magic number? Definitely not, right? Is three the magic number? It wasn't here. Is seven the magic number? Seven that well no I was thinking of that. Seventh time seven's not the magic number either. I I think this is a wrong way of looking at this. We shouldn't be looking for magic numbers. But what should we be deriving from this? What is that? Persistence. The principle here isn't three, the principle isn't seven. The principle is if we have a promise of God And I want you to notice that Elijah had a promise of God here. This wasn't simply he didn't know. This was he had a promise of God. He was holding on and he persisted in prayer. And God answered it. Now again, why did God do this though? Why didn't he just answer them the f why didn't he just send the rain, period? Why did he even rely on Elijah at all? But he said he was gonna send it. Okay. Why wouldn't he just the fire came down You better go, oh, here comes the st the storm clouds. Get out of here and him send the rain. Why did he use Elijah or depend on Elijah? Anybody know? I would say for our three different things that we need for like you know, we don't got constantly. Yeah. But we do. But you I couldn't That was a great comment. I don't remember what I said only, but I um basically to show us our need to pray to him. Um God's gonna act, but you know But we he wants us to come to him, be consistent in prayer to him. Yeah. Yeah. No, and and here's a here's a here's a mind-boggling question. And I don't really have the answer for this, but it's just like it bothers the mind a little bit. It's almost like the question, what if Judas would not have portrayed Jesus? What would have happened? It's like one of those weird like mind like what right? What if Judas, who was selected to betray Jesus, at the night that he was going to betray Jesus, said, you know what? I don't really want the ther I don't really want the 300 the 30 coins You can keep that. I'm gonna actually stick with Team Jesus. We would have ruined everything, right? What would have happened? It's hard. The issue is the true answer is it wouldn't have happened, and it didn't happen Because Judas was selected precisely for that reason, because Judas was the type of person in those situations who would do that. Does that make sense what I'm saying? So the question I'm going to ask is, what would have happened had Elijah not prayed? It's kind of mind-boggling, it's like the question. But the answer seems to be it would not have rained. But then it would gotta ruin God's plan, right? But again, I think that God made sure that he would select a person who was going to pray under that circumstance. And not just pray lightheartedly, but even when nothing happened, he said, nope, I'm going back. Nope, I'm seven times and persistently prayed. But I think just a plain reading of the text outside of that like mind-boggling mind twister of a hypothetical, it's very clear that um God responded to Elijah's prayer to send down the rain. He could have done it himself, but he did not choose to do it that way. He chose to do it this way. And so back to that point though. God, let's not confuse things. God is sovereign. He's in control. His plan will not fail. Amen? And yet, Elijah is a real person who prayed seven times, and it was through his prayer that rain came down. And so, again, I think the way this fits together is God in his sovereignty picked a person who would accomplish his will via prayer. How does it apply to you? Well, we want God to do great things in this church. We want God to do great things in this household, in these families, in our lives. Amen? Don't you want God to do great things? I mean, why do you pray at all? Because you want God to do great things and the people that you love in the community that you are connected with, right? You want God to use you as a vessel and a channel of grace to be blessing other people. Amen? Okay. Guess what? If you're not a persistent, prayerful kind of person, then that task to accomplish those works are probably not going to be happening through you. Just like Elijah would not have been selected had he been a terrible prayer. If he had a man, if he had been the kind of guy who would not pray, he would not have been used in this way. Do you see that? And so too, what I'm simply saying is, I think this is the way it works. If you're the type of person who is not faithful in prayer, do not expect to see God's miracles in your life But he's just not going to do it. He's going to do it in somebody else's life. You're going to say, well, why does the miracle happen to this guy? This guy prays. Because this guy's on team Yahweh. He does according to what Yahweh wants. And so Yahweh is going to send him the people he wants to accomplish his work through. And he's not going to use us. Primarily, he can do whatever he wants, talks to a donkey, but most of the time he doesn't talk to donkeys. Let me know that. The vast majority of times you don't put you don't put a donkey up here as a preacher. Well you're pointing at me. That's a joke. But seriously, would you expect us to just bring a donkey up here and said God preaches to a donkey? So let's who ha have a donkey come up here and expect to preach to us. No Because God primarily, ordinarily uses faithful men to preach his word. And it's through faithful men preaching his word that God's going to competition. God ordains the ends and the means. So what I'm simply saying is this. What we should be doing in our lives is have the attitude of Isaiah Isa God said to Isaiah, Who will go for us? And He said, Here I am, send me. There is this great harvest out there. There are the people that God wants to save. There is this great blessing. The question is, are we going to be a part of that? So, no, the world does not resolve on your shoulders. That is true. But do you want to be a part of God's blessing to bring blessing and prosperity in your life and in your family? And I will say now I'm going to get myself in trouble, but I will say very particularly too. I do believe that the more you can be trusted to do these kind of things, the more your individual family and your individual church and your individual marriage itself will be blessed. Because again, I think that God is much more likely to send his people who will ultimately become his people into your home if he can trust you. Does that make sense what I'm saying? He says I can't trust you, he's not gonna send his people to you. He's gonna send this to somebody else. And you're not gonna get the blessing of seeing that. So I think it it gets very complicated and it gets sticky. But bottom line is you should you should be a man of prayer. And when you are a man of prayer, when you are persisting, do not be surprised when God sends the rain in response to your prayers. And don't be surprised if you're not a man of prayer that you get nothing but drought. And then you say, God's will be done. And he looks at you and says, But I told you my will was for you to pray. And now my will is to punish you for your prayerlessness. Does that make sense? You can't abuse God's attributes, is what I'm trying to say Trying to say. You can't say, well, I'm going to take God's sovereignty as an excuse for my inaction. And my inability to do anything. Rather, God's sovereignty and his power should motivate you like it motivated Elijah. I just want you to see this. I want to see this connection. Because God said that he was going to send rain, this gave Elijah the motivation to get down in that squat position seven times and keep praying down the power of God. It didn't cause them not to pray. It said, God, I know you're going to do this, so I'm going to keep praying until you do it. And by the way, this is why I personally have such belief and encouragement of fighting for the salvation of the children of the church. Again, I I can't guarantee anything, but I do read the Bible and I see that it's God's operation normally Desire the salvation of our children. That's it. Does that make sense? So th that that kind of works. Well say about this is the will of God, your sanctification So if that's God's will, God's promise, and I'm not seeing it in my life, I'm gonna keep praying seven times. So I see a sanctification start flowing in my life. I don't know if a lot I've got a I don't know. When God makes a promise, we may not fulfill it. Although we created fruit. Yeah, it's confusing. No, it it it it is confusing. Again, I think God's ultimate plan is going to happen. Does that make sense? God's here's it. Do you remember what happened to Esther? Mordecai came up to Esther and said, God place you for such a time as this. And then he said, and if you do not raise up, salvation will spring up from another source, but you and your family will perish. That's what they said. And so had Esther been silent, the Jews would not have been doomed. It's not like the Jews, oh, the Jews are gone because Esther failed. Right? But what would have happened to Esther according to Mordecai? Disaster would have come upon him Her and salvation would have sprung up in some other source. So yes, God's ultimate plan will happen, but does that mean that we won't go through trials, afflictions, tribulations, and regret? No, it doesn't. It means that we very much can go. And give you another example. Think about David. Because of his sin, he was forgiven, right? David was forgiven with his killing of of Uriah and stealing of Bathsheba. But what was the consequence of David's life because of that sin? Constant affliction and trials and devastation of his family. I almost guarantee that all his life he regretted that sin. He regretted doing what he had done So, God's ultimate plan, yes, will be accomplished whether we do what we do. Nevertheless, though I will say that our prayer still is very meaningful and still is the means where God accomplishes these things. So in other words, what I would say, Mr. Dennis, specifically to you or to me as an example. And I believe this is true of you. It's true of me as well. We want to be used as vessels of grace on this earth. We want to bless people. We want to see our families aid. We want to see our church blessed. We want to see God. We want to be this channel of blessing. Is that amen? He's not going to do that outside of our prayer. That's what I'm saying is emphatically clear in the Bible. He's not going to be blessing us and using us as this vehicle of grace if we do not. Pray. We have to. We need to. Is God's ultimate plan going to be accomplished? Yes. But do I want God's ultimate plan being to punish me, a stubborn sinner? I'd rather not. In other words, you get to you get to in some ways get to choose what character you get to be. You want to be the I'm trying to think of a hard headed character. Peter? Peter's a good guy. Peter was actually a decent guy. I can't I'm trying to think of a hard-headed character. I can't think of any right now. Uh Jonah. You want to be Jonah or do you want me to Gideon? Getting it kind of w sour in the end. But you get no saying though. You get to choose. In some ways you get to choose your path. God is going to accomplish his will, but you might become a Jonah getting swallowed by a well, or you might not be. And again, we all know that, right? We don't say God's will be done, so I don't need to put my seatbelt on. Well it will might be done as you fly out of the windshield. Does that make sense? And and we know that there's a direct relation between us putting a seatbelt on and flying outside of windshields And that's all I'm simply saying. That God has given us these spiritual tools to operate his world, and yet God is still sovereign. And so what I would just encourage, I know that's so mind-boggling and all that, what I would just say is this: let God be God and let us be us. God told us to pray. God told us to work out our salvation with fear and trebling. God told us to do a whole lot of things. And those are the things that we should be focusing on, what God told us And then he tells us he's in control, his plan will accomplish, and we can trust him. God's sovereignty is supposed to give us peace, never supposed to lead to inactivity. And if God's sovereignty ever starts leading to inactivity, well I don't need to evangelize, I don't need to pray, I don't need to whatever, we know that something has gone wrong Even if we can't fully figure out how that all works. We just know, wait a second. I don't know how this all works, but I do know I need to pray, I need to evangelize, I need to be holy, so forth and so on. God has told me to do these things And I'm gonna rest in his sovereignty on the things that I have no control over. Maybe kinda. It's confusing. It is it is confusing. I w let me just say this to try to tie this up a little bit. When God makes a promise, He's gonna keep it, it's just it's usually never in the time that we think it's gonna be a If he makes a promise he's got he he does not break his promises. No. Of course not. He does not make his prom break his promises. Which we do not have. He knows the end from the beginning. So for example, he made a promise that prophecy that Judas would betray him. But he also knew Judas perfectly and know what he would do. And I'm simply saying the same thing is true that God's promises are 100% true and they'll never fail. But God made his promises fully knowing all the factors Which is which is truly mind-boggling. But what I was gonna say is this if you actually s if you study the Bible and you go to passages that emphasize God's sovereignty and his absolute control, they are always meant to come comfort his people in the things that they cannot control in their lives. If you just study them out you'll see that, that they're written in such a way to give comfort to his people that God has it, that all things are gonna work together, that God's in control, that God will win in the end. You're never gonna see them saying, Don't pray. That's never the application in the text. God is sovereign so don't pray. God is sovereign so don't worry about your children's salvation. God is sovereign so it doesn't really matter what you do. You'll never find that one. Does that make sense? And so what I would always encourage people is not only to take the plain meaning of passages, but to apply it as the text applies it. And the text applies God's sovereignty as I can fully rest in God's plan and control. And then there's all the other texts that tell us what we should what we should be striving for and what should we be doing. And we just have to let God be God and us be us. Any final I know that's difficult. Any final thoughts on that? Well I just want to say that I'll see you. You you asked earlier, you said um what would happen if Elijah you know didn't continue to pray and uh ask the Lord to Well I I just believe that, you know, he would have y'all touched on this already, that he would have raised somebody else up. And uh uh had them pray. 'Cause he said even when uh Elijah was concerned, God said, you know, I have a remnant. Right. Yeah, seven thousand. Seven thousand, right? So Um we would have probably had somebody else pray, but I think the the best answer to that is the answer of um Mordecai would Esther, salvation would arise from another source, but woe to you in your house. I think that's probably the best answer. The one thing I want to not do with that though is again there are real consequences In your individual life for being disobedient to God. There's no way you can read this book and conclude that. For example, he says to Saul, Had you been faithful, I would have made you a forever dynasty. He says that to Saul You can explain it in a way, but he says it's this all. Had you done this, I would have raised you up as a forever dynasty. But because you do this, the kingdom of God is being stripped from you. What do you do with that? You know what I do with it? I believe what it says. Had he been faithful, he would have been have a forever dynasty. But since he wasn't, it was given to another. And um Jesus talks about it with the Pharisees, right? When he says, Had Sodom and Gomorrah had me, they would have repented. So he does tell you, this would have happened had I been there. So it's not like God doesn't know what would have happened. Very good, exactly. He actually this would have happened is actually biblical language. The Bible actually uses that language. Had this happened, this would have happened for good and for bad. So it isn't just what I don't want to do is simply say, like, well, if I don't evangelize my children. Surely God would send someone else to evangelize them for me. So it really doesn't matter if I evangelize my children. I'm saying that that isn't very bad logic and will most likely end in disaster. God can do what he wants. It it most likely will end an utter disaster for you. And we know that though. You know that. You know that the way that you are a real human being. And you know that your actions are significant. Don't you You know the things you do. You know if you sit you hit the accelerator, make it run a minute to dentist again. If you go fifty miles an hour on a 15, something bad can happen. And when you hit that little port Five-year-old and kill them. You better not say, well, God's will be done. They were gonna die anyways. You'll say that as we throw you right in jail Does that make sense? We won't accept this. Because it's not true. Is God still sovereign in those circumstances? Yes. But we don't live in a fatalistic society that's like, well, had I not hit them, somebody else would have gone 50 miles an hour. We don't live that way Nobody would accept that. But sometimes we accept those kind of answers when it comes to our spiritual responsibility to other people. And I say don't do that. Don't do that. Let God be God and let you be you. And what I do is I'm like, God, I believe you're gonna bless my ass. Maybe it won't be in this person's life, but maybe you're in that person's life. I'm gonna trust you in that. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna pray sometimes. Believing you're gonna send the rain It might not be exactly the way I thought it was going to be, but you will have it. So yes, you are a human being that make actual decisions at the same time. God is sovereign. That's mind-blowing. Seriously, theologians have wrestled with this forever. And you'll never find a totally satisfying answer because God is transcendent above us all. But let God be God and you be you, and recognize what you already do, that your actions make a difference Especially in prayer. We've got to close. We're going to go to prayer. I'm going to read you just a few quick scriptures and then we'll pray. 1 Thessalonians 5. 17. Pray without ceasing. How many sermons have you heard that means you're supposed to pray when you wake up, you're supposed to pray while you're brushing your teeth, you're supposed to pray in the shower, in the bathroom, everything in between? For a lot of sermons like that, right? And it might mean that. It might actually mean that. I think more likely though, or at least in addition to that, it means be persistent in prayer. It's not telling you don't eat and don't do anything but pray. You have to do other things. But I think it means never be a person who's never used to pray Don't be that person. Continue to be fervent in your prayers. Romans chapter 12, verse 12. Be hopeful. Be joyful in hope. Patient in affliction. Persistent In prayer. Did you know what the Bible tells you to be persistent in prayer? Persistent means keep going. Would you be persistent in prayer if every one of your prayers were answered the first time? Would you need to be persistent in prayer if all of your prayers are answered the first time? No. This is how you keep going. Alright. Uh I already quoted you Luke chapter eight. It's called confusion. Yeah. Or ignorance. Right? Well well that's true. That's true. That's true. That kind of prayer, but like a prayer like God please give me a job makes very little sense when he gave it to you Right. Uh Luke, you can go here. I already quoted this one. Luke 18, verse 1. It's the Jesus actually says, then he spoke a parable to them, that men always ought to pray and not lose heart. That's Jesus is telling you this is the meaning of the parable of the persistent widow before the king who does not fear God. And that's Luke chapter 18, verse 1 And then here's here's the last one. Mr. Dennis, can you read this? Isaiah chapter 62 verse six? And then we will close in prayer. of the man's name he was a a famous guy back in the back in the day, you know the early nineteen hundreds of the late eighteen hundreds. And he said about prayer is that rarely rarely do I pray in more than an hour but rarely an hour goes by that I don't pray. Hm. So in other words, you know, I've heard people say, Oh, I went and prayed for four hours straight or whatever. This guy's like, Oh. So it's no prayer are not long. But they're all. Exactly. They don't have to be. I think some of the best prayers of God help me. I'm about to lose it. God help me. Excuse me. Those are some of the best prayers. Those prayers will save your life and they'll save your spiritual walk. God, I'm I'm going astray. Lead me not to temptation. Help me. God, make me forgiving. Give me patience. God give me wisdom. It don't have to be long. Just pray as God leads you. But just pray. Okay, Isaiah Isaiah 62, 6 I have posted watchmen on your walls, Jerusalem. They will never be silent day or night. You who call on the Lord, give yourselves no rest. Can you read that? Uh you who make mention to the Lord, do not keep silent, and give him no rest till he establishes until he makes Jerusalem a praise on the earth. Wow. We didn't really have time to get into this, but this is amazing. This is God talking about the restoring Jerusalem and producing the new heavens and the new earth, basically And look what he says. He says, I have made, I have set watchmen on your walls. Who's the watchmen? Faithful men and women of God, God's going to use to protect and to build his kingdom. And who are these people? They shall never hold their peace day or night. They're big talkers. They do a lot of this. Right? But who are they talking to? Who are they talking to? Who you who make mention of the Lord and do not keep silent and give him no rest. Who's the hem? Who's he giving no rest? God. Not men. He's not talking to men's own either that they don't get any peace. These watchmen on the walls, making mention of the Lord, give God no rest until he establishes his kingdom. So does God answer our prayers? Yes. Is God gonna build the kingdom of God through our prayers? Yes. He will. One salvation at a time, one blessing at a time, one restoration at a time. God uses men, and if you get nothing away from the sermon, get this. God could have sent the rain without Elijah, but instead he used Elijah's persistent prayer to send the rain. God could build the kingdom of God without you and without people, but instead he uses people and their persistent prayer To build the kingdom of God. You see that? You are vital. You are absolutely vital to God, what God wants to do Because God doesn't want to do it without you. He didn't want to do it without Elijah, and He doesn't want to do it without us. He can send angels. Angels will be much better than us Would they not? I don't need you guys, you guys are unreliable. Send in the angels. I don't need the angels. I'll just do it myself. But that's not what God does. He uses us, weak vessels, inconsistent prayer warriors as we are to accomplish his blood. What that means is, and I'm done, what we're about to do right now is actually very important because it actually accomplishes real things at at and at Andover um when I was there for many years. For the most part, we maintain the spirit of the unity, the spirit of unity and the bond of peace There was very little disruption and explosions and inner fight. It was very peaceful. I think there was one reason for that Every Sunday evening that I was there, practically, we prayed for the spirit of unity and the bond of peace. I think that that was the reason that that church remained in a state of peace all those years. And that's why on our prayer list, we're going to pray tonight for the Spirit of Unity and the Bible of peace. That's my hope. That God will answer our prayers to send his blessing to this church. So let's go to the Lord in prayer.