Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you for your Lord today. We thank you that we could sing these songs. We thank you that your Holy Spirit leads us and guides us. And directs us and fills us and empowers us. Lord, we now pray that as we have come to worship you and to hear a word from you that that would happen. That you are the ultimate worship leader, you're the ultimate preacher. This is your church. These are your people. And I pray that you would feed your flock. Help them to hear not me, but to hear you. And to marvel at your goodness and your word and how it feeds us and sustains us and gives us everything that we need. That you have never left us, you will never forsake us, and that you're going to guide us home. And I pray that you use this Lord's Day and use this message to strengthen your people, to help them bring them safely into that glorious kingdom that you have prepared from the foundation of the earth. For those who love you. We pray us in Jesus' name. Amen. So have you ever felt like you were the only one left? And when I say that, I'm not talking about the positive experience like when you're playing dodgeball and you've knocked out All the other players or really usually people doing dodgeballs, they just hide the whole time, let everyone else knock each other out, and then they're woo-hoo the last man standing. No, not that positive experience of being the last man standing, but more of the negative experience. When you look to your left And you look to your right, and you realize that you live in a world full of disobedient people. Everyone has forsaken the Lord and you're the only one left. Have you been there before? You know that feeling. Now somewhat that's somewhat hyperbolic. Usually we're not literally the last man standing, but maybe you have been the last group There's a small little subset of the faithful and you've been in that moment. I can tell you in my life, one of the times that this happened Several times actually, but one particular time I remember is I was at Andover Baptist Church during an evening service, and we got that church you for those of you who've been there, the sanctuary is humongous. And I'm sitting here in a ginormous sanctuary sitting in the back row. I was a back row Baptist. I've moved to the front row. Now I'm a front row Baptist. I was in the back row looking at all the empty chairs and the very few saints that were there for evening service. And then I started to think about all of the people that lived in commuting distance to Andover Baptist Church. And I started to get that feeling of I'm the only one left. It's just me and these Ten, five, twenty people in the room. Well those can be, if you've been there before, you know how discouraging that feeling could be. You would think maybe that would produce pride, but it doesn't. It produces discouragement and almost like you just want to hang up the towel. If everyone else has given up on God Maybe I should as well. Well, today we're going to look at Elijah as he struggles with this very thing. This idea that he's the last man standing and the depression and the anguish that comes upon him And we're going to hear the response of the Lord. How would the Lord have responded to me? How would the Lord respond to you? And most importantly, how did the Lord respond to Elijah? When he came to God with that kind of accusation, Lord, I'm the only one left in the even seek my life. So with that in mind, let's turn over to First Kings chapter nineteen. First Kings chapter nineteen, beginning in verse one. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, also how he had executed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I do not make your life as one of them by tomorrow, about this time. And when he saw that, he arose and he ran for his life. And he went to Beathsheba, which belongs to Judah, and he left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and he came and sat under a broom tree, and he prayed that he might die, and said, It is enough, Lord, take my life. For I am no better than my father's. Then as he lay and slept under a broom tree, suddenly an angel touched him and said to him, Arise and eat. Then he looked, and there by his head was a cake baked on the coals and a jar of water. So he ate, and he drank, and he lay down again. And the angel of the Lord came back the second time. And he touched him. And he said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for you. So he arose and he ate and he drank, and he went in the strength of the Lord forty days and forty nights as far as Horab, the mountain of God. And Mary went into a cave and spent the night in that place. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah? So he said, I have been very zealous for the Lord of hosts. But the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, they've torn down your altars, and they killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left. And they seek to take my life. Then he said, Go out and stand on the mountain before the Lord. And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind tore into the mountain and broke the rocks in pieces before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind, an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after after the earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not. in the fire, and after the fire a still small voice. So it was when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out and stood at the entrance of the cave And suddenly a voice came to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah? And he said, I have been zealous. Very zealous for the Lord God of hosts, because the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant. They torn down your altars and killed your prophets with the sword, and I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. Then the Lord said to him, Go and return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. And when you arrive, anoint Haziel as king over Syria. Also you shall anoint Jehu, the son of Nimshai, as king over Israel, and Elisha, the son of Zarephath, of Abel. Mihalah, you shall anoint as prophet in your place. It shall be that whoever escapes the sword of Haziel, Jehu will kill. And whoever escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha will kill. Yet I have reserved 7,000 in Israel, all whose knees have not Baal, not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him. So today we pick up on the life of Elijah. As you recall, Elijah has just accomplished an amazing and incredible victory on Mount Carmel. First, God sent down the fire to burn up. The altar and the water and the stones and the soil and the burnt offering and everything was supernatural, all-consuming, obliterating fire that came down and vindicated not only Elijah. But God and the word that Elijah had spoken on behalf of God. But not only does God send down the fire, but he also sends down The rain. Three and a half years had gone by. Elijah had said, Except for my word, it shall not rain. And it had not rained for three and a half years, and famine and all the destruction that comes with famine had ensued and Elijah went up on that mountain and he prayed seven times. You remember at first it was just that tiny little cloud. Cloud, nothing, so small. And then soon it was this torrential rain. That if Ahab would not get out of there fast enough with his chariot going down full speed, he wasn't going to make it. His chariots were going to get stuck in the mud from all the rain So God sent down the fire, God sent down the rain, and you remember also in that scene we have that little fun fact. It's so for kids, I hope you love it. I love it. Elijah becomes the fastest man in the world The fastest man ever. He runs probably 25 to 35 miles an hour. He runs 16 to 25 miles at that speed, beating the chariot of Ahab all the way to the gates of Jezreel. And he doesn't go into the gate, go inside of Jezreel, but he stays outside of the gate because he's waiting to hear from a person. And who was that congregation? Who's he waiting for? Jezebel. And he wants to know what will Jezebel do when she hears about the fire, about the rain, and about all the dead prophets of Baal that he has accomplished. It's great victory. And we see what was Jezebel's response. We see that in 1 Kings 19, verse 2. When she hears it, she has the absolute worst reaction possible. She says, I swear to God, I swear by the gods. If you live one more day, let the gods kill me. I am going to kill you, Elijah. You killed my prophets. Well, now it's time to die. And this causes Elijah to to run for his life, and he runs completely outside of Israel, and he runs to Judah, and then he leaves a servant in Beersheba, and then he takes off another Day's journey and he's in the wilderness and and what does he cry out underneath that broom tree? He goes all the way out in the wilderness all by himself Running away from Jezebel, but ultimately running away from God, because God had been left back at Jezebel. Because he did not wait to hear from the Lord. And you see that in verse 4. Eliza prayed that he might die, and he said, It is enough Now Lord, take my life, for I am no better than my forefathers. In other words, he said, I've had enough. I'm done. I'm through I thought that I was going to be this great prophet that accomplished these great things. And Elijah did accomplish great things, and he was a great prophet. But I thought that this was going to start a movement that was going to bring revival all throughout the land. But I've discovered a harsh fact of reality. We talked about this last time, and many times you yourself will discover this harsh fact of reality when you knew when you were sixteen or even younger, six years old, that books were going to be written about you And that you are going to change the world, right? And then look at verse 4. What happens to you, what happened to you, is what happened to Elijah. You come to discover I am no better than my fathers. The great redemption, the great revival that I thought was going to be accomplished by me has not happened. And Elijah, just like we can sometimes, he was sunk down in the mire. So at this point in Elijah's life, it's just the lowest point of Elijah's life recorded in the scriptures. He's done a lot of running And he's done a lot of talking. But now it's God's turn to respond to his wayward, depressed, sad prophet. And so if you look at verse 5, we start to see the responding God, the great hound of heaven, seeking Elijah. And it begins with Somebody touched him. It was actually a song. Somebody touched me. Anybody know that song? Somebody touched me. Well, somebody touched Elijah. And it was The angel of the Lord. And that angel touches Elijah. He wakes them up. And he tells them, Arise and eat. And so he wakes up, he looks around, at his head, he sees something. What does he see? He sees some bread, a cake, and he sees some water. And so this is what I would call grace. Where did the bread come from? Where did the water come from? Where did the angel come from? They all came from the Lord. Now remember, this is a disobedient prophet that has abandoned the Lord days ago And yet, when God responds to his wayward prophet, how does he respond? With a rod or with grace? with kindness, with sweetness. And this is the God that we serve. We serve a God that when we throw temper tantrums And we're off there saying, Woe is me, and deserving the rod, many times God will meet us in the wilderness, not with a rod, but instead with grace and with kindness. And what I love about this story, if you look at it, there's a little detail, it's easy to gloss over it, but not only did God provide his prophet with a cake, and with water, but he also provided the cake on the hot coals. Do you see that? I mean why is that there in the text? Because it it happened. Because right there he had his bread and he had the hot coals around it with a jar of water. And what I get from that is God loves us so much that he even cares about the little details. For me, I like french fries. Anybody a fan of French fries? I like french fries. But here's the thing about french fries. They're only good for a very small window of time. Is that not true? They're amazing when they're fresh and they're hot and they're crispy. But something about French fries, they lose the crisp almost immediately, and then they become soggy And they're not good anymore. Now if you're hungry enough, you'll still gobble those French fries down, especially with some ketchup, you know, it's going down. But it's not the same. Is that not true? It's just not the same as a hot, crispy French fries. Well, this is an example in my mind that God gives them the hot, crispy French fries. The love is in the details. Oftentimes, love is in those details, those little things, those little extra acts of details. I'll give you another example of this. Has anybody here been to Ruth Chris? It's very expensive. It's a very expensive steak place. And I'll be honest, the steak was it wasn't bad. I'm not saying it was bad. But for the eighty dollars I spent, I'm not sure if it was worth it. To be completely honest, my wife makes a better steak than Ruth Chris any day. This is a hundred percent true. But there's something about Ruth Chris that's actually really incredible. There's two things I observed. Number one, the waiters treat you with respect and kindness It's amazing. They actually treat you very nicely. And my favorite thing about Ruth Chris is they give you the little hot rag washcloth at the end where you just wipe your hand and it feels so nice. The point I'm trying to illustrate is that often love is in the little details. And here, God loves his prophet so much that he doesn't just provide him with soggy french fries. He doesn't provide him just with a cake of bread, but he even puts some coals out there so that he can wake up to hot, fresh bread. Now, why does God do this? Especially to his wayward prophet who's been in disobedience to him. Why does God do this? Because God is a kind and loving God. That's what he is. First John 4. 8 says, God is love. Exodus 34, 6 This is the revelation that God gave Moses. Moses is on the mountain meeting God, and what are the people down there doing? You remember? They built a golden calf. They're doing all kinds of things I won't even say from the pulpit. They're full of debauchery and sin. And God's meeting Moses on the mountain, and he reveals himself, his character to Moses, and he says this, the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful. gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in goodness and in truth. You realize that's the God we serve? A God who's just fundamentally good. We live in a world full of pleasure and full of joy. Oftentimes we focus on the pain and the misery, but that's because we have so much normal joy. If your life was nothing but pain and misery, you wouldn't notice it. But it's the fact that God has blessed us with sunshine and so much pleasure so often that when we get to stub in the toe, we just freak out Because we're the where did this come from? How did this ruin my otherwise good day? Is that not true? Has God not blessed you with a thousand blessings? I want you to go home and just think about all the things that God has blessed you with. And oftentimes I will put a sunshine in your dark day. And you'll think, um, perhaps things aren't as bad as I thought As you drive home in your car, at your house, in your same neighborhood. Amen? God provides for us. God takes care of us. Now, beloved, what is the purpose of all of this kindness? God showers goodness, he showers the sun on both the righteous and the wicked. Why does God shower such goodness upon all of creation? Number one, it's because he's fundamentally a good God. That is who he is. That's what comes out of him. Do you see that? He's fundamentally at his core good. And so, in some sense, he can't help himself but to be good. But the other reality is that the goodness of God is supposed to lead you to something But it often leads us to the wrong conclusion. When God is good to us, even though we deserve his wrath, we often come to the conclusion that he doesn't really care about our sin. He's really not just. He really doesn't care about righteousness and wickedness, but that's the wrong conclusion. Rather, the goodness of God, Romans chapter 2, verse 4, do not despise the riches of his goodness, tolerance, and patience, knowing that the goodness of God is meant to lead you to what? Repentance. You're supposed to be broken by God's goodness and say, a God that's been this good to me, He deserves my repentance, He deserves my worship, He deserves my praise. Do not take God's kindness, God providing you coals and a cake and a jar to say he doesn't really care about my sin because he's still providing for me. That is the wrong conclusion. God cares for you because it's supposed to break you and make you lead to repentance. But unfortunately, I think many times in our life, and I think also in the life of Elijah, he doesn't get it. He thinks he's okay. He thinks, oh well, God's still taking care of me, God's still providing for me. I must be a pretty good guy. I must be still in the Lord's will. So he eats, and he's probably still in a bad mood. Eating God's food, sent by God, being woken up by an angel, but he's still whining and complaining, just like we often are. But God is not done. Look in verse 5. An angel comes back a second time, and he wakes them up and touches them, and he says, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great. for you. Now what journey? Remember, Elijah's already gone on a journey in his own strength. He's already run out of completely out of the United States. He's run completely into Canada He's already left the jurisdiction of Jezebel, and then he leaves a servant and goes another day journey, and that's why he's under this broom tree in the middle of the wilderness. But God says, no, no, no. I need you to eat more because the journey is too great for you. But we have not heard of any journey yet. But God knows your thoughts and the secret intentions of your hearts. And that's such a scary thought. That's such a scary thought. God knows even the things that you restrain from saying. God knows those percolating thoughts that you meditate on, not the annoying thoughts that you cast away in the name of the Lord. I'm not talking about those. He knows those too. But he probably won't judge us according to those when we say, Get out of here. I don't want that. No, he he knows the ones that we swirl around in our mouth, that we go back to, the delectable sins of our minds. He knows everything. Thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ. Otherwise, we would be doomed. He has made no mention of a journey, but God already knows the secret thoughts of Elijah's heart and knows that he has an intent to go on a journey. And where is that journey? We're going to see. Elijah has decided that he wants to have an encounter with God, that God has failed him And he's going to confront God, and he's going to go to the place that God has previously made himself manifest. He's going to Mount Sinai. He's going to Mount Horab. He's going to meet God where God had revealed himself to Moses in the burning bush. Where God had later revealed himself to Moses again. On that mountain where he passed his goodness by the text I just quoted, and also where God revealed his wall. This is like the holy of holies of physical places on earth. Okay, he's going to meet God where God has previously been. And he's going to confront him. And he has some words for God. He's going to give him a piece of his mind. Now let me stop right there and tell you this. If you ever decide that you're going to give God a peace of your mind and you're going to let Him know how wrong he's been to you , Just remember this text. Just remember how foolish that really is. Have you forgotten who you are? And more importantly, have you forgotten who he is? Romans 9 has an encounter where somebody hears about the sovereignty of God and his power and his majesty, and he complains. Here's what God's reply is. But indeed, it's actually it's interesting. Romans chapter 9 is very unsatisfying to many theologians and commentators because they want an explanation of who God is. Like this is offensive And they want a theological solution to the problem. And here's the actual reply. But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Very unsatisfying to the commentators, but this is God's reply. Indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God, will the thing form? Say to him who formed it, Why have you made me like this? Does not the potter have power over the clay from the same lump to make one vessel for honor and another for dishonor? In other words, know your place You have no right, you clay creature, to stand in accusation against God. You are puny, you are small, he is great, and he is magnificent. Why would you think that the judge of all the earth would do wrong? Even if you can't know how he's in it and how it could be good when you remember who he is and you remember who you are. You put a hand over your mouth and say, I'm going to sit in silence, like Job's friends, and wait for the secret things to one day be revealed. The secret things belong to him, a God who's good, a God who's kind, a God who brings you the hot coals, and the cake of bread, and the jar of water, even when you're disobedient, running away from him in the wilderness. Here's another text, Romans chapter 11, verse 34. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor? Or who has first given to him that it should be repaid to him? Have you Does God owe you anything? He doesn't owe you anything. He doesn't owe you an explanation. He doesn't owe you one thing. You owe him everything So again, remember when you decide that you're mad at God and he owes you some kind of explanation, I want you to remember this sermon. I want you to more importantly remember this text of the people who try to go to God with confrontation. And the top of that list is Elijah here and Job. And I promise you it did not go well with them, and it will not go well with you either. So again, Elijah decides he's going to meet God in his own plane, his own location. He's going to meet God on the mountain, the Mount Horab, where God met Moses in the burning bush, where God met Moses. Eventually where he passed by him and he saw his glory, where God gave him the law and well the law and Ten Commandments on that Mount Sinai. And so Elijah goes and he's given this food and it strengthens him for the journey. It's 250 miles away He doesn't have a moped or a car or an Uber. He has to walk 250 miles. How long does it take him, Church? Look at the text. How long does it take Elijah to get to Mount Horab? 40 days and 40 nights off of a single meal. God can do anything. A single meal provides for this man for 40 days, 40 nights of strenuous exercise, 250 miles of hiking, and he gets there. Now, does that number 40 days and 40 nights ring any bells to you? Does that sound like an echo of any have you heard that before? Forty days and where have you heard it? So Nephla, Jesus fasted for 40 days and 40 nights. Anywhere else? Maybe a guy named Moses. How long was Moses up on the mountain? 40 days and 40 nights, that same mountain. I don't think that's an accident. I think what the biblical authors are doing is trying to remind you of Moses on the mountain. Because we're going to see some parallels between Elijah and Moses. Moses was 40 days and 40 nights on that mountain, and Elijah is 40 days and 40 nights without food. Toward that same mountain for the same purpose, namely to meet God. Now look at verse 9. I want to show you another interesting parallel. Actually, before we go to verse 9, let me remind you of something else. When Moses was on that mountain. He saw God. God came down on Mount Sinai to bring the law. And if you look at Hebrews and we look at Exodus, it was terrifying. On that mountain there was a theophany, the presence of God. It was full of fire, full of tempest. Tempest is just strong wind and an earthquake. And God spoke and the earth shook. It was terrifying People said, I don't want anything to do with that mountain. In fact, Moses said, if you touch this mountain, you're gonna die. And they said, We're not going anywhere near that mountain. That mountain's on fire. That mountain is shaking. It's utterly terrifying. And what's the message? That's what the law of God does. It brings upon us wrath. God was meeting Moses, they give him the law and it produced a terrifying effect. Okay, we have fire, we have tempest, we have wind, and we have an earthquake. In our text, Elijah, we're going to look at this in a second, Elijah meets God on that same mountain. And what does he find? Fire. Wind and an earthquake. Again, this is trying to remind you of what happened before. Now there's one other clue. I want you to look at verse 9. And I'm reading from the best translation, the New King James. And here's what it says. And there Elijah went into a cave and spent the night in that place. Now your inferior translations probably say he went into a cave. Is that what it says? Mine says that too. All of our translations say that. I know that because I checked all of them. Every single translation, the best and the worst, they all say that he went into a cave. Right? Anybody say anything different? He went into a cave, just sub cave, right? But if you actually go check the Hebrew and you look at the commentary, they all point this out. It's so strange. All the commentators point this out, but none of the translations reflect this. I don't know why. Here's what it actually says in the Hebrew. He went into the cave. The Septuagint, the ancient translation of the Hebrew, the Elit X, also says he went into the cave. Now what is the cave that he went into? What is this cave? Well, again, if you go back to the commentators, almost all of them suggest that this is the cleft of the rock that Moses went into when God passed him. so many years prior and declared what we just saw the goodness of God. This is the cave, not just a cave, not some random cave. This is the cave that Moses had previously gone into. So here we are. Elijah is on the same mountain. He hasn't eaten for the same period of time, 40 days and 40 nights. And he's actually at the very cave that Moses is to meet God. And he's going to see Very similar things that Moses saw. But there's going to be some very different realities when it comes to Elijah. And he's going to see some things that's going to surprise them, and he's going to see some things that may surprise you. So let's pick up verse nine. And there Elijah went into the cave, and he spent the night in that place, and behold, the word of the Lord came to him And he said, What are you doing here, Elijah? And we talked about this a little bit on Sunday evening. But this is the first time in chapter 19 that the word of the Lord has come to Elijah. Previously, all the way from chapter 17, all the way through 18, up to this point, God's word of the Lord comes to him at every juncture of his life, leading him and guiding him each step of the way. But at this point, it's completely absent over 300 something miles back in Jezreel. At this point Elijah has been running from God. He thinks he's running from a woman, but he's really running from God. He hasn't waited on the Lord, and he's out there all by himself. And now he's made it all the way to the mountain. And finally, God has met back up with him. God will meet you. Remember I said God is patient? God is kind? He is. And the patience of God, church, is meant to lead you what? To repentance. But guess what? If it does not work, he's going to keep chasing you down 250 miles later, 40 days without food later, and say to you, what are you doing here? God will confront his people. God will discipline his people. He finally comes to him and he says, What are you doing here? You were supposed to meet me back in Jezreel. You remember me? The one you left? So many days and so many miles ago. What are you doing here, Elijah? This reminds me of another question. God likes to ask us questions. Remember Adam? He's sitting back in the garden. God comes scrolling into the garden. Where are you, Elijah? Where are you, Adam? Where are you? This is what God does. He asks us questions. He's gentle. He's kind. He's trying to lead us to repentance. But Adam, he didn't get it. He blame shifted. And Elijah, he didn't get it. We're gonna see he blame shifts. And honestly, look at your own heart. Many times we don't get it. We blame shifts. First Kings verse chapter 19 verse 10. Look at his blame shifting. So Elijah said, I have been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, torn down your altars, killed your prophets. With the sword, I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. Now, that's pretty much accurate, right? I mean that's pretty much true. Has he been zealous for the Lord? Yes, he has. And I preached many sermons here about let's be zealous for the Lord. And Elijah epitomizes that up until this point. So, yes, check. He has been zealous. Have the children of Israel forsaken your covenant? Yes. Have they torn down your altars? Yes, he we had to rebuild one down at Mount Carmel. Have they killed your prophets? Absolutely. I alone am left Now getting a little shaky here. Getting a little shaky here, but you know what? Maybe maybe actually Elijah meant that. Maybe he was confused at that point. But again, was he did he probably think that? He probably did. So overall, I'm gonna give him an 8 out of 10. This is relatively accurate But there's something missing here, isn't there? Where is Elijah's repentance? Where's anything about the goodness of God? Where's anything about what God has done or what Elijah has done? See, he's not thinking about God's goodness. in God's faithfulness. And he's not thinking about his own sin. Instead, what's he doing? He's pointing the finger. He's out there pointing the finger and he's blame shifting. And again, this is what we often do, and it is a terrible mistake. You need to focus on one person. What's that one person you need to focus on? That guy. Yourself. And so we're going to see God's response. Look at verse 11. Then God said, Go out and stand on the mountain before the Lord. Now I want you to Underline that, at least mentally. God, he's in the cave, and God says, go out, stand outside of the cave and meet me, and we're going to have a conversation. Anybody see that? Go out of the cave. Okay? And so then God goes before the cave. And he passes by in a strong wind. But then it says, But the Lord was not in the wind. And then an earthquake comes, but then it says the Lord was not in the earthquake. And then a fire comes, but then it says the Lord was not in the fire. It's an easy sermon, isn't it? We all know what that means, and I can all just go home, right? No, it's actually kind of confusing. It's difficult because last time God was on this mountain, he was in the fire, he was in the earthquake, and he was in the wind. That was the whole reason Elijah came here, was to meet the God of the spectacular, the God who had made an amazing appearance before. And now he kind of does it again. If you look, the text says that the Lord went ahead, and then the earthquake, and then the fire, and then the wind came. These are not natural phenomena. Do you see that? It's not just a coincidence that the fire came out or the wind came out or the earthquake came out. The Lord went ahead of those things. And he did them. So in some sense, the Lord is in the fire, the Lord is in the earthquake, and the Lord is in the wind. And yet, in another very profound sense, according to our text, he was not. in the fire, the wind, and in the earthquake. So so how do we make sense of this? Hmm. There's one other thing, and it says, but then there came a still small voice. And notice what is not repeated after the reference to the still small voice. There's no reference said that the Lord was not in the still small voice. You see that? Which means that the Lord was in the still small voice. The still small voice came from the Lord, but but so did the fire, but so did the wind, but so did the earthquake. But there was a major difference. And look at verse 13 here, see it So it was, when Elijah heard what? The still small voice. Then he wrapped his face in his mantle. The mantle is his cloak. And he went out and stood at the entrance of the cave, and suddenly a voice came to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah? Hope we caught it. When did Elijah leave the cave that he was told to two verses prior? He didn't leave until the still small voice. He was told to meet God, but yet he hid inside the cave. Why? Because Elijah could not meet God in the fire and in the tempest and in the earthquake because it was too great for him. Do you see that? He was hiding inside the cave because he would have been destroyed And here's this is all very poetic and very confusing, but here's what's going on here. Elijah is here accusing the people of God. And he wanted the wrath of God to come down. He wanted the God of the spectacular to continue to be spectacular. He wanted the God of justice to finally show up and clean the whole mess up. But when God starts manifesting himself in his full glory, the fire, the wind, and the earthquake, where's Elijah? He's hiding inside the cave. Here's the lesson we're supposed to learn. We often are crying out for the justice of God, and at the same time, we're sinning against him. You see that? You who want the justice of God so bad, do you realize that if the justice of God were to actually come down, could you stand yourself With God's full justice? The answer is no. The same God that you want to afflict vengeance on sinners It's the same God who would inflict vengeance upon you. In other words, we want the grace of God on us and vengeance on our enemies. You see how that works? Doesn't work that way If you want grace on yourself, you better be willing to extend grace on other people. If you want God to be patient with you, don't be surprised when he's patient with those that you hate either. I'll put it differently. Isaiah chapter 33 verse 14 says, For the sinners in Zion are afraid. Fearless, fearfulness has seized the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us will dwell with the everlasting burnings? Who? Who? Who can dwell with the everlasting burnings? Not in your current state. You need to be transformed. You need to come out of your sinful self and to be glorified with him. But when that day comes, guess what also ends? When God finally comes back in flaming fire and vengeance And our redemption finally comes. You know what also ends? The opportunity for salvation. So as we cry out, God, how long? You have to remember, why has God delayed his second coming for so long? It was to save you. It was to save me. It was to save your grandchildren. It was to save the people down the street. The people that sometimes we don't actually care about. We just want God take it away. Take away the pain for me. But he himself says it's not just about you. I love you, but I also love your grandchildren and your great-grandchildren. And their grandchildren. And I'm delaying my second coming. You can check this out in Second Peter. Because he wants all to come to repentance. Because the day of the Lord not only brings salvation for believers, but it brings absolute destruction for the wicked. So what Elijah needs to know for him who's crying out that he wants to see the full wrath of God, he can't even meet God on his own terms in that state. But then God comes to him in this still small voice, and that's when Elijah has the ability to go and meet God. It's in his veiled sense. He meets God in his gentle state, not his unveiled state. And so too we meet God in his gentle state and not his unveiled state And so Elijah then, he wraps himself in the cloak and he meets God. But unfortunately, Elijah is kind of stubborn. And he's stick-headed. And our text is actually kind of interesting because it then Elijah doesn't actually get the lesson. Because then he goes on and he says, God repeats himself. Why are you here, Elijah? And then he goes on and says his same old speech. He just doesn't get it. Here's the point of all this. Here's what God is trying to teach his prophet. And ultimately he's trying to teach us. God is not just in the fire. He's not just in the tempest, he's not just in the earthquake. What are those things? That is the spectacular. We are always looking for the spectacular. We always want to see what God was doing in the days of Elijah. There's even songs about that. The days of Elijah. We want to live the book of Acts. Beloved, you're not in the book of Acts. Just wake up and smell the coffee. This is not the book of Acts. It's obviously not the book of Acts. We're obviously not living in the days of these kind of miraculous events. Is that not true? We don't have to lie to ourselves. We know that's not true. In fact, if you read the Bible and study it very carefully, what you discover is most of the people in the Bible didn't live in the spectacular periods of time. Those spectacular periods of time came very briefly. The days of Moses. The days of Elijah, the days of Christ, the days of his apostles. Normally it was normal. Occasionally it was spectacular. So that's what we're seeing, that God is in the fire, but he wasn't in it. He didn't remain in it. He didn't commune with God in the fire, in the wind, and in the earthquake. But where did he commune with God? Where did he conversate with God? In the still small voice. There's nothing more unspectacular than the still small voice. And what we're supposed to learn from this is this. That God isn't just in the spectacular, but he's in the ordinary. I'll give you an example. Many of us are chasing after mountaintop experiences. We want these one-time sermons, these one-time conferences, these one-time retreats to fundamentally change us. And we're out searching for that. But do you know how the saints are actually , by the way, there's nothing wrong with those one-time events. That's not my point. But do you know how the saints are actually maintained their faith? The day-to -day quiet times, the Wednesday nights, the Sunday mornings, and the Sunday evenings. All of those sermons that you have forgotten are actually the thing that has kept you. Not that one time that you went to that conference, that one year. That's not how God is not primarily operating in the spectacular. He primarily meets us in the still small voice. And so this is what Elijah had to learn. He thought that God was abandoning him because he didn't do more miracles after Mount Carmel. But he had not abandoned hell. God was still working in the still small voice. He was working in the ordinary. Remember what he thought. He thought, I alone am lessed, right? But what does God say at the end of our passage? There were 7,000. That have not bowed the knee to Baal. It's interesting. If you look at the parallel, there are three amazing spectacular things, the three manifestations of God, the fire, the wind. and the earthquake. And then he is, you're going to see Elisha is there to appoint three very powerful people. Elisha, Haziel, and Jehu, which correspond to these great manifestations. But then what corresponds to the still small voice? Those 7,000 that God has preserved in Israel. In other words, where is God primarily operating? In those ordinary 7,000 people that nobody knows their names. In other words We often think that God is primarily operating through the John MacArthur's, the John Pipers, and the Billy Graham's. But do you realize that God is primarily operating Through those 7,000 that we don't know their names that are faithfully serving behind the scenes? In other words, through you. I'll give you a different example. Anybody know Charlie Kirk? Anybody know that name? He was like 33, he was a very young man. And he was this young man that was doing these great things in his generation, right? But you know how God primarily is operating? The local 20 to 30 year old person in your congregation who's faithfully serving the Lord. The nameless 7,000. Again, I'm not saying that he wasn't using Charlie Kirk. He was. But God's primary work is through those nameless, faceless people. In other words, us. That is what God is doing. He's using the ordinary, and we often just want the extraordinary. Beloved, do not despise its extraordinary gifts. But also don't think that God is absent when all you see is the ordinary. It's the 7,000 where God is going to accomplish the great victory. There were 7,000. preserved in Israel on that day, and guess what? There were 7,000 preserved among us today. Remember I told you in the beginning of the sermon that I'd often feel like I was the only one left. Well it turned out only a few miles away you too were meeting on Sunday evenings, worshiping God right in this building And sometimes I would visit other churches and I would discover they too were visiting or worshiping God on Sunday evenings just a few miles away. God is the real hero of the story. God is accomplishing great things even if we don't see it. Here's the last point, and we will wrap this up. Look at verse 15. Elijah, after he repeats his story about how he's the only one and how everyone's faithless except him, God tells the man who believed that he was irreplaceable. To go and appoint some people. Look at verse 15. Then the Lord said to him, Go return your way to the wilderness of Damascus. When you arrive, anoint Haziel as king over Syria, and anoint Jehu, the son of Nymshai, as king over Israel. And Elisha, the son of Zarephath, and he shall be prophet in your place. Now there's much more that we can say, and we'll talk about this on Sunday evening, but I just want to highlight this point to you. Elijah, the man who thought he was irreplaceable, the man he thought he was the last man standing, was told, go find your replacement. Do you see that? How humbling is that? I can't tell you how many people think that they're totally irreplaceable They are totally irreplaceable. Without them, everything's just going to fall apart. Well, guess what? I want you to walk through the graveyard and look at all the grades of all the irreplaceable men and women. And how the world was going to end when they disappeared. No, beloved, the world does not rest on your shoulders, thank God The world rests on God's shoulders. But God, and here's the beautiful thing, God is pleased to use us. Did God use Elijah? Oh yes, he did. And he did amazing works through him. But was he irreplaceable? Oh no, he wasn't. And in fact, as soon as he thought he was irreplaceable, God said, next Anoint your successor. Love, be humble. Recognize that God does use us, but God doesn't need us. And finally, this is truly the last point. Of these three men, do you know that Elijah only actually appointed one of them? And that was Elisha. And you're going to see that next time, that he goes and appoints Elisha. But he does not actually appoint Hazel or Jehu. But do you know who does? Elisha. Elisha appoints them. But yet he's told that he will do it. And here's I think the point of this. We live on through those whom we touch. Again, we often think it's all about me, but when you get white hair, you discover it's not all about you, is it? You discover that very quickly. But rather you realize that it's actually about who you touch. You will live on through your influence upon others. Again, we always think it's all about us, but we as we get older and we get wiser, we realize it's actually about who we can touch And how we can bless other people, how we can push other people in the spotlight, how we can live on through those whom we touch. That's the plan of God, to resist the proud, but give grace to the humble. James 4. 6. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father God, we ask that you would help us to learn these lessons. That we would not despise your amazing works. Who would do that, anyways? The amazing mountaintop moments, the Elijah's of the world, the Elishas, the Jesus' the apostles. But Lord help us also to see those seven thousand and recognize that even when we feel like we're alone, that we're not actually alone, that you're still on the throne. You're still guiding and leading and blessing. Help us to be okay with being ordinary, knowing that you're actually accomplishing your victory primarily through the ordinary. Help us to be faithful, Lord. And trust you for the victory. A prayers in Jesus' name. Amen.