In this season I want to go over Jeremiah chapter ten. I want to just hit some highlights of of this chapter. It's wonderful. So I'm just going to go down and and hit some highlights. It it's a wonderful chapter. So let's begin in uh Jeremiah chapter ten, beginning in verse one. Hear the word that the Lord speaks to you, O house of Israel. Thus says the Lord Learn not the way of the nations, nor de nor be dismayed at the signs of the heavens, because the nations are dismayed at them. For the customs of the people are vanity. And that last line is also translated by the Nazbi. For the customs of the people are a delusion. And so this passage is very encouraging to us because it tells us that we don't need to learn the way of the nations. Now, what does that mean? There's a there's a whole uh broad way of learning the way of the nation, the way of ungodliness. But particularly in this text it says we do not need to learn the way of the nations nor be dismayed at the signs of the heavens, because the nations are dismayed at them. And so that what it's talking about, then it goes and says, for the customs of the people of vanity or a delusion, meaning we don't need to go into astrology trying to figure out how to interpret the heavens and interpret the signs of the sky. We don't need to do that because all of that is a delusion. All of that is vanity. All of that is utterly useless. Why? Because we have the true and living God, the God of our destiny. We think that we plot our past. We think that we Decide which ways that we're going, but ultimately, God is the one who decides our path. Ultimately, God is the one who's writing his story in history. That's what it is. And so we don't need to go in and seek secret knowledge from from idolatrous practices and looking for false gods and idolatrous idols and that's what jeremiah 10 is all about in jeremiah uh 10 verse 5 it says their idols are like a scarecrow in a cucumber field they cannot speak They have to be carried, for they cannot walk. Do not be afraid of them, for they cannot do evil, neither is it in their power to do good. And so we don't need to seek out pagan knowledge and and pagan practices and all of that because guess what? Their gods are scarecrows. Their gods are useless They cannot walk. We don't have to be afraid of them. We can't gain knowledge from them. They are totally dead. They are not alive. They are utterly useless. Now we don't have idols like this today, at least not in the Western world, but we do have different types of idols and different types of temptation to go after seeking the secret knowledge. uh psychologists and and all this this god ungodly activity that we can go and try to seek their knowledge and to seek their ways and ultimately we should we should see They're like scarecrows in a cucumber field. What are we going to get knowledge from them? They're ultimately uh vain. They ultimately are nothing but a delusion. Ultimately we ha we know the true God. And the true God's alive, and he can do good, and he is doing good in history, and we can trust in his path. In verse 6 it says, There is none like you, O Lord. You are great, and your name is great in might Who would not fear you, O King of the nations? And what a what a lovely reminder. Who would not fear God if they saw him as he truly was? And that's what conversion is, is seeing God as He truly is. Hopefully you are converted and you have seen God as lovely and beautiful and wonderful, but before that, you should have seen that God was so one to be A fear that that the fear of God is the most natural response to the revelation of God. When you come to see God who he is, then you come to see who you are, and it's a fearful thing to be a sinner and to stand before God. Remember Isaiah, woe is me, I am undone. That is the revelation of God. That's what it does to someone when they come to see Now who God really is. They they first they see who they are and they see that um that they cannot stand before such a holy God and the fear of God becomes on him. And so who would not fear you, O King of the nations? Everyone would fear you if they know you. And that is the beauty of the revelation of God. And so, and then verse 10 says, But the Lord is the true God. He is the living God and the everlasting King. At his wrath, the earthquakes And the nations cannot endure his indignation. So often we talk about idolatry, we talk about false religions. People want to uh put Yahweh in the same category as Zeus. or Baal or Ashram or all these false gods. But Yahweh is nothing like these false gods because Yahweh is the true God. He is the the living God. He is the everlasting King. He is him who has existed for all of eternity And he is the necessary being that created all of us who are contingent reality. And at his wrath the earthquakes, he is the king of the nations, and he is the one who created the world. And he is the one who is going to redeem the world. Verse 11 says, Thus shall you say to them, the gods who did not make the heavens and the earth shall perish from the earth and from under the heavens. It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom and his understanding, stretched out the heavens. What's he saying? All the false gods, all the false religions, all the false beliefs They were all created by man who traded the the awesome invisible God for for things like creeping images and and and things that that we see in the created order. And these false gods will perish with the earth. God is going to destroy the earth and recreate it. We're going to have a new heavens. and a new earth and all false religions will go away. But you know who won't go away? The one who created the world. Alright? That's what the atheists want. They want God to disappear with these false uh these false religions, but he won't. He's the one who existed from all of eternity past and he will exist. from all eternity future. And talking about these false gods in verse 15 it says, they are worthless, a work of delusion. At the time of their punishment they shall perish. Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, for he is the one who forms all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance The Lord of hosts is his name. Who is that great necessary being, that unmoved mover, the person who has existed from all of eternity, the one who is the cause of all creation? Yahweh is his name. The Lord is his name And Israel, the people of God are his inheritance. And that's what we want to be. We get to be the inheritance of God. How how how wonderful, how glorious, how awesome that we get to be the inheritance of God. Let us let us come to God, draw near to God, and recognize that He is our great Savior, He is our great Lord, that He can save us. And then jumping down to verse 21, it says For the shepherds are stupid. They do not inquire of the Lord. Therefore they have not prospered, and all their flock is scattered. Why did the people of Israel get tempted to fall into the ways of the east? Why were the people of God tempted to go and try to understand astrology and try to follow after the false gods and even put Yahweh right alongside of these false gods? Remember God said, have no other gods before me I am nothing like them. Don't put any of them, don't put me in a category of any of these false gods. But they did. Why? Verse 21 tells us, For the shepherds are stupid. They do not inquire of the Lord. Therefore they have not prospered. All their flock is scattered Who were the shepherds? They're the pastors. They're the leaders of God's people. And they were stupid. Why were they stupid? They did not inquire of the Lord. It is stupid to seek knowledge after I mean that sounds strong language, but that's what the Bible is saying. It is stupid to forsake him who is the true source of living waters for persistents. Broken cisterns that can hold no water. That is stupid. And if you're under a pastor who is stupid because he does not cry after the Lord, but but goes after the philosophies of men , The philosophies of of of this world, the God of this world, people who could do that, people who who preach CNN, people who do that kind of things Get away from them, because they do not know the Lord, and you will be stupid if you follow them, because and you will not prosper. They have not prospered, and their flock is scattered. You will have the judgment come upon you. Only God is the God of history. Only God knows the future. Verse 23, I know, O Lord, the way of man is not in himself, that it is not man who walks, it is not man who directs his steps. You don't need to look for the skies. You don't need to try to figure out your future in the skies. You need to try to figure out your future in God. You are not the God of your own life. God is the one directing your life. God is the one leading. Follow after God. Inquire of him Right? What is the will of God? Your sanctification that you abstain from sexual immorality. Do you want to know the will of God? Pick up and read. Read this book and recognize that this is the Word of God. This will direct your steps. We don't need to find the latest fad. We don't need to look in some temple. We don't need to go and search Uh for it's for secret knowledge anywhere, the true knowledge, the source of all knowledge is the Lord, who is nothing like the false gods, who is utterly and completely unique.