Okay, if you could open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12, we will Begin reading in verse 3. Hebrews chapter 12, beginning in verse 3 For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. Have you not yet you have not yet resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin And have you forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons? My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him For whom the Lord loves he chastens, and he scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we had human fathers who had corrected us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more be readily be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us, as seemed best to them But he, that is God, for our prophet, that we may be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterwards, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness. to those who have been trained by it. So we're going to focus in for now on those first two verses. I'll read them again. For consider Him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself. This is talking about Christ. Lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls, you have not yet resisted the bloodshed, striving against sin. And have you forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons? So in these first two verses here, there are two ideas. The first is that we need to consider Christ And in light of that vision of gaining an insight of Christ, then that should be our temperature gauge, which we then gauge ourselves. In other words, when we measure ourselves, what do we measure it by? What is the mirror? What is the standard? How do you know if you are Doing as you ought to do. How do you know if you are in fact godly or not? How do you know if you're in the right path And many of us don't use the perfect law of God, or we don't use Christ as the standard. But if we're honest, when we look at a self-assessment of how are we doing, what do we do? Instead of looking at God, instead of looking at the law, instead of looking at Christ, what do we often do to gauge our temperature and figure out how we're doing in this Christian walk? Often we look to the left and we look to the right. And we look at each other and say, well, as long as I'm running along with the pack, I'm good. We talked about a little track analogies last time. I'll continue on with these track analogies. When I was running track, you never wanted to really get outside of that pack. There was always this winning pack and if you if you watch track, you'll notice that there's a pack that's up toward the front. Usually there's one guy who's running too fast, who's about to die out, and there's a person way behind that will never catch up. But the people in the pack, there's going to be a winner there. Anybody watch track? Is this is this true for other sports? It's definitely true of track. And so this is how we often do As long as we're in the pack of our Christian fellowship, as long as we're doing what our neighbors are doing, we think that we're doing okay. But why is this dangerous? Well, consider the pact, Matthew chapter 7. This is R. C. Spro. He said this is the most terrifying verse in the whole Bible, and I tend to agree with him. Matthew chapter seven, verse twenty-one says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many, not few, but many will say to me in that day Lord, Lord, have you not prophesied? Have we not prophesied in your name? Cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name. And then I would declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of law So you see the danger? See the pack that you might be running in, and you're looking to the left and the right and thinking, I'm okay, could be the pack of these people, because these are all professing Christians. Every single one of them. They're not atheists. They're not Buddhists, they're not Muhammadans, they're not Islam, people who are Muslims or anything of the sort. They're not Mormons. They're Christians. Or so they claim, they claim Lord, Lord. And yet this pack is ultimately on the broad way that leads to destruction. So you could be looking at the pack and thinking, I'm fine, but find yourself with these people. Well, consider something else. Did not Jesus say that when he comes, Luke chapter 18, verse 8, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? Jesus says that. When the Lord comes back, will there be any believers left? He warns against a great apostasy that will happen to the church. Now, we are 2,000 years into the last days. So something tells me mathematically, uh I know there's some PhDs with maths, you let me know afterwards. But mathematically, we're probably in the last of those last days. If two thousand years ago we're in the last days, what does that mean now I think we're moving toward the end. And so I'm simply saying, be very careful making your assessment of how you're doing in this Christian work based on potentially a faithless generation. Just open your Bible in your mind and think about how many faithless generations there were in Israel's day, which Israel was the church, by the way. There was no Christian church back when there was Israel. Israel was the church in the wilderness. That was the people of God. And how often was it the case that Israel was faithless? How often? Almost all the time. Is that not true? Almost the vast majority of the time, Israel, God's people, were faithless. So who did God send? To try to bring them back. There's a title for this. There's an office for this. Hint, many of your Bibles are named based on these people. What is it? They're prophets. And so the people of God were faithless, and the prophets were called the prosecutors of God. And they would take Moses and the law and prosecute the people of God and said, You have failed God's law. This was God's standard, not each other. Not your pagan neighbors. This was God's law, and you have failed. And their message can be summarized by the last prophet. Children, what was the last prophet's name? Somebody say John the Baptist? John the Baptist, and his message was summarized by what? Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. That's the message of the prophets. Repent based on God's law. And how did they, the people of God, respond to that message? They say, yes, you're right. You're convicting us. We feel the conviction. They felt the conviction, all right, but how did they respond to the conviction? Did they respond with amens and shouts for joys, getting on their knees in sackcloss and ashes and restoring their ways? Occasionally, but most of the time they picked up stones. They picked up rocks. Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? They persecuted all of them. And so I say this to warn you that in this sermon today, you may find it convicting, but be careful not to be like your forefathers who simply stone the messenger. But rather, consider if thou saith the Lord, thus saith the Lord, and the Lord is speaking. So the first thing that we should see here, back to Hebrews, first thing we should see here is that we should gauge ourselves, not based on our neighbors, who could be faithless, even if they profess the name of Jesus. Does not matter if you look like your neighbors It doesn't even matter if you're better than your neighbor. But what you need to do is get a gauge based on God's law and the person who embodied God's law perfectly, children, who was that? Who lived God's law perfectly to the tea? Jesus Christ, our Savior. And look again at verse 3. Isn't that what verse 3 says? For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself. Consider him. Consider Christ. Consider his life. Consider his ministry. Consider what he did. Consider how he acted. Consider how he responded. Get your vision set on Christ. And then later on it says, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. So what we need to do is take a long hard look at Christ. Especially for some of us who are tempted for spiritual pride And to think that we have this Christian thing mapped out, that we know the doctrines, that we're reformed, we're confessional, we're this, we're that. We think so highly of ourselves. Again, you only think highly of yourself because you have your vision on yourself and on others. But actually, if your vision is on Christ, you get a great dose of humility. Because you're not Christ. And you're nothing like Christ. And Christ is the champion. And you're not. And you have growing to do. And again, that's what our text says. Take a long vision, consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself. Get a long vision of Christ, and then look at verse 4. Next, take a long vision at yourself in light of that vision of Christ. For you have not yet resisted bloodshed. Against the striving against sin. And then you go back to verse 3. In light of that, do not become weary and discouraged of your souls. So this attitude of looking what Christ dealt with, looking what kind of hostility that He had to go through should help us when we get this woe is me attitude, when we get this attitude of how sorry am I. We Christians can no longer pray in school. Woe is me. The end of the world. Hollywood is now putting the alphabet soup in every movie. Woe is me. I'm being persecuted. This is so horrified. Really? Right? I mean I'm not saying that's not. Sometimes I act like that, to be completely honest. We act like that, right But before we get this, woe is me, I'm being persecuted, it's the end of the world, I can't put Jesus bumper stickers on without feeling weird. Before you feel like that, get a vision back of Christ and what he actually dealt with. He didn't deal with fake hostility. He didn't deal with sideways looks. He didn't deal with possibly HR asking you please stop evangelizing Which again, I'm not trying to minimize that, but yes, I kind of am. Because it's nothing in comparison to what Christ dealt with Before you have this woe is me, consider him who endured such hostility against himself. What kind of hostility did Jesus go through? Well, he was beaten. He was stripped. He was wit. He was made to bear an unbearable cross what he himself could not even carry, so they had to make another man come and carry it. Worse than that, I think, to me, this is the worst thing that happened to him. After he was beaten, after his beard was pulled out, after he was spit on, after he was mocked, after he was humiliated, he was stripped naked. Hung on a cross to die a suffocating death. The humiliation is truly unimaginable. The physical pain is incomprehensible. And beyond all that is the horrible spiritual pain of Christ who knew no sin, who became sin, so that we could become the righteousness of God. Doesn't that put a lot more perspective? On the drooping knee attitude of woe is me, this is so terrible. I didn't get the raise that I thought I deserved at work. My neighbor has a slightly bigger house than I do. I deserve this. I deserve you don't deserve anything. In fact, you do deserve something. You deserve hell. That's what you deserve. But praise be the Lord Jesus that He has made a way. We have this woe's me attitude. I don't deserve this. Remember, you deserve only one thing: the wages of sin. Is death. But the free gift of God. You don't deserve that. It's a free gift. We're saved by grace through faith. Not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. You don't deserve anything If anything, you deserve what Christ received, and you deserve so much more. But thanks be to God that he took that punishment on our behalf. so that we could receive the free gift of grace and mercy and salvation if we have received his offering. The truth of the matter is, there's only two people that will be punished, Christ and the sinner who rejects Jesus. That's it. The believer will never be punished. We're going to talk a lot about chastisement and discipline, but as we talk about that. Hopefully you can catch me and see if I do this. Hopefully I would not use the word punishment because Christians are not punished. Christians are chastised. Christians are disciplined. Christians are corrected. Christ was punished. He took our punishment in our place so that we who believe in him could be saved. And so let me just stop here and ask you, do you believe in Jesus Christ? Do you accept the punishment that he took on our behalf? Have you repented of your sins and cast your hope on him alone? Because if you have not, it is your only hope There is no other path. There is one path to be right with God, and it is through Jesus Christ, and it is by confession of sins, repenting and crying out and asking God to save you. Whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Back to verse 4. Let's wrestle with this a little bit more. Look at this question. Well, it's really a statement, but I'm going to turn into a question. Have you resisted to bloodshed against your striving against sin. Have any of you Honestly, shed a single drop of blood in your striving against sin. And you're seeking to walk this Christian life, has a single drop of blood come from you. And not when you were embarrassed to evangelize and got a bloody nose because you're embarrassed. Okay? Have you actually ever shed a drop of blood for the sake of Jesus? Because Jesus shed all his blood The ground was stained with his blood. You could grab the b the sand and pile it for heaps from his blood. See, we could take these things. We're so keen to make everything a metaphor. This is just a metaphor. It's not just a metaphor, right? Christ literally shed all of his blood, gallons of it. How many drops of blood have you shed? A single drop? A busted lip? A bloodied nose? A battered eye? Have you said a single drop of blood? You say, well, where does that matter? Look at the text. See, it's easy. You can say, why are you saying this to me? It doesn't matter that I haven't shed any blood. Look at the text again. Look at verse 4. You have not resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin. So in light of that, strengthen the weak knees. Pick up those drooping hands. Stop feeling sorry for yourself Recognize that God is good and He's treated you well. And in fact, is it possible that the reason that we have not shed drops of blood for Jesus is because We have been silent when we ought to have spoken. That we have been nice when we ought to have been bold. When we did not share When we ought to have shared. Is it just because we live in a wonderful Christian nation that's so kind to Christians, or is it that we have turned our light so down that people aren't offended by us very much anymore I don't know. I don't know. But I do know that this text does tell us that if you have not shed a drop of blood for Jesus Be careful feeling sorry for yourself. And go back to considering Christ and recognizing that if you think if you think that you've gone through pain, you have not seen anything yet, because this is what Christ had to go through for your sake. Now, this is not me trying to minimize your suffering. Your suffering is real. Your suffering is acknowledged by God. He sees it But this is to recognize that we should not maximize your suffering either and make you seem like you're the savior and you've gone through it all. You have it. Christ is the Savior, and He's gone through it all. To put it differently, 2 Corinthians 4. 17 says, For our momentary light affliction is producing for us an absolutely incomparable eternal weight of Lord. That's how God sees your bloodless suffering as momentary and light. But it is preparing for you this incomparable weight of glory. So consider this passage. Consider this passage when you're tempted to give up and you're tempted to think, Lord, I can't take any more. You can take a whole lot more. And it's not just that Christ suffered by shedding his blood, but look back to church history. How many of our heroes of the faith also have shed blood? Many. This isn't just like only Christ the Savior could do this. No. The guy who probably wrote this was Paul. I know people don't believe that anymore. It's probably Paul. That's what the early church believed. And we should probably believe the early church unless we have good reason not to. And the guy who wrote this shed a whole lot of blood for Christ. And many others did as well. So again, consider Christ, and in light of that, consider yourself and let that feel you. and be your image of yourself and say, hmm, maybe I haven't suffered as much. And maybe I can go through a whole lot more. Now the second thing The author of Hebrews wants you to remember is found in verse 5. Look with me to Hebrews 12, verse 5. He tells you to look at Christ. He tells you to look at yourself. He tells you to recognize that you have not shed a blood for Ham, and therefore do not be discouraged in your striving against sin. But he also wants you to see something else. Verse 5. And you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons, my son, do not be do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. Well the Lord loves, for whom the Lord loves, he chastens and scourges every son whom he receives. So does anybody know where this passage comes from? You see, maybe some of you, your Bibles have quotation marks, right? Those mean something. He's quoting from somewhere. Anybody know? Where does this come from? Proverbs. Proverbs, right there. The book of Proverbs. Lovely books. Wonderful book. It comes from Proverbs chapter 3. And so he's telling you, don't forget what you've read in God's Word. I attempted to preach a sermon on that, but hope we get the message. Don't forget what you've seen in God's Word. Don't forget these exhortations. Remember that. James gives an analogy. He says, some of you, many of you. are like those who look in the mirror and see yourself. And see, oh, there's something, there's something with my hair, I got something in my I gotta take something out of, I gotta get this piece of food. stuck in my teeth. They see something in the mirror. And then they walk away from the mirror and they completely forget. And they keep the s the food, that piece of meat, jammed in the Between the teeth. They keep the twig on the hair. They completely forget themselves. He says don't do that. Don't be just hearers of the word, but doers of the word. Don't just see the word and hear the word and say, Amen, Pastor. I appreciate that. Good message. But receive the word and let it change you and shape you. Do not forget this exhortation. Don't forget the Word of God in general. Now, don't forget the Word of God specifically. What does this text tell us? It tells us that God views us as a son And what's wonderful about this is this is an Old Testament passage which clearly identifies God's people as his children. This is not a New Testament concept. Oftentimes you'll find what is what's in the New Testament explicitly was in the Old Testament implicitly. It's embedded there. If you look close enough, you'll find it. And here's an example of that. that we are called multiple times in the New Testament sons of God, but here that idea is already being alluded to and pointed at. So he wants us to see that we are sons of God. Now, as sons, as children, as sons and daughters of God, that comes with great responsibility. Great privileges and also responsibilities that God calls us to. So think with me of what are those great privileges that we have by being the sons of God. Well, we have redemption. We have an inheritance that is imperishable, unfading, reserved in heaven for us, and we have future exaltation. The Bible puts it this way, 1 John 3, verse 1. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. And so we are. John sees this title and sees the fact that we're called sons of God and exalts God and magnifies God and says, what manner of love God has given to us that we would be called the sons of God. Believer, do you ever just stop and just ponder what John does? What manner of love that God would call me a son? That God would call me a daughter, that God would adopt me, that God would bring me into the family. That we would become the heirs of God. What manner of love has God given to us? This is no light thing. In John chapter 1, verse 12, it says, But all but all who did receive him, to those who believe in his name, He gave the right to become children of God. You have to get the right to become children of God. It's fashionable to think that we're all his children. You ever hear people say that? We're all the children of God. Wrong. Wrong. Some of you, and most of those in the world, are not children of God at all. You're children of Satan. That's what the Bible teaches You're actually a child of the devil, and you will not inherit the kingdom of God, but you'll inherit the lake of fire with the devil your father, because your desire is to do his desire, which is to do evil. That he is a liar and the truth is not in him. He loves darkness and hates light, and so do you. See, not everybody is the child of God. We have to be given the right to become the children of God. And we were given that right because we receive Christ, who is a son of the light, who says, come to the light, receive the light, and also become a child of the light. He is the child of light, and he will give you the light if you receive him, and then you become a son of God. God will never send his sons to hell. The problem is some of you aren't his sons. Some of you are the devils. So let's recognize the responsibility of being called a child of God. There's not only privileges, this exaltation, this future glory. this inheritance that he gives us, but there are also responsibilities that come along with that. If you're a child, you gotta act like a child. Right? If you want to become a Martin, you're going to act like a Martin. You've got to do what Martins do, the good and the bad. And in God's case, it's only good. And what are those responsibilities? 1 Peter chapter 1 says this. But as he who called you is holy, you also in your holy be con your conduct be holy. Because it is written, be holy, for I am holy. There's a saying that the apple doesn't fall too far from the tree. Well the tree is Christ. The tree is God. The tree is holy. And so if you're a child of God, you need to act like a child of God, which is you need to be holy, as he who called you is holy. But what happens when we aren't living that way? What happens when God calls his children to live holy, and we are like these Hebrew Christians who are not living holy? What happens when we're tempted to drift away and neglect so great a salvation? What happens When we're tempted, like these Hebrew Christians in chapter 3, to have an evil heart of unbelief and depart from the living God. And to be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Or if you remember in chapter 5 that the author of Hebrews wants to tell, you can actually why don't you turn there? Hebrews chapter 5, verse 10. The author of Hebrews wants to talk high theology with these Hebrew Christians about the great high priest, Melchizedek, and his relationship to Christ. But in the middle of him trying to communicate this with them, he says this, right there in verse 10 He says, Christ is called by God as high priest according to the order of Melchizedek, of whom we have much to say. And it is hard to explain. Why? Since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God. You have need Of milk and not solid food. For everyone who partakes only of milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But solid food belongs to those who are full of age, that is, those who by reason abuse make their senses exercise to discern both the good and the evil. What's he saying? I want to tell you about some high theology. I want to get into the deep things. I want to talk about the relationship of Christ in this old testament figure, Melchizedek. But I'm hindered. Not because the doctrines are too high, but because you're too dull. You see that? Isn't it amazing how the the Bible speaks? It doesn't really care about your feelings, does it? He just comes out and says it. You have become dull of hearing. You have a hearing problem. There's something wrong with you. There's not something wrong with the scriptures. There's something wrong with you. You can't hear this. You get bored too easy You start thinking about football too much. You start thinking about your retirement funds and how much cash you're gonna have. You can't handle theology because you don't love God with all your heart, your soul, your mind, and your strength. You become dull of hearing Why? Because you ought to be teachers by now. You ought to be able to receive greater doctrinal truth. But you can't. Why? Because all you do is sip on milk. You've never grown up. You're still a babe. You're still a child. Well, what does the Lord do to baby Christians who aren't growing? The first thing is in our text. He calls you out. He rebukes you. That's what he does. The Lord chastens them. He rebukes them. He scourges them. He corrects them. The Lord disciplines his children. Praise be God. Because if he didn't, you know what happened to you? You drift away That evil-hearted unbelief would consume you. You would fall away. Let me tell you something. The reason I stand here today before you, and I'm not an apostate, is not because of me, but it's because of God. And you can just ask anybody who knows me well, who has seen my ups and my downs. There's been many times in my Christian walk that I've been drifting away. That I've been taken out to see. And in fact, it is interesting that sometimes I've gone further than others. I've been further out there. And it's like this guy's not coming back. I remember a guy, and I'll tell you about this in a second, but I'll tell you now, I remember a guy who actually rebuked me in that state and said, you know, your spiritual state today is as cold as an ice cube. That's what he said to me. And you know what? He was right. He rebuked me. That person today is an apostate. He's gone. Even though I was drifting farther, God brought me back in Has he ever done that to you? Have you been drifting out? And God has brought you back in? He's brought you back to the fold. But others, you know what happens to them? They drift. And then they drift. And then you don't find them anymore. Is that not true? They're gone. They're lost at sea. Why? Why? Is it because no one rebukes them? No. That person who rebuked me, I rebuked them. They did not heed. I hated. Why? It's not because I'm better is because the Lord chastens. He disciplines. He will not let you go. He is the hound of heaven. He will chase you down. He will discipline you as a loving father. The Lord disciplines those whom he loves. But if you're not his child, you don't get his discipline. We'll talk more about this. But I want you to see that. You won't get his discipline, and he'll let you go. And that's precisely why some people that you love and you care about, some people that you even pray about. That you prayed and you evangelized and you sought and they drifted and they did not come back. And the reason is, is they were not his Or possibly. They are his and they are on their way back. That is a possibility. We can still have hope for that. It's more likely though. They're probably not his at all. And that's just the truth. The Lord disciplines those whom he loves. Those who are in weak spiritual conditions, he as a loving father will discipline. and work on and correct them. Now, if you know your Bible, well, or at all , You will come to see that God is a disciplining God. Think about the Old Testament. Can you think of any examples? I want you to talk to me. Can you think of any examples where God disciplined people in the Old Testament? Anybody? David? David's one. Is there any discipline in the very first pages of the Bible? You have Moses? You have Cain? You have Adam and Eve. You have Nabad and Abihu. You have Samson losing his strength, getting his eyes fucked out, being made a sport and humiliated. We already mentioned David. You have Miriam. You remember Miriam opposed Moses because she married a man that was, in her mind, beneath him, and yet she became white as snow. Right? You have Moses and Aaron, these great men of God, not allowed to enter in the promised land. They died outside of the promised land in the wilderness. You have the line of David. God promised David, and actually it's very promised to David, I will make you this everlasting throne. I will be a God to you. And he says this in 2 Samuel. Chapter 7 verse 14. I will be his father. This is the promise that God gave to David about his line. I will be his father, and he will be my son And if he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the blows of the sons of men. I want you to remember that word rod and the word blows. We're coming back to that. But we're moving on for now. God is a discipline in God. In fact, one of the things that I like to do is I like to listen to an audio Bible. And actually my favorite audio Bible to listen to is the NLT. It's really easy to listen to. It's also the only Bible I've been able to find that has a one-year Bible in audio. It's just awesome. Awesome Bible. It's so easy to listen to. And as I was preparing for this sermon , I get these chapters, I get some from the Old Testament, Proverbs, Psalms, and the New Testament. Just how I like it. Those are the four divisions I want. And I was amazed actually of how often God 's discipline and the Old Testament correlate. In other words, the Old Testament is full of stories where God disciplines his people. You cannot read the Old Testament and not see how often God disciplines his people. He tests them. He disciplines them. He corrects them consistently all throughout the book. Now here's the question. Is this one of those things that is merely an Old Testament concept? Is this something that God used to do? He used to discipline his people, but now we're covered in the blood of Christ. My sins are cast away He doesn't discipline anymore. He doesn't see my sin. He has no need to discipline me. I am now perfect in Christ. Is this something in the New Testament that is no more? Old Testament only, like animal sacrifices. Has it been superseded by the New Testament. Anybody? Does he still discipline us? Yes, he does. Now I want you to put your thinking caps on and think about examples in the New Testament where God disciplines his people. Actually, this is kind of kind of cheating. It's kind of the Old Testament, but in the very beginning of the New Testament, there's this guy. He's John the Baptist's father. You remember him? And the angel of the Lord, well, it's not an angel, but it's actually an angel, he comes and he gives them this great prophecy, and he questions the angel. Do you remember this? And he's like, Well, how will I know that this will come about? Now, for you guys who know the Old Testament, this kind of reminds me of Gideon. You remember? Gideon does the same thing. And Gideon's like, how will I know? And he does this little fleece thing. Bad idea, guys. Don't do that. That's not the point of that story And you can question that. That worked for him in the Old Testament. You got Zechariah in the New Testament trying it, and how does it work out for him? The angel is highly offended. How dare you question me? Right? How dare you question me? I'll show you a sign. You'll walk around mute. It's not the sign he wanted. Okay? So you get this idea, not of a shrinking of God's discipline, if anything, you have a heightening of God's discipline in the New Testament. There were other examples. Think about Jesus himself. Remember, we're supposed to consider Jesus. We're supposed to be like Jesus. What would Jesus do? Well, Jesus had many disciples. We had twelve specifically. And he went around and what did he say to those disciples over and over and over again? Great job guys. Keep it going You're doing amazing out there. Awesome. No. Actually, I can't think of a single example where he said that. I'm sure he did, it's something according to scripture. He just never gave them a pep talk and rubbed their back Instead, what we have consistently of Jesus, is this a Ryan do something? Oh, anybody know the rest of that? Ye of little faith. I love the King James Version too of that. Oh ye of little faith. That's what he said over and over, right? We call that a rebuke. That's called discipline. Remember Peter? Peter, he says, on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will never prevail, and amen. They will not prevail, and that's why we're here today. This great statement of exaltation of what he's going to do through Peter and his ministry. And right after that, Peter like us gets a big head and thinks, I'm the man. And then Christ starts talking about how he's going to go to the cross, and Peter is gonna, you know, he's gonna teach the master something. The master's been rebuking him this whole time. He's gonna go rebuke the master. He pulls him aside and says Lord, far be it from you that this will ever happen to you. Come on. I know it looks bad out there, but we're gonna make it. You're the son of God. Get it together. And what is Christ, how does Christ handle Peter's rebuke of him? He calls him Satan. Right? He calls him Satan. Okay. Again, you could say, well, yeah, but Christ hasn't died yet, so this isn't really truly the New Testament. Okay, fine. What about in the book of Acts? Can you think of any examples in the book of Acts where God shows his discipline? To his people. And an eye sense of fire. They drop dead because they lie to the Holy Spirit. I'm running out of time quickly. Here's the point. God is not done being a disciplining God. All throughout the Bible, from cover to cover, in the very last book in the book of Revelation , God, Christ, tells his church, he tells them to be zealous, to repent, for as many as I love, I rebuke and I chasten. So the Lord is a rebuking God. The Lord is a chastening God. The Lord is a disciplining God. He has not stopped that. Now look what we need in verse 7. That's exactly what it says. Look at verse 7. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons, for what son is there whom the Father does not chasten? See what's going on here? God treats you as a son because you are a son. And because God is a good father, he chastens you. He disciplines you. He corrects you. It's painful. But if you hold on, he's doing something through all of that discipline. Namely, he's keeping you from going adress. He's keeping you from apostasy This is in part why the Bible not only ascribes Christ's death for our salvation, but his life. Did you know that? The Bible doesn't just say that he died for us and through his death he saves us. We emphasize that because that is how we do get saved, okay? But the part that we don't usually emphasize is the part where it says, whoever endures to the end shall be saved. Okay? You must endure to the end. Well, how do we endure to the end? Two ways. Because Jesus, as our great advocate, advocates and mediates for us at the right hand of the Father He says, Lord, let his faith endure. Let him continue on. That's one way. The second way is his rod and his staff comfort me. That God, through his discipline, chastens us and disciplines us so that we do not go astray. So praise be God that he disciplines us faithfully. And it is through his discipline that we will endure to the end and we will be saved. Now that is actually the main point of this text. The main point of this text is to recognize God's disciplining and chastening hand Understand that all the children of God participate in this, to not grow tired and weak-minded because of this and recognize that God is doing something wonderful in this, namely saving your soul. If you look at the text, that's the main point of this text. But it would be totally unfaithful for me, in the tiny bit of time that we have left, I wish I had more time, not to mention by extrapolation the other point of this text, which is namely the assumption You can see that in verse 7. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? The assumption, underlining this whole text, is that a good father will chasten his child. And if he doesn't, you're not a son at all, but you're illegitimate. You're not a child. And it would be totally abyss for me not to point this out, that what is unthinkable to the author of Hebrews has become reality in our own day. It is unthinkable. The whole point of this is because you're a son, you will be disciplined and you will be chastened. Right? You see that in the text. The sad thing is that there are many, many people who do have fathers who do not discipline them whatsoever. Which is unthinkable. The unthinkable has become reality. Which is sad. And if you say, well Who doesn't discipline their child? Well, you have to define discipline the way that the Bible defines discipline. You can see it. Look at verse 6. What does he mean by his discipline? Well, we already gave you examples in the Old Testament. Of God disciplining his children. And they were pretty severe, weren't they? You see any little pep talks? You see any little counseling sessions? Some therapy? No. God's discipline is tough and rough. So we see that by actually looking at the examples of the discipline, but I want you to look at the words here. Look at verse 6. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens If you have a good translation, I'm teasing about that. But if you have a good translation that says, and he scourges every son whom he receives. Some of you have an okay translation that just says he disciplines of chastence. But if you look, New King James, KJV, NSAB, LSSB, and back to the Greek. That's where we ultimately want to test everything. The word is discourge. The word is to flog. That doesn't sound like a pep talk to me. That sounds like something quite unpleasant. And then if you go on He then says in verse 11, Now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness. We have the word scourge, and we have that concept of pain. This is biblical discipline. Here's a few examples of what this looks like. And I want you remember that word I wanted you to remember? It's the word rod. Not the word belt, not the word paddle, not the word pep talk, not the word timeout. It's the word rod. Here's what it says. Here's what the Bible describes this discipline as. Proverbs 26, 3. A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the backs of fools. Proverbs 1013, Wisdom is found on the lips of the discerning, but a rod is for the back of him who lacks judgment. Proverbs 19:29. Judgment are prepared for mockers, and beating for the backs of fools. Proverbs 29, 19. A servant will not be corrected by mere words. For though he understands, he will not respond. Here's a shocking thing when you look at the book of Proverbs, what you realize, and you see it in that last text. Corporal discipline, physical discipline, was not only extended to children. Did you know that? It was extended to all fools. And all fools come in a variety of ages. Fools are young and fools are old. The rod is for any fool, and it's for the backs of fools. But it's especially for your children. Proverbs twenty two, verse fifteen Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. The rod of correction will drive it far from you. What is God's intended means and purpose for disciplining us? For our good So that it can produce the fruit of righteousness. Well, what is God's purpose and intent of telling you to use the rod for the back of your foolish children to save them? Discipline them why there is hope. You have to understand this. God's discipline is God's means of saving your children. Did you know that? Hopefully all you parents pray for your children. You evangelize your children. You bring them to Iwana. You teach them scriptures. But do you discipline them? And do you discipline them God's way? Because this is God 's means of saving his children, is to discipline them. A scourging, a flogging, not by abuse, but by godly discipline. Take the rod and put it to the backs of fools. Praying that God will use you and your godly, loving, non-abusive discipline to save their souls. Do not one day come complaining to God and talking about how his providence is hard against you, because you don't see the fruit that you hope to have when you have not done what God has commanded. Does that make sense? You don't evangelize your neighbor and you say, God, why is my neighbor not saved? We'd all look at you like a very strange person. Well, because you don't evangelize them, because you refuse to talk to them, because you're too scared, because you don't want to Shed a drop of blood. That's why your neighbor 's not saved. Lord, this people group is not saved. Why not? Well you refuse to pray for them. You didn't even show up this the times that we prayed for those people. That's why. Because you refuse to pray. We get that. We understand that. Why is my child not saved? There are many reasons. But could it be? And it is many times. Because you refuse to discipline them You refuse to use the rod because you thought that you loved your child. But the truth is, the Bible says that if you love your child, then you would discipline them Proverbs 23, 14. Now end here. Be question this. It says this, you shall beat him with a rod and deliver his soul from hell. No, that's not my words. That's scripture. You can do your own way. You can try your own thing. But in the end of the day, you need God to bless, don't you? You're relying on him. You think you're smarter than God. You're not smarter than God. You have to do it his way, not your own way You have to trust him, trust in the Lord, believe in him, pray for your children, evangelize your children, and discipline them. Thanks be to God that he disciplines us, that he uses the rod, he corrects us, and he will deliver our souls from hell. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, we thank you that you are a good Father. Lord, we grow tired of discipline. We don't have time for it. We're shamed by our culture that says it's abuse and evil. We even possibly have been abused by parents who were not being biblical at all. And we've decided to discard this means. We have let the world define good and evil. Righteousness and wickedness. And when we repent of this, we ask that you would help us to believe your word, not to explain it away, not to make it an allegory, an analogy, but to understand what it says and believe it and trust it. But we pray that no child here would go undisciplined, that we would discipline our children, just as you discipline us. And by that, not through it, but by it and by your spirit, that you would save our children. Children, we present Jesus. Amen