Today we're going to continue our study in the little book of Jude, a often neglected book, but a wonderful book, a book written by one of the brothers of Jesus, his younger brother. We focused last time on who James was, his background, his story, the fact that he grew up in the household of Jesus, but instead of this experience being a uh a converting experience. He seems more to be uh to be someone kind of like the brothers of Joseph, someone who was jealous and envious and uh ultimately a God hater and God rejector And so on that is explicitly described as not believing in Jesus all the way up until the end of Jesus' ministry. And if you recall that what ends up happening is that Jesus after his resurrection appears to James and then James seems to go back to his family and tell them about the resurrection experience. And that and based on his testimony, the brothers of Jesus get converted, and then they have this very prominent ministry in the early church. We don't know too much about them, but we certainly have some hints and clues uh about their ministry. And then of course we have only two letters from the brothers of Jesus, the little epistle of James and the Little Epistle of Jude. So that's what we're looking at as this wonderful wonderful and glorious little book that's often neglected. It's hard-hitting. It calls us to fight for the faith. It calls out false teachers. It's a very hard-hitting book. It's a very neglected book, and I'm super glad that we can open this book up together and see what God has to say for us. So please open up your Bible to Jude chapter 1, and we'll continue on exploring this book together. Jude chapter 1, verse 1. Judah, servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ, may Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you appealing to c appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation. Ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. So again, we focused on who the author is, Jude, and so now we're going to focus in on how he describes his audience He describes his audience as those who are called, beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. The literal Greek is very similar to this, but instead of saying those who are called, it actually says to those um It says to those beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ, called ones. So they put the word called at the very end, while in the English translation they front load it. And the reason the English does this is because it wants to try to convey I think it actually doesn't convey it as well as keeping at the end, but it's trying to convey the idea or trying to help the English reader see that being beloved in God the Father and kept with Jesus Christ are connected to being called. In other words, what does it mean to be called? It means to be beloved in God the Father and kept with Jesus Christ. These are attributes or privileges of their status as called ones So let's look at these descriptions one at a time. The first description is beloved in God the Father. Beloved in God the Father. Now this is somewhat of an unusual expression. In fact, this exact expression only shows up four other places in the entire New Testament, once here, once in John, and once in the introduction of 1 Thessalonians, and the last one, and the introduction of 2 Thessalonians. So only four times does this exact expression show up in our Bibles. So let's uh do this. Let's go ahead and explore these passages elsewhere how this unique phrase in God is used, and that will help us to figure out what it means here in Jude. So the the the place in John that we find it is in John 3 verses verse 21. Here's what it says But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may be clearly seen that they have been worked in God. And so the context here is Jesus describes two types of people. Those who hate the light refuse to come to the light lest their evil deeds be exposed. That's gospel rejectors and people who say, I'm not coming to Christ, because ultimately if I come to Christ then I'll be exposed as a sinner and then I won't be able to live in my sin because he is the light and if I live in the light I can't have all my junk. I'd rather be in the darkness. and dwell in the I'm gonna dwell in the darkness. I enjoy my sin and I don't want to give it up, so I'm gonna continue to live in the darkness. They love the darkness and hate the light. And then he contrasts another people who actually come to light. And this is someone who does the truth. This is someone who when they they they're doing the truth, they're living righteously, and they come to light to be exposed as true believers which they are. And it describes these people as having done their works have been done in God, or they haven't worked in God So what does it mean to have our works in God? One commentator said about this verse that he does he he pref he would recommend people not translate this phrase their works have been wrought in God or worked in God because he says that this meaning this expression at best has zero meaning for the average reader of English. I'm not sure exactly that's true, but I certainly agree that this is a difficult expression expression and we have to kind of carefully consider it to try to flesh it out so we can understand what it means. So there are three interpretations that are given for this expression that are found in the commentators. The first is that the works are done in obedience to God. The second is that the works are done through the person or grace or through the agency of God, this is through or by God. And the last is that it these works are done in union with God. So either the works are done in obedience to God, they are worked through the grace or person of God, or their works are done in union with God. Now the challenge is all three are true, right? Any good works is automatically done in obedience to God. You can't have a good work that's not done in God. And ultimately it is through God's person uh in us, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. So all good works ultimately come through the agency of God. That's true. And since we are in union with God, all of our good works are done in union with God. So all three are theologically true. But the question is, um, what does the expression in God refer to? Now I think option number one, that these works are done in obedience to God can immediately be scratched off because it just simply doesn't say that. It says that the works are done in God. It doesn't say works are done in obedience to God. Okay? So I think that can be immediately scratched off. Now the other two are a little bit more challenging. The word in God can certainly mean through or by. Sometimes the expression in God certainly well in something, in a person certainly can mean that. But more often, the word through or by is just a different Greek word that can be used to more explicitly communicate that. So the the word in can certainly mean in or through, but it more often means this idea of a spatial idea or relationship idea. of in union with. And so for that reason, I actually prefer the uh rendering that this is referring to that these good works are done in union with God. I think moreover, as we look at this phrase in these last passages, since these other phrases seem so powerfully to convey the idea of union, I think that uh this uh makes it more likely that John over here using that same expression is referring to the same thing. So let's look at the other two areas or the other two verses. We're actually only going to look at one of them because the other one is exactly the same Um the introduction in 1 Thessalonians and 2nd Thessalonians are exactly the same, except one says in God the Father and the other says in God our Father. So there's really no difference, and so there's no reason to look at both of them. So 1 Thessalonians 1. 1 is this is another place that has this unique expression. It says Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians, in God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace, you, and peace. So we have the standard greeting. It's Paul, Survivus, and Timothy, and they're writing to the Church of the Thessalonians. And then when he's describing this church of the Thessalonians, he describes them as being in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Now what's so helpful about this passage is that we're very used to that expression in the Lord or in Jesus Christ this so often, not always. Context is king, but so often is a technical expression referring to in union with Christ, that we are his body, he is the head, he is the we are the temple, he is the foundation stone, he is divine, we are the branches This language shows up all over the place. And so that's what the phrase in the Lord Jesus Christ means. And so all we have is the conjunction and in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it seems that just as we're in union with Christ, so too we are in union with God the Father. And so that helps us to understand what this expression in God the Father means. And so it seems then, putting this all together, what it means to be in union with the Son is the same thing that it means to be in union with God. God, uh, through Jesus Christ, we have union with God. And that's why in John 20, verse 17, this is right after Jesus was raised. Jesus says to uh to his early disciples, he said to her, Do not cling to me. For I've not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them, I'm ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and to your God. The reason he can say that, he can call us brothers, and he can say that my father is your father and my God is your God is because we have been reconciled with God so that we're no longer separated from God far off, but now we have this close, intimate relationship. Hebrews 2. 11 puts it this way. He who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. He's not ashamed to call us brothers because we have been united to God. We were born again. We're now his children. And so now we're fellow heirs with Jesus Christ, heirs of God. So I think that what's going on here in Jude is when it says that we're beloved in God the Father. We're saying that we're loved based on our union with God. This is that special covenant love. God has a special covenant love for his people because they're his people, because they're the bride of Christ. This is like the the way that a parent allows a special love for their grandchildren because they're in union with them, because that's their grandchildren. Not just they love they might like or love all children. But they have a special love for their grandchildren because of the relationship and the connection that they have. So too we have this special relationship with God the Father because we are his covenant people. And that's actually so wonderful to think about it. Think about the fact that the way that a grandparent or a parent loves their children is a glimmer, is a forte , is a picture. a reflection of how much God loves us. In fact, there's no way that a grandparent or a parent as fallen and sinful and imperfect as we are could possibly love their grandchildren or their children more than God loves his children. That is how great the love of God is for us. 1 John 3. 1 says, see what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God, and so we are. What great and wonderful love God has provided to adopt us and make us his children. And God's love overflows for us. And so that's why we need to recognize our identity as called ones, as those who are loved in our union with God, our connection with God. The fact that we are his children means that we walk and are covered in the love of God. God loves us so much. And this is a privilege of being one of the called ones, one of his friends. Remember he said to Abraham, you are my friend. He said that to us, you are my friend. More than my friend, you are my child. whom I am well pleased. This is the privilege that we have as children of God. And so let's look at the next expression. The next expression is that we are the called ones are those who are kept for Jesus. Now some of your translations instead of kept for Jesus might have kept by Jesus or kept of Jesus Now all of these concepts are theologically true. See, the debate is, are we kept for Jesus like we're a present to Jesus, or are we kept through or of Jesus or by Jesus? Is Jesus the great guardian of of the sheep. Now of course Jesus is the great guardian sheep. He's the great shepherd. He protects us. He puts under shepherds to continue to do his shepherd uh shepherding work. He intercedes for us. He protects us. So all that's theologically true But I think the Greek here, the Greek expression here, uh more leans toward the translation that we are actually kept for Jesus. That here we are kept by God, and Jesus for that matter for Jesus. This is God giving us to Jesus as a present. As we are onslaughted by the devil. As we are attacked, as our faith is weak and we feel like walking away and being just beat down by Satan. How do we remain? Do we conquer in our own strength? Are we simply better than those who fall away Are we more diligent, stronger, more godly, whatever? No. The true secret to our ability to withstand comes in this passage, in this glorious truth here. We are kept by God. for Jesus Christ. We conquer the devil, the world, the flesh through the power of God Consider what uh the conversation that Peter Jesus had with Peter. This is found in Luke 22 verse 31. Jesus says to Peter, Simon, Simon. Behold, Satan demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat. He might rip you to pieces. And did he? Yeah, he did. Satan demanded, and he did, and he wrecked and destroyed Peter But yet Peter came back. Why? Because he was so strong? No. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. How was it that Satan was able to knock out Peter but not keep him down? It wasn't because Peter was so strong Peter was weak. That's why he got knocked down. It wasn't so strong that he got back up. It was through the intercession of Christ. I prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you turn again, strengthen your brothers. And so too, this is that work of Christ that he's constantly interceding on behalf of us. This is the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, that God perseveres, his people, that we persevere. We continue to go on and on. We're preserved. by God the Father for Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 1 puts it this way. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. You who have been born again have a living hope, a remaining hope, a hope that's not dying and fading away, but continues to live on. And what's that hope? To an inheritance that's imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Is that Inheritance going anywhere? No. It's completely stable, imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven for you. And what about you? Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Your inheritance is secure, and you yourself are being guarded through faith by the power of God. Not outside of faith. Cannot apostasize and expect anything but to hear these words, Depart from me, you work of iniquity, I never knew you. That's the only thing you can expect to hear if you apostasize. But the beautiful good news is for those who are called, they have an imperishable, undefiled, and unfading inheritance kept in heaven for you, and you yourself are being guarded by God's power through faith. Your faith will not fail. I pray for you that your faith may not fail. When you get up again. Turn again, strengthen your brothers. Christ is interceding for us. John 10 28 puts it this way. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. They will never perish. Those whom he gives eternal life will never perish. You can bank on that. If he gave you eternal life, it will never perish. And no one, not the devil, not the flesh, no one will snatch you out of his hand. You are kept. You're kept by God for Jesus Christ. The Father promised Jesus that these things would be true. He promised, the Father promised Jesus a certain people. They were the reward of his suffering. We see this in Isaiah 53. Isaiah 53, 10 says, it was the will of the Lord to crush them. This is his suffering. This is his pain. This is the cross. He was put, he has put him to grief when his soul makes an offering for guilt. He shall see his offspring, and he shall prolong his days. Christ shall see his offspring. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many accounted righteous, and shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong Just as Christ certainly was going to go to the cross, just as God was certainly going to crush them and put him to grief, just as God was certainly going to make him a sin offering, so he shall certainly prolong his days, so he shall certainly be raised from the dead, and so he shall certainly see his offspring. and see and be satisfied, and divide I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong. so too we will be co-heired with Christ and we will receive the reward of his suffering. This isn't there's no chance that those whom Christ died for Those whom those whom Christ died and was promised that he will see their his offspring and he will see and be satisfied. There's no way he's gonna be looking and on on that day and and his people are not there. It's not gonna happen God will not lose those whom were uh God will not lose those whom he gave to the Son, and the Son will not lose those who have been given to him. We will certainly come. And if we get a hold of this truth, it is such a humbling reality. It's such a humbling reality to recognize that we don't ultimately keep ourselves, but we are ultimately kept by God. Now, it's not as if he does this against our will. We don't not want to go to heaven and then somehow get there. No. But it's through our will. It is Him who works in you both to will and to work for His good pleasure. God's grace helps us to be willing. He gets us there. God doesn't save the apostate. He keeps those who are his from being apostates in the first place. This is yet another privilege of being one of the called one. As called ones, we are loved in union with God. As called ones, we are kept as trophies of grace for Jesus Christ. This is our privilege. based on a relationship with Christ. The last description is that we are called one, something that we've kind of been hinting around or talking about the whole time here. So what does it mean to be a called one? Well there are two types of calls in the Bible. There's the general invitation of the gospel, and there's a special calling that only refers to believers. The general invitation for everyone of the gospel Is found in places like Matthew 22, 14, for many are called, but few are chosen. Many are called, and this is the parable of the banquet. And who are the many called? Everybody. Everybody is invited. Come into the banquet. Enjoy the banquet. There is no limitation. Come and enjoy the banquet. Many are called, a few are chosen. Another place we find this call is Isaiah 66, verse 4. So I will choose their punishment. I will bring terror upon them, because I called And no one answered. I spoke, and no one listened, but they did evil in my sight, and chose that which I did not delight. He calls, but they don't answer. He spoke, but they were not listening. He invites, but they refused to come So the first type of call is a general invitation, the general call that's given to every people everywhere. We're not to withhold this call from anybody. Everyone and anybody is to be called and invited. to come and believe and be saved by the gospel. And yet there's a second call found in the Bible, and this call is unique to believers. So the and I call this the theological call. There is the general call that's given to all people and the theological call that's given only to believers. And this call can be found in several places. You can think of the The Romans um the golden chain of redemption in Romans chapter eight, those whom he forenew, he predestined, those whom he predestined, he called, those whom he called, he Justified those who mean justified he glorified. Okay? There's a special type of call here that's unique. Not everyone is foreknown in this way. Not everyone is predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. We're not universalists. Not everyone is called, not everyone is justified, and not everyone is certainly not glorified. And so this is a unique call that's only true of believers. Or consider 1 Corinthians chapter 1, to the Church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord's and ours. So this here again is a unique calling. Not everyone is called to be a saint. Not everyone's a saint, right? Only saints are saints And so not everyone is called to be a saint except for those who actually put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and those who are who are actually saints. Or just eight verses later, and in first Corinthians verse chapter one, verse nine We read this. God is faithful, by whom you were called into fellowship of his son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Called into the fellowship of his son. Again, a unique call, called to be saints, called into the fellowship of his son. Well, my favorite passage, 1 Peter 2, 9, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own possession. that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. This is not true of all people. This is a special calling, theological calling, a calling that's only true of believers. This calling is calling out of darkness into his marvelous light, called into the fellowship of his son, called to be saints. Those of me for knew, he predestined, predestined, called, called, justified, justified, glorified. This type of call, this theological call, is only associated with believers, and you can see it's tightly connected with being a saint, it's tightly connected with entering into fellowship with Jesus and coming out of darkness into light. Now all of those concepts are also tightly connected to a concept we talk about, which is conversion. In fact, when Jesus was talking to Paul, in telling them about his ministry, he said that what he was going to do is transfer people from the kingdom of Satan into the kingdom of God, from the darkness into light. Well, this transferring process right here apparently is referred to as being called, being called out from one stage to another. It's transferring memberships from the devil ultimately to God. So this is the theological use of the term called. This is conversion. This is what we talk about as we got saved. That I saw the light. I'm a new person. That's all connected in this idea of being called, being called out of darkness into his marvelous light. And so what are the privileges? of being a called one, being someone who came out of darkness and now live in the light of God. Well that connect the the the benefits is that we have union with Christ, we have union with God And based on that union, we have a special covenant bond with God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. And we are specially beloved as his children, as the bride of Christ. As the temple of the Holy Spirit of God. That's a blessing we have as a called one, as a transferee, as someone who lives and dwells in the kingdom of God. Another blessing is that we're kept for Jesus Christ. We are eternally secure that we will finally be saved and finally stand before God. Where he declares before all, well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of your master. These are the privileges of being called And this is what this passage is trying to convey to us in the description of us being the called ones. And when we understand what a great privilege this really is, then we can understand why there's places in the New Testament where we read statements like this. I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called to walk worthy of the calling by which you have called. Or 1 Thessalonians 2. 12, walk in a manner worthy of God who calls you. into his own kingdom and glory. If we get a perspective on how blessed we really are to be the called ones of God, to be his people, to be specially beloved by God. I mean, we want people to like us. We want to be famous. We want uh rich people to like us. We we want uh to have huge followings. But you can get anyone in the world to like you. And if God hates you, you're worthless. Because God is objective truth. These other people, they might not know what they're talking about. God perfectly knows. Get his approval. Get the approval of him. And guess what? There are a lot with him. We have the angels. We have the saints. And those with him remain. And those who don't, they fade away. So let us seek God's approval and God's approval and stamp of approval is on all of those who are called, all of those who are his. This is the privilege that we have. And we're just getting warmed up. We're just getting started. He has a glorious kingdom awaiting us. And in light of this truth, in light of this great calling, let's walk in a manner worthy. The God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory, the God who's calling you Bringing you home, keeping you through the power of God, the God who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. He will certainly Continue the work. He who began a work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. This, this great and glorious calling. It's why Paul prays in Ephesians 1. 18, I pray that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom. and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of your heart enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you. Paul says, I pray to God the Father, the Father of all glory. That he may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation and the knowledge of him. Grow in wisdom and knowledge in Christ. having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you. That's what he wants for you. That's what Paul wanted for you. That's what the Holy Spirit through Paul wants for you to know the hope, the living hope, the true hope, the secure hope. That glorious reality that you have because he called you. How do you know you're called? Because you don't live in darkness anymore. You cannot testify. You don't have a testimony, you're not called. If you're called, you have a you have a testimony, you have been called. If you have a testimon Muribing gold Being called is going from the devil to God. How'd you get there? He called you. That's how you got there. The only way. You did not sneak out of prison. Run all the way to God. He says, Ah, come on in. No. God got in to your cell, broke the door down, grabbed you, and ran you all the way back home. He called you. He called you. You got there. Secure by the power of God. That God who grabbed you from your cell. It's the same God who will bring you home. And once you realize that it changes everything. And we have to live our lives. understanding the greatness of the hope to which he called us, and walking in a manner worthy of the calling which we have given. This is a glorious and wonderful truth. And I just ask you to soak in that truth. Let it soak in your bones. And the more it soaks, the more it marinates. the more it should cause you to rejoice and sing hallelujah. I am going to the kingdom of God. I will reign with Christ. I will be a co-heir with the creator and sustainer of the universe forever. What do I have to fear? Why am I complaining about anything? What else matters in light of that truth? Think about it. What else matters in light of the truth that all things in the universe will be yours? Nothing. Nothing. Walk in a manner worthy. Understand the hope to which you have been called. It is secure. You're beloved in God the Father. You're kept from Jesus Christ. You're called by the Holy Spirit. You're going to that place of glory. Unless you don't know him. And if you don't know him, none of these things apply to you. None of these things are true of you. You don't have to walk in a manner worthy of the God who calls you because he didn't call you. Because you still walk in darkness. And in fact, you're headed to hell. Into a place of unimaginable suffering. Where you will suffer forever and ever and wish And wish you would have repented. You will understand fully and clearly what is the profit of man to gain the whole world and yet lose his own soul. You throw ashes on yourself day after day saying, what a fool was I to trade eternal riches for a pile of dung. Repent. Believe. Trust in Jesus Christ. He is the only solution. He is the only way. He will deliver you from all of your sins.