So the last time that we met, uh we're going to continue our class on suffering. The last class that we talked about how God can use international suffering for his for his glory. And the event that we looked at to prove that was the Exodus event. Right. How God took the sufferings of his people for four hundred years in uh in Egypt and ended up using that as one of the most glorious and beloved stories of all the Bible. Everyone loves the Exodus Action Pact It shows the glory of God. And we even looked at a passage in Exodus where God explains why he's plaguing Egypt the way he does. Because we all know that God could even say specifically that God could have just grabs Pharaoh and wipe them out immediately. And in Hebrews chapter 1, it says that Um that God by the word of his power, by his son, holds together the universe. So Pharaoh's very existence was held together by God's power. So God could have immediately destroyed him. But he did it instead he lets uh history unfold the way it does. Ultimately for his glory and the good of his people, God saves saves the people and destroys Egypt in the process. Then we also saw how God can use Naomi trials, this is in the book of Ruth, to bring God to glory. and are good. And again we saw that on an individual level. We saw that here's this lady and there's a famine in the land. She goes off, she travels to a foreign land. In the process of ten years she she loses her husband She uh loses her two sons, and God transforms that by the end of the book, right, and when she goes back to the pr the promised land, she says, Don't even call me Naomi, because that means pleasant, call me Mara, which means bitterness So things are just going terrible. At the end of the book though, what happens? Ultimately Ruth, this this lady who at the time she looked at her as as nothing. Right? Ends up becoming her rescue. And Ruth ends up marrying Boaz. Boaps has a son, and that son has a son who has a son whose name is David So again, God can use suffering and things that seem gratuitous at the moment in our lives to transform it to good. So we see internationally in the Exodus, global disasters, which you're seeing on CNN. God's using that for his glory, right? And what's happening in your own very life, God can use that for glory. So this morning we'll continue our survey of the scriptures to glean what other things that we can learn about suffering from the Bible. So please turn your by uh turn in your Bibles to the book of Habakkuk. The prophet Habakkuk is in the Old Testament. It's one of the minor prophets. Alright, Habakkuk, chapter one, and I'll begin reading From verse 1. If you guys don't know, Habakkuk is a is a wonderful summary of the problem of evil. Job is great. We looked at that uh previously, and then Habakkuk is also a very concise, only three chapters A very concise look at the problem of evil. Alright, let's look at verse 1. The oracle that Habakkuk, the prophet Saul, O Lord, how long shall I cry for help? And you will not hear, or cry to you violence, and you and you will not save. Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me, strife and contention arise. So the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth. For the wicked Surround the righteous, so justice goes forth perverted. What's the back of talking about here in these first five verses? What what's going on? Well, obviously Abakus has this complaint, right? And he sees that there's violence, he sees that there is iniquity. And look what he says in verse 3: Why do you idly look at wrong? So he goes out there and he sees that there's all kinds of wickedness and all kinds of i immorality all throughout society, and he looks at God and says, What are you doing? What is happening here? Look at verse 4. So the law is paralyzed and justice never goes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous So justice goes forth perverted. So we know God is a just God, right? But yet when we look at the world, there's no justice here. It all seems to be all messed up. So what's God doing there? Why is this happening? So God's answer to this charge of why why is there wickedness is found in verse 5. Let's look at the Lord's Answer. Why do good people suffer? And why do the wicked prosper? Verse 5. Look among the nations and see. Wonder and be astounded, for I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told Okay. So is the beginning with the answer is, I'm about to show you something that's absolutely incredible, absolutely amazing. You wouldn't believe it if I told you. This sounds like good stuff, right? I wonder what the amazing work of God's gonna be. Well let's keep going. Verse 6. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation who march through the breath of the earth to seize dwelling, not their own. They are dreaded and fearful and fearsome, their justice and dignity go forth from themselves. Their horses are swifter than leopards, more fierce than the evening wolves, their horsemen press proudly on Their horsemen come from afar, they fly like an eagle swift to devour, they all come for violence, all their faces forward They gather captives like the sand, at kings they scoff, and at rulers they laugh, they laugh at every fortress, for they pile up earth and take it. Then they will sweep by like the wind and go on, guilty men whose might is their own God. At the Louvents What is that all what is that saying? Okay, again, look at Habakkuk's complaint. Habakkuk's complaint is that the look at verse 4. The wicked surround the righteous His complaint is not only that there's full of iniquity and sin all throughout the earth, but in fact the wicked people that God is supposed to be smiting Aren't being smit, but rather they are surrounding God's people. Do you see the problem? Right? Not only do these people are alive, but they're actually oppressing the righteous. So God says He's going to give him an answer that's absolutely astounding. And what's the answer? I'm going to bring the Chaldeans and they're going to come and punish Israel. Now Israel was wicked at that time. Israel was sinful, but there was also God's people. You remember what Elijah in the event of Elijah and Elijah saying, I'm the only one left, and what does God say to Elijah? No, you're not the only one left. There are still seven thousand that have not bowed the knee to Baal. Right? So God's remnant is always that at least in the past, was always in uh Israel So the point being is so Israel is a mixed nation, but uh there's a a nation even more wicked than that, which is the Chaldeans, and he's gonna bring them to come destroy Israel, and in part of Israel is Of course, the righteous people of God. What's happening here is Habakkuk has a complaint on the micro level. Okay? Habakkuk is mad that righteous person A is persecuted by wicked person B. And he's saying that that doesn't seem right. So God's response is, you think that's something? I'm going to show you something way bigger than that. Okay? This is the micro. I'm going to show you a macro level. I'm going to show you these Chaldeans who are just utterly wicked people. Look at verse 11. Guilty men whose own might is their own God. Who's the God of Israel? Yahweh. Right? Even sometimes they're rebellious and they sin against them, still the God of Israel is Yahweh. So he's going to bring up a people whose God is their own might, and he's going to use them to smite the the Israelites He's raising the bar is the point, right? What you thought was just a small issue, I'm going to show you, is a huge issue. Look at verse 12. Let's see what uh this conversation as it unfolds. If you have a heading, you'll probably say, hub back its second complaint. Verse 12. Are you not from everlasting, O Lord my God, my holy one? We shall not die. O Lord, you have ordained them as a judgment, and you, O Roch, have established them for reproof. You who see are pu you who are of pure eyes, then shall see evil, and cannot look at wrong. Why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallow up the man more righteous than he? See that? See the main complaint, right? It's not that that the these these people who are more righteous are are just sinless, but they are more righteous than these people. And that's kind of Job's complaint too. Job was never saying that he never sinned. He's saying that I haven't sinned nearly as much as these other wicked people, or even back to you people, who are accusing me, but yet God is smiting me. What's going on here? Doesn't seem to be right. Let's keep going. Verse 14. You make mankind like fish of the sea, like crawling things that have no ruler. He brings all of them up with a hook, he drags them out with his net, he gathers them in his dragnet, so he rejoices and is glad. Therefore he sacrifices to his net and makes offerings his dragnet. For by them he lives in luxury, and his food is rich. Is he then to keep on emptying his net and mercilessly killing nations forever? Again, the the analogy here is that here are some people who uh worship their own God. They worship their nets. They're described as fishermen. Jesus actually uses the same analogy, right? That he will make you fishers of men. So people are described as fish. The we as apologists or as evangelists are described as these fishers and we catch people. Well the same thing going on here. The Chaldeans are described as these as these fishermen and people are described as fish. And they grab using their nets and then they capture these fish. And they're capturing people all over the place. The Chaldeans were the superpower of the world at that time. And and so he's he's looking at these godless people and guess what? They worship their own net, they worship their own abilities And their own powers. You see that in verse 16. Therefore he sacrifices to his net and makes offerings to his dragnet. He's totally atheistic. He doesn't view God at all. He doesn't recognize God has given him The ability to do any of this. And look at verse 17. Here's the conclusion. There's this overwhelming, unstoppable force of wickedness going on, this nation of the Chaldeans. And his real question begins in verse 17. Is he then to keep on emptying his net and mercilessly killing nations forever? Will this go on forever and ever? Will God continue to allow you know the Nazi regime or the Stalin regime or whatever regime that we see today that is just utterly wicked? Will that continue to go on forever Well, what's the Lord's reply? We see that in chapter two Yeah. Chapter 2. I will take my stand at my watch post and station myself on the tower. And look out to see what he will say to me and what he will answer concerning my complaint. So here what what Habakkuk is doing is he's giving his two complaints. And now he is going to wait on the Lord. This is faith-seeking understanding. The data doesn't make sense. Okay. The data doesn't we know God is good and we know that God will punish wickedness, but yet when we look at the data out there, it doesn't look like God is good. It doesn't look like God is going to punish wickedness. So what is Abaca's response? He's going to take his stand on his watch post and he's going to wait to hear the answer of the Lord. And that's a that's a very thing that we should do. And that's what I've been really encouraging you all in this class to do, right? Is to wait on the Lord. We're not always going to have all of the answers, but we can trust in Him. Who is good, even when life doesn't appear that way. So look, here's finally God gives another answer. See what he's going to say this time. Verse 2. Chapter 2, verse 2 And the Lord answered me, Write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. For still the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. Behold, his soul is toughed up. It is not upright within him. But the righteous shall live by faith. So, what's the Lord's response? What's he saying here? He's saying vengeance is coming. Be patient. It may seem like it's slow, right? God's timetable may seem like it's slow, but be patient on the Lord. This reminds you of anything in the New Testament? Do we have any passage that's equivalent to Habakkuk II in the New Testament? Anyone think of any? Um 1 Peter Okay. And we suffered for a little while. I got a wall for race was bust, which was kind of blurring tries. That's beautiful. Yeah. I I was thinking of a passage, uh it was actually 2 Peter chapter 3. So please throw your Bibles there. Just hold your Bible in Habakkuk, we'll be back there. But this reminds me a whole lot of something that we see in in 2 Peter chapter 3, and it's actually going to be amazing as we continue to look through Habakkuk of how Abacid is really saying the exact same thing that 2 Peter says. We have progressive revelation. Here's 2 Peter chapter 3 This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. In both I am stirring up your sincere mind by the way of reminder, so that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandments of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires, and they will say, Where is the promise of his coming? How long has he been promising that Back in Genesis 3. 15, right? The proto -evangelium. But we see that. That's the whole thing of Habakkuk. And they're stopping saying, how long? Remember Habakkuk said. What did he say? He said here, for still the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. He said that all the way back in Habakkuk. And they're still saying this in 2 Peter chapter 3. Alright, keep going. Verse 4. And they will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. For they deliberately overlooked this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the Word of God. And that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished. But the same word, the heavens and the earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. But do not overlook this fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness But is patient towards you, not w wishing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And it goes on, But the day of the Lord is like a thief and so forth. Right? Now here's what's going on. What's happening here This goes back to Habakkuk. Habakkuk is saying, wait on the Lord. His timetable will not be delayed. It may feel like it's taking a long time, but it will surely happen. Second Peter tells us gives us that analogy of like of the times of Noah, right? It looked like there was hundreds of years of wickedness What's God's do what's what's God doing? But eventually, one day, everyone woke up and it was the last day of history. At least history of that in that era Right, and all of a sudden the floods came. And that's exactly the way it will be in the end. It feels like it's just going on and going on, but one day God will come back, the second coming will happen, and the world that now exists will be utterly destroyed. And all the wicked will be All the wicked will perish. But we know, and I love 2 Peter, that's why immediately when I was thinking of Habakkuk, I thought of this passage, is this passage tells us in verse 9 Why it is that things are taking so long? Why is God's timetable so slow? What's happening? Verse nine. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise of some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance So when we're sitting here complaining and saying, God, I want my wicked boss to be destroyed. I'm tired of this. Right? Hopefully, maybe you feel like that. When we feel that way though, when we want God's table uh timetable to hasten, think about your grandchildren. Think about your children. Think about yourself Right? If God would have ended history 50 years ago, 60 years, 100 years ago, none of us would be in the kingdom. God is being patient. God is trying to save your grandchildren. Your nephews, your friends, he's still saving his elect. And that is why God is uh uh at this current moment not destroying the wicked. If you really think about it, I was talking to uh trying to evangelize someone recently And I was trying to explain to them that the world that we live in now is a mixed community. This earth belongs to God, right? And in this earth, God showers his blessings. Be for the righteous and the unrighteous. So the righteous we have to deal with some suffering, and the wicked get to deal with some blessing Because they're on this earth. But one day God is going to separate them. Look at Matthew chapter thirteen. You'll see this constantly there's a parable about the fish and that he'll that one day that he'll grab all the fish in the net and separate the two and then the fish will be burned and then the the the other fish will be taken up to God, right? John the Baptist says the same thing. He'll take the wheat into his barn and the chaff he'll utterly burn to destruction. So right now we live in this mixed community of goodness And evil. And then we have two people, good people and evil people. But one day that won't be the case. So once all the righteous people are with God, there will be no more suffering. Okay? But but the reverse is also true. Once the wicked are separated from the people of God, there will be no longer any more good. So while we live in this earth today, we have to deal with both the righteous and the wicked, both God's blessing and God's curses, because we live in this mixed community. And so when we want to hasten the day that Christ to come back and that we can no longer deal with pain, we have to recognize we're really asking God to essentially limit the salvation of his people. I I desperately want to get to the new heavens, new earth, and history to end and the wicked to be finally destroyed. But I also desperately want more and more of my brothers to come back. Right? And so I pray, you know, God's kingdom comes, God's will be done on earth as it is in heaven. I desperately want that to be the case. But I'm also thankful for every single day that God delays his judgment. Because that means that God is still saving people Right. That means that God's mercy continues to go forth throughout the land. So let's let's continue back. Let's go back to Habakkuk chapter 2. Chapter 2. And then let's let's pick up in verse 6. Because the Lord is continuing his argument. But I want you to see the similarities of Abacid in 2 Peter. So chapter uh chapter 2, verse 6. Shall not all these take up their taunt against him? He's talking about the wicked now, talking about the righteous, with scoffing and riddles for him, and say, Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own. For how long? And loads himself with pledges. Will not your debtor suddenly arise, and those who awake, who will make you tremble Then you will sp uh be spoiled for them, because you have plundered many nations. All the remnant of the people shall plunder you, for the blood of man and violence of the earth to the cities and all who dwell in them. Woe to him who gets evil gained for his house, to set his nest on high, to be safe in the reach of harm. You have devised shame for your house by cutting off many peoples, and have forfeited your life, for the stone will cry out from the wall And the being from the woodwork respond, Woe to him who builds a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity. Behold It is not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire, and nations weary themselves for nothing. This is my favorite part. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea Again, what is he saying? He's saying that woe to these people, the very people that you're complaining about, that's Hubakit's whole problem. Habakkuk is jealous He's jealous for the righteousness of God in some ways. He's just jealous that these people are getting to live these wicked lives and yet the punishment is not coming away. on them. And we all feel that way, right, sometimes. That here they get they have their cake and they eat it too. Here we are living righteous and and sacrificing things and and we expect a blessing but But and and not the curse, but they're not they seem to be getting the blessing and not the curse themselves. In fact we seem to be getting the curse for living righteously. It doesn't make sense. And God said don't be jealous of those people because all of that is short-lived I give it an analogy. It's like that I don't know if you've ever gone trick-or-treating uh with some friends and you get you get all your candy right and there's that kid who just wants to eat all the candy, just keep eating and eating, and then you maybe your parents don't let you eat all the candy. They maybe they just let you eat a few pieces. It could be very easy to be jealous of that child as he's as he's gobbling the candy and you only got your your parents only gave you like three pieces of candy. Right? You may feel jealous of that individual at that time, but what's gonna happen to that kid Seeing that sugar overload. He's going to feel sick and he's probably not going to want any more candy for the rest of the year. And you're going to keep eating your candy in moderation and having a good old time for the rest of the year. My point is, it may seem you may seem jealous of that individual at the moment, but since you know what's going to happen to them, right, then it changes the perspective completely. And instead of being jealous, you pity the individual because you know the harm that they're actually going to cause themselves. That's exactly what we have in the Bible here. It's saying don't look at just what you see now. Don't you realize that there's coming a day When the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as water covers the sea, the wicked will not last forever. Everything that they are building will ultimately go into vanity. One of the the problems with atheism, one of the real curses of atheism, is that it says that if atheism is true, then when you die, that's it. You're gone. And it's amazing how many atheists will will try to resist that reality. Now some do, it's called nihilism. But most have spent their time trying to deny that reality. Why? Because we all have this desire to have purpose and meaning. We all want to outlive ourselves, right? And we even even the atheist wants to continue to uh have a good impact on the world, have a good impact through their children. Okay. But if you think about atheism logically, uh ultimately there there will be no final impact because the world is is is going to be into cosmic heat death. Everything's going to be utterly destroyed. What I'm trying to say here is that we all h want to have a final impact on the world And on from an atheist perspective, you will have no final impact on the world. And really, from an unbelievers perspective, you will have no final impact on the world Okay, your all of your work, that's what it says here, will be utterly destroyed. Your contribution will be will be nil. It'll burn up. But for the righteous, we get to work for the kingdom of God. And our impact gets to be eternal And that's just such a wonderful reality that we get to be part of building the eternal kingdom of God. And we have infinite value and infinite worth before our God. So that's that's second uh that's chapter two. Now I I love I love how chapter three ends. You see what's going on? The complaint. Why do the wicked remain? The answer, just wait on the Lord. It's going to get, it's all going to be right in the end. And then chapter , it could have ended there, right? But look at chapter three. God in his grace and his glory gives us more of how that's going to unfold. How are we going to get from chapter 1 the problem to chapter 2 the solution? How is that going to unfold? That's chapter 3. It's the last chapter. Now if you if you read and we're gonna skip a little bit, if you read the first uh first twelve chapters, or first eleven chapters They describe how God is going to come down to the earth and to destroy it. And that's Second Peter, right? That got Christ is going to come back. But let's jump down to twelve and and get some uh get some highlights here. So uh Habakkuk 3, verse 12. This is talking about God marching uh marching to the earth. You march through the earth in fury and thresh the nations in anger. You went out for the salvation of your people, for the salvation of your anointed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. Salah. You pierced With his own arrows, the head of his warriors, you came like a warrant to scatter hemp, to scatter me, rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret. You trampled the sea with your horses, the surging of the mighty. I hear and my body trembles, my lip quivers at the sound, rottenness enters into my bones, my legs tremble beneath me, yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us This is a wonderful picture of the second coming of Christ. Well, actually, here it's described as the coming of God. And what's amazing is as you as as Revelation progresses, we realize that what's being prophesied here, God coming back is fulfilled by God becoming a man, named namely Jesus Christ, and him coming back. What I'm saying is this text is prophesying the second coming of Christ before even Christ came on the scene And when that happens, when God comes back, perfect justice will be established. Now look at verse 17. What is Habakkuk's response to this revelation? Though the fig trees should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive tree fail, and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold. And there be no earth in the stalls. What's he talking about? He's saying, though I look out there and everything in my life is utterly ruined That my fig tree is not blossoming, there's no fruit on the vines, the olive tree is not producing, the fields have no fruit, there's utter famine, the flock will be cut off in the field. What will his response be? Verse 18. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God, the Lord, is my strength. He makes my feet like the deer. He makes me tread on high places. So we see here, Sabbak the saying, that now that he sees God's final plan, he can rejoice in all circumstances. He knows that despite today's appearances, God is coming and glory will happen in the morning. If we think about it, we have a command like this in the Bible, don't we? Rejoice always. Again I say, rejoice. Now, rejoice always means rejoice sometimes. No. Rejoice always means just that, rejoice always. So how can we rejoice when there's a giant famine in the land Right? As as we are in the path of Hurricane uh Florence or uh some of our family lives in. How can we rejoice in that kind of circumstance when everything is seeming to go wrong? The way we can rejoice is by recognizing that God is going to make it offered. all better. And that we can trust in God because God is God's plan is coming at the end. The end of the story. Right now me and my wife are listening to the Hobbit to bring And there's some scenes in that book that kind of you know make your skin crawl a little bit. And you're just like, how are they gonna get out of here? But I've already watched the movie So I know that they're gonna make it. And this really changes a lot of things from my perspective. I'm just like I'm I'm just cruising through this. As I'm stressing, I know Bilbo Baggins is going to survive. I know the end of the story. What I'm saying is God has given us the end of the story. Right? And so that changes things because I'm going to, as we're going through these trials in our life, we're like, things are looking really bad here. But I'm getting through this. And there's obviously scenes in the book that are not in the movie. But even though I don't know those scenes, I still know they're getting out of there. And everyone's gonna make it. And I'm saying that changes a lot. and and uh our perspective. And that's why we can rejoice always is because we know at the very end of time um that we can trust God. That that that divine perspective changes everything and makes everything look different from down Here. Because I don't know exactly how this scene is going to end up there, but we have the end of the book. Revelation chapter 22. And we saw it here. The glory of God will spread over the earth as water covers the sea. Okay. So as uh hopefully we're getting the theme here. That we see from Habakkuk and we see from Job, we see from Exodus, we see from Naomi, we see from all of these that God has a plan and He's unfolding it through the events. of history from a cosmic level, from an international level, and from an individual level. God can use all of this suffering for his good and for our glory. God can allow the innocent to suffer like he did with Job. He can cause the wicked to prosper, and in fact, cause the innocent to suffer like he does in Habakkuk. But in the end, God is working out his plan for his glory and for our good. And what's the chief uh demonstration of that? Of God using right evil for his ultimate good. What's the chief demonstration of all the Bible that we see that? The crucifixion. The cross, right? The cross of Jesus Christ. The cross is the worst event of history and shows the worst event of innocent suffering in all of history. Job was innocent, but he was still a sinner, right? Okay? When you suffered as an innocent person, you suffer as a as innocent of this crime, but you're still a sinner. But Jesus Christ never sinned once. And yet God uses this very event that was the most wicked event of all of history, and he uses uses it to magnify God's goodness like no other. The most evil event is simultaneously the most glorious event. How's that possible? The glory of God In the cross, God is both cheaply glorified, and look at this. The supreme good comes to us And this is something I've been trying to harp through this whole class, right? God's glory and God's goodness is not different than your goodness. Do you realize that? God loves you and He cares for you. And when God is glorified, He's not glorified despite you, but He wants to be glorified in you. God's goodness and God's glory is not different than his people's goodness. We see that in the cross. God is both chiefly glorified and the supreme good comes to us. Behold the wonders. The same event is the greatest evil, and yet it also displays God's greatest goodness. All we can do is stand in amazement and wonder at the cross. We worship a God that accomplishes what he loves by allowing what he hates. We learn from all of this that we can rejoice in the storms of life because we know our Savior will soon arise, rebuke the wind and the waves, and make all of it still. So as we're going through that that those trials, we're going through the storm, we know we serve a God who's ultimately going to clear those storms and make it all right. God is doing a marvelous work, and one day we will say these words. Great and marvelous are your deeds, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are your ways, King of the Ages Who will not fear you, O Lord, and bring glory to your name? For you alone are holy. All the nations will come and worship before you, for your righteous acts have been Revealed, and that's in Revelation. Now notice that last part of that phrase. So they're praising God, right? They're praising him for all his glorious deeds. And at the very end it says All the nations will come and worship before you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. That's past tense. What it's saying is, after we're done and we're praising God, none of us are going to be complaining and saying, yeah, it's it's a pretty story and all, but you really messed up on this one scene I don't know what you were doing there. No. When we look back at the whole story, right, we will say that God's righteous acts have been revealed. We will all come to see and we'll all come to worship God for how great He is and how marvelous He was, how and what marvelous way He was writing history. Remember what Habakkuk says. The righteous shall live by faith. We have to live that way, right? It doesn't seem like the the the worst things that happened in your life, the worst things that happen in history, the worst things that happened in your friend's life and your neighbor's life, God is actually transforming that together. It just doesn't seem like that. It seems like we could write the story better. Seems like we could just we we could just remove this one scene and i the story would go on just fine. But in the end, God is going to use that very thing that we hate for his good. Because God allows what he hates to accomplish what he loves. So I'm going to stop here and ask if there's any questions or comments about any things we talked about so far. Okay. So let's let's transition from here. And now we're going to look at some of God's revealed purposes for our suffering. So we know that some aspects of our suffering will remain mysterious. We also know that our suffering ultimately leads to God's glory, and that's what we've been talking about this whole time. morning, right? Not only God's glory but our good. But the question is, does the Bible give us any specific examples of how uh the suffering will result in our good. We know that in general all this suffering will be transformed into good, but do we have any specific examples? Well, I'm pleased to say that the Bible does give us some insight, but I must add this caveat: that just because the Bible provides certain reasons for our suffering doesn't mean that our suffering becomes a riddle. Okay, what I'm saying is we're gonna look at some reasons, the about eight, that the Bible reveals of why God would uh use suffering for Arkansas But we shouldn't make our suffering into a riddle. Sometimes people will say, when someone's suffering, what is God trying to teach you in this event? And that's really not a good answer, a good question to ask someone when they're suffering Much more likely a hug and prayer and telling them that you're there for them is good. Because we're not trying to uh just simply solve the suffering of our lives. We're here to trust God But nevertheless, having these general categories help us to process these things and help us to kind of understand this is generally what God's doing, even though in the exact uh incident we might not know the particular of which one of those things are the case. And I give you an analogy for this. Imagine you had a box and it said that there were four there were four tools that were required to put the whole thing together. Right? And it and actually it was one of those nice boxes that say all the tools were already in the box. Right? They were already there And so you're putting this thing together, you have, you know you have all the four tools, but you don't know exactly which one of these tools always applies to which situation. You can't just randomly grab one tool and then and then try to jam it in there, right? You need to actually go look at the circumstance and look at the tool. So sometimes you gotta you know put it in there and see, okay not then one put the next one and so forth, right? And that's the same way in our lives. We're going to look at these reasons that God allows suffering, but we're not just going to grab one at random and just jam it in there and say that that's the reason. But this analogy kind of breaks down because remember I said some of the reasons that we suffer are mysterious. So we don't actually even have all the tools. We've got eight tools, and they might apply to the situation or there might be a missing tool in the case. case and that would just be just a trust stop. So don't go uh in using this knowledge as some kind of fix-all for uh trying to explain array every th every event of suffering that happens in your life or the suffering that happens in other people's lives. And not only that, think about this for a second. What if we did come up with an encyclopedic knowledge of all the suffering that happened in our life? You know, like I was talking about uh reading The Hobbit. In some ways I kinda wish I didn't watch the movie because the suspense is kind of nice, right? Not knowing how all of these things work And in the same way in our lives, the one of the reasons why God doesn't give us an encyclopedic knowledge of every exact reason of why every suffering happens in our life is that would destroy faith. Faith is different than sight. And we see that in in passages uh in the in the scriptures. Let's see. Romans 8 24, it says, Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees, but if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Okay. So there's a difference between having faith and sight. So imagine if you were to be laid off from your job and you knew exactly what God was doing in that circumstance. That would destroy the life of faith. Right, so you knew that, okay, I'm gonna get laid off of this job, and this is gonna result in the salvation of my child, this is gonna result in a greater walk in faith, and ultimately this is gonna result in a greater job. If you knew that immediately as you get the pink slip, you would never have it would never be a trial of faith for you. You would never be able to please God by trusting him in the storm because it wouldn't be a real storm at all. You would know that it's just a means of progressing you out Now what I'm saying is ultimately we know that any storm in our life really isn't a true storm and in fact is a means of pushing us up. But we have to trust and faith of how God is going to do that. We don't have an encyclopedic knowledge of how He is going to do that We know that God is pleased with our faith. So suffering , going through suffering and going through trials Believing God is in fact pleasing to God. Hebrews tells us, without faith, it is impossible to please God. So, as we look at the reason God allows for suffering in our lives , we don't let these categories become a replacement for our faith, but we use them as an anchor to our faith. So let's look at some of the reasons why God allows us to suffer. Philippians 129 tells us. For it has been granted on your behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him. Now Philippians 1. 29 is quite a radical statement because it's saying that both faith is a gift And suffering is a gift. Now, how many of us, right? We were formed, most of us, uh, we we praise God in that idea that faith is a gift. To God be the glory, right? We praise God that He has given us faith. We have no boasting before God. But this text, right alongside of our faith being a gift, this is Philippians 1:29, we're going to look at it Right beside that, he says, not only has God granted us to believe, but also to suffer for Christ. Now most of us don't look at suffering as a gift, right? We look at suffering as some kind of trial that we must endure. But this passage tells us that it is a gift. Now the question is, how is faith a gift? How can that be? I think the way that we can figure this out is thinking about how is it, I mean, I say faith, how is suffering a gift The way that we can figure out how suffering is a gift is considering how faith is a gift. Faith is not a gift in and of itself. Faith is a gift because it points to some objective reality outside of itself. You see what I'm saying here? It's not it's not just wonderful that you believe. It's wonderful that your belief corresponds with reality And Paul tells us these things, right? He tells us, and if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, and your stool in your sins Then those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. And if in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pity. And so sometimes I if you ever talk to atheists or unbelievers, they'll say, like, I'm glad that you have faith. I'm glad that it works out for you. Right? But if if faith only has reality in this life, we are most to be pitying among all people. Faith is a gift, not because we believe in some pie in the sky that doesn't exist, but because it tells us true things about this life and true things about the next. You get what I'm saying? Faith is a gift because it points to reality outside of itself. It points to some future reality. In the same way, suffering is a gift, not because it's a gift in and of itself. We don't need to call good evil and evil good He talks about this a little bit. If someone's suffering, we don't need to tell them that's actually good. No, it's not good in and of itself. That's miserable. And in fact, we should do every single thing to try to relieve the suffering of that individual However, this text still tells us that suffering is a gift. How? Because the suffering itself isn't a gift, but what the suffering is pointing to, what the suffering is bringing about is a gift. See that? Suffering is producing something that's good for you, just like faith. Faith is producing something that is good for you, something future outside of itself. So what are some of the things that uh what are some of these future realities that make suffering a gift, not in and of itself, but what it points to? One of those things is suffering produces Holiness. Suffering produces holiness. We see that in Psalm 119, verse 67. We read here. We read this. Behold, I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I obey your word. What's going on here? The psalmist is saying, before that I went through suffering, before I went through affliction, I was going off that way. But the rod of God, the suffering, caused me to turn back Back to God. And think about your own life. Have you ever gone through suffering that's woken you up from your stupor and brought you back to God? Have you not seen that happen in your own life? I can tell you that, and I've shared this before, that right before that I got saved, I was nearly beat to death at fifteen years old. And that was one of the events that God used to wake me up and wanted to realize that I was mortal when I was on the path to destruction. So we see that suffering in my life, nearly being killed Ultimately resulted in me being saved. And I don't wish that that event had happened. I thank God for that, the fact that that event happened. God can use suffering to produce holiness in our life Not only that, that's when I was getting saved, but God can also use suffering in the Christian life to produce more and more holiness in our lives. I remember one time when I was backsliding a couple years later. And as a result of my sin, I basically just got into all kinds of problems and it was a very dark time in my life Right. And I remember that in that dark time, uh that's what God used to wake me up and realize that that sin was actually destroying my life. Right And producing all kinds of misery in my life. And during that time I felt God's presence uh more than than ever before. God became sweeter and greater in that So what we see here is that our suffering, God can use our suffering to produce holiness And this ability for God to use suffering to produce holiness is not limited because both of those examples I gave were you can find a causal relationship between that suffering and sin Right, I was acting like an idiot, and that's why I nearly got beat to death, and then later on when I was a Christian, when I went to that time, I was that that was causal relationship to sin. But as we look at the book of Job, God can use suffering, um, even innocent suffering, to produce good As we see in the life Job. Suffering has a way of showing us our weakness, and the godly response is running to him who has all strength and finding God's sweetest in our time. There's always two responses, right? When suffering happens, we can run away from God or we can run to God. And the proper response is to run to God and find God as are all in all God will often turn up the heat to melt away the dross in our lives. C. S. Lewis famously put it this way. God whispers to us in our pleasures. He speaks in our conscience. But he shouts in our pain. It is his megaphone to rouse a deaf world. Isn't that so true? God shouts to us in our pain, and it often produces holiness in our lives. We should be thankful for it. Another way that God uses pain in our lives is to build perseverance. The Christian life is not a sprint, but a marathon. There are many who begin. Well, but in the end they die. And you remember the parable of the soils, right? There's four soils. There's the person whose immediate response is rejection of rejection of the gospel. Then there's two soils that spring up for a little while and then they ultimately are destroyed, and then there's that last soil, the good soil that produces some sixty, some Uh some thirty, some sixties, some a hundredfold. Remember that? Right? And then the only one that's Christian is that last soil, but there's those two other soils that look like they're Christian, they have a good response, right? They're baptized members of the church, most likely. Um, and yet they ultimately fall away. So, how is it the case that God can use suffering to build perseverance? We would think, because if you look at that parable, one of the reasons that one of the false believers falls away is because of suffering. Because they're persecuted, they end up falling away. So it seems counterintuitive for me to say that suffering can produce perseverance. But it in fact can. And the reason that it can is because as we go through suffering, as we go through these trials, and we endure to the end, that shows us, that gives us greatest confidence that God is working in our lives. Right, that God is uh producing greater and greater holiness in our lives. The Christian life is a long, uh, long race. Right, and we need lots of perseverance to get there. And how does God produce that perseverance in our lives? There's no cheat codes in life. If you don't play video games, you can do cheat codes, right? You can get to the highest level immediately That's not the way it is in our life. In fact, God has been working in your life one step at a time. Isn't that true? As you go through trials, you become more and more spiritually mature, and that's what God is doing. So what this means is the the the trial that you're dealing with today is producing the character in you that will allow you to endure in the future So I know for me one one of the things that I sometimes worry about is you know someone putting basically putting a gun to my head and saying, deny the Lord or I'll kill you. And I always wonder what I would do what I would do in that situation. Right? That's because I feel in my own weakness that I would not be able to stand in that situation. At least I worry that I would not be able to stand in that situation Well, one, God hasn't given me the special grace to deal with that situation, and he will at the time. Right? And two, God is work if I ever if I ever am uh going to fall in that situation, God is going to be preparing in me Right, the character to be able to deal with the situation. I'm worried because I'm I'm tiny and I'm not being able to you know lift this giant weight. Well God is still putting me on a workout program to build some muscle so one day I will be able to pick up that big weight. You see what I'm saying Okay. God is working your life and He's changing you from glory to glory so that when you hit that future trial that He's going to place you, you will be able to sustain yourself. And we see this taught, this idea that God is using suffering to build up perseverance. We see this explicitly taught in Romans 5. 3. It says, not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings. Why would we do that? Knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope. See that? That our suffering is producing this eternal weight of glory inside of us. And it's just wonderful. And so I've kind of I've run out of time here, so I'm gonna I'm gonna stop here. There's we're gonna look at next time these other uh other reasons that God allows us to suffer. But let this let these two reasons at least suffice for now to say that we can trust God. God is using the suffering to produce holiness in us. He's using the suffering to produce produce character in us us. We all want to get to the celestial city. Right? And God is not only using this story to glorify Himself, but also using our sufferings to get us there. God is that's what God is doing in our lives. Let me stop there and a little time we have asked if there's any questions, comments, or concerns about anything. Okay. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, we thank you that we can trust you for our lives. We thank you that um but you're coming back. That we all feel uh we all feel like the prophet Habakkuk and we see wickedness, we see the the people more wicked uh than than the righteous, uh causing them suffering. We see that on an individual level, we see that in a global level, and we we just we don't know what's going on But we thank you that even back then you revealed that uh one day uh that the new heavens, new earth would come, and that you would you would right all wrongs, and that what we see here um is not the end of the story. And that we know that eventually the wicked will get to just dessert and that you will rescue the righteous. And I ask God that you would help us be comforted by that truth. I ask also, Lord, that we would be able to see suffering as a gift. We'd be able to see that you use suffering to produce holiness in your people, and that you use suffering to build character in your people. So that we can ultimately make it to the end and be with you forever.