Jeremiah 9, 25 and 26 is a a lovely passage. It's a wonderful passage. Let's dive in it and see what we Can learn. Jeremiah nine twenty five says, Behold the days are coming, declares the Lord. When I will punish all those who are circumcised Merely in the flesh, Egypt, Judah, Edom, the sons of Amon, Moab, and all who dwell in the desert who cut the corners of their hair. That's the Arabs. For all these nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart. See that? This is uh what an incredible scripture. He says that there's a day coming, declares the Lord, when I will punish all those who are circumcised merely in the flesh. There's a day of reckoning. God is going to come and to judge all of the nations. And those who are circumcised merely in the flesh, those who merely have the marking of external religion, For us, it's not circumcision anymore. For us, it would be baptism for those of us, or even just religiosity, but probably particularly baptism. Those who are merely baptized in the flesh, those who have gone through the rite of baptism, in this case, those who had gone through the rite of circumcision, merely, but they didn't have the trueness of it. Their heart really wasn't devoted to the Lord. They were not truly converted. They will be punished. They will be judged. But what's shocking here in this passage, in this context, is this is Jeremiah the prophet talking to his people and saying, you guys are merely circumcised in the flesh. There are a lot of nations. There's a lot of people who are circumcised. The Egyptians, Judah, that's the people of God, Edom, the Edomites, the sons of Esau, the sons of Amon, Moab, and all who dwell in the desert. There's all of these people who are also circumcised. A lot of these people have connections with Abraham. Abraham either was there, the people of God were there, or they're actually related to Abraham. in some way, whether being uh some of his sons with with Esau and with the Ishmaelites. Um there's a lot of connection, a lot of overlap with with Abraham. And and so they seem to have taken on and continued the practice of circumcision, but that was useless. It didn't matter if they continued to circumcise. They did not have the covenant of God with them because they were merely circumcised. outwardly it was utterly useless for them. But look, it's not just useless for the Edomites to be circumcised. It was useless for Judah to be circumcised on the outside. But then on the inside, having the heart uncircumcised was an abomination. What does it mean to be circumcised? And we learned something about what circumcision means in this text. What does it mean to be circumcised? It means to be devoted. It means that we're consecrated to the Lord, that we have the sign and seal of God saying, I belong to Him. He's my covenant God and I am his people. I'm devoted to God. That's what circumcision was about, to have to stamp in the seal of God. But God doesn't want just the stamp and the seal on your body. He wants the stamp and the seal on your heart. He wants you truly to be given over to God in your inward person. And baptism has a a lot of overlap here. What does baptism represent? Represents a a whole lot of things, but it certainly doesn't represent any less than the fact that we belong to the people of God. We are We are his people. He's our covenant God and we are his covenant people. And so God doesn't just want us to have the mark and saying, I I am a person of God. I am a Christian. I'm a follower of Christ. And then live like the devil. Absolutely not, he's saying, that's useless. What what is what is that to me? What value is that? The fact that you've been You've been baptized? What when what meaning is that? You need to have a true relationship with me. Let your heart be baptized. Let you have true baptism, spiritual baptism, be converted, be regenerate. So do not trust Your baptism, don't trust anything, don't trust any ritual at all except the finished work of Christ. That's the only thing that you should be trusting in. You should trust in the Lord. Not baptism, not circumcision, not a church tenant. Those things are good in and of themselves, especially in their time, thinking about circumcision there. Um those things are good in and of themselves, but what we really need is to be converted. Jesus said, Truly, truly, I say to you. Unless someone is born again, they cannot see the kingdom of God. They will not enter the kingdom of God. You can be sure of that. Your baptism will be treated as unbaptism, as no baptism, if you're not truly baptized by having a true union with God, that doesn't mean the sign is useless. Christ. The sign is is magnificent. It's wonderful. It's God it's God's seal and it it's God's sign of our incorporation in Christ and all of his benefits. It's it's a wonderful sign and it's a wonderful seal, but it's valueless. In fact, it will bring a curse upon you to say that you're connected with Christ merely externally, but your heart is away from God searches the heart. He can see through you. He can see the heart and he can see, are you really a person of God? Are you really someone who follows after God? If you've been baptized, ask yourself, have I truly been baptized by believing in Jesus? Am I merely someone who claims the name of Christ? But really is a phony. Look in your heart, search and see, and make your calling and election sure. Do you really know God? Are you really trusting in baptism? Are you trusting in the Lord's Prayer? Are you trusting in anything but the finished work of Christ? And your belief in his promise that all who believe in him will be saved. That's the only thing that can save you is Jesus Christ and Him crucified.