Okay, so our main text for today is going to be from Matthew 7, 15 through 23. That's Matthew chapter 7, 15. through twenty-three. If you could open your Bibles and turn there, we're going to be uh planting there and looking at some things in that text. Again, that's Matthew chapter seven, verses fifteen through twenty-three I'll begin reading. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes, or figs from thistles? So every tree bears good fruit But the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you worker of lawlessness. So our passage begins with a warning about false prophets being in the midst of the flock of God. One thing that I love about Jesus Christ is he was a realist He told it how it was. He didn't sugarcoat things. He recognized that even in the New Covenant community, which was going to stand out from the Old Testament community by being a new covenant community of only believers That's the new covenant, right? In contrast to the old. Even though that was the ideal and that's the reality in heaven, down here on earth in the church, that's not the case. We we're gonna strive to make it the case. If we find a worp, we're gonna kick them out, but the fact is works would sneak into the flock. Even worse, not only would wolves sneak into the flock of the laity, if I can say that, but they would also be in leadership. These are false prophets, these are leaders sneaking into the church. Jude speaks of such people as one who has crept in unnoticed. Not only does Jude speak about them, so does the Apostle Paul. He says this when he warns the Ephesian elders with these words. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the Church of God, which he obtained with his own blood. I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. From among your own selves will rise men speaking twisted things. to draw away the disciples after themselves. And that's Acts 20, verses 28 through 30. So even here we see that Paul seems, uh yeah Paul seems to be reflecting on a Jesus saying. This, in fact, is the saying of these wolves coming among the sheep of God. So we see that Paul speaks about sheep wolves among the sheep, and so does Jesus. They are leaders who pretend to be believers and in this metaphor are described as sheep. Even though they look like sheep and claim to be sheep, their true nature is not that of a sheep, but that of a ferocious wolf. Jesus as the master teacher uses imagery here to create a picture and you can just see it in your mind's eye. You can see the woof With the sheep's clothing all around it and its tail sticking out and its fangs sticking out right and people saying that that is a sheep, which you can clearly see that it's not in fact a sheep I actually think of the you know the the what is it, the little red Robin Hood. That's kind of a similar theme here, right? The the whoop eats the grandma and then puts on the grandma's clothes and you look at the little girl and you just want to scream, get out of there. That's not grandma anymore. The same thing going on here. I think of another account, a biblical account, of something similar to this, and that would be Jacob's deception of Isaac. You guys remember the story. Right. Here's Jacob and Lily's Rebecca, and see he overhears that Isaac he thinks he's gonna die. In fact he's not gonna die, but he thinks he's gonna die And now it's time to give the blessing to his son. And he favors Esau, because Esau is a manly man. He's out there getting the field. He wants his good game. So he tells them, hey, go get some game for me. And Rebecca knows what's happening. So she says, you know what, I got this plan, okay? I'm gonna cook this stew. I know the way Isaac likes it. I'm gonna cook the stew and and make it uh seem like it's um Esau's game. And I want you to go in there pretending to be Esau to fool your father. Of course he says this is a terrible idea. He's going to find out that I am in fact not Esau. I am Jacob. He's going to curse me and not bless me Rebecca said, don't worry about that, let the curse go on me. Just do what I say, and then back here we got this idea. We're gonna put on what is it? Uh goat skins on your hands and on your neck, and we're going to put on Esau's clothing so that you smell like Esau and when he touches you, you feel like Esau. The point that I'm getting at is that Jacob was no more Esau because he put on the clothing of Esau in these goat skins than these wolves are sheep. These are and this is important to recognize. These are not sheep that have transformed into wolves. These are not sheep that once wolves turn into sheep and then go back into being wolves. No, these are wolves the entire time that are pretending to be sheep. So if there are words in the midst of the flock of God, the natural question arises, how shall we detect such enemies? I don't know about you, but I don't want to be hanging around among wolves if I'm a sheep, because it seems pretty natural to recognize that sheep eat But wolves eat sheep. I don't want to be around them. So how do we detect these wolves in sheep's clothing? Jesus tells us that their disguise is good, but not, in fact, perfect. Believers are able to recognize them not merely by what their lips profess. They profess to be Christians. Not just by what their lips profess, but by the fruit of their lies. We can think of this as the crack in their armor, or the voice of Jacob that gives them away. Again, back to that story. Do you remember? He heard the voice of Jacob, but he said, I smell and I feel Esau. He should have recognized the voice doesn't lie. And we should also recognize that certain characteristics do not lie. They can tell us I'm Christian all day, but we hear the voice of Jacob and recognize Esau is not in the room. Jesus gives this analogy. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? What's Jesus' point here? Jesus is pointing out that we know instinctively that a tree is recognized not by what people say it is, but by the fruit that it produces. So I'll give you an analogy. Imagine you go outside into a garden, right, and you see, if you've ever been into a garden, you see usually little placards and some kind of notification of what the plant So imagine you go out there and you see this tree, and you see that there are apples on the tree, but you look down on the placter and see that it says lemon tree. Which one of us would be so foolish to believe that that's in fact a lemon tree? Hopefully no one would conclude, look at that, an apple tree can also produce lemons. Hopefully we would all recognize that somebody had misplaced the label, and this was in fact a lemon tree and not an apple tree. Jesus is saying the same thing. If you go out there and look at a tree and it's all rotten and disgusting, you shouldn't go around saying that that's a good tree. It's a bad tree. Vice versa. If you look out there and it's at this beautiful tree with all this yummy fruit, cursing that tree and saying how bad it is really shows how deceived you are and says nothing about the tree. We know a tree by its fruit. In the same way, if someone confesses with their mouth that they are a child of God, but they live like the devil, Why would we be so foolish to believe them? This is not charity, but rather foolishness. And this is why I said in the beginning that I think this doctrine is dangerous. I've known people especially um mothers and so forth, um, who have their little son has professed to be a believer at some time when they were young, their lives from that point on have completely abandoned Christianity. They don't even profess to be Christian anymore. but they're absolutely convinced that they're saved of just backsliding or something like that. And so they don't see the desperate state of their children and want to share the gospel with them. Them. And I think that that's an absolute tragedy. It's much better to recognize this tree is actually bad. They're not just missing out on some fruit, their soul is at stake and be in a much more desperate situation. This inspires your prayer and your attempts to win those children. Interesting enough though, the people that I can think of who have claimed that their children were saved even though there was no evidence, they would still pray for the salvation of their children. So their prayers really reflected better than their mouths often, right? They would often continue to pray that they would come back to the Lord and that they would be saved. But then if you ask them just five seconds later, do you think they're saved? They say, Yeah, but they're just back And that's just oftentimes you can see people's true theology by their prayer life. John tells us something similar in first John 1 6. He says This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. I love this scripture for so many reasons. One reason is it describes God as light and there's absolutely no darkness out. So I'm going to digress for a second. If your theology ever paints an evil God, if you ever look at scripture and see an evil painting of God, you should rest right here on this scripture. Because it says that God is light and in him there is no darkness at all. So if you look at God and see darkness and evil There's something wrong with your eyes. There's something wrong with your perceptions. You should never receive a doctrine of God that paints God as evil because God is not evil. God is full of light. Alright, getting back. So God is full of light. And everything he does is light. And he walks in the light. So we say we have fellowship with God, who is in the light, but we walk in darkness. God didn't come over to the darkness. We are deceived. We are, in fact, liars. We do not practice the truth. Notice that John does not say They are babes in Christ and have some growing to do. Notice he does not say they are carnal Christians or that they simply lack discipleship. No, he doesn't. He clearly and unequivocally says they are liars and do not practice the truth. This is very terrifying to me, this idea of being a liar, because the Word of God warns that the cowardly The faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the late that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death. This is Revelation 21, verse 8. As we see, all liars will ultimately end up in the lake of fire. Those who claim to walk with God, but in fact walk in darkness, they lie and do not practice the truth. They are not on the narrow way of Jesus Christ headed to heaven, but on the broad way that's headed for destruction. Jesus tells us plainly, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit Nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Now, this is a little bit challenging, a little bit difficult, because don't we say as we pray, forgive us of our debts, as we also forgive our debtors? 1 John 1 9, if we confess with our mouth that Jesus is Romans 10. 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's that's the believers, right? So what does it mean when it says that no healthy tree can produce this bad fruit? Is it saying that we can't produce some sin? Of course not. We are sinners Simultaneously sinners and saints. People who Martin Luther said that Christian life is a life of repentance. Again, as I quoted with the Lord's Prayer, we are to pray daily, forgive us of our sin. So this is not saying that a Christian cannot sin. But it is saying that a Christian's life will not be categorized by sins. He will not live in continuous and unrepentant Gross sin. He has the spirit in him. He will lead a spirit-filled life. Likewise, when it says that a bad tree uh cannot produce good fruit. It's likewise saying not that an unbeliever can't uh give his mother a mother a Mother's Day card or that he can do some act that looks like a very good act. Okay, that's not what it's saying. We know that unbelievers can do things that at least appear to others as good acts. Jesus says something like this, you who being evil know how to do good. How much more so will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask? What's he saying? You who are being evil at least know how to do something that looks good, namely not giving uh your son a stone or a serpent when he asks. For a scorpion when he asks for a piece of bread. So it's not saying that unbelievers can't do anything that possibly looks good on the outside. What it's saying is that unbelievers as a category and as we look at their lives We can see that they're constantly producing evil fruit. They're constantly justifying sin. They're constantly calling that which is evil good and that which is good evil. I said this last time. The world's always trying to convince us that holiness is strange and evil is normal. We always need to watch that, right? That's exactly the opposite. So, considering the word of our Lord, he's telling us the inward nature of the tree determines its outward fruit. If we examine a tree and it's withered and deformed, And then we look at its root and it's likewise in a terrible condition. The tree is worthless and near to being cursed. Its end is to be burned. Now we must be patient with our assessment and be very careful. Okay? Because not all believers come out on the same place. There are some very moralistic people who have grown up as legalists or or just moral people who at first look like they have a really good tree. But as you get closer and as you examine it, you start to see the poison. You start to see the poison inside my kids have this little story Bible. I think it's called the Big Picture Bible. And it has the the the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil. And it looks like a really good fruit, but if you look real close, there's like a worm in there and it looks kind of massy off to the side. That that's how it is. Now, to be honest with you, probably that tree didn't look nasty in that little thing. But it's a good description. And what I'm saying is oftentimes people, when you look at them initially, it may look like they have good fruit But as you examine it more closely, you see the little worm. You see the evidence, and you start to see the crack in their armor. Likewise If you look out there and you see someone who says that they're a believer and you and their fruit looks really rotten, you need to look very closely. And you need to see, is a green sprouting. Is God at work with them? Is the old passing away and the new coming? Right? Because not everyone starts in the same place. Some people come out of a lot more wickedness. And so the the Word of God working in their lives and moving them and changing them started off way over here and they're still on the way. I saw a sign that someone had on a t-shirt that said, be patient with me. God is at work here. So we do need to be patient with people and not just simply judging them by what we see on the outside. Remember what Jesus says, that the judgment that we judge others will be likewise given to us. So we have no mercy upon anyone else. We will not have mercy upon us. So we need to be careful. But nevertheless, as we look very closely to the fruit, and if we see clearly that this is a Sick and deadly fruit with no signs of health, again, it is not charity to claim that that is healthy fruit. It is bad fruit. And none of you would pick it up and eat it. He wouldn't do it. So let's not do that when we're assessing others. Jesus actually describes this very process in a parable. Here's what he says. A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it, and found none. And he said to the vine dresser, Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I have found none Cut it down, why should I use up the ground? He answered him, Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put manure on it Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good. But if not, you can cut it down. So we see here that Jesus, this parable gives the same thing I'm trying to say here. Three years he waits to see if this fig tree was gonna produce fruit. He was patient with it. We don't need to be hasty with people We need to be patient and and be uh and be loving. And there is some sense of charity. Charity hopes all things, right? We wait. Three years is a long time to wait for a fig tree to produce fruit. But eventually the tree doesn't produce fruit. We said, hey, cut it down. He said, wait, wait, wait. One more year. Give me one more year. I'm going to special do special treatment to this tree. I'm going to dig around it. I'm going to put manure. I'm going to love on this tree. I'm going to, you know, I'm going to work with the tree. Give me one more year. Again, this is that charity. Give me give them one more chance, right? But eventually, by the fourth year, if it's still not producing good fruit, cut it down. This is a this is a dud. Right? That's exactly the same thing that I'm suggesting here. All this goes to show that we should be patient and long-suffering with one another. But nevertheless, patience and charity has its limits If that fig tree doesn't produce fruit after the fourth year, even after it's received special treatment by the vine dresser, its destiny is to be chopped down and thrown into the fire. Jesus emphatically says, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruit. Speaking of which, this is really the purpose of church discipline, isn't it? If someone is starting to produce bad fruit, you go to them one-on-one and you tell them, hey, this is you accept sin in your life. You need to repent. They don't listen to you, you say two or three people, again, going to them, trying to reconcile them, hoping that they'll come around, right? And tell them, Hey, you're in sin. This is all done in love. Hey, you're insane. You need to you need to Come back. If they don't listen to them, you bring them from the whole church Again, all of this is not supposed to be mean and nasty and evil spirited. This is all trying to bring the person back, right? And the whole church, hey, you need to repent. You're living in sin. Turn around. They don't listen. What do you do? You kick them out of the church and you declare them to be an unbeliever. You treat them as an unbeliever. Is this mean spirited? No. The whole purpose of this is that they would see That uh Jesus Christ says that He given He's given them the authority, He's given them the keys. So they profess to believe in Jesus. As they look in the scriptures, they can see that they're actually following Jesus And Jesus is saying, I'm in agreement with them on this. This is supposed to scare them. Paul describes this as delivering them over to Satan. They're supposed to recognize I am in a hellish and terrible state, and they're supposed to again repent. and go back to the church. So even though that we we declare them as unbelievers by the instruction of Jesus, we hope the best. We hope the fact that they're not wolves in sheet's clothing. We hope that they're just in sin and that they won't come Come back. That's where that charity and that love comes in. But again, Jesus says every tree that does not bear good fruit ultimately is cut down and thrown into John the Baptist has something very similar to the religious folks of his day. Matthew 3 records When he, that being John the Baptist, saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to him for baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not presume to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as a father. For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the ashes laid at the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not Bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. The religious folks of that day were tempted to rest on their Jewish heritage And their credentials, these are the religious elite, their credentials, as proof that they were in fact part of the people of God and they were on the path to heaven. John the Baptist shatters this by saying that God could raise up children from the rocks that were children of Abraham. By the way, who is that? Who are those children of the rocks? Were children of Abraham? Yes. We are the children of the rocks, right? He produced from the rocks of the Gentile soil us to be children of Abraham through belief. Praise God We get to be part of the people of God. Again, they were resting on their physical heritage. The question is, what are we resting on? None of us are Jews here? There are? I'm sorry. I don't know. But I assume that none of us are Jews here. What are we resting on? Are we resting on our baptism? Are we resting on the fact that one time, one day, we said the sinners prayer What about our church attendance? The fact that we post Christian things on Facebook? Our love of Calvinism? Our hatred of Calvinism. What are we resting on? If we're resting on anything but Jesus Christ, not good. Not good. Yeah, I have bad news for you. If you're resting on anything other than Jesus Christ, you're resting on a broken reed. If you try to lean on that staff, it will break and it will pierce your hand. The the Calvinism thing wasn't just a joke. I actually knew someone who said that only uh to believe such a thing must have been proof that they were in fact the electric They actually rested on the fact that they believed reformed theology proved to them that they were the elect. Unfortunately, that person is now an apostate. So that was in fact a broken read. The only thing that we lean on is Jesus Christ. And him crucified. Both Jesus and John the Baptist's teachings were clear. Unless your tree is bearing good fruit, you'll be cut down and thrown into the fire. On a personal note, John the Baptist's message here about the axe being laid at the root and it the uh the wicked tree being cut down and thrown into the fire was what God used in my life to bring the fear of God. for me. I always knew that I was pretty much descent and on the path of hell, but when I actually read these words, I saw the flame and the fire for real. I realized that this was, no question, that I was living a wicked life and that here the axe was laid at the root and I was going to be thrown into the fire. Where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. The question is, that's what I've seen. The question is, have you come to see the flames? Do you have the fear of the Lord abiding upon you? Now some try to teach that the fear of the Lord is simply that of all and respect for the Lord. Of course, that is true. The fear of the Lord, many places, I would even argue, predominantly in the scriptures, the fear of the Lord is talking about all and respect. of being in the presence of the Lord, or just considering the Lord. But it certainly is not limited to this. Jesus tells us And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Clearly, it doesn't make sense to think that this context is limited with all and respect. It's telling you to fear God who can destroy both the soul and the body in health But do not fear man who can only kill the body. This is fear plain and simple. The fear of the fear of God in the Proverbs is called the beginning of knowledge. I love it. Psalm 19 says. It says, the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. I love that. It's a good thing. It's not a bad word. We are to fear God. It's the beginning of knowledge. It is a clean thing, and it will in fact endure forever. We need to have the fear of the Lord before our eyes. When we consider the destruction that will befall upon the wicked, this should be a fearful thing upon our eyes. Why? Because as we think about the fate of the wicked, we should recognize What makes us different than them? They're going to hell for their sin. We are sinners likewise. The only thing that makes us different from them is the grace of God. Is that our sins are covered and made white as snow by Jesus Christ. Hell is a very fearful thing. And that's what part of what should lead us, not completely, but part of what should lead us to run into Jesus' arms. It's amazing to me how unbelievers that I talked to just don't have fear. They don't have fear of the Lord. They almost have it as a badge of honor that they don't fear the Lord. That they think that that they're either good enough to go to heaven, that God will give them a pass, or that hell doesn't exist. It shocks me. It really does. Woe to the man who thinks he is either too righteous to go to hell or that hell is a mere joke. Remember Lot's son-in-laws. You remember the story? Right? Lot comes in, the the angels come in, they warn him to flee from the from this land of destruction, like Pilgrim's progress, and he goes and tells the sons-in-law, then what do they do? They said that he looked like one who was mocking. They thought it was a joke. But you remember what happened to Lot's son-in-laws. They did not go with Lot, and they were burned up in the city. Consider their end. They perished in the city, which is an example of the fires of hell, according to Jude, and according to Second Peter. Our passage in Matthew continues with these words. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. And on that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And cast out demons in your name, and do mighty works in your name. Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Now I I probably would say that these are probably the most fearful words in all of Scripture. At least one of the most fearful words in all of Scripture. And I know that the late, great R. C. Sproul would agree with me on that. Why are they so fearful? One, because they come from the judge himself, Jesus Christ. We know that Jesus is the judge because in John 5. 22 he says The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son. So when we're reading Matthew chapter 7, we need to realize that Jesus is the judge. And Jesus is telling us, he's unveiling, he's peeling back the curtains and saying, this will be what I will say to people at the final judgment. This is from the judge himself. This is not a parable. This is not some mere uh example or or something like that. This is actually Jesus telling us what will in fact happen in the future. And in this event, Jesus tells us that there will be certain people who will stand before God and profess to have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Notice that they call him not just Lord, but Lord, Lord. What's the why is it being multiplied here? Why not just Lord, why Lord, Lord? These people are claiming to have an intimate, personal, familiar relationship with Jesus Christ. These are not people who you ask, are you born again? They say No, what's that? Or they utterly reject that. Let me digress here. One time I was talking to a Catholic trying to evangelize him. Actually this is when I was voting. And uh he was out there and I was talking to him and I and we were talking about the gospel and being saved and so forth And I eventually asked him, are you born again? And he laughed. And he mocked. And he said, born again? I'm not It's crazy. He just mocked at the idea of being born again. And I quoted John 3. Unless you were born again, you would not enter the kingdom of heaven. You should have seen that his jaw dropped. Because we must be born again The point is, that's not him. This is not talking about him. This person mocked at the idea of being born again. The person in this story says, Lord, Lord. There are people who would say, Yes, I am a born-again Christian. That's what they say. They say, Lord, Lord. They claim it to have a deep and familiar relationship with Jesus Christ. Now notice that Jesus says, Many will say to me, Lord, Lord. This is not the rare exception. This is not like one dude One person. No, this is maybe there's a group of people who are going to say this at the last day. Now let's look at their resume. Let's look at what they have to show for in their lives We prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name. Now notice the repetition of the phrase in your name. Again, they prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and they did many mighty works in your name. See it'd be one thing if they just did these they prophesied or they kept out demons or they did the mighty works. Okay? That might be comforting us. Well they just did that for you know for their own fame or something, for their own Selfish means. There was no relationship with Jesus Christ. But here it says they did it in your name. They claim that they were doing these good works for the name and the glory of Jesus Christ. Again, this is why I say that this is one of the scariest passages in all of the Bible. It's an incredible list. I have to ask myself How many of us have these resumes? How many of us, these are the greatest works that we could possibly do? Casting out demons? Right? Prophesying? Mighty work? This is not like the bad stuff. This is the really good stuff. that they're doing in the name of Jesus Christ. But how does Christ respond to them? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. What does he do? He utterly denies them. They say, Lord, Lord, he says, I never knew you. He says, Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Now It's very important to notice that he says he never knew them. He does not say, I once knew you, but you abandoned me, so now I abandon you. So he doesn't say that. He doesn't say that you were once sheep, but now you become wolves, so now you're getting you're getting out of here. No, he says, I never knew you. This is not someone who had their salvation and lost their salvation. This is someone who never had their salvation at all. One of the things that helps us understand this very difficult and challenging passage is recognizing that one pericope, which is a fancy word for a section of the Bible, helps to explain another pericope, another section. Notice that r the reason I lump both of these together is these pericopes, the one talking about the bad fruit, and this one talking about Lord, Lord, actually help to explain each other. These are not believers who have lost their salvation. These are the same group of people. Right, the false prophet, these are the false prophets, these are the people who claim to be trees of God but have bad fruit Again, this is why I was saying we need to examine closely. The bad fruit that's being brought here is these things that they did in the name of Christ. They did it in the name only. Their hearts were really not with Jesus Christ. Now again, these people are not people who have lost their salvation, but they're people who never had their salvation. We know this because the Bible tells us That he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. No one will be able to snatch these. Jesus is not going to lose any of his elect, any of those who have come to know Jesus Christ truly And really. But again, this is scary because it tells us that there will be people who are self-deceived. There are people who believe they have a personal relationship to Jesus Christ, but actually do not So, let's continue to dig into this text and try to figure out how we can make sure we're not these people. Okay? So why uh what does Jesus point to Why does Jesus deny these people? He points to their works. He calls them workers of lawlessness. That is people who are characterized by unrepentant sin. Again, this is scary stuff because it doesn't point to their sin. It don't Well kind of. It doesn't really point to their sin though. Right? It's not that they're just doing outwardly wicked things, sin of omission and commission. These are sins of the heart. These are sins of being a legalist and looking good from the outside, but not looking good from the inside. These are people who confess to be true believers with their lips, but their hearts are far from God. They're hypocrites Whitewashed tombs, on the outside they appear to be beautiful, but within are full of dead man's bones and all uncleanliness. They have crept into the church unnoticed and have perverted the grace of our God, and they have turned it into sensuality. You can find that in Jude. Denying their Lord and their master. They are branches that are superficially attached to Christ and his people, but lack all true good fruit. Because if you're truly connected with Christ, the life-giving source, you will bear fruit. Because who is the ultimate good tree? It's not you. You're not the ultimate good tree. The ultimate good tree is Jesus Christ. He is divine. And we are the branches. So if we are ultimately bad trees, that means we're not connected to the true tree, which is Jesus Christ. Those bad trees, those bad fruit, these false believers, they are the ones that will be cut off from the tree. Look at John chapter 15. This confuses people. These are people who are superficially connected to Jesus Christ. The ones that don't bear fruit, they are cut off and thrown into the fire. The saddest thing about this group of people is that these people are usually the people who either claim to be Christians or they're people who are among the church They are people who show up to small groups, Sunday schools, men's retreats, they lead family devotions. They may even be elders and deacons in the church. They do not lack religion. They lack a personal and saving relationship with Jesus Christ. They have never truly repented and looked to him as their only means of salvation. Some of them have never even cried out to God. Right, I said this before, that I have very little confidence in the salvation of anyone who has never cried out to God to save us. That's what we should all do. God tells us that He will give His Holy Spirit to those who ask. So if you have not cried out to God to save you, I ask you to do that now. We'll do that today. James speaks about these individuals when he says, What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith and does not have works? Can that fate save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, you have faith that I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe and shudder Jesus is very uh James here is very clear. That faith cannot save him. The faith that has no works But that faith is no faith at all. That faith is dead. That faith is demonic faith and benefits not at all. For as the body is apart from the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead. It is not that professional faith is not enough to be saved. We know that it is. Recall the question of the Philippian jailer. Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved. And they were telling us the truth. What must we do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus. You are saved by grace through faith, and not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not a result of work, so that no one may boast. But we must never forget the next verse, which says, For we are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus for good works. You cannot be an Ephesians 2. 8 Christian and not be an Ephesians 2. 9 Christian The same Paul, in the same context, says we're not saved at all by works, but we're saved for good works, which God has prepared beforehand that we might walk in them. As new creations in Christ, God has prepared good works for us. Faith alone is sufficient for salvation, but never a faith that is alone. Again, such faith is dead and demonic. As Christians, we have a glorious calling. We are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. You can't have you can't have one. You can't say Amen to being a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, and then kind of ignore that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light He said to us, you are the light of the world. He didn't say, I hope that you'll be the light of the world. Well, I want you to be the light of the world. He said, you are the light of the world. What's so fascinating about that is before Jesus also said that he was the light of the world. So he who was the light of the world has left and made you the light of the world. Interesting enough, if you go into the book of Acts, it says that Jesus, that the book of Acts is what Jesus continued to do, or it says what Jesus began to do, and what Jesus continued to do is the book of Acts Well, Jesus left in like chapter one. So how is the book of Acts what Jesus continue to do? Because Jesus has made us his hands and his feet. Remember what Jesus said to Paul on his road to Damascus, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? How was Saul persecuting Jesus? By persecuting his people. We have this glorious calling to be lights of the world. I say probably the clearest passage on this is Titus 2. 14. Titus is not just, it's called a pastoral epistle. It's not just about being a pastor. In fact, it's a lot about living a life of good works. Here's what Titus 2. 14 says Talking about Jesus, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. That's the word of the Lord. God has the reason, part of the reason why Jesus came to redeem us is to redeem us and purify us so that we'd be people zealous for good works. We often talk about Christ getting the full reward for his sufferings. We usually talk about this in context of missions or mission. Depending on if you know that distinction. This is, of course, true. Christ will get the full reward of his suffering. And he will, in fact, gather the nations and they will praise him. Okay? That is true. But how often do we think of Christ getting the full reward for his sufferings by getting a people zealous for good works? Because that's actually in the Bible. That's what it says right here in Titus 3:14. If good works has become a four-letter word for you, something has gone seriously wrong. We need to be biblical, taking every thought captive and weighing everything against the Word of God. Good works are not a four-letter word. Salvation by good works is in fact cursed and has a complete distortion of the gospel. All this leads to the conclusion That without holiness, no one will see the Lord. Holiness is not an option. The God who justifies is also the God who sanctifies. The spirit that places you in Christ's positional sanctification will lead you to be obedient to Christ, progressive sanctification, and ultimately lead you to be conformed to the image of his son. Final sanctification. It's all a package that all comes together. The beloved Apostle John puts it best. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, do not uh let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil. For the devil has been sinning from the beginning The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother. Now the thing that my eye holds on to, because a lot of this I've been talking about the whole time, but the thing that my eye holds on to this verse is when it says Little children, let no one deceive you. Whenever you see that, let no one deceive you. Do not be deceived. Should immediately come into your mind. Either Satan is trying to deceive me, or there are many of Satan minions who are trying to deceive me. The very fact that he says do not be deceived implies that people are, in fact, deceived. Which is exactly what we have been talking about all morning. People are deceived about this. The Bible is clear. Therefore, the testimony of the Bible is clear on this matter. Claiming to be a believer by denying him by your conduct will not result in less rewards in heaven, but ultimately into the lake of fire. Holiness is not an option. Without holiness no one will see the Lord. I plead with you to hear the words of the Apostle Paul. For this is the will of God. We always ask. What's the will of God? For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. That no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is the avenger in all of these things, as we told you beforehand, and solemnly warns you. For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man but God who gives his Holy Spirit to you. Whoever disregards this, disregards not man but God who gives his Holy Spirit to you. I conclude with the words of Albert Martin, the late great preacher. Friends, let me warn you, if you're not pursuing a life of holiness, Do one of two things. Repent of your sins and get right with God, or give up all hope of heaven and recognize that you are headed to hell. So we have a little bit of time to talk about light, maybe controversial. So I'm gonna open up for questions, comments, concerns, claims for heresy. What do you guys have? Something about self-deceived you explain what I understand is Is that active self-deceit, or is that self-seit? Yeah. So to me that's why the scripture is the most terrifying of all. Um is because these people are self-deceived. They they see Jesus and they say, Lord, Lord. Um I you know I expect people, uh unbelievers to see Jesus and shudder in fear and say, Oh no, my my greatest fear has come. He is in fact Lord, and that means I'm doomed. Right? These people don't say that. They say Lord, Lord. And then they point to their works. And that's when Jesus says, depart from me, works of the name. So self-deceived, I mean that there are people who actually uh seem to think that they're right with God. Heck you should you should display people like that, right? I mean most of the people you evangelize are probably self-deceived in that way. That at least they claim to you, probably deep down in the heart they know. That's probably maybe what you're pointing at. Deep down in the heart they probably know they're not right with God. But maybe they've been lying to themselves so long or whatnot that they really seem to think that they're gonna be okay Right? They really think that other baptism changed them. The fact that their parents are Christian. The fact that they show up the church. Right? They think that their good works are going to save them and they they um are not resting in Jesus Christ. And to me, um I'm a realist. I'd much rather and I'd I'd much rather um know that I'm headed to hell than to believe that I'm headed to heaven and actually be headed to hell. That's the greatest deception in my mind. And and that's really before I got saved about Hmm. A couple months, maybe a couple weeks. Um I the the very first thing was a realization that I was headed to hell. It was not Phil DeCities in that point. I knew for f for sure because of that passage about the axolate at the root. Maybe actually a few days before that. Kind of knew I was going to hell, it's complicated, but for sure I knew like a day before I was headed to hell, and that's when I'll get saved. So does that answer your question, Tim? Or self-deception? It's okay to say now. I I think of I you know the the passage in James where the word God it says God doesn't tempt anyone. And so I I worry that people can look at self-deception and say, okay, I'm sincerely trying to follow after the Lord. Did he just trick me and I'm I'm gonna end my life and be thinking that I've done everything right? I don't see that in the scriptures. Yeah, I don't see it either. Okay. Definitely don't want that. Um cry out to the Lord, rest on him is your only plank for salvation. There's no way that uh that you're not gonna be saved. Right? Suddenly. Yep. So Yeah, I agree with that. Sensing Romans one, being being so hard in it, right? You don't start that way. You start off realizing that this is a sin and this is wrong and then you ultimately lead into comfort But no, God is not tricking anybody. God is proclaiming the gospel freely to everybody to come and believe and trust in Jesus. I think we can know it trick deep down. Maybe we maybe not you're not safe, but you But of course the family solves lies and they want to see over time with no single thing when you see that they see themselves putting value money away. Yeah. Yeah. That's absolutely right. And again that goes to Tim um back to the quote that I got from First John about God is light. In him there's no darkness at all. And so uh a God that's actively deceiving people. Doesn't seem seems a little bit darkness to me. But that's just my opinion. Um any any other last questions, comments, input, same as anything? Okay. Um we'll go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, I ask that this morning would be glorifying to your name. I ask that if I have taught any untruths. Um if if I wasn't clear, anything that you would protect your people from all error. God I ask that you would help us to recognize that only through Jesus Christ and Him alone can we have any hope of being saved. I ask that if anyone be in this room that is not trusting solely on you as a means of salvation That they would that they would repent. And that they would turn to you as a gracious and loving God who calls all men to repent and believe and trust in your son. I pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.