This evening we I kinda have two strikes against me. We just ate and we're all full and tired. And uh we're gonna start a new book, which means that we're gonna have to do some background information And those are always the challenging sermons. So I just ask you to bear with me. And I promise you I'm not gonna go through this background just for background's sake. But I think you're going to find that uh knowing a little bit about the Thessalonian church will help us to understand uh what's going on. And these are just keep in mind that These letters in your Bible are actual letters to real churches. These are real people with real problems, and Paul is addressing a real situation. So with that being said, begin our study of 1 Thessalonians. This epistle was written by the Apostle Paul to a church that he had recently planted. The story of their conversion begins in Acts chapter 16, when Paul is forbidden by the Lord from spreading the gospel to Asia. And instead he receives a night vision where he sees a man from Macedonia who urges them to come to him And to help them, Paul awakes and immediately concludes that God is calling him to preach the gospel to the Macedonians. Let us note the interchange between the idea of helping the Macedonians and preaching the gospel to them. The greatest thing we can ever do for another person is not to take care of their physical needs, but to preach the gospel to them. That's not to say that we don't care about physical needs, but if you really love people, you will take care of their spiritual needs because that's their ultimate and supreme problem. The Bible says, for what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and yet lose his own soul? For what can a man give in exchange for his soul? own soul. What can we give? What does it matter if they're healthy and wealthy and prosperous in this life? Certainly that's good. But then ultimately they go to hell. Well, what does the prophet a man again hold or yet lose his own soul? Consider the Macedonian man in Paul's night vision. He is crying out for help. His soul is in danger. The wrath of God burns hot against them because of the multitude of his sins. In love, Paul hears the cries of this man and decides he's going to take the gospel to him Friends, do we hear the cries of the people around us? Will we shut our eyes, close our arts, and uh close our eyes and close our hearts away from them? Will we just ignore the fact that we live in a loss and dying word and there's people out there that are truly headed to the hell that we we claim that we believe in. Rather than uh shutting our hearts and and and shutting them out of our thoughts. Rather than this, we should go in the strength that the Lord provides, and do what Paul says when he says, I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ's Jesus. This is the same Paul who wrote Romans 9. He believed in sovereign grace more than anybody, and yet he says he is willing to endure all things for the sake of the elect. that they may obtain salvation. It is simply false and just ungodly to think that because we believe that the Lord's will will be done, that we shouldn't go out there and pray proclaim the gospel. He was willing to endure all things for the sake of the elect, and so should so should we. Now we may not all be missionaries called to physically travel to the Macedonians in our day. But we can pray for missionaries like the Apostle Paul. We can support their missionary work. We have an Apostle Paul-like figure in our own congregation. And you think about Peter. He went out to go spread the nation uh spread the gospel to uh the Mongolians. We can pray for him, we can support him, we can share the gospel to our children. And the children of the church. We can hand out tracts to people that we know and to people that we don't know. Sure. Nobody wants to do that, right? It feels awkward. But will you endure all things for the sake of the elect that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus. We can all do something, even if it is just Now, we may feel inadequate for the tasks. We may feel like we lack the boldness and courage to do something like that that. And if we feel that way, we are precisely in the right place. But the word of God says, my grace is sufficient for you. My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly in my weakness, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me Upon me. If we feel weak, then we're qualified to spread the gospel. Do we want to go in our own strength and our own confidence, or do we want to go in the power of the Lord? We should boast in our weakness instead of allowing it to be an excuse. We should rely on the strength that the Lord provides and never try to rely on our own strength. If we're afraid, if we lack boldness, that doesn't disqualify us. That makes us part of the club. Here's the reality, guys. Everybody's afraid. Everybody lacks boldness. We all don't want to do it. Even the apostle Paul doesn't want to do it. Even Timothy. Look what Paul tells Timothy. For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. So do not be ashamed of the testimony. Of the Lord. Why is Paul telling this to Timothy? Why is he telling him that we don't have this spirit of timidness, but we have a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control? Why is he doing that? Because he's trying to encourage him. The obvious implication is that Timothy is just like us. He's not a Superman. He's a person just like us who is tempted to be afraid. And Paul's saying, don't be afraid, don't be ashamed. God gave you a spirit of power. Not only do we have that Paul is encouraging Timothy in this way, but Paul himself. Paul himself struggled with fear and We know this because Ephesians chapter 6, Paul asked the church to make supplication for all the saints, pray for everyone. Look at this. and also for me, that words may be given to me, and opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. What's he asking for? He's saying pray for everyone and also pray for me. And and what do I want you to pray for me about? That I may speak the gospel with boldness. Now, how many of you guys have asked someone to pray for you for something that you didn't need? I doubt you've ever asked someone to pray for you for something that you didn't need. You always ask, pray for me, because I need this. This is by the way why sometimes pray meanings can be a God. I mean a go a gossip session. Because you find out their prayer requests and you can deduce for they're having problems with that. And we need to not do that. But you get what I'm saying here though. Paul is asking for prayer because he needs it This is Paul who needs boldness to speak the gospel. We will never be able to share the gospel in our own strength. We need the strength that the Lord provides, and this is why Paul Ask for prayer. And this is why we need prayer. So as you try to spread the gospel, pray. You feel weak? Pray. Pray for other people who are trying to spread the gospel. gospel. When we come here on the evening service and we pray for God to help us to spread the gospel and other people, we're not just doing that because it's tradition. It's a good tradition, but we're not just doing that because of tradition. We actually believe it. We're not practical atheists. We actually believe that we have a God who hears us and will answer our prayers and he will give us the strength that the Lord provides. Okay? And I actually encourage you all to memorize some of these scriptures. You should have some scriptures so that when you feel like you God is calling you to share the gospel, you don't want to, have something so you can encourage yourself, like these scriptures right here. God did not give me a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and self-control. I can endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus. Those things will invigorate you and give you the power to be able to share the gospel as We ought to. So Paul, he he gets the night vision, he hears the call, and what does he do? He obeys the call. He goes and decides, I'm going I see the need of the Macedonians. They need the gospel. I'm going to obey. And so he travels west toward Europe. Now you recall, where was he trying to go? He was trying to Trying to go east toward Asia. Now you have to realize that this is one of the most important events in all of history. Because as a direct result of Paul going uh Paul going uh this way towards uh Europe The gospel would eventually spread all over uh all over the Europe uh hemisphere and eventually down to the Americans. So you've got to realize we're all Americans here, right? And so we all receive the gospel. And we all receive the gospel as a direct result of Paul heeding this request. What this means is when the Macedonians are calling, come out and help me, Our forefathers are also calling out, come out and help me. And we too are crying out, Come out and help me. Thank God that Paul, when he heard their cries, when he heard our cries, listened and responded and spread the gospel. Right? It's very possible that if Paul would not have obeyed because he was too afraid. It's very possible that we might be in a a totally different And we might be in a much worse situation. So praise God that peop that God calls men and women to spread the gospel. That's us too, right? and that people obey because lives really do change, things really do happen, and salvation does truly result in this. So Paul hears the call, and he decides to obey and decides to go and spread the gospel to the Macedonians to share the gospel to Europe. And so Paul starts traveling to Macedonia, and the first place he goes, or the first major place he goes, is Philippi. And you guys remember the story, right? He shows up to Philippi and then he evangelizes Lydia. Remember, God opens her heart so she can receive the Macedonia. And she gets c wonderfully converted. And then there's that there's that slave girl with a demon that Paul cast out and and and he's he's loving on her in in some ways, right? And and that results in him being thrown into prison. Isn't that what happens? We do good things and then bad things happen. So then he goes into prison and and and here's in prison and Paul and Silas, so he's a he's not just a solo guy, he has a missionary team. And you remember they're singing songs to the Lord even though they're in prison. They're singing and praising God and then there's an earthquake. You guys remember, right? And the chains come off and and the Philippian jailer starts coming and he thinks they're all God is gonna kill himself in public Paul saying, no, we're still here. And then he and then Paul preaches the gospel to this man, and and he gets wonderfully converted, and not just him, but his entire family. And then there's some other incidents where they're trying to get him out of the city and all of that stuff. You guys remember that And so eventually, after he's released from prison, then Paul travels because he's asked by the the magistrates to leave. He travels then to the city of Thessalonica. And so that's where this is important for us because that's where we're trying to get this background to the Thessalonican church. And so this is we find out what happens in Thessalonica in Acts chapter 17. So I'll begin reading in Acts chapter 17. get the background of how this church got planted in the first place. Acts 17, verse 1. Now when they had passed through Amphibolis and Apollia, they tr they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. And Paul went in, as was his custom, on three Sabbath days. He reasoned with them from the scriptures, explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and rise from From the dead, and saying, This Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ. And some of them, he's talking about the Jews here, now some of them Jews were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas. as did a great many of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women. But the Jews were jealous And taking some of the wicked men of the marketplace, they formed a mob and set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out of the crowd. They're looking for the apostle And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also, and Jason has received them. And they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying there is another king, Jesus. And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things. And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest. They let them go. The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. So from this account, we see that Paul and his missionary team went to Thessalonica to begin a church. planting mission. And they do what they always do. They first show up to the synagogue and they reason in the synagogue for three Sabbaths, trying to prove to them that this Jesus who the Jerusalem authorities killed, yeah, that was actually the Christ Christ. And we know that because the Old Testament prophesies that, and because God sets his seal on Christ by raising him from the dead. That's the message that he is called to proclaim. That's the same message that we are called to proclaim, right? Right? That that person that they killed 2,000 years ago is the Messiah. And he proved that by rising from the dead, and now he's at the right hand of the Father, where he sits in power, and in that authority, he commissioned us to go spread that He's going and telling them that wonderful news. And from this gospel message, like it always does. That the word of God does not come back void. A small amount of Jews are converted. Many of the God fearers, those are the Gentiles who are attached and they believe in God, but they don't want to be circumcised, right? That's too painful for them. They just don't want to go through that process for whatever reason, 'cause probably because it's too painful. Um that those people hear the good news and they believe. So many a small amount of Jews, many of the God fearers, and many of the leading women of the synagogue. And so that's to understand what this must have looked like, as imagine if a guest preacher came into this church. Okay? And imagine if he started spreading this message. And and some of the main members of our church, a few of them, a few of the members, maybe the people on the side, right? The few of these main members decide to desert with the guy. And not only that, though, all of the regular attenders, the the people that aren't quite members Members, but they show up a lot and we love 'em. Those guys decide to go off with them. And even worse, the the the people who make a lot of money. They decide to desert them too. Yeah, this made them very, very upset. set. And so what did they do in response? They throw Paul and his missionary team out, but they they they go beyond that though. Then they grab this mob And try to lynch Paul. So we can kind of understand some of their anger, but this is going a little bit way too far, right? Now they're literally trying to murder Paul and Silas and his team, but by the grace of God, uh they slip away, and then uh this guy Jason, he is uh put him before the court, he gives some kind of security And and and what's happening here though is that he's basically saying that he's gonna handle the issue. I'm a good guy, right? I'm not gonna cause any problems. I'll handle the issue. Here's this money and I prove it uh I'm proving it to be the case What scholars uh speculate, and they think maybe, is what he told them was that he would ensure that Paul and Silas would not cause any more problems. But either way, right after this incident, what ends up happening is Paul and Silas and his team end up. Moving on because they gotta get out of town because they're either Jason has a guarantee that they'll leave or they just were nearly killed and they know if they show back up they're gonna be killed. So that's what happens and And uh Paul and his missionary team uh run out of town and go and spread the gospel to Berea. And you remember the comparison? It says that the Berean Jews were more faithful than these Thessalonian Jews because when he preached the gospel to them, they actually went back and searched the scriptures to see if it's a very good thing. And so then these Thessalonican Jews are so upset, they have so much hatred for for Paul that they traveled the 45 miles to Berea to go and start a mob there and try to kill Paul again. And to understand how much hatred these Jews must have had, you've got to understand that 45 miles is is I go to work and it's 45 miles away from here. It takes me like thirty thirty minutes, an hour and a half, something like that. But for them they had to walk. So this is like a two to three day journey. Imagine that. You spend two to three days to go try to kill somebody, knowing you had to take two or three back. These people will have extreme anger towards Paul. So again, they cause that uproar and barria, and so what does Paul do? He does the same thing. He heads out of town and then he goes to Athens. Athens. Okay. And then from Athens he's spreading the gospel, and then he goes to Corinth. And so from he he has it, what you gotta understand is that the church of the Thessalonicans He had to, he planted it and had to get out of town very quickly. So he didn't get to tell them all the things that he wanted to tell them. He wanted to give them more instruction. He wanted to tell them more about the Lord, but that was cut short because he had Now again, we don't know exactly how long Paul was in the Thessalonic church. We know he was there for at least three weeks because the text tells us that he reasoned with the Jews for three weeks in the church. So we know that he must have been there for at least three weeks. But if you go into uh into 1 Thessalonians verse 9, it records a large amount of Gentiles getting saved out of idolatry. But we don't see, we didn't see anything that in Acts 17. So this tells us that Paul's ministry in Acts 17 doesn't include his ministry to the Gentiles. Gentiles. Now there's two possibilities here. Maybe it was that during the time he was trying to witness to the Jews at the synagogue in that three-week times, he was also trying to minister to the Gentiles. Okay? And so this is all during the same time period. So he just was there for three weeks, four weeks, and then left. But it's also probably more likely that he would spend the majority of his time trying to win the Jews first, and then try to convert the Jews Gentiles because there was so much hostility. Paul was trying to win people, and it it's not very winsome to try to win the Jews and the Gentiles at the same time. So most likely he was there for a few more A few weeks longer than the three weeks. But but be that as it may, we know he wasn't there very long. Because uh be he was not there there very long, because that's the whole point of uh first Thessalonians. He wants to tell them the things that So now Paul is in Corinth and he's thinking about this church back in Thessalonica and he His heart's grieved. He's concerned. He loves them. And you remember that it was so much persecution that Paul has to head out of town. And so that persecution doesn't end because Paul's heading out of town. Sure, Paul's gone, but they still hate the Christians. And so that persecution now is going to be unleashed on the church. And Paul is not a hyper-Calvinist. He's concerned about those guys. He didn't say, oh, they're saved, it doesn't matter. No, he's concerned and desperately concerned that they're going to be destroyed and their faith is going to be harmed. So he's so concerned about them that he ends up sending sending Timothy, probably from Corinth, to go check on their faith. Okay? And so then Timothy comes back and gives a good report and says, hey, they still believe in the gospel, and in fact, they still love you too. But I I gotta tell you there's some there's some few things that are going on in this church that they probably need to hear a word from you. Most likely Timothy gave them a word, but he said they really respect you. You're the apostle, you need to go and write some of these things back to them to square some of these And that's what the letter of 1 Thessalonians is, is the response to Timothy's report. So that's what's going on there. Now, uh, when was uh Thessalonians written? Thessalonians was written probably around A. D. 50 or 50. What this means is that this is one of the earliest texts in the entire Bible. This might be the earliest text that Paul ever wrote, and the earliest text of the Bible. Well maybe Galatians was around uh the first, but again, we're talking a few months maybe? This is literally f some of the earliest document, uh the earliest document we have in And so what's fascinating and and I'll try to bring some of these out uh later on as we continue this uh this storming series, is to see how much of the core Christianity has not changed. The core message that Paul was preaching this first letter was the same message that we see throughout the Bible. The message did not change. The message was always centered on Christ, his resurrection, and his coming back. And that's what our message should always be Christ and his resurrection and the fact that he's coming back. If we lose that, we've lost everything. That's the message that Christianity So that's the background of the letter. So let's jump in to the letter. 1 Thessalonians, and let's look at verse 1. Paul, Turbanus, and Timothy. to the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ grace to you and peace. So this letter begins like the standard convention of the day. The sender is listed first, and then the addresses, and then followed by a greeting. So of course we know that the sender is Paul, Savanus, and Timothy. Paul lists himself first because he's the primary author. Who's Savanus? That's Silas. That's just a different form of his name. We call Saul, Paul. There's just different forms of their name. They have Latin names and Aramaic names and Greek names. And that's the same guy. And then of course we know Timothy. So this is Paul and his apostolic team going out and preaching the gospel. The reason that Cervanus and Timothy are included is because they were part of the apostolic team that planted the church in the in the first place. Now what we can learn from this is that Paul was not a solo guy. Paul used other people. Now you have to understand about something about Paul. It is no exaggeration to say that Paul is one of the most important persons in all of history. In fact, it's no exaggeration to say that Paul is the second most important person in all of Christianity. Besides Jesus, of course. Jesus is the foundation of Christianity. Christianity and Paul is the apostle to the Gentiles. Not just the apostle, he's the apostle to the Gentiles. And it was through Paul's ministry that the gospel has this huge birth into the Gentile word. We're all Gentiles here, right? We all trace our ministry back to Paul's ministry. And in even the New Testament, thirteen letters of the New Testament are from Paul. Even the letters that aren't from Paul, like maybe Hebrews or Something, so have a high Pauline influence. Paul is a huge, he's a titan of a man, but he's still a man, nevertheless. And so Paul still used other people. This Titan of a man, this great apostle of apostles He still used other people. And what does that tell us about ourselves? If Paul needed to use other people, how much so more do we need to use other people? If you're tempted to think that you are a solo Christian who only needs yourself, look back at Paul and recognize that Paul needed other people because we're part of the body of Christ. Isn't that what Paul's constantly saying? We're part of the body of Christ. Do not despise these other believers. Do not think that they're unnecessary. We need them. And actually what's funny about what's interesting about this idea of why Paul sees so Important, so much importance of this analogy of the body of Christ. It probably goes back to his conversion. You remember his conversion? What does he hear in the sky when he sees the Lord? Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? See, this idea of this union with Christ goes very back to his own conversion when he realized persecuting other believers was to persecute Christ himself. And so this guy who was radically converted this way sees the importance of the body of Christ and spreads that message far and wide. And we we need to take heed of that. And we need not to forget that we need to be part of the body of Christ. Notice also that Paul putting Paul, Savanus, and Timothy right alongside himself. What is he doing? He's lifting them up. Paul's obviously the greater one of them all, but he's lifting them up. He doesn't put them down, he puts them right alongside of himself. And isn't that true leadership? True leadership is you look for the best members and then you try to Lift them up and to build them up so that they can go out there and spread the gospel. See, we're given the great commit it's the great commission to spread the gospel throughout the nations. It's too big for just you. Okay, that's why it's a team effort that we build each other up and we equip each other so that we can spread the gospel in your area of influence. I can't get into your office and spread the gospel and to make you a light there You have to do that. No one can get into your household and allow make you spread the gospel to your children. You have to do that. But the whole point of the body is to encourage you and encourage you help you to do those kinds of things. The work is too great to say, I'm just gonna let the paid staff to do it, or anybody to do it. We need to all do it together. And that's what we see here. So Paul's lifting other people up. Paul says, love one another with brotherly affection, outdo one another in showing honor. That's what he says, right? Is he a hypocrite? No, that's exactly what he does. He says, outdo outdo one another with show and good honor. And what does he do? He lifts up his guys and says, these guys are just right alongside of me. Don't think it's just about me. These guys are right here with me. Right? These guys are right here along with me trying to spread the gospel there. That is true leadership. The mission is simply too great to do it. Notice also about this title, it just says Paul. Notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say Paul the Apostle. Now this is striking because in most of Paul's letters we see Paul the apostle. Why why is it not here? The reason it's not here is because Paul didn't include this title, apostle, which is the head position of the church. church, right? He doesn't include that just to boast himself up. He's not a little man who's desperate for attention, who's desperate to say, look at me, look how great I am. The reason he included the title of apostle is because he needed to sometimes to assert his authority so people would take his letters seriously. But these people had just seen Paul and they already knew about his apostolic ministry. So he didn't need to include that title. And I think there's something for us to learn here. We don't need to be little people who are constantly trying to build ourselves up. I desperately need people to think more about me, so I just got to acquire these titles. And if people will only look to me, how great I am, how great I will feel. That's not the attitude that we should have. We don't point to ourselves, we point to Christ. Isn't that the mission? Look at him. Look how great he is. Look how wonderful he is. Yes, I I I fail, but look to him. That's what we needs to be doing. Isn't that the main problem of the scribes and Pharisees? Luke twenty. Beware of the scribes who like to walk around in long robes and long greetings in the marketplace, and the best seats in the synagogues, and the places of honor James 4. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Psalm twenty, some boast in chariots and some in horses, but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God. The greatest title we have isn't manager, it isn't pastor, it isn't doctor, it isn't even grandpa or grandma or mom or dad. The greatest title that we have is Christian. The greatest title we have is I am in Christ. And he and me. Paul puts it this way. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ and God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory And we see this very idea, look at the passage, when he says to the addressee, when he identifies the church, he says, the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. It's the same idea. Being in union with God and with Christ. Now what's interesting about that phrase is we're not used to that, are we? We're used to him saying in Christ. We we hear that all the time, but every time you say in God In God and in Christ. It's an unusual phrase, but it means the same thing. Just as when you see in Christ, it means that we have union and connection with Him. So when in God, it means the same thing we have union and connection. And so here's what Christ does. Christ takes you who are far off and sinners separated from God. And Christ takes those people and brings them and draws them near to the throne of grace. And now that we're at the throne of grace, who's at that throne of grace? We see God the Father and God the Son. And so, in light of the fact that God the Son, who's our advocate, who's our only mediator, then we have peace with God. So we have union with God the Father through Jesus Christ. And in fact that's why we say at the end of our prayers In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. That's not a magical token. That's not some kind of incarnate, you know, in insight that's not some kind of magical phrase, is what I'm getting at, that makes your prayers be answered. What you're saying is, I have no right to ask anything from you. Except if it wasn't for your son. I can only ask in the name through the person and work of Jesus Christ, who have any ability to get anything from you, God. And that's why anyone who comes in any other name other than Christ has no right to come to God at all. It's unbelievably outrageous to think that a sinner can approach God unless God allows him in. And the only way that God will allow any sinner into his presence is through Jesus Christ. We have the union with God through Jesus. First Timothy two five. For there is one God and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Jesus Christ. Isn't that what it the Bible says? And that the world doesn't like that. The world wants to have uh have access to God willy -nilly because they don't see Sin. And they're offended by this gospel, but this is the gospel, and we can't change it. And in fact, what's amazing isn't that there's one way. What's amazing is that there's any way. All we deserve from God is wrath. We don't deserve anything else from the Lord. And so we should be thankful that through our union with Christ, the curse that belonged to us came on him. And the blessing that belongs to him comes to us. And so now we are no longer enemies of God, children of wrath, children of the devil, but now we are children of God who can boldly approach the throne of grace and say, Abba Father. Please give this to me. And I know you'll give this to me because you love me and you accept me. That's what Christ does for us. Yes. Let me note a few other things before before we close. Notice that it also says an interesting phrase, the Church of the Thessalonians That's interesting because usually Paul says the church at Corinth is a church in Corinth. See what I'm saying? Usually he says this is a church that's in this location. He doesn't usually use this phrase of the Thessalonians. Now there's two possibilities here One, it's just saying that this is the church of the people of the Thessalonians. In other words, this church is full of Thessalonian people. There's nothing to see here. Right? This is like him saying the church of the saints. The church is full of saints. That's all he's saying. But there's another possibility in this that this of here has a partitative idea. What he's saying is this is the church of the Thessalonians, meaning these are the ones that were called out of Thessalonica. So here's Thessalonica, and here's the people that were called out of Thessalonica. And this is a group that came out of them. And to understand what I'm getting at here is think about the word church itself. You may have heard this. It means ecclesia. It means the called out ones. Isn't that what the gospel does? It comes, it spreads. Those who are appointed to believe, believe, and it calls them out of darkness into the marvelous light. Not everyone comes, but some people do come. Right? Only a remnant comes. And this is not just true for the Gentiles, it's true for the Jews. Not all the Jews accept it. You look at Romans 11. Some accepted, and they were called out. And some rejected and they were hardened. And just like with the nations, some of the Thessalonian people accepted, and many of them were hardened. And so what I'm what I'm getting at here is this might be hinting at the fact that the gospel goes and spreads everywhere, but not everyone gets saved. Those who are called out come out of those places and get saved. And so what's the ultimate destiny? That the called out of the Jews get saved. The called out of the Thessalonicans get saved. The called out of the Baltimoreans get saved. Okay? The called out of the Lithicums get saved. And then there's representative Christians from all of those people that will one day stand before the throne of God and praise his holy name. That is the promise of the gospel. Not that everyone will get saved, but that every group of people will get saved and there'll be called out ones. from them. So that's the the point of the gospel. And that's also why people we we want to continue to spread the gospel to people groups that haven't heard. Because there's called out ones among them that need to be gathered That is the ultimate destiny of the people of God. Quick quick uh concluding marks on this. We need to understand that when Jesus says, Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many, for the gate is narrow and the way is hard, that leads to life. and there are few who find it. In other words, the gospel will always be unpopular. And so if you want to be popular, this is not the right place For you. Because the gospel will always be unpopular. The gospel will always go out, and many people reject it, and many people will reject you because you believe in the gospel. See, it's not about our own popularity, it's about Christ's popularity. popularity. We'll also always be sheep among wolves. That's what God is. We'll always be sheep among wolves. And so that's why we gather together as a church to encourage each other and to remind ourselves that we're not crazy. We're not the only people who she See the truth of God with a called out ones. So we need to be influencing each other and pointing each other to Christ and not trying to desperately look as close to the Word as we possibly can. The Word is headed to hell But we are headed to heaven to be with God forever. And so we cry and we ask for the Lord to come and to save his people. That's our cry. That's our home, is what God And in his kingdom. Please join me in a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, I thank you for your goodness. I thank you, God, that you called us out of darkness into your marvelous light. That you that you have saved us. And God I asked if there's anyone in this room who doesn't know you, that they would they would repent. They would see the the the the path of destruction that they're on. and recognize that it is a road uh headed to hell. And they'll turn around and come to you. And I gotta ask that you would help us to to love each other and appreciate each other and to be uh shining lights and A place full of darkness and wickedness to the world that we live in. Pray others in Jesus' name. Amen.