In this talk, I want to continue talking about seminary and just advice on seminary and things that I've learned, things that I wish someone would have told me before I went to seminary. and and just just talking uh all about seminary. So first thing I want to say is that if you're wondering should I go to seminary or not then then my uh encouragement to you is really go talk to pastors, go talk to people that know you, go get your gifts affirmed, do some preaching, do some teaching. see if if you're gifted at all, if you're if you're just terrible and not gifted whatsoever, then you know, you probably uh want to find that out before you you head off to seminary before uh you invest into seminary. But let me say this uh to to qualify that. I am a firm believer that seminary is the one degree that you will never truly regret. And the reason why is because the knowledge itself is inherently useful. A lot of degrees It's useful as long as the degree will get you something. So if you if you go to s if you go and get your degree in archetype or whatever you know, the knowledge itself is is only useful in the sense that now I have the skill set and I have the degree to get me the job. Well seminary is is like that in the sense that most people go into seminary to get training, get qualifications so they can eventually uh work in full time into ministry or at least work in ministry. So that it's similar to that in that sense, but it's it's greater than or better than that because this is the doctrine of God, the theology. This is the the the uh manual to uh to life, to know more about God, who's the greatest person uh in the world, the most important person in the world, to know more about yourself and sin and the purpose of the purpose of the world. It's just i i you know, the the The Psalms say that that I am wiser than my teachers because I know the law of the Lord. So uh any time spent uh reading and thinking about the Bible and studying the Bible and understanding God more is inherently valuable if you have the means and the opportun opportunity and the desire to spend three years of full time study on God, you will never, ever, ever regret it. And I really mean you will never, ever, ever regret it. Before I went to seminary I did a I did a four year undergrad in theology. Um and so I thought that going to seminar I actually had a bad attitude. I thought that going to seminary was just kind of a necessary evil that you know, that they wanted everyone wants an M div, no one cares about an undergrad in Bible and theology and so I was just gonna have to basically repeat and do the same thing again. And there was some truth to that, that some of the classes I I did actually have to take again. I did you know, uh theology over here and theology over there. I did um New Testament overview and surveys over here and New Testament overviews and and surveys over there. So there was some there was some overlap there. That to even show you how much more overlap there was before I went to seminary and and this is kind of what got me in a seminary, I t I took on a job where I could it was very mundane and I could uh it just kind of boring and so I had internet access and I would listen to uh s uh seminary classes, I would audit seminary classes from RTS and Covenant and I was just digesting and loving that and and and I did that for about six months and I ended up auditing about forty classes which is about equivalent if not more that to an M div of auditing that I just, you know, basically like a fly on the wall, sat in those classes, didn't do any of the assignments, but sat in the classes and and gained from all of the lectures. And and so talk about a repeat. I did an undergrad in in theology, then I audited uh a mass majority of the classes and then I enrolled in the seminary. So I really thought at this point that this was just going to be a a massive repeat But you know what? I learned so much in that undergrad. I learned so much in auditing. I learned so much through my seminary degree, and I continue to audit classes and and pick up books and read and continue to study and I continue to learn. This is an inexhaustible topic. I mean you talk to people, how much of their seminary have they forgotten? I mean, you know, we just don't retain everything. And so going back over it um helps you retain and retain more and more and more. So hearing these classes multiple times help you to retain more and more and more and so you're just gonna be better off for it. So Should you go to seminary if you have a desire, if you have a gift of teaching, if you desire to know more about God, absolutely, if you can spare it, I would say Do it. I would absolutely say do it. Now, the other caveat I would say is what I decided for my own self was that I was not going to go to seminary unless I was willing not to be paid full-time afterwards That that was I knew that going in. I said, um, I will not I I have to be willing to go to seminary and and even after I get my seminary degree to not go into full time. uh ministry and I accepted that before I get in. And that's something I think that people uh listening and think about seminar should also des search their hearts and say, okay, if I'm just gonna be bi vocational Will I w will it still be worth it if I do that? Or if I even if I'm not on staff at all for a period of time and I'm just purely volunteer, is just the knowledge and being better equipped to teach God's word to all who will hear, is it worth it in and of itself? And if it's not for you, Um, I would really uh probably not go to seminary and I'd really think think about it. And there's other options, like I said, RTS, Covenant, Biblical uh training. org. There's all kinds of different resources. Even sermon audio, if you know how to look and to um look at people's systematic theology, then there's some and some ways to find some really great material on sermon audio. There's ways to become very learnt and and reading books. There's ways to become very, very learned. Even ligonier ministries. I mean, there's so many ways to to learn theology without going to seminary necessarily that um, that I wouldn't I wouldn't go unless I was I was absolutely sure that I I wanted to uh teach and I wanted to get the best training. and and I was willing to do this even without becoming into full-time ministry. So something I would I would I would just ask yourself and I encourage you to ask yourself and think about that. and and decide, yes, I'm willing to not go into full time ministry, but the knowledge is that important. This is this is one of the few times in my life that I'm gonna be able to invest in three years or full time or you're not full time, six years potentially part time, to invest and just to to fill myself up with with the knowledge of God in them and to become a a blessing. I mean really what you do is when you go to seminary and learn all of this you're vicariously learning for others. Other people don't have that opportunity and God has given you that opportunity. So now you can go back into uh teach them and help them to think better about uh about theology. And that's why also uh another uh another thing I would say about seminaries, go to the seminary that believes the theology that you believe. I mean, i I hear people saying that they want to go to seminaries where they're going to be challenged and and hear uh liberal theology or or hear an opposing view theology. Wrong, wrong, wrong. Number one, um, I'm gonna say this bluntly, you are arrogant. You are just arrogant. You need to be seriously humbled if you think that you know your theology backwards and forward, that no one can teach you anything and and so so that you're gonna go to a a an unbelieving um unbelieving seminary so you can actually learn something namely the opposing person's theology. I mean you are arrogant, you are wrong. You do not know it all. There is so much more that you can in fact learn and grow upon. Um and and the fact is You don't know what you don't apply. So there are so many things, unless you're walking around Jesus here, there's so many things that you can learn and you can uh learn by just application itself. But just let's be honest. Um, you don't know it all. Okay, you know, uh I like I said, I audited all those classes and I still continue to learn. I'm not saying that I I'm the smartest person in the world, but I still continue to learn because There's just there's so much depth. And let me tell you, one of the advantages is because I already knew the basic uh theologies of the classes. then I could focus in on these these these more minute details that now I could see them instead of just trying to learn the whole class. So even if you know eighty-ninety percent of the stuff already then you can focus in on that ten percent. So I would I would so not encourage going to a liberal unbelieving college to the quote unquote challenge. So many of those people because one, because they're arrogant. uh they get swept up. They those people come back as liberals or moderates, which is almost almost worse than a liberal because they they they're straddling the fence and they they still consider themselves uh evangelical or fundamental and they and they become a cancer to to us and um trying to lead us into liberal theology. So I would I would just so encourage people not to do that. Go to a a a believing school where you're gonna get believers and you're gonna hear the word of God preached and and believed. I mean you you want to go to a place that's gonna affirm the truth. of the Bible to equip you to bless others. Not to be a smart aleck, not to be a jerk, not to be a know-doll, but to be someone who is able to bless others. That's the point. of seminary, that's the point of of of knowledge itself is not to puff up but to help others. So I would really encourage to go to a believing seminary. And beyond that, I would also encourage uh really encourage people to go to a a believing seminary in their denomination You know, I mean it's just seminary is not is you're gonna be way too busy. It's not the place to figure out if you're a Baptist or a Presbyterian. Uh nine times out of ten To be honest, if if whatever seminary you go to, that's the theology that you're going to take. So if you if you're a Presbyterian, you know, I would highly recommend going to a Presbyterian school. And if you're a Baptist, I would highly recommend going to a Baptist school. Now, if it's the best denomination, um the best school around is not a denomination but another evangelical uh denomination that just disagrees on on baptism and and you're well versed in it, then you know, go in peace. But but for the most part, I would say uh make your mind up on your theology. Don't go to Dallas Theological Seminary, uh, if you're you know, if you think you're covenant but not really strong on it and then you're gonna go to a a dispensationalist school and vice versa if you're if you're kind of, you know, dispensational but not very strong on it, you go to covenant, uh, you know, you're you're you're most likely gonna come out of there uh affected by the theology of that covenant theology gonna be uh much more leaning to covenant theology. So I would say Um to really figure out your theology or really have a good direction of where you want to go before you ever go there. And I would even say this so strongly Uh if you're if you're really straddling the fence uh betri between some theologies, maybe you should you know take six months uh to to uh to study some theology. um and and make up that decision before you go or maybe even combine online education. Do the plain classes where you're not going into those particular topics um to get some of those transfer credits and then decide which school you're going to go to when your your theology is more fixed. So I would just really encourage people to go to the the school where that's that's in in agreement with their with their theology Another thing I'll say is some people have said that seminary is not seminary but a cemetery. I don't know what these people are talking about. Maybe uh Maybe their their spiritual life is a cemetery. I mean, to be honest, I I just don't know what they're talking about. Seminary was fantastic for me. It was wonderful hearing about God studying about God, reading about God. I loved it. I that's why that's why I got uh my undergrad in in theology and in the Bible, because I couldn't believe that someone would would give me college credit to read the Bible and to read books about the Bible. I mean it just absolutely loved it was food for my soul. It was just absolutely wonderful. Sure, I didn't like always writing the papers and stuff, um, but it was incredible. It was an amazing experience. I don't know what people are saying, is it is a cemetery? No, it it was stressful at times. It was it pushed me, but it pushed me in a really, really good way. And so I don't I would not listen to people talking about it's a cemetery. It's a seminary it it's it can be absolutely wonderful in health and uh for your soul. Not saying that's gonna be the case for all people. Some people might be more grueling us, some people might not like theology as much as I do. But uh but if you don't love theology, well, maybe you shouldn't go to seminary in the first place. I mean if you don't want to read theology books, probably don't go to seminary in the first place Um, so speaking about reading, I'm not a big reader. I just really don't like reading too much, but I'm an amazing listener. I just love listening. I just love, love, love. uh listening and and so that's one of the wonderful things about modern technology. There's a there's an app called Voice Dream and even you can do this with a Word document where you can um plug in words and and then highlight them and then cause the the word document to read these things back. I read almost no books for seminary, but I listened to every single one of them and in in all of the those entirety of those books I would I would eat through listening. Uh Voice Dream is amazing. So check out Voice Dream. It's an app where it a lot it reads text for you. It's incredible. It's a lifesaver. Same thing with a Word document. You can paste things in there and read it to you. There's other ways. The Apple product has other ways for like people who can't see very well that it can automatically read it for you. And so look into uh um text-of-voice options on on the on the Android and and um Apple products. There's all kinds of audio books out there Oh man, so even if you don't like reading like me, you think that's gonna kill me from seminary? Absolutely not, no, it won't. You can get all these things to read to you. We live in the day of technology is absolutely amazing. uh what you can do and I listen to almost every single book um through text to voice uh options. Let me talk about languages. A lot of people are very scared about Semera because of languages and in some ways rightfully so those languages can kick uh those things can be tough, really, really tough. I will tell you, for me, I'm not a language guy. Um I didn't even know grammar too well before seminary. Okay, I'm just not that that's just not my uh forte. And and so I was very intimidated about seminary because of the languages. And for me, when it comes to a class, I spent Two, three, it wouldn't be an exaggeration say four times more work on the languages than any other class hands down because languages were so much harder for me to learn. But nevertheless, I got all A's in all every language class that I took. And I don't say that to brag, I say that because you can do it too. You can succeed the same way that I t uh believe me, if I can pass my language classes and even get A's in my language classes you can do it too. And here's the way that I did it. I knew the material, the books that were going to be taught before the class. There's not that many books. David Allen Black. uh you know, Wallace, Mount 's book. There there's just not that many books out there. And really to go through any of these grammars is going to help you for for the the the book that you take. But I would really recommend Find out what book it it takes an email, takes a phone call. Just ask the professor um what the the book for the class that that's the the intro class and and then buy the book. and then go through the book. Go through the material. And again, there's so much free online material out there where or even you just put a little bit of money in you can get uh full-on seminary classes of lectures of teaching you Greek, teaching you Hebrews before you ever get to the class. So what I did is I spent six months to a year uh going through that book and learning the vocab. So I wasn't trying to cram it at the end is learning the paradigms and learning to read and and working on it. And uh and then when I got into the class, then we would just go over it and to me it was all review and it was So so much easier. And instead of cramming, I learned it. So not only do I think that this is a quote unquote uh a gr a greater way to uh succeed in a way that you is gonna a fail-proof way to to get to get all A's in your in your language classes, but it's also a way to learn. Because instead of trying to cram things in my mind with within sixteen weeks or thirteen weeks or eight weeks or however long your your semester is, I had a whole year to learn this. And so I really learned that material slowly and assuredly. And the way I learned the the Greek and Hebrew was just spending you know, thirty minutes, twenty minutes, an hour a day, every day working on it um for those six months until until I took the class and then I and then I just aced the class. And again I learned the language. Let me say something else. I I say I learned the language w that worked really well for for Greek. For Hebrew. I I didn't spend that much time. I spent six months in advance. and and to to pass the class. And I did. But I knew early on that I'm not a language guy. Um and I'm a New Covenant minister. And so I spend most of my time reading the New Testament, most of my time thinking. about the New Testament most of the time preaching through the New Testament. So I knew that I really wanted to have skills in Greek and I didn't really uh I mean I would like skilled in Hebrew, but you know, I I didn't of the two, Greek was so much more important. Plus, if I knew Greek, then I could go into the LXX as well with the with the Old Testament. So I knew for myself that there was no way that I was going to be able to to master two languages, even to be good at two languages. I would have a hard enough time being good at one language. So I picked Greek. um from the start and said I'm just going to uh suffer through Hebrew. I'm just gonna know enough to work my way around it to be familiar with the language and to have a foundation if I ever wanted to build on top of that that foundation. So that's something that's something that you don't have to do. I'm here to pass Hebrew and I'm here to learn Greek. And I'm gonna tea I'll do some other teachings about how to actually learn Greek. What is it useful for? Is Greek useful? Absolutely. It is very uh useful. You can learn Greek. You don't have to be a scholar, you don't have to be a linguist to do it. You can learn Greek um even from the way that they're teaching you in seminar, you can absolutely learn it. But I would really recommend learning it, doing what I did, which was six months to a year of of taking that time to learn it prior to that. And then and and then entering into your into your uh Greek class. Now uh some some people will say I just can't do that. I'm just gonna go ahead and cram it in. Fine, cram it in. But then I would encourage you for you know three three or four or five months six months after that to then to then to learn it, to continue to use it so that you retain it. But that's another conversation uh that we can talk about. But I'm just saying that even if you're absolutely terrible with languages like I was, you can still pass seminary by doing that technique that I I that I just recommended. So let me s let me just uh give a couple other pieces of advice uh uh real fast is that just to be be agreeable, um please I think every seminary student should read the book, How to Make Friends and Influence People. Please read that book. I needed to read that book. I read that book, it changed my life. I realized that I was a total jerk who always had to be right and would attack people because I value truth more than people and I was just wrong. It was hurting myself. It was hurting other people. Pick up the book, How to Make Friends and Influence People. Read that book. Become agreeable. Don't become the smart aleck. Don't become the jerk who has to be right all the time. Uh knowledge puffs up, so you you really need to uh decide early on that I'm getting this knowledge in me to help others and not to beat them down and show how much that I know. Also, you need to uh you gotta be careful. We need to be well established in the faith once for all delivered to the saints. Meaning I'm going into seminary not to learn all these profound new truths that no one's ever heard of and that contradicts everything I ever learned from the church. Run away. If that's your personality, then don't go to seminary. Pray about it. Learn something. Learn the fact that we're here to defend the truth, not to create new truth. Get grounded in the faith once for all delivered to the saints and then come back and and and you're ready for seminary. Again, don't go uh into seminary looking for new profound truths to show that everyone uh that was back in your old church was a bunch of idiots Okay? That's the way that seminary makes heretics. Seminary makes total jerks. So just don't do that. Understand that seminary is here to help you, to be a blessing to the church that sent you, not to come back as the smart Alc who knows it all and knows everything that the church that they ever went to has been wrong from the very very beginning. So just be just be very very careful to careful with that of going into this mentality of I'm so smart, I went to seminary, everyone else is so dumb. No, you're going to seminary to better equip you to serve those people that say you so just just recognize though that a a large way that's that's a heart issue it's also a seminary issue make sure you're going to a faithful uh seminary make sure that the the the teachers that are influencing you make sure that they're members of local churches and that they love They love the body of Christ and that they're here to help and not just they if they themselves are a smart aleck, sure you might be able to learn from them, but recognize that this is ungodly behavior and something that needs to be avoided. You will meet those jerk professors. They exist Even in the best seminaries, I have met them. Eat the chicken, spit out the bones. Eat the chicken, spit out the bones. Learn from them, but do not imitate their ways. Find those godly professors that love the students, that love the word of God, and that are that are here to proclaim the truth, not to become, not to try to build their own kingdoms, but trying to build the kingdom of God and helping the kingdom of God of God. So that's my advice on seminary. Seminary is wonderful. It's been great. I love it. I encourage everyone who can go to go. There's so many ways to afford it through online education. There's just so many ways that you can do it. I just absolutely encourage you to go pick a good conservative seminary. If you're married, if you're in middle-aged, do it online. You can be so wonderful blessed. And you'll be used mightily by God. God will open up doors that you can't imagine. Just be trust, just trust them and be faithful to him. And God will open up doors and God will use you for his kingdom and his glory.