Have you ever met somebody who had all of the answers and knew exactly how to lose weight and yet they were severely overweight? They knew exactly how to sustain a happy marriage, and yet they were divorced multiple times and on their third or fourth marriage. Or maybe they knew exactly how to be the best parents, and yet all of their children just so happen to be rebels and have abandoned the Lord. Now these kind of people frustrate me, and what frustrates me about them the most is that many times, not always, But many times they actually know what they're talking about. They've actually figured out that the key to losing weight is in fact eating more vegetables, increasing your protein intake, and maintaining a calorie deficit. By the way, that is the secret to losing weight. They also know that listening to your wife, not being addicted to pornography, and not allowing bitterness to spring up in your relationship, in your marriage. Well actually save your marriage, or at very least, these were the elements that destroyed their marriage. And so forth and so on. The problem with many of these people is not that they don't actually know what they're talking about But the fact that they do know what they are talking about, and yet despite knowing what they are talking about, they simply don't implement any of these things. So they have all the right answers, but receive no blessing and no results. from that knowledge. The Bible actually describes these people in James chapter one. James 122 says, but be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For anyone who is a hearer of the word and not a doer is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in the mirror. For he looks at himself and goes away at once and forgets what he was like. Hmm. What did that look like again? For the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. So before I continue my message, would you pray a short little prayer? Lord help me not to listen For my neighbor. Help me, Lord, not to listen to gain facts. Help me, Lord, not to listen to critique. But help me, Lord, to listen to obey. Help me to l And to hear Your message for me. Here I am, Lord. Speak for your servant hears. Lord, I want to be a doer and not simply a listener only. Now notice at the end of that verse, it says, it is the doer who acts who will be blessed in his doing. That is the one who will be blessed, the one who actually implements what he hears. We receive no knowledge, no benefit from simply knowing how to lose weight. You will not lose any weight by knowing how to lose weight. You will only lose weight. by implementing the knowledge that you know. And so too. We receive no blessing by simply knowing more of Scripture. Without implementing it, without being a doer. That is the one who will be blessed. It is the one who will do. So with that in mind, let us consider God's word on the subject of revival. Now what is Revival. What is the revival that we're praying for? What is it? Well, we're praying that Many people would be saved, that God would pour out his spirit upon this world, that people would be saved, that entire communities, families, towns, and nations would all come to the Lord all at once Miraculously, unexplainably, by a new and fresh and supernatural and miraculous Pentecostal-like experience. Now, is this a good prayer? It's a very good prayer. And in fact, one that is guaranteed to be answered. Yes, guaranteed to be answered. In Habakkuk two fourteen it says, For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. The revival that I really want isn't a revival of twenty years, of ten years, of five years of one little town or one little family. Well, maybe selfishly I want that, but ultimately, no, I want the earth to be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. That's what I want. I want a revival that breaks out so far that there is no more wicked. And all of the nations come and believe and trust in the Lord. And that will happen. Yes, as the earth, as the sea is covered by water, so the earth will be full of the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. And we see the fulfillment of this in Revelation chapter twenty-one. I saw in the city, in the new earth, no temple For the temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb, and the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it it its light, and the lamp is the lamb. But its light By its light the nations will walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and honor of the nations Who is going to do this? The nations are going to walk by the light of God and bring its glory, that's the glory of the nations, into the earth. So as we want true revival of entire nations, of entire families, of generations of families, all of this will in fact happen. Revival like you've never dreamed of it will be poured out. Now, will there be a revival, a mini revival, a tiny revival? an a a foretaste of this great revival poured out in these last days in the days that we have left between the first coming and the second coming of Christ. I don't know. You don't know. No one knows that's one of the secret things. We can pray for it. But do we know if this is the will of God? No. And in fact one of the reasons we don't know that is because how much time do we have before the second coming? Will he happen in will it happen in A decade? Two? Three? A hundred years? Fifty years? How much more time do we have? We don't know. But if it's a very, very short period of time, there's good indication that that probably won't happen. Why? Because Jesus describes the earth's condition when he returns, and it's not one of revival, it's one of backsliding. Luke 18, 8 says, When the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? He's not coming to a golden age. but rather a rebellious age. He's coming to judge and to save his people from the persecution that surrounds them. Matthew 24, 12 says, and because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow. Cole, this is in the section talking about the eleventh discourse, talking about the last times. So, um, unless you're a post-millennialist, which I am not, many of the Puritans were, but I am not, I lean more to all millennialism, if not premillennialism. And I take all of these passages as referring to the end times. Yes, in fact, the Lord will come to a earth surrounded by the Antichrist and his forces. and an earth that is uh backslidden. So, will there be any more foretasts of revival on the land before the Lord comes? I don't know. You don't know. Only God knows. It's certainly a good thing to pray for, certainly certainly something that we should pray for, and these prayers are not in vain for Even if the Lord does not give us a temporal revival, he will certainly give us the great revival, number one. Number two, the Lord's smarter than you, and the Lord's smarter than us. He knows what we really want. Is we really want the salvation of his people. Right? Does it really matter if the salvation of his people The same group of people is going to be saved. The elect will not uncre increase or decrease, right? We're not praying, God, increase your elect by ten percent. No. We just want to see. The earth full of the glory of God. And so we're ultimately praying if you just still let God save your people and strengthen your people. And that prayer will be answered. So these prayers are not in vain at all. They are good. They are wonderful. They are beautiful. They are glorious. And we should continue to pray them. But as we pray them, I do think that we should consider the fact that for every prayer that we pray, and we say, Lord If it be your will, will you give this to us? We should pray three times the amount of prayers on things that we know are actually the will of God. Okay, there are times when we say, if it be thy will, Lord, if it be thy will, heal my wife. Yes, she is sick. That's for real. I'm not just making that. She is sick. And I pray that. Lord, if it be thy will, please. So forth and so on. But there are other prayers that we can pray that are not in this category. We don't have to say, if it be thy will. For we know with absolute certainty that it is the Lord's will. That the Lord is in fact willing to do that very thing. What kind of things am I talking about? Well Is it the Lord's will to cause you to be more holy? Yes. Is it the Lord's will that there will be another great revival like the ones we read in history? We don't know. Good prayer, but we don't know. Is it the Lord's will for you personally to give more of yourself to the Lord? Yes. Now what does that look like? I don't know specifically for you. But maybe it looks like opening up your wallet, taking the cash, metaphorically speaking, and placing it on the altar of Christ. God said, do not store up your treasures on earth, will moth and rust destroy, and thieves break up and steal, but rather store up your treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and thieves do not break and steal, but where your treasure is, your heart will be also The the New Testament says to excel in the gifts of giving. The grace of giving. Are you excelling? Are you a model for other other believers? Are you past 10%? Are you even at 10%? Are you giving more than that? Are you giving till it doesn't even make sense? Is that the Lord's will for you? Yes. Yes, it is. Excel in that gift. What about fasting? When is the last time you fasted? Jesus said that his people would fast. In the old testament, on the training wheels of the law. The training wheels. These are the things that we have so much far exceeded in every way. But they fast it once a year. The training wheels. The bare minimum. I should say the bare minimum. But I'm saying it's the training wheels of the law. Once a year. The Jews of Jesus' day fasted two times a week. I'm not saying you have to do these things. The other church, you know what they did? Two times a week. I'm not saying you have to do that much, but I'm saying Jesus did expect his disciples to fast, and he did say that his father would reward you in secret, and he did write The word fast in the Bible gave you countless examples of fasting throughout the Bible and combined it with prayer throughout the Bible and showed that certain things When people were very serious about something, they fasted in order to show God that they were this serious that God blessed them. There's countless examples of this where you have fasting and prayer combined in order for some urgent need And yet, what do we do? We live in America that has food, and many of us have never heard a sermon on fasting, never even considered it. And if we did consider it, we said, Absolutely not, I'm not doing that. That sounds like some ascetic practice that uh that the monks would do, but never me. And yet, what does the scripture say? When they fast, and that God will reward you in secret. What about uh lusting? What about your sin? What about uh no longer viewing your phone and viewing pornography and saying, I'm done with this, enough of this, grabbing a hammer and slashing it and that's what it takes. to cut off hands, cut off the hand and pluck out the eye in order to live a more holy life. What about passing out gospel tracts? They were supposed to fulfill the Great Commission? How about Putting some tracks in your pocket and handing some out. Maybe something as simple as when a teller, when a cashier gives you a receipt, say, ma'am, can I give you this please? How about implementing something like that? Something very, very simple. How about just I don't know, when you're walking by the cashier, why don't you if you're too afraid of that, why don't you just put it in somewhere? that they will have to eventually somebody somewhere will find it and either trash it or potentially read it Just say God use me for missions. Use me for evangelism. Use me somehow. Do you think that God will say, that's not my will? No. That is his will What am I encouraging you to do? I'm saying for every one prayer that you pray, Lord, if it be thy will. You may never say that, but it's true, because you don't know if it is the Lord's will to answer the prayer that you're asking for Rebe, one prayer that you pray of that. Pray many, many more prayers that you know that God will answer. This is the promise that we have in Scripture. It says this in 1 John 5. 14. And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. This is incredible. We have an audience with the Father, and if we ask anything according to his will, he will hear us. So, if that's true, which it is, then why would we not spend more time asking prayers, asking things to our Father that we know according to his will so that he can hear us and give it to us Why would we constantly ask for things that we either don't know that the Lord will give us, or we suspect that He won't give us Instead of asking for things that we know that he will give us. And I think the reason is because we don't want it. Truth is, the prayers, many of the prayers that God will answer for us. The ones like be holy as I am holy, give more, we don't want to ask. We don't want those things And that's the revival that I want to see. I want to see people want those things and ask for them and to receive them and to do those things. James 4 says, you do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. Don't do that. Ask for the right things Ask for things not to spend on your passion, not to spend on your own kingdom, but on the kingdom of Christ. Ask many prayers for holiness, many prayers of fasting. Many prayers of giving, many prayers of breaking the yoke of sin, many prayers of spending more time with your children and evangelizing them more. And then also ask for the great revival that we all seek and desire. And we all hopefully are working for that very thing in our churches, in our lives, in our families, and even on the strangers, the cashiers Whoever it is that we can possibly be used by God to save.