In this teaching, I want to discuss a difficult passage in Jeremiah 8. Jeremiah 8. 8, which says, How can you say we are wise, and the law of the Lord is with us? But behold, the lying pen of the scribes have made it into a lie And so this passage is a little bit uh tricky and a little bit confusing because what does it mean that there's these scribes with this lying pen have made the law of the Lord into a line. So I'm going to go up for context. Go up to verse five for context and explain what this passage means. Verse 5 says, why then has this people turned away in perpetual backsliding? They hold fast to the seat, they refuse to return. I have paid attention and listened, but they have not spoken rightly. No man relents of his evil, saying, What have I done? Every one turns to his own course like a horse plunging headlong into battle, even the stork in the heavens knows her times, and a turtle dove, swallow, and crane keep the time of their coming. But my people know not the rules of the Lord. How can you say we are wise and the law of the Lord is with us? But behold, the lying pen of the scribes hath made it into a lie. And so this passage, uh starting in verse 5, is talking about the the people of Israel, and it's saying that they have perpetual backsliding. They hold fast to the seat and they refuse to turn and repent and listen to God. And then God says that he's he's paid attention and listened to them, but they have not spoken rightly. They are they are acting wickedly No man relents of his evil. They are totally unrepentant. No one says, what have I done? Everyone, instead of turning to the Lord, turns to his own course. And they're plunging headlong into battle, into sin, like like a horse plunges headlong into battle. And then he compares them to animals like a stork, like a turtle dove, like a crane. And even these uh animals know their times. They they have their seasons and they know what to do in certain seasons, but these people uh do not know what to do in certain seasons, even when God's wrath comes down on them, they refuse to repent They they do not know the rules of the Lord. Now, do they not know them in the sense that they're not aware of them? Well that that's kind of what the the very next uh passage indicates. It says, How can you say we are wise and the law of the Lord is with us? But behold the lying pen of the scribes have made it into a lie. So how how is it that they are ignorant of the law? Well we need to understand that this passage is condemning the the Jews of of Jeremiah's day for being hardened against the Lord. And and they're hardened against the Lord and they refuse to uh listen to the rules of the Lord. They do not know the rules of the Lord. It's not that they're ignorant of the rules of the Lord, but they refuse to believe it. Number one, they're not ignorant of the rules of the Lord, because the rules of the Lord are written on the heart. It's on the heart of all men, according to Romans chapter one. That God's written his law on their heart. So they're not ignorant in the sense of that it's written on their heart. But they're not even ignorant because not only is it written on their heart, but it's written on stone and they have it in the books. They if they're not it's not like they don't have the law of the Lord. It's that they don't believe the law of the Lord that they that they have. And so how how do they get around God's word? Well, it's these scribes, it's these people who are supposed to be learnt in the law, these people these these people who are supposed to be the experts of the law, that they spend all their time copying the law, they spend all their time interpreting the law. These are the scholars And what do they do? They have lying pens and they transform the law of the Lord into a lie. They do this through false interpretation by twisting the word of God. the Bible warns against people like that who are who are itchy ear teachers that just give people what they want. People don't want certain things, so they give it to them. I'll give you an example of of one time I actually encountered this kind of false teacher twisting God's word. Uh one the the scripture that I can think of uh that this person twisted was in Matthew when it talks about you have heard that it was said, You shall not commit adultery, but I say to you, whoever looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And they said Well, you know, this scripture only applies to married men. If you're not married, then you cannot commit this, lusting after women, because you can only commit adultery if you're married. So this person was claiming to be someone who who was a spokesman for God, an expert of the law, and was trying to use this to justify lusting. So jesus' words are are trying to slam the gauntlet down and saying it's not just adultery, but it's the very act of lust that's forbidden, and this false snake of a teacher try to actually twist God's word and make this somehow this scripture allow unmarried men to watch pornography and to lust after women. How disgusting. But this is that kind of practice that's going on here, that these lying scribes twist God's word and change it And so not literally change it, but change the meaning. And so the words remain the same, but the interpretation is fundamentally changed so that they undo the law of God. And so uh this is that kind of twisting. Jesus condemned these people of his day that twisted God's word. You remember that he that the people of his day would talk about instead of honoring your mother and father by providing provision for them financially, you could just say that this is Corbin and and this is devoted to God by giving it to the temple and then undo the law of God and no longer take Take care of your your mother and father. And Jesus condemned them and said, For the traditions of men, you have undone the word of God. See, their interpretation was overlaid upon the Bible and caused them to undo and break God's word. That's exactly what these scribes uh were doing, that they were twisting God's word and turning it into a lie so that the message of God could no longer be proclaimed. And there's something uh there's a warning for us in this passage that we dare not twist God's word. We dare not say, well, what can I make this mean? How can I make this say something other than what it's saying. And this is what I see in the evangelical church and it disturbs me greatly. There are so many people out there that say, I'm evangelical. I believe the Bible. And then instead of interpreting the Bible correctly, they go and try to make the Bible fit to whatever they already believe before they ever came to the Bible. So they already believe that homosexuality is okay, and then they twist the Bible and make the Bible agree, and then they claim that evangelicals can hold this position. These are lying scribes and their condemnation is just This is evil. This should be repented of. It should not be done. You are not evangelical because you're a lying scribe who tries to twist God's word and make it say whatever you want it to say. This is evangelical evil practice and it needs to be repented of. It's not okay. It's not evangelical to twist God's word and make it say whatever you want to say. We need to believe and trust God's word. Now there is one other uh potential interpretation of this passage and it's it's it's a translational issue. There's another way to render uh this passage that's found in the King James that changes the meaning slightly. So here's the King James of Jeremiah 8. 8. How do ye say we are wise? And the law of the Lord is with us. Lo, certainly, in vain made He it. The pen of the scribes is in vain. So the major difference is that now instead of a a lying pen, he has a pen that is in vain, that he in vain made it. And so the the difference here would be that that these scribes are not actually now evil interpreters, but if this vain translation is is correct then these scribes are faithful and that they're actually uh writing out the law of the Lord but nobody's listening to it people are refusing to believe it or that or it's the same problem there might be evil interpreters out there twisting God's word And so that that's another possibility. Not many translations go with that. Many translations go with this with this lying pen and and twisting the word of God into a lie. And but that does let's just take the King James as a possibility. Uh this is this is kind of the same thing we have in our land, don't we? We have uh people and and and And people uh translators and we have so many Bibles on so many shelves, so many faithful preachers, so many people proclaiming the truth of God, and it does you absolutely no good if you refuse to listen to it. And so if this King James translation is correct. then there were so many Bibles, so many scribes out there copying out the Word of God to get to the people, and they were not listening. We see the same thing in in in the uh Old Testament where God said that the kings were to write out the law of the Lord. But how many of those kings either refused to write out the law? Or even when they did, they refused to meditate on that law did not change them. Jesus warned about people who thought that just because they knew the scriptures, just because they had the scriptures, In them, in that knowledge, they would be saved. But he said, you supposed to realize that this scripture points to me. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me We need Jesus. We need to have a personal relationship with Jesus and not just know about the Word of God. So this this tricky scripture is actually quite a wonderful scripture. that warns us about twisting God's word and manipulating it and thinking that we're so wise and we're so smart that we can make God's word say whatever we want wrong. You're not wise you're deceitful. You are you are a man of of trickery and you need to repent. We're not to go and try to twist God's word where to believe it. Or if the King James translation is correct. then it it's not just good enough to have God's word. We must believe it. We must pick it up and read it. And we must meditate on it and we must bring it into action in our daily lives. Let me say one other thing uh about this passage and then and then we'll end. Uh some have tried to take this scripture and suggest that this somehow teaches a mass conspiracy of of scribes out there actually writing uh changing the the word of God and writing out false manuscripts with with all kinds of changed words. and and and all kinds of uh differences in in the actual manuscript tradition. There's absolutely no evidence of of that from this verse. If Jeremiah was seeing people actually all these scribes writing out false translations of the Bible Certainly it would not be this ambiguous. He would certainly make a a much bigger deal about it. He it wouldn't be hidden in a verse like this. It would he would uh he would uh outcry this a whole lot uh larger and describe this this evil practice of people out there um actually uh changing the word of God. So there there's this is no evidence for that. And and and trying to read that into this text is is almost certainly incorrect. A another problem uh with that in uh reality is just unrealistic. The fact of the matter is most people don't go out and actually try to change the the text of the Bible. One, the Bible warns against it so strongly. Uh and two, it's just too obvious. See the devil likes to hide and pretend like he is an angel of light. And so if you're actually out there changing the Bible wholesale, it's it's just too obvious. People recognize that, oh, you cannot do that. And so most likely these people weren't twisting God's word by literally r changing the Bible and and changing the actual physical words of the Bible. It's possible, but usually it that's not what people uh were doing. And if they were, you would expect Jeremiah to really blast this a whole lot more explicitly than in something like in that text. So most likely the the first two interpretations is correct. Probably the first interpretation of the lying scribes is is probably what's going on in the So I hope this I hope this was helpful. And if you have any other difficult passages that that you would like me to address, just please send me an email, leave a comment, and I'll try to address that passage.