So in a previous talk titled Are Gospel Tracts Outdated, I made a comment about how uh how God can work in us, how we should find the most friendly person the person that we uh most likely seem like we'd be good friends with, they seem friendly, they seem kind. That's just the person we should be handing the track to. And I also said, and uh if God gives you a prompting, if the Holy Spirit gives you this prompting to give someone a track, then you should you should give them a track. And someone asked me, what do you mean by the Holy Spirit giving you a prompting? What what is the Holy Spirit's prompting prompting. And so you to understand the Holy Spirit's prompting, we have to understand that God is sovereign. He's sovereign over all things and he brings the pass his perfect will on on the earth. And as such, when we go out there to evangelize, we we are not going out there alone. We're going out with uh with our God, the God who controls all factors, the God who's motivating you to go out there. and and to evangelize and and we're going with a God who can arrange circumstances to bring people that he would have you to meet. And so we need to believe that and trust that God that God can do that. In fact God is doing that. And so we pray, God, help me to find your people. Help me to be your instrument to give these people uh the gospel tract. And so you're you're walking out there in a spirit of prayer and a spirit of expectation that God is going to bring people that He would have you give gospel tracts to. And we think about this divine appointment. There's there's a couple of examples of this in the Bible. One classic example is Jesus with the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman. woman at the will and it says that he had to go through Samaria. In commentary they've said, well he didn't have to go through Samaria. There was no there was no physical dependency upon him going through Samaria. He could have just gone on another another path. Why why does it say he had to go through Samaria when we know he he didn't have to go through Samaria Mary. Well, uh you know, most commentators would agree the text is saying he had to go there because he had this divine appointment that he needed to uh that he needed to fulfill, namely meeting this Samaritan woman and giving her the gospel which was Another examp another famous example of this would be When we think about Philip and the Ethiopian eunuch, that the Holy Spirit sent him out there in the desert, and then here happens to be this man reading Isaiah. And then the Holy Spirit even tells him to go to the eunuch. And he's right there to explain the passage, which is the the very passage about Jesus. So that's again another divine appointment. could be saved so that the gospel could spread down to Africa. And so there's other examples we can give, but that should be sufficient that God can do that. God can bring you to your Philippian Philippian. Your are our eunuchs, right? Our Ethiopian eunuchs. God can do that. So we should so we should trust him that he can Now what does that look like? We're not talking about necessarily an audible voice. Now if you do hear an audible voice and it tells you to go evangelize someone, mm, you probably should obey it. Uh but that's not what we're talking about. just saying that we have this this unexplainable sense that I'm supposed to witness to that person. I I'm that's the person I'm supposed to witness to And there's just this sense, there's no way of describing it. It's like describing to someone who's never felt love, what love is like. How how can you possibly describe that? But if you understand the basic concept of love and and and having this uh passion for someone and and being willing to die for them and you know all of those feelings then when you encounter yourself you're like I think this is what they're talking about. This I think is what what Love is. Well, it's the same way. If you go out there expecting God to bring people in your path in and in prayer and someone walks by, it's like All of a sudden it's like that's the person. I'm supposed to give a track to that person. And oftentimes, uh that this person will not be the your profile person So so also you know, uh I don't really usually consider it a a prompting of the Holy Spirit to give to the people in my profile. And again the profiles are people who are are are are friendly looking and and kind and and not engaged in activity and um and and people that I'm most likely to become friends with. Those people I don't really consider those a probleming of the Holy Spirit, but sometimes there's someone else that I normally would they don't fit those categories. And and it's like I'm supposed to give a track to that person. And sometimes it's like Lord, really? Am I really supposed to give a track to that person? It's like, yes, you're supposed to give a track to that person. That's what I mean by that prompting. of the Holy Spirit. And if you feel that way, if that that inclination comes upon you to share the gospel, then obey. Now sometimes it's difficult. So now, okay, God, you've prompted me, but now I need you to equip me. Now I need your boldness. And that's when I quote Scripture, you have not given me a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and self-control. I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they too might obtain the salvation that's in Christ. Christ Jesus with eternal glory. And sometimes I just straight out pray. Oh God, help me. I need your help so that I can go over there and to share the gospel. And so the mass majority of the times that I've felt the prompting of the Holy Spirit and done this, uh, they've accepted the track. But sometimes th they haven't accepted the track So so so what shall we say then? The Holy Spirit wasn't prompting you? How how do you know that? Uh maybe the Holy Spirit uh maybe you have maybe you were wrong Uh more likely though, uh that for whatever reason the Holy Spirit wanted you uh to attempt to give this track, but ultimately uh allowed the person to reject. We don't know. That's the exciting We don't know exactly uh what God's doing. I can tell you stories about this. It's just it's exciting to follow the Holy Spirit and to try to be his his um his hand hands and feet on the earth and try to share the good news with people. I can tell you times where, you know, I'm I'm praying, I'm ready to give out tracks and and then I get off a subway and and all of a sudden the train leaves and I'm like Well what's going on here? And I start looking around. I'm like, okay, Lord, you've clearly placed me here, so who where are they? Who am I supposed to give a track too. And and it's been like things that sometimes you know, I've I've been trying to give tracks and and no one's accepting. I'm like, Well this is odd. What what are you doing, God? Why why did you have me miss the subway or or or why did you have me go this direction? I don't see anybody And I'm like, where are they? Where are they? And then all of a sudden I see 'em. And then I give the I see them or I see her or whoever. And I give the try. It's just exciting to watch. uh with the Lord believing that he said that he was going to call people from every tribe, tongue, and nation. And so the very reason that we're still here is because God is still saving people people. So God is more than willing and still in the business of saving. We just need to uh willingly offer ourselves up to the Lord and say, Here I am, Lord, send me. So that's the prompting of the Holy Spirit. Go in his power. Go in his strength. If the Holy Spirit puts a burden on you to share the gospel with someone, pray for strength, and do it believing that He's calling you because He's doing something in that person's life, or maybe He's doing something in your life, but we can trust Him. Hope that helps. God bless.