You know, they say that the greatest fear is not the fear of death. I'm not sure about that. But they say it's not the fear of death, but the fear of public speaking. I don't know about that. But I want you to imagine that you were a preacher, that you got to come up here with the mic. And preach this sermon. That you just did this. You preached and proclaimed God 's word. And I want you to imagine As a preacher, that you had to preach your last sermon. The sermon series were up, and this was it. Your final message. That thought experiment, and for you who know me well, I like thought experiments, that thought experiment was actually true for a man named Greg Bonson. So it was 1995, December, and he was only forty-seven years old. Now he didn't technically know that it was his last sermon, but he did know that this was his third heart surgery. And the doctors told him, you might not survive. And he was a preacher and he preached to his congregation. And sure enough He preached that Sunday. He had his surgery on Tuesday. He slipped into a coma and died that Saturday. So he didn't know it was his last message, but he thought it might be, and it ended up being his last message. And the text that Bonson chose was Philippians 1. 21. Now some of you like to memorize Bible verses and you'll immediately recognize that. But the rest of you go search quickly. And your physical copies or hit Google quick. Don't worry, I'll tell you right now. To live is Christ. And to die is gain. And so I do encourage you to go back and listen to that sermon. You get to hear a sermon from an amazing man and hear his final words to a congregation. But I think without even listening to the sermon, you can probably figure out what the sermon was about. Amen? To live is Christ. To die is Christ Well this morning, Lord willing, I'm not dying, you never know. But this morning, I am in a potential similar situation. It very well may be that this is my final sermon to you, especially during the morning sermons, as your resident pastor. I don't know. We'll see what Jessup Baptist Church decides. But I'm going to preach this message as if it was my final message to you. So back to my original question. If you were a preacher, what would your final message be? Would it be eschatology? The rapture? Your favorite pet doctrine? What would it be? Well, I have decided to share with you the most important message of all. And what's that? The gospel of Christ. So I want you to turn over to 2 Timothy 2 verse 8. 2 Timothy 2 verse 8. I'm calling in audible. We're preaching from this text. I'll read from verse 8. Through verse 9 and not even going through all of it, just the beginning. And I'll call another audible. We will sing as our final song, just as I am. I think you guys got it. Okay, here it is. 2 Timothy 2, 8 through 9. Remember that Jesus Christ, the seed of David, was raised from the dead according to my gospel. For which I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even to the point of chains. Now this passage is staggering if you can really think about what's going on. Here we have the Apostle Paul, and he's a prisoner for the Lord. Some have said, can you believe that a third of your New Testament is written by a convict? Kind of crazy, right? But he was a convict for the Lord. His freedom had been taken away The Greek word used for chains describes a small chain, maybe 18 inches, that was shackled to probably Paul's arm attached to a Roman guard at all times. They would switch out, maybe every six hours, a new guard would be shackled to the Apostle Paul, leaving him with absolutely no privacy. Can you imagine? That Roman guard is with you when you eat. That Roman guard is with you when you sleep. Can't even get a full night's sleep. Six hours he's waking up. Shackled to a new guard. You can't even go to the bathroom. What helped some Roman god with you? How embarrassing. He has no privacy. He's confined to a little home. He's not actually in a Roman jail because they didn't have any charges against him. But they didn't want to let him out, so they put him in house arrest. But usually house arrest you got your YouTube your couch, your friends. He doesn't have YouTube couch or friends. He's in someone else's house. Locked away. With the Roman Guard. On a side note, what do you think he did with that Roman Guard? Talk about football? Talk about the weather? No, we talked about my gospel. So here's the Apostle Paul. He's locked up He's in jail. He's the evangelist who had once traveled the world, and now the great evangelist is stuck to a building. And he is waiting for news. Some of you are waiting for news, but probably not this news. He's waiting for news if he's going to be executed. If he's going to be killed, and why is he here? What has he done? Sometimes maybe you cry out, God, why me? What did I do? Maybe Paul felt that way. We don't know. But what did Paul do to deserve this treatment? Congregation, what did he do? Nothing. He didn't do anything. Was he a robber? Was he a thief? Was he a rapist? Was he a murderer? What did he do? He refused to shut That's what he did. He refused to stop preaching the gospel of Christ. He refused to stop telling people about the grace of God that had captured his soul and set him free from bondage. Isn't that crazy? Paul refused to stop sharing the gospel. So often we can't even motivate ourselves to show up to share the gospel. I hope that's convicting, because it's convicting to me. He refused to stop telling people about the God who had captured his soul and had set him free from bondage of sin and death. And so this morning, let us discover what was this glorious gospel that Paul says was my gospel. Can you say that? My gospel? It's mine. It's captured my soul. What was this gospel? of Jesus Christ, Son of David, raised from the dead, that this message that made Paul willing to suffer so greatly and not be released, all he had to do was be quiet This reminds me of John Bunyan. Long, long time ago. John Bunyan, the famous preacher, he too was locked into jail. He was locked in jail for twelve years. And what was his crime? Same as Paul. He wouldn't be quiet. They said, you can't preach this message unless you're authorized by the church. And he said, No. I've been authorized by Christ, and I will share this good news with whoever comes to me. And they locked them away. Maybe some of you know John Bunyan, but do you know the rest of the story? John Bunyan had four kids at that time. His wife had died. One of his kids named Mary was blind. He got remarried because his wife died. His wife was pregnant at the time. And he's thrown in jail. And they tell him, you can get out of here if you just be quiet. And do you know what he said? The day you release me is the day I'll continue to preach the gospel. Isn't that convicting? It's not just the Apostle Paul. It's other people, people with flesh and blood. Paul had flesh and blood. But people that were not even in the Bible that would do this. And again, sometimes we won't even show up to share the gospel. He was locked away. Twelve years he suffered. Six children he had in prison away from his family. What was this message that captured John Bunyan? What was this message that captured Paul? What made Paul turn from a persecutor of the faith to one who was willing to be persecuted? by the faith. What is this gospel? That's what we're going to look at today. What is this gospel? Is the gospel a type of Christian music? Kind of. But it's much more than that. Is the gospel just a religious term that we use and we have no idea what it means? If I asked the survey, what does Hosanna mean? How many do you know? What does hallelujah mean? What does Amen mean? By the way, that's the most common word in all languages. Amen. Do you even know what it means? Sometimes it just becomes religious speech, right? We just use it. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. You realize the redundancy. Nothing wrong with that, by the way. The Bible has full of redundancy. But did you know hallelujah means praise the Lord? Is that how we treat the gospel? Is the gospel just some religious term that we use that we have no idea? I hope not, because you're not going to suffer in prison. It's not going to change your life, Hosanna, is it? Has Hosanna changed your life? Probably not. Probably don't have any idea what it even means. That's not the way we should treat the gospel. Now I have the privilege of being an elder of the Church of Jesus Christ, of this church, right? This church is Baptist and it feels Baptist and it smells Baptist and acts Baptist and very similar to other Baptist churches. We even are not even original with our name. The first Baptist church at Corinth First Baptist Church of Galatia, these are the books of the Bible by the way. First chap Baptist book, first Baptist Church of Galatia and all these other Philippi and all these other churches. We did the same thing, we just stood on the street In fact we change our name when we change the street. That's why we got our name, Andover, because the street's name Andover. They changed the street name, we change our name. But I'm re I have the privilege of being an elder at this church. But we do the very same things that almost every other church does. And we have the privilege of getting new members. New members can come because children who've been raised in the faith and marinating in the truth of God's word, amen, eventually profess the faith themselves and say, I'm a Christian You might not think I'm a Christian, but I'm a Christian and I love Jesus, and stop not believing me. Right? They say that. Say, believe me. Believe my testimony. I want to be baptized. I have been saved. And so then we, as the elders, say, have you? And we interview them. You can also get new members because they just transfer to your church. They just come. Or if they got evangelized by some person and they got saved. And so as we interview these potential new members who want to join the church, I have a little secret. for you. We interview them and we ask them questions because we want to see where are they? How are they doing spiritually? Anyone could say, I want to join the church, but you have to be someone who's born again. You have to be an actual true believer. You just can't join the church because you like the food or the pretty girl is there. Right? You gotta actually love Jesus. You gotta actually be saved. And so we as the elders ask them questions. And I'm going to whisper this because I don't want anyone to overhear me. But we ask a question almost always, and not just this church, but nearly every church. And here's the question. And if you write this down, you're going to get it right. What is the gospel? It might not be those exact words, but we're asking you, what is the gospel? You know why? How can you be transformed by a message you do not know? You can't. So if you are taking notes, you don't need to, you can take mental notes, you're going to pass that test. If you know what is the gospel. What is it? What is the gospel? Well it's certainly more than a genre of music. It's certainly not a religious term that people use, but have no idea what it means. But rather, according to Paul, Romans chapter 1, verse 16, for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for this the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes. to the Jew first and also the Greek. What is the gospel? According to Paul, it's his gospel, which is what? It is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes. Jew, Gentile, Greek, barbarian, black, white, male, female, big, small, old, young, smart. Dumb, the self-righteous, and those who are obviously sinners. The gospel is the power of God for salvation to all people everywhere of every description. The gospel is the solution to man's fundamental problem. And what is that, beloved? Church? What is man's fundamental problem? What is your fundamental problem outside of Christ? Here it is. Your fundamental problem is this, that you have sinned against God. Sometimes we say, I need to get saved. Have you ever stopped to ask, saved from what? Or asked differently, saved from who? The answer is we need to be saved from our sin and saved from the wrath of God. The problem is that we have sinned and transgressed against the holy God. And in fact, the problem actually goes much deeper than the fact that we have actually just sinned. The problem is that we are fundamentally evil. Now I know that's not popular today, and I know that the culture wants to say that you're fundamentally good. And rather what happens is that you're corrupted by society. You're corrupted by the media. You're corrupted by your parents. The Bible teaches and experience confirms that we are fundamentally not good, but we're fundamentally corrupt. How did the environment get so corrupt in the first place? Because it's full of sinners like you. That's how. Our problem is not others. Our problem is ourselves. Let God be true and every man a liar. Man at his core is not good, he is rotten, he is fallen, he is wicked. David declared long ago in Psalm 51, 5 Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Now what does that mean? Well the NLT has done us a favor and it's modernized it. Here's the NLT's re rendering. For I was born a sinner, yes, from the moment my mother conceived me. I came into this world vile. Our problem is that we have a wicked heart. Our problem is that we have wicked desires coming from the womb. We love evil and we hate good. We are born liars, we're born cheats, and we're born thieves. Vodhi Bacchum, does anybody know Vodhi? God bless his soul. Amazing man of God. Now gone to heaven. He famously put it this way. When a child is born into the world, many times people will say, especially to the parents, oh, what a beautiful little angel. You know this, Ruby? Oh, what a beautiful little angel. But he says the reality is that it's a viper and a diaper. And that is the truth. That angel is wicked, vile. That angel certainly likes to sin a lot The Bible says this, Proverbs 22, verse 15. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. The rod of correction will drive it far from him. Now here's the question. How did foolishness get bound up in the heart of a child in the first place? What did it- How did it get there? That we need to drive it out with that rod of correction. Or Genesis 8. 21 says The intent of a man's heart is evil from his youth. Again, the question is, why is that the case? Why is his desires corrupted from his youth? Why is their folly bound up in his heart? And the answer is it's called the great doctrine of the fall. Our original father, Father Adam, fell into transgression, and in some mysterious but yet true way, we in Adam also fell. Ruby will preach more about that. this amen this evening you'll hear more about that federal headship of of Adam and of Christ Who's the second Adam? But the point is that Adam fell, and we in some very true and yet mysterious way fell in Adam. And as Adam's nature was corrupted, so was ours. And now our flesh, that's our human nature, wars against God. Out of a contaminated root, Adam, we ourselves have become contaminated and vile. There's a wonderful passage in Job 14. 4 that puts it this way. Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean thing? It's a rhetorical question. The Bible answers it. No one. Nothing. Now I'm going to give you an analogy. I'm going to give you a story. Many years ago, I joined the military to provide for my lovely wife back there. I was 19 years old And I went off to basic training, thinking I was doing something good, and then second-guessing myself after the treatment from the drill sergeants, wondering what I had done wrong. If you've ever been to basic training, you kind of know what I mean. They don't treat you very nicely. At least they didn't back then. And one of the things they like to do was wake you up in the middle of the night. You're already sleep-deprived. You're already exhausted. You're marching. I was already skinny. You should see some pictures of me after basic. You could see every one of my ribs. I lost all fat. Because you just marched and sweat and you got no sleep and they wouldn't even let you eat and they'd yell at you all the time. Well one of the things they again they would like to do is wake you up in the middle of the night. So here I am exhausted, laying on my bunk. And you wake up to banging and yelling and drill sergeants and screaming at you, getting formation, go out there and march, and we go out there and march out in the darkness to who knows what, and it's cold and it's wet. And then we get to a field, and they tell us to get on our bellies and crawl. Maybe some of you have seen this in the movies. And there's barbed wire. And the ground is muddy and it's wet. And they say, crawl underneath those barbed wires for foot after foot after foot. And you hear in the background, you hear the sound of bullets, and they say there's live fire, and if you decide to get up, you're going to be shot, and it's on you. Because we warned you. And so here we are crawling on this mud under the barbed wire, foot after foot, completely exhausted. And so here's my question. When we got to the other side of all that mud, which one of you thinks that our uniforms were clean? And prostine and fresh. They weren't. Why? Because of the truth of this passage. Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean thing? No one. It was filthy. It was muddy. We were sweaty. We got dirty. Well here's the point. That's you. You've been playing in the mud. You've been crawling through the grime and the dirt. And which one of you thinks that you are clean unless you get a new uniform? Unless somebody cleans you up Do you see? The clean does not come out of the unclean. We come out of a contaminated filth of Father Adam. We're connected to him and we have sinned in him. I'll give you another analogy. I like J. R. Token. I like the Lord of the Rings. I like vampires and zombies and trolls and all these mysterious beings. Maybe you don't, maybe you're too I don't know. I like them. Apparently a lot of the world likes them too, because they sell a lot in the movie theaters. And in those fantasy worlds, there's these creatures called trolls. Anybody know what a troll looks like? They're big, they're stinky, they're dumb, and they're violent. Now imagine a troll has a baby with another, has a child with another troll. What's going to come out of their union? A baby troll. Filthy. Nasty. Vile. Stinky. And if it grows up, it too will be. A troll. Again, this is the human condition. We come into this world vile, contaminated, and wicked and wicked. We are that viper and a diaper. Now, just in case you're willing, you 're wanting to cry out, that's not fair. It was Adam, not me. I'll give you three facts that you need to consider. Here's fact number one. Number one, life is not fair. Get over it. How could you possibly have survived this long and not realize that life is not fair? Stop crying about it and do something about it. There are two types of people. There are people who are always looking for an excuse. You know that person? They're always looking for an excuse of why they didn't succeed. And then there's somebody else that's always looking for a solution. Be the second person, not the first person. Here's the second reality. Adam and Eve represent you. And they perfectly represent you because God made them represent you. Meaning what Adam and Eve did is exactly what you would have done. So you need to shut your mouth And realize that you have no basis for your accusation. It's just happenstance that it wasn't you in the garden. Romans 9, 19. You will say to me then, why does he still find fault? For who has resisted his will? But indeed, O man, will you reply against God? Will the thing formed say to him who formed it, Why have you made me like this? Does not the potter have power over the clay from the same lump to make one vessel of honor and another of dishonor? Yes, he can. He formed you from that nasty clump of clay called Father Adam. And it could have just easily been Father U. And here's the third reason that you have no basis for saying it's not fair. God can't possibly do this to me. And here's this. You're not just condemned because of your sinful nature, because you have corrupt desires, because you have a corrupt and wicked heart. But you're also condemned because of what you did with those sinful cravings. Do you see that? It's not just that God says, well, you like the evil. That you're condemned, but you're condemned because you gave in to those the base desires and temptations. I'll give you an example. Suppose a man is caught in the very act of adultery. Would it be an excuse for him to say, I just gave in? No, that's the problem. The problem isn't that you just had these evil, lustful desires. The problem is you gave in to those desires. Amen? Who would accept as an excuse? I'm not guilty, I just gave in Yes, that's the problem. Or another story, another analogy. Imagine a child is caught in a bold-face lie. They blatantly lie to you in your face, and you catch them in this lie. And you say, you lied to me. And it says, I just gave in. I didn't want to get in trouble. Yeah, that's precisely the problem. You gave in to these evil cravings. Well, the problem with us is the same. It's not just that we have evil cravings that you can say is not my fault. I didn't desire this. Some of them you may have not desired. The problem is you gave into those desires, you yielded to them, and you sinned Paul gives an accurate condition. He gives an accurate assessment of us. We need to see ourselves as God sees ourselves, not as you see yourself, and not as your friends see you. But how does God see you? Well, Paul tells us in Romans chapter 3. Let you turn there. Romans chapter 3. We're going to look at a few things. Romans 3. 23 says, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. So the first way that God looks at you is he looks at you as a sinner. But again, the question is, and I think that should be overly surprising, we've all made mistakes. Truthfully, they're more than mistakes. They're sins. They're violation of God's law But I don't think that's a surprise to most that we've sinned. But look at verse ten and we get an accurate description of how God sees us, and he sees us as more than just people who have made mistakes or maybe sinned a few times. He says there, Romans chapter three, verse ten , There is none righteous, no not one. There is no one who understands. There is none who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become unprofitable. Worthless. Can you believe that? God is saying if he could take up all of wicked humanity and put it on a scale, he would value it as worthless. How's that for your self-esteem? Worthless. There is no one who does good, no not one. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their ways, the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. This is how God views the wicked. Now who is he talking about? Is he talking about Hitler? Stalin? Or Barack Obama if you're a Republican? Or Donald Trump if you're a Democrat? No. He isn't. He's not talking about the person who's especially wicked in your eyes But rather he's talking about Gandhi. He's talking about Muhammad. He's talking about Joseph Smith. He's talking about your favorite unbeliever that you desperately wish were saved. And most importantly, outside of Christ, he's talking about you This is not talking about those who are especially heinous, but rather the general common condition of wicked fallen people outside of Christ, people at best are whitewashed. They look beautiful on the outside, but they're inside full of dead men's bones. But the reality is, if we're completely honest, many of them aren't even whitewashed tombs at all. Isn't that true? And we only think they're whitewashed tubes because our conscience has been so seared by the world. We're like fish who don't even realize that we're wet. Well, like Isaiah, who thinks he's probably a pretty good guy until he gets a vision of God and his holiness in Isaiah chapter 6, and what does he say? He says, I am undone. I am a man of what? Unclean lips. And I dwell among a people. This was Isaiah, the prophet. Who was the people he dwelled upon? The church. And I dwell among a people with unclean lips. Outside of Christ, we are deeply depraved. We are much more sinful than we even know. We're not pretty good guys. We're sinners. Did you know some demons are more depraved than other demons? The Bible teaches that. Not all demons are equally depraved. Did you see that in Matthew chapter 12, verse 45? Some demons are worse than others. Some more wicked demons it says they bring along in the last condition is worse than the first. And that's what we do. We say, well, I'm not as bad as that person, so I'm okay. You're still a demon. It doesn't matter if you could find someone more wicked than you. It's completely irrelevant. Demons are demons. Vile is vile. Sinful is sinful. I'm not saying you're as wicked as you possibly could be. I'm saying you're wicked enough. You're wicked enough that's to stand condemned. You're not holy. You're soiled. Your clothes are filthy. They're full of dirt, like I was, crawling through the mud. With live fire going before me, with screaming drill sergeants behind me. Here's the question. Okay, that's our condition, but so what? We're sinners or everybody's sinners, right? It's not a big deal. It is a big deal What will God, what are the consequences for being so soiled, for being so dirty, for being so vile? Is it a big deal? It is a big deal. Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin, the just deserts of sin is what? Congregation. The wages of sin is Death. Very serious. And this isn't some kind of just quick annihilation, as you might hear some people on the internet falsely spreading. But rather, this is God sending people straight to hell. For the worm shall not die, and the fire will not be quenched. Revelation 14, 9 describes the picture, and I want you to see the horror of this, and I want you to recognize that the people who are going to be In this picture are everyone outside of Christ, even your loved ones. Revelation 14, 9. The wicked will drink the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of his indignation. Unbelievers shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the lamb, and the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever. They have no rest, day or night. It's been said by some, and I agree. You can't exaggerate the horrors of hell. I don't know what that exactly is going to look like, but I certainly don't want it to be true of me And I certainly don't want it to be true of you. Drinking the full wrath of the wrath of God, having no rest day and night, being tormented forever and ever? No. Hear me loud and clear for all those who can hear. Your sin will find you out. You can hide it. You can deceive your parents. You could deceive a watching world, but the reality is your sin will find you out in the end. Hebrews 9. 27 is true of all people. It is appointed for men to die once, but after this, the judgment. So here's my question. Do you see the flames? Do you smell the smoke? Do you feel the heat? Because it's real. And it's coming upon this world. Hebrews 12, 29, our God is a consuming fire. And Jesus, you think, surely Jesus didn't speak like this. This is just a fiery, brimstone, angry preacher. Right? Here's what Jesus says. Matthew 23, verse 33, you snakes, you offspring of vipers, how will you escape being sentenced to hell? This is partially how I got saved, but I realized that Jesus was not going to rescue me. Jesus condemned me. He said, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. That's Jesus' question. You vipers, you brood of snakes, how will you escape the condemnation of hell? And that's the question. How will we escape being sentenced to hell if it really is true that we have corrupt desires? And it is! Can you not see? Do you not look at your heart and see how sinful it is, how you lust for things you ought not to? Who could say that their heart is clean? It isn't. And who could say that they have not yielded to those evil desires? You have. So how? The wage of sin is death. How will we escape being sentenced to hell? And the answer is the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's good news. Gospel means good news. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the answer. Man may be wicked, but we have a Savior that is greater than our sin. He is glorious and he is wonderful and he is loving and he's kind. And God could send us straight to hell. We are We might be dangling under a thin rope called life over the court or the pit of hell, and yet God does not want us to go there. He's holding us up. And he's done wonderful things. He's accomplished a way to be redeemed, to be forgiven, to be saved. I firmly believe that not a single person has to end up in hell. But every one of you can be forgiven and every one of you can be saved. And that's the good news of Jesus Christ. Every single one of you. John 3. 16, most famous verse of the Bible. It's a beautiful verse. And on a side note, if that's the verse that you struggle with, you've got problems. It's so clear. It's so glorious. It's so wonderful. It's the gospel. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That's the glorious and wonderful good news that God so loved the world that you don't have to descend into the pit of hell That you can be redeemed. You can enjoy the glories of heaven. That God so loved the world that He sent His Son to be tortured so that you don't have to be tortured, to die so that you don't have to die. But unlike you, he was sinless. He had never done anything wrong. He came to redeem you. And so when he died, death couldn't hold him. And three days later he broke forth out of death and he took the keys of death in Hades. And now he says, come. He says, whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Beloved, whoever includes you, no matter what you've done. No matter how vile you think you are, and you are. Or how not vile you think you are, but you are. Whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The question is: will we see our need? Will we be humble enough to recognize that we need him in the first place? God resists the proud. But what congregation? He gives grace to the humble, those who are humble enough to recognize that you're not okay, that your excuses will not save you, that you need him And that you'll call out on his name and that he will save you. Jesus beckons you to come. He says, Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly of heart, and you will find rest for your souls. John Bunyan, I talked about him earlier. He famously described the Christian life as a man with a giant burden on his back Burdened by his sin, running from the city of destruction, recognizing that it was going to drag him straight to hell. And that burden came off when he got a vision of what? The cross of Christ. The burden came tumbling away. And that's what Christ is saying. If you're heavy laden, if you're burdened, if you see that you have sinned, if you see that you've offended a righteous and holy God, come. Revelation 22, 17. And the spirit and the bride say, Come. Who's the bride? That's us. We're saying, come. And let him who hears say, Come. And let him who thirsts say, Come. And whoever desires, let him. Come and take of the water of life freely. You don't have to clean up your life. You have to come to Christ and He'll clean up your life You don't have to free yourself of your addiction from sin. You can't. That's the problem. You're a slave. But Jesus says the truth will set you free. And he says, I am the way, I am the truth, I am the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. All you have to do is come. Come. Believe. Put your trust in Christ and let him wash away all of your sins. Come to Christ by faith alone, through grace alone. to Christ alone and come be saved by the gospel alone. Why, sinner, would you die? Why would you be cast into the pit of hell forever? Enough with your excuses, enough with your unbelief, just come. Submit, come to the altar, repent, believe, trust, call upon his name. Don't delay And as I close this sermon, I just want you to be warned. Do not delay. You don't know if you're ever gonna You don't know if you're gonna walk out of this building alive. You don't know if you're gonna die young or old. Terry, Terry Roxer, you guys know him? I love that man. He was a police officer. He said, I've seen them all die. The healthy? And the sick, the skinny and the fat, the young and the old. Some of you with gray hair have seen it, have you not? They all die. You too will die. Do not delay. But it's worse than that. Not only might you die unexpectedly But friend, do you realize that God will not always come knocking on your door if you feel his pull, his draw. Come. Today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. Today you hear his voice. Don't harden your heart. Tomorrow you may not hear it anymore. Isaiah 55, verse 6, seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon his name while he is near. You have to understand the window of opportunity is limited to your span of life, but it's smaller than that. It's limited to when the Holy Spirit comes knocking and you feel his drawing because you can't do anything without him. And if you resist them, he might abandon you forever. And you might be lost forever. And you might end up like a man on death row who's run out of all appeals. And he's a dead man walking, waiting to be executed. How sad. A man who's resisted God's grace so much that he doesn't even hear any longer and he's just waiting to die. I pray that none of you would end up in that condition. In conclusion, Deuteronomy 30, verse 19: I call heaven and earth as a witness today against you. I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life. That both you and your descendants may live. I'm guilty. I'm innocent of all of your blood. I have preached the true gospel to you But I've not just preached this message to you so I can simply say I'm innocent. I preach this message to you because I want to see you saved I want you to be able to say with many in this room, I've tasted and seen that the Lord is good. The Lord has taken my heart of stone and replaced it with a heart of flesh. I have seen that the Lord is worth everything. Can you say that, Congregation? He's worth it all. And I pray that you'd be able to say that In a hundred years most of the people correction, everybody most likely in this room would be dead And nothing will matter except what you've done with Jesus Christ. That's right. Dear Heavenly Father, God, I pray that everyone in this room would come taste and see that you are good. And that they would believe the chisla.