So our passage will be from 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. We're going to focus on verse 4 through Lord willing. Verse 11. But for context, we will read from verse 1. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, beginning in verse 1. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying, there is peace and security. Then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not expose. Escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for the day, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night Or of the darkness. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing So I remember years ago, I was in a small group meeting where it was the pastor and his family and a few other members of a Wednesday night gathering. And we were reading a a book from John Piper. I think it was Let the Nations Be Glad. And what we would do is we'd read the book and then afterwards we would discuss it And we fell into a section from John Piper's book where he was talking about that we need to be in a warfare mentality That we're at war, and yet oftentimes we think that we're at peace and we don't live our lives appropriately because we are and a peacetime mentality instead of a wartime mentality. And I remember s being in that small group and and slightly critiquing uh John Piper and saying, I agree with John Piper. But in some ways this is so obvious that it doesn't need to be spoken. How could you possibly be a Christian and not recognize that we are in fact at war? Well, I can tell you years later, and many more experiences later, that uh John Piper was right, I was wrong. Christians need to hear that we are at war. Because we're all tempted to have a peacetime mentality when we in fact should have a wartime mentality, especially probably being in the West. with just the prosperity and the peace that we have. Some of our biggest concerns and our biggest problems may be, I wonder if my Portfolio for my 401k account will get 10% or 13%. I mean come on. That's some pretty peacetime mentality perspective But we need to remember that we are at war. That is what our passage is going to remind us as well. The passage is not afraid to say we need to remember that we're at war and that we are battling against the world, the flesh, and the devil. So by way of review, last time we really tried to hone in and look at this idea that we are children of the light and children of the Children of the day versus children of the night and children of the darkness. And we trace this theme of light and darkness throughout the Bible And so that we very the very first time we see this concept of of light and darkness is really in the very first book, in the very first chapter of the Bible, in Genesis. As you remember, God creates the world, and he doesn't create the world like we see it today. Maybe that's how you would have created the world, just bam, it's all there. But no, instead, he creates the world and the original state of the world is a watery abyss and is that ominous picture that it's it's dark and there's a void. It's scary But in that darkness and that chaos and that abyss, we have the Spirit of God hovering over the faces of the deep. And this is like God putting his foot on darkness is saying, I got this. I have conquered the evil. Watch me work. And the very first thing God creates is he says, let there be light. And there was light. And here we have God conquering and destroying the darkness, and the darkness not being able to overtake the light But surprising, God does not completely banish the darkness. Maybe it's not that surprising we can see the darkness coming upon us But he doesn't banish the darkness completely, but instead he separates darkness from light, and there's a part of the day, or part of the 24-hour cycle that's governed by the light, and there's a part of it that's governed by the darkness. Now what's interesting about that is that we see that not only is there this light and darkness phase of creation, but when we get into Genesis chapter 3, what do we see? We see that there's actually moral darkness that's slithering into God's good creation in the form of the serpent So not only do we have light and darkness in creation, but we have light and darkness morally in the world. And man falls for the darkness, and mankind enters into the darkness. Man was created in the light, and now he enters into the darkness as children of the darkness. He is now enslaved to the devil. As we go all the way through the end of the book, we see that the new creation is not like this. Because the new creation, there is no more darkness, there is no more waterly watery abyss, and it's no longer a void, but now we have this new creation, this new heavens, this new earth, this new city. Well all the people of God are there And it says in Revelation 21 that there is no darkness there at all. But rather, there is pure light. God is the light, and the lamp its Uh the lamp the lamp is the lamb and we walk by that light. It also says that there is no more sea. So there's a complete reversal of what we see originally in creation in Genesis 1. It's completely undone we get into Revelation. 21. But there is not it's not as if there is no more darkness at all. There is still darkness, and that's the outer darkness. That's hell. Hell is the darkness where the children of darkness will end up residing. Okay, so the new heavens new earth is pure light and the hell, the lake of fire, is pure darkness. So we see that there's a separation Between light and darkness. But right now, these things are together. Today we have a phase of light and a phase of darkness. But there is coming a day where the children of light will be in a place that is only light, and the children of darkness will be in a place that is only darkness. Today's the mix. Tomorrow will it will be forever divided upon one another. Now verse four and five of our passage tells us when is this division going to happen? When is this inner mixing going to be broken? And it's at the great harvest. Look at verse 4 and 5. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night. or of the darkness. So here, whether we're associated with the light or whether we are associated with the darkness, the cash value, or the ultimate effect of that, will be seen when the great harvest of the Lord comes. And that language of the great harvest, Jesus actually gives a parable of this. He talks about the wheat and the tares. And it's really quite surprising that you would think that when the kingdom of God breaks in, all the wicked would be thrown out immediately. Jesus Christ comes in, the Messiah comes in, and then now we have the ushering in of the fullness of the kingdom. That's what you would expect. But Jesus gives a parable of the weed and tares and says, no, actually That there are going to be wheat that are planted by God, and the enemy, the devil, is going to come in and plant the tares there. And then the angels are going to say, Should we rip them up? He says, No. Leave them until the great harvest. And then when the great harvest comes, and when everything is fully right, the angels will come out and divide the wicked from the righteous. And that's what's going on here. That is the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord is the great harvest where Christ will come for his And it says that if you are in darkness, he will come to you like a thief. You are a child of the dark, and Jesus comes to you like one in the dark. And you're sleeping and you're slumbering, and here Christ comes and he takes all of your stuff, all of your hopes. Your dreams, your aspirations, the things that you care about if you're a child of darkness will all be taken from you, and rather you'll be cast into the outer darkness forever. If you want darkness, you will truly receive darkness when the Lord comes. And it will be completely different than it is now. Because right now there's darkness, but it's intermixed with God's blessing. God says that he sends the rain and the sunshine on both the righteous and the wicked. So the wicked right now might think I'll just take my darkness and be happy. No, they will not. Because that darkness is now mixed with God's good blessings. And one day all of God's blessings will be stripped out, and all you have is the filth of the darkness that it really is. And that will happen at the great harvest. But our passage tells us that we are not of the darkness, for that day to surprise us like a thief, but rather we are children of light, children of the day, not children of darkness. the darkness, that we are associated with the light, and so we have nothing to fear. God will come for us, not as a thief, but as a friend. Some of you may or may not have been deployed in the army. If you're not, I want you just to use your imagination that you're deployed, that you're out at sea or you're you're out in Iraq or wherever you are. And you haven't seen your family for a long time. And then all of a sudden, you're coming back and you see them at the airport. You don't come as a thief, you come as a long-awaited friend. You're so glad to see your family. That reunion is sweet and beautiful. And that's for hopefully for everyone in this room. That's how we view Jesus. He's on deployment. He's reigning heaven, but he's coming back for us, and we'll wait for for him at the airport, waiting to see his plane arrive for us. That's how we should wait for the Lord, not as a thief, but rather as a friend. And so sometimes it feels like we're in that airport forever. There's a delay. We don't know when the plane is coming, but the Lord is on his way and we can Wait for him. So verse 4 and 5 shows us the division of what will happen at the great day of the Lord between children of light and children of the darkness. Verse 6 and 7 tell us our ethical requirements for being a child of life. So if you can think about it, verse 4 and 5 says, here's your benefit plan. Your benefit plan for being a child of light is that God will come and save you at the day of the Lord. At least this is one of the benefits. But verse 6 and 7 tells you, okay, and here are the requirements, or here are the things that God expects from you. Not to be saved, but he just expects this from his people. And here's what he says, verse six and seven. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober, for those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. So since we are people of the day and not people of the night, then our behavior should be characteristic of daytime behavior. You see that? So people of the night, what do they do? They sleep. But since we are people of the day, we are not to sleep as other people do. And then we also see that people at night characteristically who aren't sleeping are doing bad things. Not sex. They are getting drunk at In fact, even with our godless world, it's still socially unacceptable to just go around drinking during the day. You're supposed to be doing something a little bit more productive than that If your boss comes and sees you with your burger and your beer, it's going to probably be a problem because you're supposed to be doing work and not being intoxicated. That same boss might invite you to beer after work, but at least during the day you're not supposed to be be drinking. into In fact, one of the big signs that you're an alcoholic is that you drink during the day. There are certain characteristic signs of nighttime activity That is not the same as daytime activity. Now, these are sinful. We should not be doing that. I'm tempted to preach a sermon on right now on the wickedness of alcohol and how we should be sober. But that's actually not really what our passage is talking about. Our passage isn't talking about being drunk. It presupposes that you know that you're supposed to be sober. That you're supposed to have sobriety when it comes to your mind. This is actually talking about a spiritual sobriety of recognizing the world as it is. And likewise, there's this idea of not sleeping. Now, I don't know about you, but on the Lord's day I love my nap No one 's going to make me feel guilty for the Lord's day nap. This is a blessing from God. And this is not saying that because it was daytime and I was sleeping, that somehow I was being sinful. Not at all. Now, if that's what you do all day, then you probably need to hear Proverbs when it says a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands and Poverty will fall upon you like an armed man. You you probably need to hear that sermon to recognize, okay, you know, day is not for sleeping, day is for living. But again, that's not really what our passage is talking about because that'd be talking about physical sleep But this passage is just talking about an ethical sleep, a moral sleep, when we fall asleep on duty, when we're supposed to be awake and alert and attentive, but instead we are slumbering as if there's nothing that's supposed to be being done. Again, the day is for work. The day is for labor. There is a day coming where no man can work. That's the day of death. And so now if we still have breath, God would have us to do good things. We should always be saying, what is the next good thing that I can do for you? Lord, I'm awake, I'm alive, I want to serve you. So this sleep here is a spiritual sleep where people instead of Focusing on the things that matter, they are in instead distracted. This is an inattentiveness. If you think about sleep, when you're asleep, you don't know what's going on out there. Okay, you're not alert. And to give you a biblical example of this inattentiveness of sleep, think about Samson. He was the strongest man in the world. He probably the strongest man that ever existed. This man was so strong he was grabbing uh the jawbone of a donkey and killing thousands of men. He could not be bound. One time they tried to bound him in a city, he got mad, he woke up, grabbed the gates, and took them with him on top of a mountain. I mean this kind of strength is just uncomprehensible. He was just you couldn't stop him. I mean he'd be asleep, you'd tie him up, he'd wake up, break off the the ropes, and then beat everyone down. He was that powerful. But How powerful is the strongest man when he sleeps? Not very powerful at all. And you remember the story. Here he has this woman that seduced them, Delilah. And she gives his secrets out to her and at first he talks about, you know, buying my hair, but he keeps going down that slippery slope and and one day he finally tells her that if you cut my hair I will lose all of my strength. And while he was asleep, sure enough, Delilah comes and cuts off all of his hair. Now I want you to think, do you think that Delilah or anyone could have got to Samson's hair while he was awake? He probably would have snapped your fingers and thrown you for dead. There's no way you're going to get anywhere near Samson's hair as long as he is awake. But while he sleeps, he's as strong as a baby. His hair gets cut off. Eliva says, the Philistines are upon you. He thinks he has his strength, but the Lord has left them. His eyes are plucked out, and he is treated like a fool. You are not strong at all as you sleep is the point of this story. And that's how we can be if we spiritually are asleep. We 're spiritually inattentive of what's going on out in the world. It shocks me how so often Christians, even us, can be asleep. We can act like the world is neutral. There's a neutral playing field out there and only the really nasty stuff are the things where the devil is trying to get us. But the reality is that we need to always be awake to the schemes of the devil. We need to always be processing reality of saying, does this promote godliness? Is this from a Christian worldview? Is this in fact from God or is this the venom of the devil? The devil is real. The world is really is trying to get you and trying to hurt your soul. So we don't need to be asleep, and we certainly don't need to be drunk, but in fact we need to be sober. So verse 6 and 7 gives us our ethical requirements of being a child of the light. And it's set in the negative. Don't be drunk, but rather stay awake. And we need to hear that sometimes. We need to hear about the things that the Christian life calls us not to do. Don't get drunk. Don't go to sleep. But rather be awake and to be sober. What we're not supposed to do isn't found in verse 6 and 7. But verse 8 tells us what we are supposed to do. And so this is so important for us to have that balance. I think God gave us two arms for a reason and two legs for a reason. We're supposed to be balanced individuals. We don't just go around saying, I don't drink. I don't smoke. I don't watch pornography. And there's a whole bunch of things that you should be able to say, I don't do. But is that your Christian life is merely what you don't do? Or is there some positive things that you do do that I do do these things. And that's what we find in verse 8. What we are supposed to do. Verse 8. But since we belong to the day, Let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and of love, and for a h for a helmet the hope of salvation So, since we are have our identity of the day, since we're people of the light, since we're supposed to let our light so shine before others that they may see our good works and glorify God, there is a certain ethical requirement that we're supposed to to have. And it's that sobriety that we've been looking at. Not a well, it's presupposing not being physically drunk and not being physically high, but there's a there's a sobriety, there's a soberness about reality that we're supposed to have And it's described here as having put on the breastplate of faith and of love and a helmet, the hope of salvation. These are the three characteristic virtues of the Christian life. Faith. Hope and love. This is the characteristics that we're supposed to be as children of God. Now this goes back to my original introduction, illustration is You're not going to put on a breastplate, and you're not going to put on a helmet if you think that you're at times of peace. I can tell you, as a former soldier, the breastplate is heavy This bulletproof vest is uncomfortable. Oftentimes you see people doing this. They're holding on it. That's not to be cool. It's because it's uncomfortable. And you're trying to get some air. You're not going to put the breastplate on unless you think the bullets might come your way And you're definitely not going to put that helmet on unless you think that you might have to take around. And so likewise for us, we need to actually recognize we're at war in order to see the necessity of this armor. My son brought out an interesting point about Pilgrim's progress is that after he fights the Pollyon, he doesn't take all of his armor. And he says, Well why didn't Christian continue to take his armor? And I thought about it, I have no idea It's just a part of the allegory, I guess. But that's not supposed to be us. We need to carry around the armor of the Lord day in and day out until the Lord comes for us. We need to keep the Kevlar on. We need to keep the breastplate on our chest tightly fixed. And what is our armor? Our armor is faith and love. Let's think about this one by one. Faith. That means that it's the belief in God. It's the trusting in God and His promises. And we need to cling on to the promises of God. And we need to see anything that's a threat to this as an attack of the enemy. This is a fiery dart. But the world tries to poison our minds and says that doubting is being open minded. It's being being so if you if you don't doubt, if you just cling on, you have some kind of blind faith and you you're not really thinking things through. That's the lie of the devil. Don't take off your breastplate of faith to take open-mindedness. I'm going to be very close-minded when it comes to the truth. You should be very close-minded when it comes to your spouse. Right? This is my spouse. I don't care about you. This is the person that I covenant with. And so too we should be about faith. This is our breastplate. This is a piece of armor. Anything that threatens this I will see as an attack from the enemy We should cling on to faith. So when you see doubt, don't follow it. But pray against it. It is the devil trying to steal your soul. The second piece of that breastplate is love. Faith and love. There was a preacher who was talking about the Reformation and the effects of the Reformation in their in their town. And he said this. It was controversial and it wasn't good, but he said, you know, it would have been better if you would have remained Roman Catholic, because at least you would have had good works then. Now that's really quite distorted. It'd be better if you were actually truly reformed and would believe the Bible and read passages like this. But you get his point though. The Reformed faith, the true faith, the gospel faith isn't against love, it isn't against works. We promote works, but not as a means of salvation. but rather as a means of sanctification and living out our Christian faith. But notice, sanctification is part of the breastplate of God. Just as faith is part of the breastplate, so is Love. So oftentimes when people are depressed and are in the dumps and are feeling spiritually weak and lethargic, you know what they need? They need a higher dose of love You need to get up and start working and start serving and start loving God and loving his people. God wants to keep you inattentive. Not God. The devil wants to keep you inattentive and keep you from working. But rather we should see here that part of our protection is love. Part of our protection is loving and serving one another. God gave you breath and life to love and to care for other people and tangible acts of kindness. So we need to think about that. How are we loving? How are we serving? How are we getting in there and ministering to those that God has placed in our lives? So we have faith. Love. And the last Christian virtue or here described as a piece of God's armor, the armor of God, is the helmet of the hope of salvation. And this protects our head, this protects our minds. We should be constantly thinking about God's goodness and God's beauty and the promises that He has for us. And this is one of the reasons why it's so good to regularly attend your church. It's because it helps us to keep our minds off the day-to-day grind. Right, the day-to-day distractions that happen to us and helps us to keep that helmet of the hope of salvation. It keeps our minds thinking about God's good promises and the the the future that God has for us. And we need to never tire of thinking about what we are actually here for and how God will come one day and redeem all things. This is true where we're in misery. The antidote of your pain is the helmet of the hope of salvation. This is also true for just becoming lethargic and losing our salvation through all of the prosperity. The antidote to that is also to have the helmet of the hope of salvation and remember that you can't take any of that with you. And that all of those things can be very dangerous. And what truly matters is in fact the helmet of the hope of salvation. salvation. Now keep our minds on the heavenly, keep our minds on the heavens and not on the earth. So we have these three virtues, faith, love, and the Holy Spirit. And just a reminder of what Paul says, he says the greatest of this is love. That we need to be people who actually take our hope, take our faith, and flow into action. So the sobriety that we're supposed to have is let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith, love, and the hope of salvation. Being sober about reality. Peter talks about this kind of sobriety in 2 Peter chapter 3. He says there, but do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years are as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. So here Peter is saying, don't overlook this fact. I know it feels like a long time, but the Lord is coming. And the Lord's timetable is different than your timetable. For a thousand years are as a day, and a day is a thousand years. He's not slow when it comes to his promises, but rather he's actually fulfilling his promise, namely, that he doesn't want any of his elect to perish. Then he tells us what's going to happen, that the day of the Lord will in fact come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and all the works on that are done on it. Will be exposed. Then he says this in verse 11. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? Waiting for haste waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of the Lord, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and be dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. But according to his promise, we are waiting for a new heaven and a new earth, for in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these things, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish and at peace So here the apostle Peter says, in light of the coming destruction of the earth, in light of the fact that everything out here is going to be burned up into a crisp. And then transform them to a new heavens and a new earth, and all the wicked are going to be completely wiped off. In light of that, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? It's a rhetorical question. What kind of people should we be? If this is all going to burn up in the end, how should we then live in light of this? Well the answer is right here. We're supposed to live lives of holiness and godliness. We're supposed to be living lives of waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God. Hopefully, as you as you think about the fact that this building and everything around it is going to be completely burned up, your hope's not going to be burned up, but that is your hope. That this earth will be completely cleansed. In fact, you will one day reign with Christ on the earth. Come. That's what we want. We want Jesus to come. We want that cleansing fire. Because all that is built will be burned up and all that is good will be remain. And restored. So this is our hope. This is our sobriety, putting on the breastbreak of God and having this faith, love, and hope. Verse 9 of our passage then tells us What the content of the hope is. So we're supposed to have hope, but what is the content of that hope? We've already seen it in the 2 Peter chapter 3 passage, but we'll see it here in this passage. It says, For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. And so here we have this idea of predestination. And oftentimes when we think about predestination, That we can get caught up in the secret counsel of God before the foundation of the world. That's not necessarily a bad thing. The Bible does speak about God's secret plan before the foundation of the world to redeem a people for himself. And that is a wonderful thing. To contemplate. But we don't need to just think about eternity past, but we need to think about eternity future. Because predestination also refers to your destination. You are predestined to arrive somewhere. And where is that arrival? Well, it's certainly not wrath. God has not destined you for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. You have been predetermined to end up at a certain place In our passages that we are most familiar with when it refers to predestination, you'll see this as well. Ephesians chapter 1 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. So that's the pre of the predestination. We've been chosen before the foundation of the world. Now here's the future part, that we should be holy and blameless before Him. You see that? We've been predestined to end up a certain place, and that certain place is not of wrath, but rather salvation. That certain place is that we should be holy and blameless. before him. And you'll see the same thing in Romans chapter 8, where we have that golden chain of redemption. Those whom he foreknew, he predestined, those whom he predestined, he called, those whom he called, he justified, those whom he justified, he gl Five That's the future. Right? We go from the past all the way to the present, then into the future. So we need to the content of our hope is that we're somewhere in the golden chain of redemption. We're somewhere there, right? We're hopefully all been called. We have an outward profession of faith. We've been justified and we're waiting for glorification. And that's the content of our hope that one day Christ will come and redeem us. Verse 10 of our passage tells us the cause and the certainty of the hope that we have. Why is it that we can know for sure that we are going to heaven? How can we know? Verse 10. Who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. How can you know for sure that you are elect? Because you believe in your heart that He died for us, that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. I was reading John Bunyan 's uh The Chief of Sinners, Grace About in his autobiography, and one of the frustrating parts in his life, and frustrating for me to read, is how often he said he just had this obsession of whether he was elect at certain points. But as you see in his allegory, that ultimately the assurance of salvation comes from looking to the cross. If you're obsessed or concerned about your election, are you looking to the cross? You can't look to God's secret counsel before the foundation of the world. But what you can do is look s solely at the cross of Christ And see that that is the cause for your hope. That he died for me and I trust in him, and there's no way, according to reformed faith, there is no way that I could be trusting in him if God did not elect me But that's after the fact. What you need to be worrying about is, am I looking to the cross of Christ alone? And if I am, then I know that God gets all the credit and he alone. That's the cause of our salvation. Verse 10. Christ died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Christ's death Achieve for us a certain outcome of our salvation. Christ will not lose the reward for his suffering. He died to purchase you, he will bring you home. And that's what he says. Now, what is this thing about whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him? Well, this is talking about the spectrum believers fall into. All believers are going to fall into this idea of whether you are awake or whether you are asleep. Now I'll tell you, somewhat embarrassing, when I first read this, I thought this was referring to actually people who were awake and actually people who were literally asleep. I mean it's true if you are in fact sleeping while the second coming of Christ happens, if you're not woken up by all the the things that happen, the angel blowing and the earthquakes and all that, you won't show up there, right? You don't actually need to be physically awake looking to the sky. But you know, it just seems weird that Paul would mention that. It's kind of obvious. Obviously, if you're asleep, you will in fact be received at his second coming. And to my pleasure as I looked through the commentaries, almost only found one actually who said that it referred to physical sleep. Everyone else pointed to the more obvious uh conclusion that he's referring to believers who are either alive or dead. And this brings us full circle of how he began this in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, that he says that I want you to be comforted about those who have fallen asleep. Remember, this is how this whole eschatology discussion came about is him referring to people who have died as those who have fallen asleep in the Lord, and that at the second coming of Christ they will be resurrected. So that's much more likely, and that's where most commentators agree that this phrase, awake or asleep, refers to whether you're dead. You died in the Lord, or whether you're still alive, when Christ comes, you will live with him. You will reign with Christ bodily on this very earth. with him forever, whether you are alive or whether you're dead, as long as you are in Christ. Whether you're alive or you're dead does not matter. What matters is whether you are in Christ. And this is accomplished Because Christ died for us. Because Christ has took taken away all of our sins and purchased us pure pardon by us. We have that parchment that Spoken Progress has, that parchment that says that you will be entering into the celestial city. Now, verse 11 concludes this whole section and says, In light of all this, what's the so what? Well, verse 11 tells us. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. Now what's interesting about this is this is exactly how 1 Thessalonians 4 concludes. 1 Thessalonians 4. 18 says, therefore encourage one another with these words. It's called an inclusio. It's a sandwiching, it's a bracketing. But Paul's application of in light of all this beautiful eschatology about us being one day received by Christ at his second coming, what should we do in light of this? We should encourage one another up and build one another up just as you are doing. When you see a brother who is down, you know what he needs to hear? He needs to be encouraged by these words. You need to remind him of his heavenly destiny and help him to be sober and to stay awake. And if you see a brother who's who's way too up Hopefully not this happy, but he's way too happy. He has some problems in his life. You can encourage one another and build one another up with these very words. This is the medicine bomb that God has given you to be an encouragement to one another. Just a reminder, you cannot encourage people when you're not there. So this is why it's so important to be there. And you are here and I just thank you for So let us take our eschatology and not fight about it, and not beat each other to death about it, but rather let's take it as healing bombs so that we can remind each other and encourage one another, building each other up and reminding us that we are Just passing through. We are sojourners and we have a heavenly city awaiting for us. Please join me in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you that we are just passing through. We thank you that we can be sober about reality, not denying it. We don't have to be uh little children pretending like we won't die. We know that we'll die. We know that this world is full of pain and suffering and injustice, but we know that you are coming back. And that you're going to restore all things. And God, we just thank you that we can be sober about reality. We ask you to help us to be sober and to keep our breastplate on, keep the helmet of the hope of salvation. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.