So at my house, you can find many things. In fact, I often tell people, you're gonna break into my house and steal something, steal the books. Because that's where all the money is been spent at. But there's something else there. There's also lots of board games. I am a lover of board games. I I hear Mr. Dennis you like games. I'm not sure if that's video games or not, but if it's board games, me and you can sync up some time. When I say board games, many of you might think of Monopoly or checkers or you know, these kind of these kind of games. That's not what I'm talking about. I like intense board games. And there's another category of board games that are probably more popular to other people and they're called party games. So you get a group of people that aren't gamers and they have a little party. And one of the most popular games and the party game division is a game called trivia. You guys have all played trivia where you get a group of friends and they ask all these various questions and whoever is the most informed kind of wins. The competition about who knows the most. Well I'm actually terrible at that game of trivia because most of the time trivia is about facts About celebrity gossip. And I know nothing about that. Or maybe even history. And I know not too much about that. But sometimes I've had the pleasure of finding Well displeasure we'll s we'll talk about it in a second, of finding something called Bible trivia. And I'm thinking, aha! I know the Bible, I'll finally be good at that. But when I played Bible trivia, has anybody played Bible trivia? Yeah, I've been disappointed. Because I expect to get questions like this Which person rebuked Peter in his face when he refused to eat with the Gentiles? Church, who is that? Oh, yes. That's the kind of answer. It's relevant, right? Instead, when I get these questions, it's something like, who's Hezekiah's brother-in-law's cousin? And what town was he from? And I think I have absolutely no idea. It's completely irrelevant. But let me ask you this. What if we were playing Bible trivia, and instead of having these irrelevant questions, you were asked questions about the prophet Elijah? How would you do? I don't think the prophet Elijah has some irrelevant question like Hezekiah's cousins, brothers, uncle's town that he was born in. So let me ask you a few questions. Let's see. And I'm going to test you it's Sunday evening, so if you don't, we'll see how you do. I'm teasing about that. But what book does Elijah appear in? Or what books? Or what is the book he primarily appears in? Was Elijah the prophet to the northern kingdom of Israel or the southern kingdom of Judah? What king was most prominent during Elijah's prophecy in his ministry. Was it Elijah or Elisha who healed Naaman of his leprosy? Was it Elijah or another prophet who healed the bad water of death and its barrenness? And last one, how long did Elijah's shutting up the heaven last for? Now who says they got 100% of those questions? They got 'em all? Mr. Dennis, Dennis. Mr. Dennis, he's he's he's shaking his head. I got him. Nope, he's shaking his head, no. If the answer is no, or maybe I hope by the end of this sermon you'll be able to answer more of those questions. And I hope at the very least I might have slightly humbled you slightly to say maybe we need to know more about this man, Elijah, than we do. Because what you will discover is that this man Elijah is actually extremely relevant. And it won't be at the end of this sermon, but I think at the end of a few sermons, you will discover in some sense, and I'm going to say it now. You are Elijah. And so understanding Elijah's ministry will greatly help you understand your ministry. So with that in our background, let us turn to our passage Malachi chapter 4, beginning in verse 5. Behold, I send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children. And the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I strike the earth with a curse. Relatively short and relatively straightforward. Verse 5, Behold, pay attention, listen up. The Lord has something to tell you. Namely, I'm going to send you Elijah before the great coming of the day of the Lord. Now what is that day of the Lord? We can go back to chapter 3. The end of chapter 2 ends with a question. Where is the God of justice? People have been speaking harshly against the Lord. Where is the God of justice? Why are the proud blessed? Why are there Hugh Heffeners out there that die at ninety with filthy women around them worth millions of dollars? Do you remember this And he says back in chapter, so return there, chapter 3 verse 1, Behold I send my messenger And he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord. And then if you scan down, you can see it right there in verse 2, but who can endure his coming? Who can endure? And then it talks about what he's going to do. And for some, he's going to be a refining fire that purifies them so that they once again offer sacrifices to the Lord that is pleasing. He's going to refine them and make them holy so they no longer offer the half-hearted worship that we saw back in chapter 1. But then if you look down to verse four uh verse five, he's coming to judgment as well. I'm coming for judgment. I'll be swift against the sorcerers, adulterers, perjurers, all these evil people, because they do not fear me. And then verse six, for I am the Lord, I do not change, therefore you are not consumed. Because of my loving kindness and my mercy to my promises that when I come, I'm not going to destroy you all. But instead, there's going to be people in both divisions, people who are ready to meet the Lord and people who are not ready to meet the Lord. Now, how do the people get ready to meet the Lord? We'll go back to verse 1. Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. He'll get people ready to meet the Lord. That messenger is the same person identified by name in chapter 4, verse 5. Behold, I send my messenger. What is his name? Chapter 4, verse 5. Behold, I send you Elijah the prophet. And the mission is the same as well. He's going to prepare my way. Verse 6 of chapter 4. He will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children back to their fathers. It's the same person. And so Elijah is to come before the day of the Lord. Before God comes and strikes and destroys the wicked permanently, which is also what we saw in chapter 4. Do you remember? Basically the same thing happens again. They speak harshly against the Lord. You can go back to chapter 3, verse 13. Your words have been harsh against me, says the Lord. Yet you say, What have we spoken against you? You have said it is useless to serve God. What profit is it that we have kept his ordinances and we walk as mourners? We call the proud blessed. People tempt God and go free. And then you have the people who speak to each other who fear the Lord. God writes a book of remembrance and says, aha, one day you will finally see the difference or the value of serving God. And that's what we see in chapter four, that there's a day coming burning like an oven, where the wicked will be like stubble, destroyed, the righteous will trample upon their ashes The righteous will have healing in their wings. A healing of the rays of the sun will bring healing of righteousness in its wings. And then that the righteous will go out leaping. Or if you have the New King James, they will go fast. like stall-fed calves. This is the destiny of both the righteous and the wicked So chapter 4, verse 5 tells us before this great and awesome day comes, the day of the Lord. As Christians, we would refer this to as what? What is this day of the Lord called? The second coming of Christ. We're waiting for Him to return. That's the day of the Lord when all of these things will happen. Well, before The great coming of the Lord, God is going to send Elijah. And I'm tempted to simply say, that's John the Baptist, sign out, we're done. But I think that would actually do you a disservice because I want you to see what an amazing statement this really is. If you were the original audience, especially if you didn't know that Jesus later on identifies this Elijah with John the Baptist. And we'll dig into that a little bit deeper. But who is this man? Elijah. And how would the original audience have understood the sending of Elijah the prophet? And so what I'm planning on doing in this sermon and the next couple of sermons Is going back into the Old Testament and reminding you of who this great man Elijah was So that you can see what an amazing person this was, and we can glean insight of what kind of ministry he had, and then what kind of ministry John the Baptist had And what kind of ministry we will have. Because you'll see that we too continue on with the mantle of Elijah. So with that in mind. Please turn in your Bibles to 1 Kings chapter 17. Again, as a reminder, what I'm doing is we're going to examine this man's life, Elijah. But what we're not going to do. is take you through an exegetical sermon series on the book of 1 Kings. Because if we did that, it would take you 17 chapters at least to get here. So we're going to skip ahead. And we're going to break open this book and find out about this man, Elijah. 1 Kings chapter 17, verse 1. And Elijah the Tishvite of the inhabitants of Gilead said to Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel lives before whom I stand There shall not be dew nor rain these years except at my word. So remember that first question of Bible trivia? What book is Elijah found in? Well now you know She first appears in 1 Kings. The other book he's found in is 2 Kings. And then he's scattered with references all throughout the rest of the Bible. Okay So we have some biographical information. His name is Elijah, he is a Tishbite, he is of the inhabitants of Gilead. That's it. We don't know anything else about his biographical information. He somewhat just comes out of nowhere. Now he's not Melchizedek He's not the angel of the Lord, he's clearly a human being, but nonetheless so he just we don't know anything. We don't know about his history, how old is he, what is his occupation, is he married, is he single? We don't know any of that because It's really not relevant. Now I will say he probably is a single guy, especially about what happens to him. There's no reference to any wife, no reference to any kid. He's almost certainly he is single. But how old is he? Is he in his thirties, forties, fifty? We don't know. It's not relevant This is all we have. And he shows up on the scene and he's speaking against a certain person. Do you see it? He says to Ahab. So second question I had in the Bible trivia. Which king was the person that Elijah primarily dealt with? The answer is Ahab. Now for you who don't remember this, it's fine. It's in the Old Testament, so we all forget about this. But Ahab was the evil king reigning over the northern tribe, not the southern tribe. And so turn back real quick to 1 Kings chapter 16 verse 30. Because if you don't know who this man Ahab is, you won't really understand the significance of this statement found in chapter 17, verse 1. So 1 Kings 16, verse 30 says about Ahab. Now Ahab was the son of Amri, and he did evil in the sight of the Lord more than all who were before him. Let me just stop here and say, what a horrible description. Could you imagine if that was your name to fame? in the sight of the Lord, that you did more wickedly than anyone else had done before you. I hope that what will be said about me, and ultimately said about you , is what's said about Obadiah, which is found in 1 Kings 18, verse 3, a few chapters later. And it says, now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly. Wouldn't that be a great description of you? You fear the Lord greatly. You're a great God fearer. Or what about Luke chapter 1 verse 5 about the parents of John the Baptist? Zacharias and Elizabeth were both righteous before God. Walking in all of his commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless. See? That's a great description. Fearing God greatly or being blameless and righteous before. God. Again, that doesn't mean they were perfect, but it does mean they didn't have any obvious faults within their lives. And by the way, the elder is supposed to be Blameless. Not perfection. But there shouldn't be any obvious, glaring, sinful tendencies in his life. This is what we should strive for, to be a mother and a father in Israel. And I think sometimes we ask the wrong questions. Many times people ask, well, how many bad works can I do and still be saved? How unholy can I possibly be? How many times do I absolutely have to show up to church? Do I have to give 10%? What about 9. 5? What about 1. 5? What about 20 bucks? See, we often ask the wrong questions. How little can we do? But rather we should have a maximalist perspective as how much does God deserve. How can I be great for his kingdom? Well, Ahab was wicked beyond measure. He was more wicked than anyone before him. Now look at verse 31. Why was he so wicked? Verse 31. And it came to pass as though he had it had been a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebot. What is that saying? It's saying that it was a small thing. He was already tempting the Lord because he was falling in the same sins as the wicked king Jeroboam. As if that was a trivial thing, he went on to top that and to do something even worse. But to understand that, you have to first understand what did Jeroboam do And what Jeroboam did is that he broke off the northern kingdom from the southern kingdom. But the southern kingdom had the Davidic covenant. which they were supposed to be under, and they had the temple and the priesthood. And the northern kingdom broke off. And God had commanded the people of God three times a year to go back to the temple and to worship in the southern kingdom of Judah. But that raised a serious problem. Because if you're the northern kingdom that exists to delegitimatize the southern kingdom, but all the people go down there Three times a year to worship, they're going to eventually realize that who's actually the one who's illegitimate? You. And they're going to return back to the southern kingdom. Do you see the problem? So, Jeroboam had a great idea. If we can't get rid of God's law, if we can't change the Word of God, we'll just corrupt it. We'll twist it. And instead, that's that's kind of harsh to go down there and have to worship God three times a year and go into the southern kingdom. That's all too much. If it will do We'll produce two golden calves locally, and you can worship God at the local temple with the local golden calves. And I have another idea, Jeroboam said He said, you know how God is kind of mean? And he doesn't allow women into the priesthood. Wait, they didn't say that. They said that today. He said, you know how they only allow the Levites into the priesthood? That's kind of mean and restrictive of God, right? So what we're going to do in our temples with golden calves is we're going to allow anybody to be a priest. Isn't that wonderful? So we have two net we have two false temples with two false gods representing the God of Israel, these two golden calves, and anybody can now become a priest. And that's what they did. And that's the sons of Jeroboam, which was desperately wicked. Do you see? This was desperately wicked. but extremely practical. And that's why all of the kings of Israel followed in this sin. And guess what? Ahab was okay with that. He said, this is fine. This is acceptable worship. This is a good idea. But he does something even worse than that. Look at verse 31 again. As if he thought this was trivial to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, that he also took as wife Jezebel The daughter of Ethbel, king of the Sidonians, which are pagan people, and he went and served Baal and worshipped him. Then he set up an altar to Baal in the temple of Baal, which he had built in Samaria, and Ahab made a wooden image, and Ahab did more to provoke the God of Israel to anger than any of the kings before him. So what did he do so bad? He married a wicked woman. And that wicked woman was named Jezebel. Now, have you ever met a Jezebel? Oh, you have. They're all over the place. You just walk down the street and you'll find lots of Jezebels, but some of you caught what I was asking. Have you ever met someone who said, Hello, my name is Jezebel? No, you have never met someone like that. Just like you've never met someone named Judas. These Judas is the infamous man and Jezebel is the infamous woman. They both start with J 's interesting enough. Jezebel was despicable. Jezebel was the daughter of a foreign God. Now, where have we heard about warnings against marrying the daughter of a foreign God? That's right, Malachi chapter 2 verse 11. Judah has dealt treacherously. An abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. What did they do? Judah hath profane the holy institution which he loves, he has married the daughter of a foreign God. He has become unequally yoked. He took the holy seed and mixed it with the unholy seed. A believer has married an unbeliever. Ahab married the daughter of a foreign God. But she was a princess. She was the daughter of the Sidonians. So this might actually go well, right? That she's a powerful woman with powerful connections, so we marry her and become more powerful. He's handsome, she's beautiful, it's all gonna work out. They have a great personality, we both like pickleball. It's just gonna be great, right? My friends told me that this one is a really good looker, that this is a hot catch. What could go wrong But what did God say? Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 2, you shall make no covenant with them. You shall show them no mercy at all. Nor shall you make marriage with them. You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son. Why? For they will turn your sons away from following me to serve other gods so that the anger of the Lord is aroused against you and destroy you suddenly. But we know better. This is all outdated. Who has to believe in this Old Testament stuff? Well, what happened to King Ahab? Exactly what this passage said would happen to King Ahab. What did he do? He went off to serve foreign gods, namely Baal. Is it no surprise that Jezebel is the daughter of Eth Baal, the king who worshipped Baal? You see? Her father was a worshiper of Baal. She too was a worshiper of Baal. She married Ahab, who then also became a worshiper of Baal. He built a temple for Baal. He built an altar for Baal. And he built an image for Baal. And guess what happened? People will learn from you. He was in a position of influence. He was the king. And then what do you think the people did? They also worshiped Baal. People are watching People are watching you. You have great influence on your little sphere, your family, your children, your friends, your neighbor. Ahab marries Jezebel, and he starts, because of her influence, to worship Baal and to kill the people of God. We see that as well. In 1 Kings chapter 18, verse 4, we're told that Jezebel began to massacre the prophets of the Lord. So let's put this together. Ahab 's a wicked guy who's perfectly okay with compromised worship. The two golden calves that supposedly are worshiping God, he's totally okay with that. And he's also syncretistic. Well, you know, we shouldn't just worship God, we respect all religions. We respect the Hindus. We respect The Eastern Orthodox religions, the Eastern, not Eastern Orthodox, but Eastern religions, we respect all kinds of religions. She was a syncretist And he said, well, why be exclusive? Why not just also worship Baal? Why not also allow for Islam? Why not also Jehovah's Witnesses? Why not also Mormons? We don't be restrictive. But what about the people of God? What about those who said, no, we ought not to do this? What about those who stood up for God? It's amazing how people will be so open-minded, except against the truth. We'll follow, we'll respect all religions except the Christian religion. Except the religion that says all other religions are false and that this religion is true. And that's what happened. Jezebel chapter 18 verse 4 starts killing the people of God. And so the first point of application I want you to see is this. That people are totally okay with a Christianity that steps on nobody's toes and that preaches no truth. People who are totally okay with a corrupt and compromised form of Christianity, which is exactly what we see in Ahab and Jezebel's day. As long as you never preach hell hot, as long as you never claim that homosexuality is not okay, but a corruption, as long as you never tell true believers to live for holiness and live for God, but instead if you only preach health, wealth, and prosperity, guess what? Everybody will like you. And you can build a very healthy At least big church, it won't be healthy. It'll be gutted from the inside. But if you tell people to repent, if you tell people they sinned against God, if you tell people they need to get right with God, if you tell people truth is truth and false is false What will happen? Jezebel will come after you. Ahab will seek your life. What did Jesus say in John chapter 7, verse 7? The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify that its works are evil. And that's exactly what Jesus did. And that's exactly what Elijah will do. And that's exactly what God is calling us to do. Do you see? If you never present a message to anyone that offends anybody, you are not preaching this book. What did they do to Elijah? Well look at this. They hunted him down and tried to kill him. What did they do to John the Baptist? They did kill him. What did they do to Jesus? They hunted him down until they crucified him. What did they do to the apostles? They chased him around town until they crucified. Killed them as well. Even John was well even on a vacation on the island of Patmos in Hawaii. He was banished there. Because they could not stand his message. Now let's go over to 1 Kings chapter 1. So here's the backdrop. Who's Ahab? He's the anointed king of Israel. Is he a good guy? No, he's a really, really bad guy A very wicked man with an extremely wicked wife. Now, 1 Kings chapter 17, verse 1. As this is what Elijah says to Ahab, as the Lord God lives, whom I stand before There shall not be rain or dew these years except at my word. I always try to tell people we got to read the Bible in 3D, not 2D. This is the king. This is the Lord's anointed. You can't speak against the Lord's anointed, right? Wrong. You remember what Nathan said to David? Thou art the man. What does Elijah say to King Ahab? Thou art the man. Thou hast sinned. You have done wrong. But I would say this. We often speak about the boldness of Nathan. I would point to the boldness of Elijah. It's one thing to rebuke David, the man after God's own heart. Who spent his life slaying Goliaths, building up the army of God and writing psalms for his people? Right? It's another thing to rebuke Ahab, who spent his life Marrying the daughter of a foreign God, promoting false religion, and killing the people of God. A lot harder, right? Which one do you want to rebuke? Ahab or David? I spend a lot more time rebuking David's than Ahab's. And that's why I'm still here. And that's why I'm still alive. Because Ahabs come after you when you rebuke them. But guess what? Elijah doesn't seem to care that he's rebuking Ahab. God tells Elijah to rebuke him, and he doesn't seem to say, Well Lord, wait a second. This is the Lord's anointed. Wait a second. He has armies. Wait a second, he'll kill me. No, God told him to do it, and he did it. And what's interesting is he didn't even soften it. He says that at my word The heavens will stop. And until I say, see, he didn't say, well, so he said, so God, so you worry about him. He said, until I say that the rain will come back, it will not come back. So you can only imagine Ahab thinking, who's my problem? My problem's with God, but I can't really get him. My problem's with you. You're the problem, so I'm going to squeeze you until you call me Uncle And repent and bring back the rain. Do you see? But this is the message that God told Elijah to give. And guess what? He does. And then look at verse 2. Notice again that God doesn't tell him how he's going to get out of this scene, how he's going to make it out of here alive. God just tells him to do it, and he does it. And then God tells him in verse 2, then the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Get away from here and turn eastward and hide by the brook which flows into the Jordan. You see that? It wasn't until Elijah was obedient and did it, and then God provided a way of escape. And this is often our lives. God tells us to do something, we think, there's no way, Lord, and we argue with Him. But don't do that. Just obey, and then you'll get further instructions. Is that not true? You say, God, how can I possibly do this? It won't end up well. Just obey. Do the next right thing. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all things will be added to you. God knew that Elijah would need protection. And so later on, after he obeys, God gives them protection. And what does God do? He sends them to this brook. And what does he do at that? What is provided at that brook? Well it's actually quite amazing. Let's continue reading. God provides supernatural protection for Elijah. Verse 4. And it shall be that you shall drink from the brook. There's the water. And I have commanded the ravens to feed you there. So he went And did according to the word of the Lord. For he went and stayed by the brook, which flows into the Jordan, and the ravens brought bread and meat in the morning And bread and the meat in the evening, and he drank by the brook. So here's Elijah. He's running for his life. He's hiding by a brook And he can't just go into town, right? Because if he goes into town, somebody's gonna say, hey, there's Elijah, tell Ahab, and then Ahab's going to kill him. So he's hiding outside by a brook, probably in a tent. He's probably looking like a homeless man at this point. He has a little tent by a brook, and now he solved at least two problems. Now nobody will know he's out there because who's gonna expect Elijah hiding by a brook in a tent And then he has his water solution because there's water by the brook. But there's one problem. How is Elijah going to eat? How is he going to be fed? If he goes into town, he'll be revealed. You see What does God do? He supernaturally provides for him and sends a raven. A team of ravens. They come in the morning, provide him bread and meat. They come in the evening and provide him bread and meat. Now some people don't like the supernatural in the Bible. They get all squishy and offended by the supernatural. And what they do is they try to explain away the supernatural. Why would you do that? As soon as you read the very first verse of the very first book of the Bible, you encounter the supernatural. In the beginning God. Once you get to that, and if you can believe that, then I have no problem with God feeding Elijah with ravens. Amen? This is God, a supernatural being who created all things. Yeah, he can send ravens to feed a man. And he did But it's interesting that some people who tried to deny this try to play around with the Hebrew and try to mess around with a few things and say that the word raven here should actually be translated Arab. And so instead of it saying that the ravens fed you there, it says that the Arab would feed you there. Now that's absurd and nonsense. But I would say, and others have said, even if it did say Arab, that too is a miracle. But who has ever seen an Arab feed a Jew? Never happened. And it wouldn't happen. But again, it's not Arab, it's actually the ravens. God sends the ravens to feed him. And I want you to again see this, that God provided for Eliza, even though he put him in an impossible circumstance to confront a king that would seek to kill him. So then he runs off. And he needs protection. And he can't get any protection. So what does God do? He sends the ravens to feed him. Now a few weeks ago, someone said to me that they were kind of surprised that I would my family and I would come to this church under the circumstances that Could not the church blow up and be destroyed? And that they were they were happy that I came and they were surprised. And the reason that I came is because I felt that God had called me And my trust is not in my own abilities. If it's up to me, this church is doomed. It will not succeed. If it's up to you, this church is doomed. It will not succeed. But my hope is in the same God of Elijah, namely the God that calls you and the God that will provide for you when you are obedient to Him. And if you want a passage for this, is Psalm 127. It says this Unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it. Unless the Lord guards the city, the watchman stays awake. In vain. It is vain that you rise up early, sit up late, eat the bread of sorrows. For he gives his beloved sleep. You see? This is our hope. Not just for the church, but for our entire lives. Where is the God of Elijah? The God of Elijah provides ravens to feed for you. It's amazing. God shows up again and again. The psalmist says in Psalm 37, verse 25, I have seen, I have been young, and now I am old. Yet I have never seen the righteous forsaken, nor his descendants begging for bread. Even when God called Elijah to do the impossible. To rebuke Ahab, which of course he was just going to be killed. God still made a way for him. And the point of all this is to say that God will make a way for you if you too will simply trust him. The Bible says nothing with God is impossible. The God who sent ravens to feed Elijah is the same God who will take care of your every need if you simply trust and obey Him. What did Jesus say? Why do you worry about your life? About what you'll eat or what you'll drink or what you will put on? Is life not more important than food and the body more than clothing? Consider the ravens. They neither sow nor reap. They neither have storehouses nor barn, yet God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than the birds? Isn't it interesting? It's almost like Jesus is putting a little Easter egg in here. God feeds the ravens, and he used once the ravens to feed his people. If you'll simply trust in him, O ye of little faith, do not seek What you will eat and what you will drink or what or not be worried about your life, for all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your father knows that you need them But rather seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you. What I'm trying to point your attention to is this passage is fulfilled in the life of Elijah. He obeys and God provides and he takes care of him. And so too will God provide for you if you obey him, even if it seems impossible. Now look at verse 7. And before we leave that though, how often do the ravens feed Elijah? How often? Morning and evening. Come on, kids. How many times is that? Two. It makes you wonder if we eat too much. I'm just saying. It is in the raven six times a day. Maybe, maybe you just left some food on the side. I don't know. It's just interesting. Alright, let's press on before I get in trouble. Verse 7. 1 Kings chapter 17 verse 7. And it happened that after a while the brook dried up because there was no rain in the land. So now there's no more the ravens keep coming, but there's no more water. You need water and food. So what now? How's God going to provide? Look at verse 8. Then the word of God came to him. You see it again? When did God's word come to Elijah? Before or after the brook dried up? After. This is your life. This is your story. This is what God does to you. He pushes you to the brink. And he makes you say, can I trust him? Can I believe in him? God, you took me this far, but now, Lord. What am I supposed to do now? And when it all seems like it's about to be over, when the work of your life dries up, verse 8 Then the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Arise and go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. See, I have commanded a widow there to provide for you. And there's a lot of strange things there. First, where is Sidon? Is that part of Israel? Or is that outside of Israel? It's okay. There's an uninspired section of your Bible called the map section. If you go back there or hit Google AI, is Sidon inside of Israel? It isn't. In fact, remember that Jezebel 's father is the king of Sidon. This is a foreign land. So that's the first thing weird. God, you want me to go where? You want me to go to a foreign land? Well, yes you did. Okay, Lord, that doesn't make sense to me. But I'm not in charge. You are. So I'll go. There's something else weird Who is going to provide for Elijah? A wealthy woman? Bill Gates? A philanthropist? Who's going to provide for him A widow. What does James say? True religion is to take care of the orphans and the widows. If there is anyone more unqualified to take care of Elijah, it's this widow. If you question that, you continue to read, and you find that when he goes there, he finds that she's poor. And in fact, she's grabbing these sticks, if you recall, and she's about to make her last meal and die. She doesn't have enough for herself, and now she's supposed to provide for Elijah. This is what God does. He calls you to impossible circumstances and says, I'll provide to you from the ravens. I will provide for you through a widow. I will provide for you through a thousand other reasons and a thousand other ways that you have never yet imagined. I'm going to draw your attention to something else. Look at verse 10 again. God told him, verse 8, the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Arise and go. Verse 10. So he arose and went. You see it? God told him in verse 8, arise and go. In verse 10, he arose and went. Now look back at verse 2. Then the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Get away from here and hide by the brook. That's verse 2. Now look at verse 5. So he went and did according to the word of God. You know why I call that? Simple obedience. The word of God came to him, told him to go, and he did it. The word of God came to him and told him to go to the widow and he went. It's simple obedience, not a lot of back talk Not a lot of explanation, not a lot of doubting, not a lot of fighting. He doesn't complain, he doesn't disobey. God settles it. God says it and that settles it. And he goes. And he obeys. God says he hates divorce. So you don't leave your spouse and you work it out. God says to forgive each other of their trespasses so you don't harbor bitterness against your brother in Christ or even that person who hurt you many years ago. God says to forgive, that settles it. I'm gonna do it. God tells you to keep your eyes unstained from the world and not to look at filthy things. So that settles it. And so you don't God tells you to get 10% and watch me bless you, you. And so we do. We obey. God tells you do not forsake the gathering of the saints. So you don't, and you come and worship with his people. Do you see the beauty and the simplicity of just basic obedience? God, you set it, and that settles it. And I will obey. This is the heart attitude and the posture of Elijah. Is it any wonder that Elijah did the things that he did when God would tell him what to do? And he simply said Lord, speak, for your servant hears. He obeys. I'm going to show you something. We're going to skip ahead and we're about to be done. We're closing up here. We're going to get there, but does anybody remember what would happen at the end of Elijah's life? Remember? That God sent the chariots of fire and they took him up, and his mantle fell down to Elisha, and Elisha grabs the mantle. And while he was following Elijah on that day, Elijah grabbed his mantle, he hit the Jordan, the water split. Remember this? And so the mantle falls, and it's now in Elijah's possession, and Elijah walks through the Jordan, and he cries something out. He says, Where is the God of Elijah? And he hits the ground, and the water splits. Remember that? He asked that question. Where is the God of Elijah? But I'm going to turn that question around and ask you, where are the Elijah's of God? The God of Elijah is still here. The God is more than willing to bless. God is more than willing to do miracles even in our day, and he is doing miracles. even in our day. But the question isn't where is the God of Elijah? The question are where are the Elijahs of God who will simply obey And believe him. And when God says to do something, we don't have a thousand excuses. And we don't have a thousand explanations of why we can't do that or why that's outdated. But rather, God tells us to do it, and we do it. Where is the God of Elijah? He's here. Where are the Elijas of God? And I pray they're right here. We are the Elijas of God. When God speaks, we listen and we obey. Final word, out of the mouth of Elijah. 1 Kings 18 verse 21. And Elijah came to all the people and he said, How long will you falter between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him If Baal is God, follow him. How long will you falter between two opinions? If the Lord is God, let us follow him.