Who is your hero? Well when I was growing up, I was a young boy, I wanted to be a professional basketball player. This was especially the case really when my dad came back from Germany. I was maybe eleven or twelve. He first actually wanted me to like comic books and read comic books with them because he was into comic books But that was not going to happen because I did not like reading. And actually I didn't like reading so much I didn't even like reading comic books. Remember my dad said, you had a real problem if you don't even like reading comic books Nonetheless that was the case. So comic books were out and my dad wanted to uh bond and and whatnot and he used to play basketball and so he got me into basketball and I I loved basketball and I I really wanted to be a professional player Now again I'm eleven years old at this time and really these dreams weren't dashed until probably thirteen or fourteen. I had no idea that I was only going to be five nine. I also thought I was somewhat fast Uh I was fast in comparison to people who don't run at all. Uh had some endurance. I could keep running in longer than some people, but I certainly was not fast. So here I am 5'9 and not very fast. My basketball career was destined to fail To make matters even worse, my jump shot was always off, and I never had a great jump shot But my hero at that time, being a person who really wanted to be a professional basketball player, my hero was a basketball player. That's not really that surprising. And my hero was Kobe Bryant. I remember watching him and his skill set. He was the best of the best. He was winning championships. He was someone that I looked up to. And thankfully I never got the opportunity to meet Kobe Bryant. Because if I would have met Kobe Bryant, I'm sure I would have acted in such a way that I would be embarrassed now of that kind of behavior. I'm sure I would have had big googly eyes and uh maybe even cr blush, who knows, uh, of just being in Kobe Bryant's presence. I may have been starstruck, as they would have said But I'll tell you one thing I probably wouldn't have done. I probably wouldn't have been rude or nasty or argumentative or just uh unpleasant to Kobe Bryant because he was my hero. I I I thought well of him, I appreciated his uh work that he did. He was a hero of mine, and so my behavior was going to correspond to the way that I treated him And so in our passage, we are going to see how the way that we view someone should correspond to the way that we treat them. And this is just natural as the illustration of Kobe Bryant communicates. But the only way that we can treat someone properly And this is going to be about the sphere of the church, is if we view them properly. If we view them as someone worthy of respect and honor. then we will treat them with respect and honor. But if we are view if we view them as someone not worthy of respect and honor, we will treat them without honor and respect. So our behavior corresponds to our attitude and the perspective of others. So let's jump into the passage. 1 Thessalonians five twelve through thirteen. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly, in love, because of their work, be at peace among yourselves. So we can divide this passage into three basic headings. We have the charge for the believer. We have The office of the elder, and then we have the perspective of peace. So we have the charge of the believer, the office of the elder, and the perspective of peace. So we see the charge of the elder right there in the beginning. So he's saying, we ask you, I'm asking you, I'm exhorting you, I'm giving you some kind of charge and some kind of command, my brother. You are my brothers and sisters in Christ. I love you, and so I'm charging you with this thing that you ought to do. What is that? To respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. So you have you have two parts there. To respect and to esteem the office of the elders. And then you have various descriptions of what that elder does. And why he deserves of those of that respect. But this word right here says to respect is translated variously through translations to honor, to appreciate, to recognize, to know. Various different translations render that word respect differently. Actually in the K the King The King James Version, it has the literal translation, which is to know. We ask you, brothers, to know those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord. But you could see why other translations, not trying to be unfaithful, have rendered that as something else. Because if we're just speed reading, we might think that this command is limited to simply knowing the names. of the officers of the church. So if you know Elder Jim, if you know Elder Neil, bam, done Sermon over, let's walk out and let's go home. Well, just stay there for a second. I don't think that that's quite what it's getting at. It's not just simply saying, hey, know them. Now let me tell you. If you don't know who the elders are And you're a member of this church, something is seriously wrong. And you need to come to know who these people are. See, this passage presupposes you'll have an intellectual knowledge of who these people are, okay? But the commandment isn't limited to just simply knowing them. But this is a knowledge that should affect our behavior. This is kind of the sense where someone says, you better recognize You do know who you're dealing with. That kind of knowledge is not just merely a knowledge of facts, but the knowledge of the significance of those facts. To give you an illustration of this, imagine if we're at church, right? And imagine if you see back there, there's a man and he's surrounded by several other young men. And he seems to be intentive of the service. So you know, okay, if there's a new member, I don't want to talk to him, I want to look away, act like I don't see him. But you know what? That's not how I would like to be treated. That's not how we love our neighbor I should actually go over there and talk to them and love on them. So so you go, you say, okay, I'm gonna go over there, I'm gonna introduce myself, I'm gonna love on my neighbor. And you say, hey, you know, how are you? My name is so and so. What is your name? He says his name is George. You start to talking And you really like this guy. He's so friendly. He he's so interested. He seems to be so interested in the word. You just got you're just hitting it off and you just slap him on the shoulder and say, you know, it's such a I'm so glad you came I'd love to you come back next time. You come back, we can host you at my house. We can continue uh this conversation, this fellowship, and and uh it's just such a pleasure to meet you, George. And then you walk away. Okay. Then you go to your friends and your friend's looking at you with his jaw dropped. He's thinking, what's going on here? Why is your Jo, John , what's you know, I mean I know that it's difficult to talk to uh strangers and talk to people who are visiting our church, but What's the deal? He says, Do you know who that man is? Think, uh, that's George. That's George the New Miseries, a Christian, uh godly man and um, you know, he he seems to be pretty popular. He got some people with him. You know, but it is interesting that those people were around George, you know, they didn't seem as friendly as George. In fact, they seemed like they didn't want to talk to me at all. And in fact, they seem to be constantly looking at me and You know what? When I slap them on the shoulder like I felt like they might have almost attacked me all of a sudden. And the guy says, Do you know who that is? Yeah, that's George Avisor. Do you want me to say the whole thing over again? No. He says, that is George W. Bush. President George W. Bush. Better yes. And now your jaw drops and hits the floor and says, Wow, I'm glad I didn't get killed by the Secret Service agents for daring putting my hand on the president See it's one thing to know facts. It's another thing to know the significance of those facts. You knew that there were men surrounding him. You knew that he was at your church. You knew his name was even George. But you didn't know the significance of all those facts. facts. And when you came to know the significance of all that facts, then you re-evaluated your behavior and wondered if you should have done what you did. And that's exactly the same way it is here. You may know the facts. You may know that his name, that our elbows are named Jim and Neil. But we need to make sure we understand the significance of the fact. facts and significance of their office so that we can treat them with the proper respect and so you're not slapping the president on the shoulders talking about, what's up man, how you doing, George? So when we think about this, it says to respect, to know, to have a recognition, to recognize those who labor among you. Now what is this idea of what is this laboring among you? It means That there are people within our midst that are uh working for our good. The people who are studying, who have studied and are studying and are diligently doing things behind the scenes and in front of all of us in order to serve us. They're they're laboring among us. They're not just members of the church. But there are laborers of the church. Now, by the way, this isn't merely exclusive to the elders, right? There are other people who labor among us, and we should also, in some sense, recognize them. We should be thankful for the ladies who always do the things they do. We should be thankful for the people who set up and and tear down. We should be thankful for all the things that people do around this church. But our passage here is specifically talking about the the labor of the elders. If these people deserve thanks, how much more so should the elders receive thanks for doing labor just like these other people and doing more labor in many ways? And we'll see about that. So there's this labor that they do among us. Now what is this labor? What is the work of an elder if you want to think about it like this? Well Jeremiah 314 gives us a hint of what some of this work of an elder looks like. Jeremiah 314 says, Return, O faithless children, declares the Lord, for I am your master, and I will take you from a City, I will take you one from a city and two from a family, and I will bring you to Zion, and I will give you shepherds after my own heart, who will feed you with knowledge and understanding. So this is a prophecy of the new covenant. Now who are the shepherds? Well, to discover who the shepherds are, all we have to do is ask who are the sheep? Who are the sheep? Well, they're faithless children, declares the Lord, and God seems to be their master, and he says, I'll take you one from a city and two from a family, and I'll bring you to Zion. Well, here we know that this is referring to when it comes to the New Covenant, the New Covenant passage, the prophecy of things that will be fulfilled in the New Covenant. And this isn't talking about people jumping on plane tickets and visiting Zion for a vacation or some kind of religious pilgrimage. We're not just supposed to have religious pilgrimage. You cannot have a religious pilgrimage. You can have a pilgrimage where you want to go and visit places and you know reflect on God's uh goodness and what God has done in in the past. But there's no thing as a religious pilgrimage. That was ended when How Christ came when he talks when he talks to the woman. Remember he says, uh the woman is married to the woman, Shall we worship on this mountain or Jerusalem? There's a day coming where you will not worship on this mountain or this mountain, but God wants you to worship in spirit and in truth. There is no more holy sights any longer. Okay, so this isn't talking about literally visiting Zion, it's talking about the heavenly Jerusalem. And that heavenly Jerusalem we see described in Hebrews that you have come to Mount Zion. heavenly Jerusalem, the city that's coming down and will one day be on the new heavens and the new earth. So this is coming to New Zion, and the people coming there are people who take One from a city and two from a family. This is the elect principle. That not God doesn't just save everybody. Praise we wish that he would. In some ways, but God has better plans. We think that we have a better plan than God, but God has a better plan than us. We just trust him. But yes, we wish that he would save all, but he saves some and we're just thankful for what he does and we know what he does is Right? But the rimnate principle is here. I'll take you one from a city and two from a family. Don't we all know that there are some believers in among a family and and some not? Look at us. We are one from the city. Look at how many unbelievers are on the city, but yet here we are So this is the remnant principle, and these are faithless children who now have become faithless and now have become incorporated into the heavenly Jerusalem. These are now the people of God And so what does he do to these previously faithless children that have been redeemed from these cities and these families? Does he leave them shepherdless? Does he leave them strangless? The God who says, I will never leave you or forsake you, the God who says, I am your shepherd. Shepherds, you shall not want. Does he let them have want? No. He says in verse 15, I will give you shepherds after my own heart. I will give you shepherds after my own heart. What does that remind you of? What does it remind you of? I will give you shepherds after my own heart. Do you hear any echoes? Do you have any allusions to anything else? Well, I hope you're picking up what I'm putting down. It's in Acts 13, 22 says, God raised up who? David. To be their king of whom he testified, and said, I have found in David, the son of Jesse, a man here comes, after my own heart, who will do all of mine will. This idea of being after God's own heart is described on David. How good is David? Is he perfect? Absolutely not. We could say some things X-rated around here Okay. We can say some things that deserve David deserved to go to jail and to be executed. He did some bad things. So he's certainly not perfect, right? But is he godly? Is he a godly man? Absolutely he's a godly man. In fact, when you judge other kings, you know what they say? It says that whether it they're judged by David. Whether or not they lived to the standard of David. You know, he was he was a godly man, but he did he wasn't as godly as David. Usually the way it goes. Or he was a godly man. He was even more godly than Then David. David is the benchmark for kingly godliness. And before we judge David so so harshly, you realize that David was the most powerful man in the world. He could get a woman just like that. Any woman that he wanted. He could kill a man just like that He was the most powerful man in the world. Okay. So yes, David committed adultery, but that might be somewhat equivalent to you watching pornography. Two st two two clicks over, then you're in pornography. That's David when it comes to any woman he wants. So let's be careful not to judge David too quickly when we don't have the means and the resources that David did. And plus David was an extremely good looking man. He didn't have to uh he c he seduce any woman probably with a blink of the eye. I mean this it's a unique scenario with David But again, we're not trying to justify his behavior. We know he's he a sinned, but despite his sin, he's still described as a man after God's own heart who will do all of my things. will. And so God says it's going to be like these kind of individuals. It's going to be like these separate like individuals that God will give to his new covenant people who are like David, who are men after his own heart. Not perfect, just like David was not perfect. But nonetheless, people who have a heart for God and have a heart to do his will. These are the kind of men that God makes as our children. Shepherds. We're not talking about perfection again. David proves that. We're talking about faithfulness. And if there's any question of whether David really was a faithful, godly person, should we really put him in that category? We'll think about Acts 13. 36. Here's what it says For David, after he served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and saw corruption. David, after he served the purpose of God in his own generation. What a common what a commendation. What a way of description. Don't you hope that God will describe you in this way? What do you want on your on your grave? Here is a man. Who was worth a million dollars when he died? What would that mean to you? What does it proper the man that gained the whole war and yet lose his own soul? He was a man who had a great jump shot. He was a man Who thought he was God, but turned out he was a mere mortal. What do you want it to be? He was a man who worked for the government. He was a man who became a GS14. What do you want it to be? He was a man Who was a great preacher? None of those things will matter in the end. Here's what I want to hear. Here's what I want to see. I don't want it actually on my gravestone because it's be arrogant and and who knows it'd be true. Only God is the one who can tell me that not you putting that on my gravestone. But but here's what I want to see. Here's what I want it being described to me Jamie served the purpose of God in his own generation. That is what I want to be doing. describes that. Hopefully that's what you want to be described as. That's how David was described. This is what a man of God after his own heart is described as David was made a king, so his purpose for serving his own generation was kingly Some of us are purposed to be shepherds and it'll be shepherdly. Some of us will be sheep and it'll be sheeply. It doesn't really matter though. The question is, will this be described of you? There were kings that were very wicked that would not get this description of serving God in his own generation. There were shepherds who were very wicked who would not get the description of serving God in his own generation. There were individual sheep, people of the flock, laity out there, who would not be godly and not be described in this description and there were people in all three spheres of life that would be described. So let us seek to be described in this way in that future generation. So we have this idea that God gives us the shepherds to after his own heart. This is the biblical qualifications. That's why it's so important not to lay your hands hastily on uh individual and make sure that they really are people after God's own heart. If they're not, they're not ready. Maybe they're ready tomorrow. Maybe they will be ready, but they're not ready now It's not just about having a big mouth. It's not just about being able to teach. It's about being a man after God's own heart. Not a perfect man, but a godly man. Okay, so that is what God this is uh who God raises up. He raises up shepherds out of his own heart and he gives those to the people of God And what are they to do? According to Jeremiah 13, 15, it says, they will feed you, that's the sheep, with knowledge and understanding. This is the labor of the shepherd. He labors over the people of God in his in a multitude of ways, in a plethora of ways. He labors over the people of God with his own uh his own godliness as he as he tries to feed them with knowledge and understanding it's just by godliness you should be able to look at an elder and say There is a man, imperfect as he might be, who is following after God. That is what you should see when you look at an elder. Let me show you how how how audacious this can be. We see in 1 Corinthians 11, 1, Paul says, be imitators of me as I am of God. Christ. How audacious is that. Be imitators of me as I am of Christ. Now, again, was Paul perfect? By no means. Remember, Paul was the same guy who had a confrontation with a guy named Peter. And he said, Peter, you're totally living in a way inconsistent with the gospel. What are you thinking? You are making a shame upon the name of Christ, let alone the apostleship, for the way you're treating Gentile believers. How dare you not eat with them? How dare you! try to make them live like Jews when you yourself don't even live like a Jew, you hypocrite. Pretty harsh words. But you know what he didn't say? You're not perfect. That's it, Peter. Turn in your apostolic ordination papers. It's ripped up. You fired. He didn't say that. Because it's not about perfection. It's about imitation. Was the general pattern of Peter's life a portrayal of the gospel in word or deed? No. He slipped up, he failed, he was publicly exhorted, he was restored, and he kept on going. We're not talking about perfection here. Talking about the general pattern. You should be able to look at an elder and say, that is the way a man should raise his family. Okay? You shouldn't be going to the elders and saying, are you doing family devotion? No. I thought doing family devotion What do you mean you're not doing family devotion? What's wrong with you? Why aren't you doing family devotions? Would you not exhort others to do family devotion? Yes, I would. But why you yourself are not doing, you hypocrite No. That should not be the charge of the elders. You should not be looking at the elders and say, that is not how a man should treat his wife. No, you should say, that is how a godly man treats his wife. We're not talking about perfection. We're talking about example. So the first way that they feed us with knowledge and understanding is a life of godliness, not perfection, but maturity. We want imperfect maturity. We don't expect perfection. There's only one man perfect, and he was Christ, and he died on the cross for our sins. But we want maturity. And we want people that elders to be able to say, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. With humility, of course. The second way that they feed us with knowledge and understanding It's just preaching and teaching, whether this is formal or informal, whether this is counseling sessions, formal or informal. They teach us, they guide us, they give us understanding. They are laboring to preach the truth of God to the people of God. And this is a great privilege, and this is a great blessing for the church. For as they say, garbage in, garbage out. Or as the pulpit goes, so the church. The pulpit is the steering wheel of the church. If the pastor goes this way and that way and goes all crazy, guess what? The church is going that way and this way. It goes crazy The pastor's main job isn't to entertain you. It isn't to make you feel good, gain your self-confidence, make you feel pumped up, make you feel you're glad you came. That's not the main job of the pastor. That's not even part of the job of the pastor. The pastor's job is to feed you with knowledge and understanding. Pastor's job is to continue to bathe you in the word of truth, the word of God. so that by it you might grow. If you feel like you're grown up, then the pastor's job is to remind you of truths that you need to hear again. Let me tell you, I've had conversations with elders. Well I've known the answer. Sometimes I've been surprised I thought I knew the answer and they gave me a better answer. Or they reminded me of things that I forgot about. But sometimes I know the answer. I know exactly what they're gonna say. And just talking to them, uh It's so good to hear it from somebody else. And it's refreshing to our souls. They bathe us and they teach us and they feed us with knowledge and understanding. This is the labor of the elder, and this is what Uh we should recognize about them. We should respect those who labor among you, knowing that they're laboring and feeding us and giving us knowledge and understanding. The second thing we should know about the elders is that they are over us in the Lord. Yes, I understand that we live in a day where submission is not popular. Everyone wants to be a man for himself. Don't tell me what to do, I won't tell you what to do. Don't tell me how to live your life, live my life, I won't tell you how to live your li life is the prevailing attitude. Oh well we're all equal in Christ. Don't you remember we had a reformation about this, the priesthood of believers? We're all equal around here. We had a there was a rebellion called the Corps Rebellion. That was all about this. Okay. Well, the priesthood of believers is about your connection to Christ and how you don't need someone else to connect you to Christ. That's what the priesthood of believers are. The priesthood of believers are not about The fact that there are no elders. Read these words very carefully. The elders are over you in the Lord. Read it again. The elders are over you in the Lord. You don't need a PhD. You don't need to know the original languages. It's right there in front of you. The elders are over you in the Lord. Just as the scripture says the pay taxes to those whom are due, okay, because the government is God's servants, God's ministers. in the civil sphere, so too this text says that over the ecclesiastical sphere, the sphere of the church These people are over you. No, they're not ultimately over you like God is over you. They're not ontologically over you. Okay? They're not a greater being than you. But they do have an e they are economically over you in the sense that they have a different sphere of influence. Think about Christ Think about Christ and how the Father is over the Son. Is he ontologically over the Son? Is he a greater being? That would be denied out the Trinity. But yet Jesus does in fact submit to the Father. So too you can think about male and female relationships. Specifically in the sphere of the family. Is a father over children ontologically? No. Is a mother over her children ontologically? No, not at all. Neither is a boss over his uh employees or anything of the sort. They are equal in being, but they are not equal in responsibility. There is a relational difference between these individuals, and so too with those in over us. I think we really need to hear this that that these people are over us in the world. Lord. They have a real spiritual responsibility and a care for the flock, and we need to recognize that and we need to honor that So in conclusion, let us be people who submit to the biblical eldership of the church Submitting to our elders as we would submit to Christ because they have been appointed by Christ for our good. Let us love these individuals. Let us know who they are and recognize who they are and to esteem them very highly because of their work. Let us be at peace among ourselves, not striving, not fighting, not trying to tear each other down. Even when they, according to our text, admonish us, because they're only admonishing us, because that is God's command. to them. Not as if they get any sick pleasure out of this. It's what God has commanded them to do, and we should honor them as they do it. So we're going to submit to Christ by submitting to his elders, by recognizing, by esteeming them very highly, and being just overall generally thankful for their ministry in our lives.