This evening I want to discuss a very interesting passage in Genesis chapter 23. It's a very interesting passage because it's really unexpected And it seems strange and it's difficult to know exactly what's going on here. So I want to unpack this and see that this there's some wonderful uh truth in this passage, some gold nuggets that we can glean if we properly understand that. So I'll begin reading in Genesis. 23. Sarah lived 127 years. These were the years of the life of Sarah. And Sarah died. at Kirath Arba, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. And Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her. And Abraham rose up from before his dead, and said to the Hittites, I am a sojourner and a foreigner among you. Give me property among you for a burying place, that I may bury my dead out of my sight. The Hittites answered Abraham, Hear us, my lord, you are a prince of God among us. Bury your dead in the choices of our tombs. None of us will withhold from you his tomb to hinder you from burying your dead. Abraham rose and bowed to the Hittites. the people of the land, and he said to them, If you are willing that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me and entreat for me Ephron, the son of Zohor, that he may give me the cave at Mekpilah, which he owns. It is at his the end of his field. For the full price, let him give it to me in your presence as property for a bearing place. Now Ephron was sitting among the Hittites, and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the Hittites, of all who went in at the gate of his city No, my lord, hear me. I give you the field, I give you the cave that is in it, in the sight of the sons of my people, I give it to you. Bury your dead. Then Abraham bowed down before the people of the Lamb, and said to Ephron , in the hearing of the people of the land. But if you will hear me, I give the price of the field, accept it from me, that I may bury my dead there. Ephron answered Abraham, My Lord, listen to me. A piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver? What is that between me and you? Bury your dead. Abraham listened to Ephron, and Abraham weighed out for Ephron the silver that he had named. in the hearing of the Hittites, four hundred shekels of silver, according to the weights current among the merchants. So the field of Ephron in Mekpilah which was at the east of Mamre, the field with the cave that was in it, and all the trees that were in the field throughout the ho throughout its whole area was made over to Abraham as a possession in the presence of the Hittites before all who went in at the gate of his city. After this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah, east of Mamre, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. The field and the cave that is in it were made over to Abraham as property for bearing place by the Hittites Well that's a long uh chapter, it's twenty verses, and it's it's very confusing and difficult. I mean, uh some sense it it's very plain what's going on here. Sarah died, Abraham is buying this this property and then it goes into this haggling process and this there's all these customs of of Abraham going back and forth with these people. It seems very unfamiliar to us. But the main thing is kind of like, well what's this doing here? I mean, why do we have twenty whole verses about Abraham buying a burial place. I mean we don't this is not common for the Bible to do that. The Bible is is actually quite a small book if you think about how much history is told in in the Bible I mean think about uh from from the time of creation all the way to the time of Moses. I mean you you you have uh just very little amount of detail here and sometimes the narrative seems to speed up and sometimes it seems to To slow down. The same thing happens in Jesus' life. I mean, think about how much of Jesus life that we just don't know anything about that completely skips over it But then it really slows down at the Passion Week right before he dies. It seems to be focusing in and saying something is very important about the death of Jesus Christ. That's particularly important. And his childhood is not nearly as important. That's why it zooms past it. Well here, we would not expect uh a burial uh buying a burial place to be so important that twenty verses would have been mentioned. I mean, maybe one, maybe two, Sarah died and and Abraham bought a burial place for her and and that's it. I mean Why twenty verses? And then this whole back and forth what's going on here. Well, the reason uh that this is uh given so much so much emphasis is because this is so important. What Abraham's doing here is Abraham is buying a uh a piece of the promised land, the land that was promised to him. In this passage, uh Abraham says that I am a sojourner, a foreigner among you, give me a property among you for a burying place that I may bury my dead. He is a sojourner in the very land that God had promised him. He owned none of it. He was just a traveler by. He did not none of that belong to him. And now that's all about to change. Abraham, through this tragedy of the death of his wife, is finally going to gain some property. of the land that ultimately will be theirs. And this process is to to indicate to the people of God that Abraham bought this in in good faith. Abraham was not given this. There was no ability for anyone to later dispute this. This wasn't a gift. It wasn't uh this land wasn't given as a a borrowing or that you can use Abraham or some kind of nicety. No, Abraham got this land fair and square. He did it uh the proper procedures. He bought it. He it wasn't just some side deal. No one could possibly dispute this. This was done And and the court system of that day was all official. He paid uh the solid price for this, and then he got this cave and he got this field, and it now belonged to Abraham. This was Abraham's down payment in the promised land. This was a place where the people of God and their they could uh their their forefathers were going to be buried in. And we see a lot of the patriarchs, in fact, are going to be buried in this cave. We see that uh we see Sarah here is going to be buried there. Abraham, Isaac, Rebecca, Leah, Jacob, all of these patriarchs and these matriarchs are going to be there. That is going to be the land of the people of God. Ultimately we see in the New Testament that this land is expanded to the whole earth. It says blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth But in this time the the land was was um was limited to the promised land. And so this was the land that was going to belong to these patriarchs and matriarchs because there was going to be a resurrection and they're going to inherit the glorious land, which again which is going to be extended throughout the entire earth. And so what we see here is this down payment of of saying that we have a stake in this land. And you've got to think about the the original audience reading this and hearing about this story of recognizing that we have property, we have some land in the promised land. We have some property there. And it's it may be small, but we have something there, and we're ultimately going to take that little property, and then all of this is going to be ours. Abraham was only able to get this tiny possession of it at the death of his loved one. And the only thing he was able to do is is uh get this land that he was going to die in and be able to place his dead. But one day God was going to fulfill his promise and not just give him this burial place but give him the entire earth. Give him all of that land. And that's what we can be encouraged by. That's why this is here is to say that look at Abraham's faith, believing God, believing that God really was going to give him what he uh what he had Promised them, and Abraham's doing everything in his power to to gain this land authentically and and with sincerity. And he believes That even though he can't see it all, all he can see is this tiny burial plot that one day he's going to get it all. And that's the same thing for us that we have the down payment of the Holy Spirit. That's our down payment of the future land. And we can see the Holy Spirit, we can see the regeneration of our lives. We can see what God has done in us. We see that love that God has placed in our hearts. But that's all we see. We don't see the redemption of our bodies. We don't see the redemption of the world. We don't see the promised land. Those promises are far off, but we are sojourners And we believe because we have the down payment, we are we are we are people of faith that believe that God will uh cash in on these promises and that he will fulfill what he has already place that down payment on he will one day give us the glorified bodies, the glorified land, resurrection. He will give us all things in Christ And that's what we see here in Abraham. And it's also an example for us of what we should do. We should act on the promises of God. God has given us promises. He's told us that we are to go and preach the gospel to all creatures. He's told us that the gospel was spread throughout all the earth. He's told us that we have a value and that though we die we shall let yet live. He's told us so many things and we should act on it just like Abraham Abraham got the promise of the promised land, but he did not see the promised land, but he believed in faith, and so we have all these promises But we do not see it. So let us be encouraged as we think about uh Genesis twenty-three and realize what's going on here. Abraham's acting in faith, Abraham's gaining a part of that possession of land, and one day he will get all of it, and so us. We are children of Abraham with children. of faith. One day we will get this land and one day we will be resurrected and dwell on the earth forever with God. That is our great hope.