So for me, if you were to ask me what is my favorite place to go out to eat, I would have to divide it between fast food and the sit-down restaurant. Obviously you got the Ruth Chris and the hideaway or whatever where you sit down and you tip and all that yum and delicious food. Uh but there's also the fast food which is more quick and And you don't spend nearly as much money, you don't have to tip. And so if someone were to ask me what is my favorite fast food, then too, I would have to divide it into two. Okay? Can't just give you a simple answer. If we're talking about beef, if we're talking about burgers, it's a clear winner for me, it's five guys. Burgers and fries. I love the whole thing. I love the milkshake. I love the burger, the bacon, the jalapenos, the fries, and even they have the little peanuts I like the peanuts as well. I love five guys burgers and fries. But I don't even think they have chicken there. If they do, I've never had it. They have a they have a hot dog. I never had that either. I just like the burger. But when it comes to chicken I would have to pick a different restaurant and that this is God's fast food restaurant, you may know what I'm referring to. Chick-fil -A. I love me some Chick-fil-A. And I remember the first time I ever had Chick-fil-A actually was because my bigger sister, my older sister, was dating uh a man who was the manager of Chick-fil-A. And this was many years ago, and they used to have these little coupons that had complimentary free chicken. You remember that? If you waited too long or something, they gave you these little complimentary free chicken. Well, I'm not sure about the ethics of all this, but somehow a lot of those complimentary free chickens came to my sister And then she passed off one of those little chickens, little things to me. And so I had to have been around 12 or 13 at the time. And I remember either, I can't remember if I got on my little bike or or walked two or three miles to the mall by a Rundo Mills and got my little chicken sandwich from Chick-fil-A and I remember handing them the little coupon and I was a little nervous and they gave me this chicken and I bit into it and it blew my mind That chicken is awesome. It's amazing. There's a little pickle in there. It was incredible. And it was free. And at that from that moment on, me and Chick-fil -A have been good friends. But here's the deal. I'm relatively frugal, also known as a cheapskate So I normally don't like to part with my money when it comes to any food, fast food or regardless, especially when I can go eat at home. So me and Chick-fil-A don't often get to spend time with each other, even though I want to. And there's another problem. I keep having children. And it turns out that it adds up very quick when you have to pay three, four, five, six dollars per chicken sandwich. multiplied by one, two, three. You see what I'm saying? And I'm like, no, we're going home. And we're eating mama 's home cook it. So I simply say I have to say is my favorite restaurant is Chick-fil-A, but I don't often eat there I have to justify it by some kind of road trip or some kind of desperation. And one of the times I can justify it is when I travel in the airport. I'm traveling and there's no real way to bring food, so I have two options to fast. There's a sermon coming on that in the future, but I don't like fasting, so I'm not looking forward to that sermon Or to actually go buy some food. And so oftentimes, almost every time, maybe every time, I choose the buying food option at the airport. And Chick-fil-A never fails me, except it did I was at the Atlanta airport traveling ready to get my Chick-fil-A on. And here's the thing about Chick-fil-A, I don't know if you noticed this, but the line for Chick-fil-A is always so much longer than every other line. No matter where you go. I don't know why. So I'm sitting there and I'm in a rush and I have to get out. I'm either gonna fast or buy some Chick-fil-A. So I decided to buy Chick-fil-A, but I'm running out of time, so I wait in that line, and I finally get my sandwich and then I run over into my terminal and get on my plane and then I'm smelling my chicken sandwich with my waffle fries and then I bite into it and I realize that it's cold And it's worse than just cold. I realize that it's actually warm on the outside, but in the inside. It was cold. cold. They undercooked my chicken sandwich. Now I I was quite upset to be honest. Because not only was I hungry and disappointed, but I felt wronged and I felt robbed. I parted from my good money and I got nothing in return. Well, I want you to think about that feeling of disappointment and that feeling of being robbed. And I want to ask you this question. Has God ever come to you, and in his experience, he expected one thing from you, and it turned out that you were like that trashy Chick-fil-A in the Atlanta airport and robbed him and disappointed him. Now let's open up our Bibles to Malachi chapter 3 And beginning in verse 7. Malachi chapter 3, beginning in verse 7. Yet from the days Of your fathers you have gone away from my ordinances, and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts But you said, In what way shall we return? Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed me. But you say, In what way have we robbed you? and tithes and offerings. You are cursed with a curse. For you have robbed me, even this whole nation. Bring all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be food in my house. Try me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such a blessing that you will not be able to receive it. I will rebuke the devourer for your sake, so that he will not destroy the fruit of your ground, nor shall the vine fail to bear fruit in the field, says the Lord of hosts. And all the nations will call you blessed, for you will be a delightful land, says the Lord of hosts. So back there in verse 7, the very beginning, we're told, yet from the days of your father you have gone away from my ordinances, you have not kept them. Now, ordinarily, tradition, at least it ought to be good. The ways of your forefathers ought to be Good. It ought to be that your parents are teaching you and raising you in the discipline and the instruction of the Lord. It ought to be that the gospel that was preached on the days of Jesus, carried by the apostles, would be unbroken, carried down to us, and all we would have to do is hold on to the traditions that have been given by our forefathers. In fact, if you think about it, the original man, Adam, dwelled with God in a garden. There was no better evangelist than him. He could tell you what God looked like, what God felt like, what God smelt like. He walked with him and he talked with him, but unfortunately his offspring rebelled. And so we have a long history of instead of tradition always being good, that many times tradition gets astray. And that's what he says here, that from the days of your forefathers you have gone from my ordinances And so if they had abandoned God from days of of old, then what came from them also had abandoned God. And so what I'm saying is this, people, we have to be careful about tradition. And what we need to be like is like the Bereans. who were more noble-minded than the Thessalonikas, who went back into Scriptures to see if these things were so. Now we can fall into a different error, and this is called chronological snobbery, and we're very tempted to do this because we have these new iPhones, these new cell phones, these new technologies, and we can start to go into the other direction and conclude if it's new, then it's true. But that also is an error, because all heresies are new, at least at some point, and all deviations from the truth were originally new. And so we need to be careful not to go on either one of these extremes and say if it's old, it's gold, or if it's new, it's true. But rather what we need to be is people who say, let me examine everything based on the scriptures. And that's what our forefathers in the Reformation did. The Catholic Church said we had been doing this since the time of Jesus, but when they searched the scriptures, ad fontes, back to the sources, they said you lost the gospel. We don't see that the Lord's Supper is in fact a mass. And on and on it went. There were these things called accretions, and they added on. What I'm trying to show you though is that these accretions weren't just in the times of the Reformation, but they went back even in the days of the Jews, and guess what? We are always tempted to add accretions To start doing something right, and then we start to deviate. And the only correction that will ever come of this is if we're people that are willing to say, show me in the scriptures. Does that make sense? That is our unity. That is our peace. To be people of the book. And to say, show me in the scriptures. And then, once we find it in the scriptures, what must we do? We must say, God is true. And we must be willing to reform. 1 Peter 1, verse 18 Christ ransomed you not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. Amen? But the text says he ransomed you, and you might think he might say from hell or from the devil or from sin. But the text actually says that he ransomed you from the aimless ways inherited from your forefathers. That's what Christ has done. He's broken into history, and he's changing history, and he's changing the destiny of you and of your offspring. He's ransomed you from the futile ways of your forefathers. Or you can think about in Jesus' day, Jesus had so many conflicts. with the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And do you know what the Pharisees and the Sadducees always would say to Jesus? This is not what our tradition has done. Do you remember this? This is one of the reasons why the Roman Catholic argument of tradition, tradition, tradition will never fly with me because I know Jesus. And I got saved off reading the book of Matthew. And I watched Jesus fight tradition tooth and nail. And Jesus said to them, These people draw near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. So I only say this to say we have to be people who are always willing to test everything by the book There is nothing worse than thinking something is from God, but actually finding out that it is, in fact, the teachings of the doctrines of the covenant. So here, they were doing that. They were following the practices of their forefathers, but the practices of their forefathers were not good. They were not obeying the commands of God. And so then in the latter part of verse 7, we have the gospel remedy. Do you see that? We have the problem, aimless conduct of their forefathers, but then we have the gospel remedy. And what is that? God says this: return to me and what I will return to you. Isaiah says that sin has caused a separation between us and God When Adam sinned, he was separated from God. Do you remember? He was cast out, and a cherubim came and blocked the way. When Israel sinned against God, what did God do to Israel? Exile. He casts them out. Ultimately, what will God say to the goats? Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. I never knew you. And he will cast them out. This is what sin does to us. It separates us from God. And all of us have sinned And so all of us have been separated from God, and yet God does not want to cast us out, but instead he says, Return to me, and I will return to you. And this is very similar to what God says in James, where he says, resist the devil, and he will flee from you, submit to God, draw near to God. And God will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. And so when we go astray, and when we're separated from God, remember the gospel call. If there's a separation between you and God, guess who walked away? Guess who turned their back? God didn't turn his back on you. He's saying, return. And I'm going to return to you, draw near, and I will draw near to you. God is not the unforgiving friend God is not the one who says, I'm done with you forever. God is saying, I'm willing to be reconciled and to be restored. But we have to do something. We have to return. We have to go back. We have to go and ask God for forgiveness. We have to confess our sins. And He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so let me just tell you this, believers, or anyone here really, the devil will always tell you that you've run out of chances. That you've done too much, that you've gone too far, that God wants nothing to do with you any longer. But God says, and remember what he says right here: return to me, and I will return to you. God knows your shame. God sees you hiding at the fig leaves, trying to pretend and making excuses and all of these things And he says, come on back home. Do you remember the good Samaritan, not the good Samaritan, do you remember the prodigal son? Well, he had done all these shameful things. And he finally came to his right mind and remembered the love of the Father. And he came back to the Father. And the Father came out there with a whip and beat him in front of everyone, humiliated them, and shamed them. And wait. I don't remember that parable. He did it. He ran out to him. In fact, he loved him so much that he offended the self-righteous. That's what kind of God that we serve, a God who is so forgiving and so loving and so ready to embrace you with restoration that he will shame other people. And think that this is not fair. Remember the brother? I've served you for years. And you receive him? God 's gospel and God's love is that great. That's the gospel people. But here The people, as we are often, were hard hearted. Right? Instead of breaking at the cross, running to God like the prodigal son They do what they do everywhere in this book. And they say, look at verse 7. But you said, in what way shall we return? Isn't that crazy? In what way shall we return? Well, let's see. You gave stolen animals You gave God your worst. You tolerated corrupt priests and the priests were totally corrupt. You married foreign women and you divorced people for no good cause. What do you mean? In what way shall we return? Hard-hearted people. But instead of God just whacking them over the head and said, I've had enough of this God says, okay, you want to see how you need to return? Well, I have yet another thing against you. You have done yet another thing. And I re remember in a in a sermon we were talking about God is when we are disrespecting God's worship that he is no longer pleased with us. He does not He's no longer interested in our songs. He's no longer interested in our amens. He's no longer interested in our giving. And maybe that is true, but here's the reality, and we see it right here. Peoples whose heart is far from God usually are not givers. You see? Usually if you have left God, you took your wallet with you. You didn't leave the wallet behind and say, God, you hold on to this, I'm gonna run off into sin. That's not how it works your wallet is really closely connected to your pockets slash your hearts. We put the money right here and we walked out of God's presence with our cash intact. And that's exactly what we have here. You say, in what way shall we return? Oh, I will tell you. Verse 8, will a man rob God? Now stop right there. If you didn't know this passage was here in the Bible, what would you probably say? Can a man rob God? I would say. I appreciate it. I would say no. Why? Because he's all powerful, omnipotent. So remember Jesus says how can you plunder a man's goods when the strong man is there? You have to first bind the strong man Satan, and then you can plunder his goods all of us Strong man's there. I can't get his stuff. And who's stronger than God? He's omnipotent. He's all powerful. How can we possibly steal his stuff? Well, I have an idea. Maybe when he's not there we can steal his stuff. See? You can be as strong as Mr. Kevin, but you're not there backing up the U-Haul. Don't worry. But here's the problem. God is what? He's always there. So you can never wait for him to leave. And then of course God is omniscient. He knows all. So how could we possibly rob God? Well , lean not on your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge God. We're not robbing God by putting a U-Haul up into heaven, sneaking in and taking little golden Trinklets from heaven. But rather we rob God a different way. Now, before we talk about that, I want you to think about the concept of robbing in the first place. Can you rob something that doesn't belong to somebody else? If it belongs to you Did you steal it from someone else? No, this is my stuff, so I didn't rob you. But if I did rob you, that implies that it belonged to You. Did anybody check it out? This is pretty simple. I robbed you, so therefore that belonged to you. And so this is the key thing we need to recognize. To rob God means it belonged to Him in the first place. Now, church, what belongs to God? Everything. Do you see? And that is so important for us to recognize. As we think about this passage, remember who you are, remember who he is. He owns a cattle on a thousand hills. This sermon is not poor God. He needs resources. And so we need to help poor God. God owns it all, and he lets us use his stuff. We are his stewards, and that's why he's going to hold us accountable for everything we do. So God owns it all, and yet despite that, he's saying, you somehow robbed him, meaning that there's something of that all that particularly belongs to him and that was for him, and we took it. We took it. We stole it. Well, what is this? Verse 8. Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed me. But you say, in what way have we robbed you? Which is the question. How have we robbed God? Answer: In tithes and in offerings. So what is this? What is a tithe? We were talking about in Sunday school using Christianese, using language that people don't understand outside of the religious context who uses the word tithe. It's almost exclusively a religious concept. But you can hear in the word tithe the word tenth. You hear that? Tenth. And so this is the principle that one out of ten belongs to the Lord. And so what he's saying is that you have robbed him because you have kept back his portion and kept it for yourself. And then he also mentions offerings. And so we can modernize this or put this in our own context, is that they have robbed God by not giving him his regular due and his special offerings. And what will be an example of a special offering? Well, the Bible says if you see your brother in need and you close your heart to him, how can the love of God reside in you? You see? Who would simply say somebody's in need, somebody needs help, somebody needs provision, and you say I already gave my tithe, so sorry, I have nothing left for you No, God would also say you've robbed me if you refuse that too. So the two th ways that they robbed God was their regular offerings to the Lord of 10% and their special offerings when the time arose. Now how big of an issue was this How much of a problem was this? Well look at verse 9. You are cursed with a curse, but you have robbed me even this whole nation. So is this a scattering? Is this just an issue that a very few people were having, or was this an epidemic? Epidemic, right? The whole nation was doing this. Well that was then, this is now That was old covenant. This is new covenant. We're some under grace. They're under law. We have the Holy Spirit. They did too. But nonetheless. We don't have this problem anymore, right? We don't need the Old Testament. All we do is when we read the Old Testament, we say, thank God I'm not them. No. Let me give you some statistics. What percent of churchgoers do you think today tithe? Well, it's actually difficult to find that number out. So I Googled it. Unfortunately, Google gave me all kinds of crazy answers. Here's what Google told me. The first source said 3 to 5%. 3 to 5% of church goers, we're not talking about people that are just Americans, people who go to church ties. Another source said 10 to 25 %. We're getting higher. Berna said 42% of churchgoers tithe, and lifeway research put it at 51%. Now let me just complain about statistics. 3% and 51%? I mean that's extreme. This is almost useless. But I will tell you this though. It's probably one of those are probably true. Right? It's probably somewhere between 3% and 51%. I mean that's pretty big. But you know what it isn't? It isn't the vast majority of believers What those statistics show is, this is still a problem. This is still an issue. And by the way, I looked under the hood a little bit. Lifeway Research got that number of 51% by a random survey online of a thousand people and asking Christians to self-report. How many of y'all are gonna self-report that you're not tithing? You might get a little bit of inflated numbers is kind of what I'm simply saying. Again, I'm not sure which one of those numbers are true. It doesn't matter. What it does suggest, though, is most likely this remains a problem for us today. A problem of giving. Now, interesting enough, the lightweight survey also asked another question. How many of those people, 51%, who said that they did tithe, actually believed in tithing? Perhaps you're sitting in this audience saying, I don't even believe in tithing. So we can talk about that. They found, though, that 77 % of the people that were asked actually believed in tithing, which means that the disparity isn't simply that people don't believe in it. And even of that other 23%, they found only 10% didn't believe in tithing, and the other 13 had never even heard of it and were confused. So I simply say this. The explanation of the lack of giving in the tithe isn't because most Christians believe that this isn't a New Testament principle. It's actually much deeper than that. So why why we not tithe? What is the issue? Well I think the first might be one would simply say tithing is an old testament concept and is not a new testament concept. This is a theological argument. Well the first thing I'll say to that is this. Did you know that the tithe predates the law? So simply saying that the tithe is an Old Testament concept is actually inaccurate. Do you remember a man named Abraham, who also was the rich man? When you ask Christians can can believers be rich, they always point to Father Abraham and say, that guy was rich, so clearly Christians can be rich, right? Father Abraham, do you remember what he gave when he met Melchizedek? Found in Genesis. He gave him a tenth or a tithe of all that he had received, the spoils. Where did he get that idea? He clearly didn't get it from Deuteronomy. He clearly didn't get it from the law. He got it from somewhere. Where did he get the idea that 10% was appropriate? What do you think about that? His son Jacob, when he's sleeping on a pillow, which was actually a rock, and he sees The ladder of heaven, you remember the angels ascending and descending? He wakes up and he says this amazing statement. He says, God was here and I did not know it Just think about that. God is here and I did not know it. That's our life. God is here and I did not know it. And then God is working on his heart, and when God works on your heart, he works on your wallet. Your wallet comes with you. We're going to do some baptism soon. And I'm thinking about baptizing the person and then afterwards taking their wallet and baptizing the wallet. To show that when God w baptizes you, he doesn't just leave the wallet out. He takes all of you. And we're gonna see a little bit later, the real issue is the heart. The real issue isn't the wallet at all. God has all the money in the world, all the resources in the world. God doesn't need your money. He wants your heart. But God's saying put your money where you're Where your mouth is. But when Jacob gets this reformation of a heart condition, you know what he says after that vision? God, of everything that you give me, I will give you a heart condition. A tenth. So it's simply inaccurate to say that tithing is simply an Old Testament concept. In fact, it is not. In fact, what did Jesus say about tithing? Do you know what Jesus said? Jesus said that you scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites, you all tithe even down to the stuff in your garden. You're out there counting cilantro leaves. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Here's guys. You're out there bringing to church cilantro leaves. And he says that these are the lesser things, but you neglect justice and righteousness and love. And he says, the latter things, the lesser things you ought to have done, but you ought not to have neglected the greater things. In other words, Jesus commends tithing. So simply saying that tithing is an Old Testament concept is not valid. Here's another reality. Do you remember when Jesus says on the Sermon on the Mount, you have heard that it was said of old You shall not divorce, but I say to you, you have heard that it was said of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you, whoever looks at a woman with lust Has committed adultery in his heart. You have heard that it was said of old, you shall not murder. But I say to you, if you call your brother a fool, you are liable to the judgment. You remember this? And at the end he says, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. You will by no means enter the kingdom of God. You know what he never said? He never said, you have heard that it was said of old, bring in the tithes to the storehouse. But I say to you, 2. 5% is now legitimate. He never says that. And truthfully, it makes no sense. After all that God has done, after all that we have seen Again, it's confusing of how much the Old Testament had the Holy Spirit, but we certainly get a new dose of the Holy Spirit under the new covenant. Grace is more abounding, is the point. Why would we think that all of a sudden God would no longer care about our giving? Do you really believe that God came to free you from giving? Of course not. The New Testament says all kinds of things about giving. In fact, the people I often find that are most adamant, that are most strong against the concept of tithing, say tithing is too little. It's certainly not too much for the vast majority of us. Christ did not come to remove this. In fact, let me just show you what the Bible's New Testament says about giving. 1 Corinthians 16 2 says that giving ought to be regular and proportionate. 1 Corinthians 16 2. On the first day of the week. Which day are we on? It's not the weekend. That's misleading. This is the first day of the week. This is the Lord's day. On the first day of the week, let each one lay aside, storing up as he may prosper, that no collections may be given when I come. This is the passage that justifies these offering plates. We're doing this in obedience to this. On the first day of the week, we're pastoring the offering plates. Why? And how much are we supposed to do that regularly? And we're supposed to do this storing up as much as he may prosper. That's another way of saying proportionately. If you prosper more, you ought to give more. If you prosper less, you ought to give less. Does that make sense? It's supposed to be proportionate. Now here's the question, beloved. What proportion? What is the proportion? Is there any guidance? Is there any instruction? There's two ways to look at this. How do I get out of it? If you want to get out of it, you can find ways to get out of it. No problem. There's another way of looking at this. God, can you help me? Because proportionate means something. Can I get some guidance? Because some people want proportionate being you sell your house and you go live in a shack. God, is that what you want for me to do? Is that what proportionate means? God, can you give me an instruction? And when I come to the Bible with that attitude, guess what I see? God, you had a number. You did give us some guidance. I find the tithe to be a blessing of help and not a hindrance and not a curse. Do you see that? Because my attitude is, God, help me, instruct me, teach me. Should I sell the suit? Miss Brenner doesn't want me to sell the suit. What is proportional giving? Well, I think the Bible gives us that answer. So the New Testament says we're to give regularly, consistently, weekly. Which probably corresponds to how much they got paid. So they give as we get paid, and we're supposed to do it proportionately. But the second thing the Bible says is we're supposed to the New Testament that we're supposed to give with the right attitude. Please, nobody walk away from this sermon begrudging giving God anything. Because God doesn't want it that way To begrudgingly give to God is completely contrary to what God wants. 2 Corinthians 9. 7. Let each one give as he He purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or out of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver. And what I'm going to show you hopefully at the end of this sermon is that the tithe is a blessing, not a curse. You don't actually want the tithe to go away. You want the tithe to remain. The tithe is not a burden, but actually a blessing. Because God says some things about that tithe that we all want if we'll trust in Him. So he wants us to give with the right attitude. He also says in that same passage, 2 Corinthians 9, 6, that he wants us to give in faith and he wants us to give significantly. He says, but I say this to you, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. He who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Do you see? He's not just saying, you know, use God as a slot machine. If you don't want a lot, just give him a little. If you want a lot, give them a. He's trying to encourage you to sow bountifully. So God wants us to give in faith. He wants us to give significantly. He wants us to give in the right attitude. He wants us to give regularly, and he wants us to give proportionately. Again, here's the question, beloved. At least this is my heart. When I read these passages, sometimes I think 10% is too little. I never read these passages and think 10% is too much. Right? I doesn't see that. And finally, the Bible says this, and this is why we actually pass the plate, and I'm not ashamed to pass the plate. At Andover, we stopped passing the plate. And do you know what we found? Giving did not decrease at all. So if you think there's any kind of emotional manipulation of passing the plate to pressure you, that's not it at all. The reason that we continue to pass the plate, or I want to continue to pass the plate, is because giving is an act of worship. And I'm not ashamed to have you and us worship God by giving. Philippians 4. 18. I am full, having received the things that you sent. That were sent from you. A sweet aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. You see that? Who's ultimately happy when you give to God? God is. That's who you're giving to, by the way. You're giving to God. I remember when I when I got this concept, and I said, oh, wait a second. I'm giving to God Not to men. So maybe I should grab all my money and burn it. Like a whole burnt offering. That's not what God says to do. Lean not on your own understanding. God says, give to me by Giving to his people. That's God's plan. Where are we to give the tithe? Well, let's go back to Malachi. Verse 10 Bring all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be food in my house. God doesn't leave us to wonder where the tithes are supposed to go. So according to this passage, are tithes supposed to go to your children's education fund? That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to tithe to the 529. No. That's a good thing. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with the 529. Bless your children. Amen. But he says specifically where the tithes are supposed to go. He says Bring the tithes into the storehouse. Well that was in the temple. Where 's today's temple? It's us, it's the church That there may be food in my house. And what food did this provide for? This provided for the Levites and the priests. This provided for The love offerings and all these things. We have the same things that we need to do. We need to provide for the priest. We need to provide for each other, by the way. The widows? Who was supposed to provide for the widows? The church. Who was supposed to provide for the sick? The church. Where's the church supposed to get this money? From us We're supposed to go and spread the gospel. That's going to cost money. In other words, we still have need for money. There's nothing in the New Covenant that would indicate at all that God has in any ways eliminated this. Now I don't know how accurate this statistic is And it might be completely unapplicable to this church. But I heard that one time a statistician did the numbers and found That if the entire church was on welfare and tithes, the income of the church would double. That's crazy. Can you imagine that? According to that stat, at least at some point in some church That was representative of many. If everybody was on welfare and everybody tithed, the income of the church would double. Hmm. It's crazy. So, I think we have seen that is biblical, that we continue to have needs. Now here's a question Why might we be tempted not to like this message, not to like this truth, and more importantly, not to tithe? What might be the reason that we don't want to do this? Well, look at verse 10 again. Bring all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be food in my house, and try me now in this. There it is. God says, I know the real problem. The real problem is a heart problem. The real problem is a trust problem. The real problem is you say, I need this. I can't give this Have you ever been there? Have you ever been there? Have you ever been there and said, God, I can't give you the tithe. I need this. This happened to me. I have regularly tithe, and I don't say that to brag. I'm sure many of you have regularly tithed as well, okay? But I remember when I sold my house And I did some repairs. I painted some things and repaired some things and I was buying a new house. And there goes my wife. Whispering things in my ear. And she said, Well are you gonna tithe for the proceeds of your old house into your new house? And I said, Well, th this is just a transfer. Like all the see we can't come on, you can't expect me to do this. this. And she gave me that look. But do you know why I did not want to tie that money? Because, and this is what I told her, she didn't buy it. I need it. I can barely afford this house. Like I I need this. And you know what she said? Trust God. And that's what the passage tells us, right? The reason that these people don't want to tithe is because they don't trust God. We all like the story of David and Goliath, but we forget what it must have been like to be little tiny David staring down Goliath, needing a miracle. Because that's the condition that he was. Little tiny David staring down Goliath needing a miracle. And many times God will place us in a situation where Earthly speaking, we doesn't seem like it makes a lot of sense to tithe. And so what we need is God to show up. But here's the blessing, beloved. Look at this. Not my words. Look at the words of Scripture At the end of verse 10. Try me now in this. God is saying, put my name on the line. Has anybody? You don't have to raise your hand. Has anybody tried God in this and God failed you? Has anybody said, I'm going to try God in this, I'm going to test you God, I'm going to tithe, I'm going to give sacrificially, and you ended up in poverty, destitution, and saying at the end of it, God failed me. I have never heard that testimony once. And instead, I've heard countless testimonies, and I'm sure some of you after this sermon are going to tell me testimonies about you applying this passage to your life and God blessing you. Because God will never fail us. Look what he says. Try me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for such a blessing. that there will be not room enough to receive it. I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, so that he will not destroy the ground, nor shall the vine fail to bear. I will bless you. I will make you call blessed. You will be a delightful land. I am the all-powerful God who can do all things. Do you see? And this is the point where I'm trying to get people to see. I hope this sermon doesn't feel like a burden and feels like law, but rather feels like grace. Because when you read that passage, you realize that this tithing actually is a blessing. Because God is saying, you can prove me in this. I want you to give me your wallet so I can bless you. Do you believe him? Do you believe that if you actually do this and you tithe, that you will prove God to be faithful? God is saying, I want to bless you, I want to pour down heaven, I want to rebuke the devourer, I want your cars to last longer. I want To bless you. I want you to be able to testify God has been my provider for every day, every step of the way. Why would you want that to go away? Why would you not want to say, God, I believed you, I trusted you, and you have blessed me? This is a blessing. But again, the main issue, really, is a heart issue. Do you believe God? Do you trust God? Do you believe that if you give to God, that He will repay you, that He will sustain you? The New Testament says that you will have everything you need, having all sufficiency in all things, so that you may be able to do every good work. Have you ever been unable because you gave too much? Does anyone have that testimony? I gave too much and God failed me. Nobody has that testimony. But many of you. Hopefully most of you have the testimony I've given to God and He's never failed me. I gave a car away and God gave me another car. I gave money I didn't have, and all of a sudden, God blessed me. He took care of me. I have proved him over and over. The reality is the big deal isn't about the 10%. The big deal is where your treasure is, your heart will be also. Jesus is telling even that Randy Alcorn has this wonderful book called The Treasure Principle. I highly encourage you all to read it. And here's what he says based on that passage God is telling you how to give God more of your heart. If you want to give God more of your heart, give him more of your wallet. For where your treasure is, your heart will be also. Do you see? That's what this message is really about. It's about trusting God more, believing God more, proving God more, and then watching God bless you more. As we come to a close, let's not over-exaggerate the importance of tithing, though. Jesus does say about tithing, these are the lesser matters of the law. Do them, but don't neglect the other things. You can't just give the tithe and meet treat other people poorly. You can't just give the tithe and refuse to do all these other things. Tithing is one component, but it's not even the most central component. The most central component is trusting in Jesus and loving him and resting in him. In conclusion , let me remind you that there are more ways to rob God than just refusing to give him our tithe. Guess who belongs to God? We do. All of us. Our entire being is to be a living sacrifice offered to God. And so we can rob God more than just refusing to give him our tithe. We can rob God by refusing to give him our hearts. And to refusing to give him all that he deserves. You know, recently I've been uh shopping on Amazon and I've noticed that there's a new option that says used like new. Have you seen that? You see the new option and you see use like new and it's only like $10 cheaper. Has anybody ever bought the use like new? Somebody. You're cheaper than me. I refuse. For $10, I'm going to buy a used like new product. I'm pretty sure I know what the use-like new is. I'm pretty sure the Use Like New is all the return products that Amazon has received, and then now they're reselling it to us. But before that, Amazon used to do something else. When you returned a product to Amazon, they would look it over and then they would resell it to you without telling you. And some people have had the terrible experience of opening up products that look good on the outside, cracking it open, and to realize that somebody put their finger in your cream. That this product that looked new was actually used and contaminated. And here's my question for you When God looks at you, does he see something that looks beautiful on the outside? But then when he breaks you open, he sees a little hair in his cream. He sees that his bottle's been half used, that it's been contaminated. Are we robbing God by refusing to give God our best? Let's not do that. And if we have, remember the gospel. Return to me And I will return to you. God can restore the broken. He can heal and make that which is corrupt pure in his sight.