All right, so I received a very interesting and thoughtful response to the last uh talk that I gave about marriage being a means of grace essentially and putting people on mission Um now to be clear, putting up people on mission, putting singles, putting people on mission for God. Now, to be clear, what I was particularly talking about was helping Christian singles goals to be put on mission for God. So these people are already saved and they're just kind of floating. They're just kind of um trying to figure out what they're supposed to be doing in life. They're not really pursuing much. And then when they get married then the clarity of their mission and their task becomes clear before them and then they I start realizing, okay, this is what I should be pursuing and the task becomes clear. That's what I was saying. In that talk, I did talk about to you know, support that point, the fact that marriage is a sanctifying institution, period, and even can cause people who have drifted away from God and even non-religious people for the first time to see the miracle of of childbirth and the beauty of marriage um and and the responsibility of being a parent and that can actually have a uh drawing effect that God can use used as as one of his means of grace to draw that person to Christ and salvation. That's true too, but that's not what I meant by a mission for God. I was particularly talking about Christian singles going from floaters to um um the people that are pressing in on God. And the reply I got essentially said, yes, I agree that um Marriage is a means of grace. It is God's first institution. It is a blessing, and it does certainly help people Um but but they basically essentially argued that marriage can uh many times be uh oversold and uh people can enter into it thinking that it exaggerates benefits and that's gonna fix them entirely and it's gonna turn, you know, a a lazy person into a fundamentally hardworking person or sexually immoral person into suddenly uh sexually pure person or someone who just has no ambition in life and then all of a sudden to have ambition in life or someone who is um you know uh self-serving and one person who serves themselves and all of a sudden they now are zealous for God and and wanting to serve God And to that, yeah, I agree that marriage will do none of those things. And I tried to uh point that out in the last talk, but I'll I'll try to stress that and double down on it in this one. Um what marriage does just like what work does, just like in the case of work having sanctifying effect on laziness, or in in also in the case of marriage having a sanctifying effect on sexual morality. It does not cause someone who's fixed on being a pervert and being sexually impure. It does not help them. In fact, it can hurt them in the sense of now their sin, their sexual immorality is worse because they're not just saying against themselves, they're saying against their spouse. So if you're going to be committing fornication and sleeping around with all the women in town, it's better to do that as a single person because you're you're only harming uh the the woman you're doing that with and yourself, then do that as a married person because now you're also just you know harming your spouse and and you're just adding to the evilness. So it's not as if I am a whoremonger and all of a sudden I'm married and then voila now I am sexually faithful. No no That's not how it works. Rather, it is a person who is struggling and fighting against sexual immorality and failing or falling or just getting tired of fighting, period. And then that person now enters into marriage marriage and then they are helped and assisted in marriage by that means of grace and now the battle is significantly easier in a married state than it is in a single state and anyone who's ever been married, who've struggled with sexual sin in the past, or even in the present for that matter, who's who's seen the the before and the after the single person is married will have no problems understanding what It is certainly easier as a married man to be sexually pure than it is for a single person, uh same exact person, uh to be sexually pure pure now that doesn't excuse a single person, but it does make it uh make marriage something that makes sense for Paul to commend a single person single person to pursue in the case of sexual morality. The same thing is true for work. If you are a lazy bum and you just love laziness, then going to work you're going to be fired for laziness. There's plenty of lazy people um at work and who have jobs. That is true. However, if you're someone who does not desire to be lazy, but yet finds it difficult to motivate oneself to do random tasks around the house or just random tasks in their life. It certainly could be the case. It certainly is the case that going to work and having a job that has actual work for you to do eight hours a day, five days a week, is going to greatly assist you in your battle and struggle against against laziness and anyone who's ever um wanted to work and be a uh a hard worker and not a lazy person and who's had not had a job and had a job can see this a hard workers um who are really hard charged at work, they get laid off, they find themselves all of a sudden quite demotivated and it's difficult to get things done. I mean anyone who's had anyone who's not had a job and has a job knows exactly what I'm talking about. Um that this institution, this means of grace, these circumstances aid your aid you in uh one's pursuit, one's heart pursuit, if it is, and that's the key, if it is to work and to be hard working, it will aid you in that. It will not cause those who do not want to work and want to be lazy to suddenly work Um i that's just not the way it works. And the same thing is true with marriage when it comes to being on mission for God. It is not the case that um if your desire is to be as uh minimally a Christian as possible, as at least zealous, as worldly, as uh wanting to entertain yourself to death and uh do nothing for the kingdom but still get into heaven or just barely do anything for the kingdom if you are basically what I'm trying to say is If you are a Sunday only Christian, or even worse, an Easter and Christmas only Christian, and you really like it that way and you can't imagine uh going to church any more than that. You can't stand it. You don't want it. Is marriage going to suddenly put you on mission for God? No. You're not on mission for God at all. You have no desire to be on mission So marriage is not going to do that. And we have tons of married people professionally touching Christians and any of the Christians for that matter who are not on condition for God and that's what the person replied pointed out, which is definitely the case. There are tons of singles and tons of married people people who have zero desire to uh work hard, have zero desire to be sexually faithful, have zero desire to be on mission for God. They don't want to be zealous. They don't want zealous preaching. They they're just not interested. They do not want to be on for God. And will marriage be that silver bullet? Absolutely not. Marriage will not uh do the work of changing one's heart. Um that's the Holy Spirit's job and that's a heart change that you need, not simply uh just take a wicked person and put them in a deadly institution and hope for the best. It's just not going to be the case. Will there be maybe some leaning toward that, some movement in that direction? Yeah, probably. But Is that certainly what I'm talking about? Going from zero to hero? No, I'm not talking about zero to hero again. I'm talking about somebody who says, I want to be on mission for God, and then finds themselves uh bewildered in life and feeling like, well what what is this hill? What is this mission? What is this task? And they don't really see much and um no one else really sees much either. It's just difficult. to be on mission for God when the mission is um more ambiguous or is is is unclarified in their life. But in marriage, the person who's looking for ambition and to be on mission for God and looking for work to do for the Lord. It is screaming in your faith. Literally, it screams at you and says, feed me, uh, take care of me, love me, nurture me, raise me, influence me. It's literally screaming at you and the Bible is telling you over and over that's your mission right there, right there. Look, it has two legs, it has two hands, two eyeballs and one nose. Like that's it right there and then that's if you only have one. If not you might have you know, multiple legs running around and hands and eyeballs and people screaming and and people saying, I need to be disciplined, I need to be raised, I need to be catechized, I need to be discipled, I need to to be, you know, I need you to die to yourself. That that's one of the reasons why people don't like marriage. The world doesn't like marriage and people don't want to get married ball and chain. Well why is it a ball in chain? Because it causes you to have to die to yourself it it it it naturally presses you in that now can you resist? Yeah but it naturally presses you in so um part part of the big the part of the big reason that people want mission for God is not mission for their own self-pleasure. Well, marriage again, you can resist this, but marriage naturally causes you to go into the crucifix and to die to yourself unless you just fight against it. But if you're not someone who actively wants to fight against it and you you're now put in a situation where you have to die to yourself. I'll give you an example. Um I have six kids and uh I'm I've been married for 15 years, almost 16 years now. At this point of my life, what percentage of my money do I give to the Lord? Well, I give uh Tim percent of funding I always have. I believe in the Tyson principle. I'm not saying this is correct, but I just want to make a point. I get ten percent and I I think everyone else should get ten percent uh from this Scriptures. But but is that all I give? Well, all I give directly, I mean there's a few other things, but basically, yes. Um but what about, okay, so ten percent, so that's ninety percent from me if you want to think of it that way. Well how much of that goes to me? How much of that goes to things that directly benefit me? I was thinking about this. Yeah, you know, I would say at best 50% of that ninety percent goes to me at best. Uh the the reality is probably closer to, you know, the thing is I have to I have to live somewhere, so that's gonna take a big chunk out of it. matter what and I don't have to live in the place that I currently live and I can live in a much smaller quarter. So it's hard to do this math, but but I'm just going to say, let's just say 50%. Just 50% is paying for my food, paying for my shelter, I need a vehicle, just everything I would need. You know, period. Let's say it's fifty percent. I I would say I could probably bring that down to maybe thirty or forty percent, but let's just say fifty percent just to say. Well, fifty percent of the ninety percent is what I'm saying. Well that means the other fifty percent of the ninety percent goes to other people. It goes to my children. I feed six of them. I feed my wife. I live in the house I live because of them. I have the bikes that I have because of them. I have the cars that I have because of them. Their clothes be I'm the one who clothes them. I'm the I am their only exclusive of money. Everything they need comes from me. All of my money and all of it at least fifty, sixty, maybe seventy percent of my income goes to money. My children. D do I deserve a standing applause for that? No, that's just called being a dad. That's just what that's what's part of the program. I mean if I don't do it, no one will. Like this I don't deserve an applause for this. But I I want you to see a point here So what I'm saying is 10% always should go to God, okay boom. They get 90. Of that 90% at best, 50% go to God. goes to me. The rest, 40%, could be up to 70% of my income goes to someone else. Goes to other people. No. Take that. Take a single person. Single me. Just take single me. When I was single, same person, same, I was saved. I was zealous for Jesus. I I don't know if my zeal has really increased too much. How much of my money went directly to God? Well ten percent, because that's what the Bible says. So I get ten percent. Of the ninety percent, how much went to Me probably about ninety percent. Okay, maybe eighty-five percent, maybe let's say maximum maybe uh Uh maximum seventy percent. But no, probably closer to eighty-five. Up to ninety percent of that money went to me. Hmm. Same person Same salvation, same zeal. All of a sudden I went from giving fifty I went from giving at best five to ten percent of my income to other people. Now I give up to seventy percent, but on a low end, fifty percent of my income goes to taking care of other people. And we could talk about free time. How much of my free time is given to others? How much time do I spend per week taking care of other people of my free time right of my eight hours when I when I take a day off who do I spend time with? Do I just go spend time by myself? No. Every day I ever take off, every day goes to take Taking care of other people and spending it it's family time, it's their needs. I don't just go off and hang out by myself. There's no me time, there's no take care of me. No. No complaints. I'm happy. This is wonderful. It's wonderful to sp So it was better to give than receive. So I'm very blessed here. But I want you to think about that. As a single person, how many days off do you take to serve other people? You say I'm taking a day off to serve other people. How many? I was single. How many days did I take off work and say I want to go help and serve someone else? How about zero? You know, well let's say let's say you're very ambitious and let's say It's it's it's five percent, ten percent. I spend a hundred percent of the time that I take off to take care of other people. Of my free time. How much time do I just do my own thing and hang out and spend do what I want to do? Again, I don't know those percentage, but the amount of percentage that I actually actually spend time with other people and serve other people and minister to other people and take care of other people is simply enormous and it's not because I'm special, it's not because I'm well It looks like there's a bunch of people that need you, that are calling out to you. So I'm simply saying just to take the example of time and money, the amount of time in reality, not hypothetically. Everyone hypothetically can be the Apostle Paul and and give this to the Lord. And some people are some people are actually the Apostles of all. But the reality, most people are not spending 40, 50, 60, 70% of their income helping other people. They could Hypothetically, in reality, no. Eighty, ninety percent of their income goes to them, ten percent goes to God. That's just reality. Same thing. You could take every day and leave and go on short-term missions, or go build houses, or go spend tracks or go fasting in the woods or whatever or serving other people in some capacity serving God serving other people. You could do that. In reality, look at the times that you've taken leave and ask Ask yourself how many times was this you doing what you wanted to do? You hanging out, you chilling, you relaxing. And I'm not saying all that was bad. I'm just simply saying you use your time to do what you wanted to do instead of actually serving others directly. As a married man, that's just not the reality. So that that's kind of the point that I'm getting. The person who wants to be on mission for God, unless they are actively in rebellion, can't help but all of a sudden find themselves spending tons of money that they otherwise would not on other people. Spending tons of time that they otherwise would not on other people. Now, my uh friend ooh, this is fifteen minutes My friend uh pointed out though, but wait a second, like a single what is what is what is being on mission for God as a married person really look like changing diapers and what does and going to church and and not sinning just regular normal stuff and what is being on mission for a single person look like like just again mundane normal stuff so it's all the same right it's all the same Um uh no. No, it's not all the same. Because because here's here's the key difference. Um one, you only change diapers for a small period of time at least on each individual child, you are caring for others. See, the thing that being on what is God's mission on the earth? To spread the fragrance and the knowledge of God, to do his commandments and to spread his fragrance. So certainly not watching pornography, not lusting, not lying, not ch that that that's not that's that's sanct general sanctification and that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about making disciples. I'm talking about serving and loving others. That is definitely a lot easier and just real, that's what I was saying about the example of money and time when it comes to a married person than a single person person when I go home I am surrounded by seven other individuals my interaction with them is quite enormous and my role with them, my responsibility, my task is quite enormous. And so um uh yeah, my fulfillment of the Great Commission and my fulfillment of spreading the fragrance of Christ um to these seven people in my life is significantly more than when I was you know all by myself. Now yeah here's here's the key caveat I want to Unless you're the person that that's not true. Unless you're the person which Paul was, Jesus was, and at some points in my life I was too to be completely honest if you're the person who you know makes 20-minute audios for people all the time and you're reading the scriptures you're memorizing scriptures and you're counseling people and out there putting tracks and you're out there uh translating the Bible and you're out there you know serving or even volunteering your time and helping and or or you know, cutting grass or what if you're out there and most of your free time actually is going directly to the Lord and um uh doing uh like disciples discipleship and all of that stuff, then actually First Corinthians seven says you'll actually be frustrated in marriage because you will find that marriage is so many mundane things that you wish you could get to the more spiritual things um that you'll find marriage frustrating. Yeah, that's true. But that's not who I'm talking about. That's always the person I'm not talking about. I'm not talking about the apostle Paul. I'm not talking about Leslie. I'm not talking about Woodfield. I'm not talking about the person who wants to translate the Bible into a new language. I'm not talking about the person who finds that the the the the work of the ministry or direct Christian activities they never has enough time to get them all done. I am not talking about the person. I'm talking about the person that finds themselves just floating. That just find themselves spending lots of money money, lots of time doing wood, hay, and stubble. At the end of the day it's going it's not sinful inherently. It's just gonna be burned up and destroyed. And they're just thinking, man, you know, like life has to be more than this. It has to be I I 'm I'm I'm made for something more than this. I can't just be the consumer of Netflix. I can't just be the person who just hangs out and Well as Piper said that collects seashells, the seashell collector. I have to be made for something greater than this. I I I I need there has to be something more. That person, I'm telling you That person I had to do something greater for this, but doesn't find themselves spending so much time on on ministry that they're running out of time, not even close, right? I'm saying they are a prime candidate for the institution. of marriage. It will force them to have to daddy themselves unless they resist. It will push them how about this? It will push them in the direction of It will push them in the direction of spending tons of their money on other people, okay, when they normally would not. It spends it it forces them to spend tons of their time on other people. There's constantly a person there that's saying, disciple me, teach me, raise me, lead me, guide me. There is an amazing task for the father and the mother. and the parent to lead a tribe, to lead a people, to lead a dynasty, to lead generations to come in the It's a huge mission out there that's ginormous that is just waiting to be grasped. And it's found in marriage and it's found in And the family. Is there other ma tasks and other missions that are even greater? First Corinthians seven? Yes. No. They're not. They just simply aren't. You talk to them, they waste tons of time. They know it. The fact that they're interested in um you know, self-helps about not wasting so much time only proves it. I talk to them, I hear them, they tell me. They boys and girls, women and men tell me how just lost in the world they are and how they're just like, what is it am I supposed to do? I'm not projecting that onto them. I'm responding to what they're saying and I'm watching them kind of just fly They're telling me they feel aimless, and I'm saying perhaps there is a grand mission. Wesley did not feel aimless Paul did not feel aimless. Jesus did not feel aimless. He knew exactly what he was doing. He was going after it. Even Charlie Kirk before he got married did not feel aimless. He's not the person I'm making me audience or or uh I I'm addressing is what I'm trying to say. That's those kind of people that are just right, um merit actually becomes a distraction for them. That's true For the rest of us human beings, the rest of us mortals out there who um you know outside that are looking around saying, what am what's what about me? I'm not truly crypt, I'm not a Jesus. I'm not a I'm not a Wesley, I'm not any of these people. What about me? I'm just an old person and I I don't seem to be attracted to those things, but I I do feel like I'm supposed to be doing more than candy crushing over here or looking at seashells. And I'm saying for those types of people Marriage can be a wonderful and amazing pointer to the actual true mission. I think those people by and large are meant to Get married, raise children, raise family, and pour themselves out in others. That's what God wants you to do. He wants you to pour yourself out in others if you're already doing that. Apostle Paul Jesus Christ. Wesley, any of those other people. I I'm not addressing you. I'm not talking about you. God bless you. God speak we need you. You are doing amazing work, even better work. For the rest of us. We're not doing that. We're not spending fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty percent of our income on other people, not spending all our free time on other people, not doing direct uh uh uh mission mission stuff uh stuff like that on mission for God. We spend our hours and hours not on mission for God and we want to I'm saying I think you you'll find in marriage um what you've been longing for, what you've been looking for. It isn't I'm not selling uh you know a bag of goods that aren't true. I'm saying it will force you, even to your own chagrin, even when you're like, I want my me time back, it will take it from you. you it will cry out and chase you down you will have to die and then you will discover and look back and say wow I spent a life I spent a lifetime serving and blessing others and not because I'm great but because I was forced to. I was in an institution that required that of me. Heroes are made in circumstances. So many heroes and wars were placed in circumstances, but they have had to step up. I'm saying put yourself in a circle chance where you have to step up, where there's six guys coming in and it's just you and your families behind you. And there's no way that they can escape and you have to fight them. Put yourself in those circumstances and you will many times step up to be a hero if that's who you are and that's what your heart cries out. If you're a coward, you're gonna run away. You're gonna throw your kids at them and jump out Not try this is not a recipe to fix cowards. It's those who want to be heroes, those who want to be great and find themselves uh they don't see it. It's not happening It's it's it's it's all an illusion to those things of those people. Perhaps marriage is what you're really looking for and the thing that's really missing in the equation. So hope that helps, hope that clarifies. God bless you