I'd like to begin with a quote from someone who lived between 100 and 200 A. D. His name is Father Melito of Sardis, and he said this. He that hung upon the earth in space was himself hanged up. He that fixed the heavens was fixed with nails. He that bore up the earth was borne up on a tree. The Lord of all was subjected to ignomy in a naked body. God put to death In order that he might not be seen, the luminaries turned away and the day became darkened, because they slew God, who hung naked on the tree. This is he who made the heaven and the earth, and in the beginning, together with the Father, fashioned man, who is announced by means of the law and the prophets. who put on a bodily form in the Virgin, who was hanged upon the tree. That's the amazing truth that we're looking at this morning I'm listening to a book, or I was listening to a book on CD, where someone is looking at people and trying to find them as being basically good. What we see today is just how good we really are by birth. We see displayed the greatest evil that can be inflicted, even in the name of God. by people who are simply ruled by the fleshly human nature. And it was not done by just a few leaders. It wasn't just an isolated few who are guilty of this. It was the evil of a nation of people that was demonstrated here on that day. And these were the people that God had used in the past. To represent his name. In other words, this should have been his best. They were certainly the most informed about who God is. Jesus told parable after parable about what is really in men's hearts. His viewpoint was never one of people's innate goodness. And the heroes in the stories were usually the least likely candidates, which gives us a great deal of hope. The tax collectors and the Good Samaritans are glowing examples And these are the people who everyone regarded as the worst of human beings. And oddly enough, it's foreigners, not Jewish people themselves, who usually had the greatest faith that Jesus took notice of. But all of these people, we can assume, had hearts affected by God, not by religion, but by the true and only God. Okay, so Christ was hanging on the cross either from 9 a. m. in the morning or 12 noon at noon. From noon to 3, God caused there to be darkness. The time of the day which should have been the brightest was the darkest. The word for darkness in Greek is used pretty often And I think it's really important for us this morning to grasp this awful event in our text. And in order to do that, we have got to see darkness as God sees it. And as always, we find that in the Word. 2 Corinthians 4. 6 says this. 2 Corinthians 4. 6. For it is the God who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Look at the contrast in this verse. Some look at Christ and see just a man. Some look at Christ and they're instantly angry that he has the audacity to tell mankind what to do. But the world as a whole sees only through their own darkness. This is the darkness of the blind. This is the darkness all men are born into. But for precious few, God does a miracle. Just like when God said, let there be light, and there was. So now he says, let there be light in someone like John Ziegler or Mary Kennedy or Tom France or anyone else here who is a believer. He says, let there be light, and there is. He commands that light to fill that blind soul. Knowledge then enters our mind in such a way that we can see the truth for what the truth really is. It doesn't lurk in darkness anymore. It shines like the sun for us. Even if we wanted to ignore it, we couldn't. Much like when the sun comes up and shines in your eyes as you lay in bed, the light is non-ignorable. Now often we think at first that we have figured this thing out. Look at me, I've figured this out. We explain what we have experienced the way we experience everything else. And it seems like we must have been more clever or more sensible or more reasonable than those around us who refuse that truth. But as we read the real story, as we read the inside story, the story from above the clouds, we find out that the ray of light was sent selectively into our hearts. And there's no explanation for that other than the love of God. So we see what the light shining through the darkness produces. Let's look at what the darkness by itself produces. The next verse to look at. Luke 22, 53, it says, Jesus said, When I was with you daily in the temple, you didn't try and seize me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness. The power of darkness. What is the power of darkness? Christ told something to Paul that helps us to understand this. In uh in Acts 6. 26 Acts 26, 17 through 18, he says, I will deliver you from the Jewish people, as well as from the Gentiles to whom I now send you, to open their eyes in order to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in me. The power of darkness here is equated with the power of saying. Darkness is truth hidden or distorted. Darkness is truth, hidden or distorted. In darkness, both the truth of the glory of Christ is kept hidden, and the truth of man's lostness is kept hidden. That's what darkness is used for. It's to hide the glory of Christ and it's to hide the truth of our lostness. All that truth is distorted. It can't be clearly seen when a person is in darkness. We find in Scripture that often evil acts are done at night There is a certain power in physical darkness that encourages mankind's evil, keeps it hidden. That's why most crime happens at night. There is even a greater power in spiritual darkness. Scripture refers to those who live in darkness as children of the enemy. While they're very likely to do helpful and constructive things, and we see that constantly. It's one of the biggest surprises from what I understand when our our kids go to college and things that they find out there's a whole lot of people doing a whole lot of nice things. And they they wonder, well, all this teaching that you've given us about, you know, people being uh basically evil. How how do you justify that? How does that stand? Because I'm seeing a lot of nice people. And it's it's true. They're doing nice things, constructive things, but they can't see that even those things are done in some way that serves themselves their selves. And when it no longer served themselves, they would no longer do it When they no longer got a a a uh payoff, a fleshly payoff for what they're doing, they would stop it. That is the cr the difference between a Christian and a non-Christian in that regard Everything is dark and distorted. So the people who came to Christ in the garden came during physical darkness in order to keep their deeds concealed And when Christ says this is your hour, he's referring more than to just the physical darkness of this one event. He's talking about the ultimate action of spiritual darkness. It's like this is the devil's hour. in what they're going to do to Christ. What is to come in this evening and the next day is the ultimate expression of the Father of Darkness' ultimate goal. The devil wants to destroy God so he can take God's place. We see another reference to the power of darkness in Colossians. Colossians 1. 13. It says that Christ has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love. This is what salvation does. It's just another way of describing what salvation does. This is what light does when God delivers it into a person's soul. The problem is, even though we are delivered from the power of darkness, we are not immediately delivered from the desires for the acts of darkness. That is a source of a lot of turmoil in our lives as Christians. And at first it seems kind of disastrous. The stories that most of us tell of our uh about our conversion are at one point in our lives we we surrender our lives to Christ or we receive the gospel, however it is that we understand it. And then events or a gradual process of change happens where we are then weaned from the acts of darkness. We are delivered from the power of darkness. But we still have acts of darkness. And the Christian life is one of being weaned from the acts of darkness. Because we're delivered from the power of darkness by the light of God's truth coming into our lives, by us being able to see truth when we read it. We now can clearly see what we are doing. We can clearly see that something is God honoring or God disgracing. And even sometimes that takes some time. That takes some time to learn and understand how God's word really means what it says and how it applies in various areas of our lives. But the thing is, even when that power, when we are delivered from that power of darkness, it doesn't make the darkness less appealing to us in many ways. That doesn't make us to stop wanting the dark things. We just now clearly see that it is the dark thing. And sometimes, like I said, even seeing it takes some time. Then Matthew 6. 23 says, But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light is in you, the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? That's the problem. Here's the problem of self-delusion. We think we can see We think we have light. The light that is in you is darkness. You think you have light. You think you can see. You think you're seeing clearly. We think we have stuff figured out, but we really don't know anything. And people who know that they are blind have a wonderful advantage. They know they need light. But people who think they have light, but they don't will never look for light. And they'll reject it if it hits them. Being blind and knowing it is far better than being blind and thinking that you're not. John 3, 19, it says, And this is the condemnation that the light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light. Because their deeds were evil. The Holy Spirit lays out the problem with humanity in this one sentence And it's it's very clear. Humans, when faced with the truth and the goodness and glory of a Savior who demands complete surrender when receiving the salvation that he offers These humans would prefer to say no, I don't want that. They would prefer to keep their darkness. They'd prefer to keep the life they had. Why? Because light displays us for what we really are. Light shows us with great clarity. And when the light shines on us, it shows that we really don't have innate goodness. We aren't good people. The things we do are evil. They're evilly motivated. They're selfishly motivated. And we like to keep that in the dark. Our pride will have us do anything rather than look back That's why everyone who God ultimately damns deserves it. Christ was the light. God sent that light into our planet. Christ showed that light. He was clearly visible for what he was. We have Bibles all over the place. And people choose, and they choose darkness, and they want it that way. And today, that's what happens most of the time when you present the person of Christ to somebody. You lay out the gospel, you lay out You know, this is the problem. Your sin is the problem. You are lost without God. You can be right with God. This is how Christ died for your sins. He was perfect. He was God in the flesh. He came to save you. But you've got to confess your sin to him. You have got to relinquish. your life to him. And they'll say no. And and most will make a decision to keep the old. They don't want the humiliation of the truth. And they don't want to accept something that they can't earn or deserve. Most people want to say, I earned that. They don't want something that they could not possibly gain for themselves in this way. Because they have to admit I don't deserve it. I'm a wretch. I need the salvation that I could never grant for myself. I cannot work for it. I can't do any deed that's going to earn it. I can do nothing to gain this salvation. God, please save me by your grace. That's the only hope I have. People do not want to give up that which they are doing. Now we might say at this point, but how can this be? If people are blind, how can they be held accountable for not seeing? You know, if if we are born in a blind state, how can we be held accountable by God for not seeing? How can uh they decide against light if they can't see it? And the answer is, as always, we don't know From God's perspective, people who choose against Christ deserve the wrath that they will receive. That much we do know for certain. It is a choice that they make That is true too. They are making a choice. And that choice portrays their desires and their intentions. They are being congruent with who they are by the choice that they make. They aren't robots. And God holds them accountable for those choices that they are making, and they are real choices. Somehow, they should be able to choose otherwise. But they won't, because ultimately they don't want to. I assume that even if they could see the truth clearly, it would make no difference And that's why God's light does not shine on them. But that's just a guess, and it's out of my pay grade. But that that seems like it might make some sense. We don't know. But we do know that people who choose against Christ deserve the damnation that they will receive, and they will receive. Okay, let's look at two more verses about darkness. Romans 13, 12. It says, the night is far spent, the day is at hand. Therefore, let us cast off the works of darkness and let us put on the armor of light. So we have seen that there's physical darkness, there's spiritual darkness, and now we see something wonderful. There will be an end to spiritual darkness. Bring it on. Paul says the time of darkness is just about over. The dark time, the night, is just about over. Since that's true, let's rid our lives of the things that we would want darkness to hide. That's his reasoning. Let's get rid of the things that go with the era that we live in now and prepare for the era that we will soon be in. Let's get it rid of the things that we want to hide. Let me ask you, what things do you try to keep hidden? What do you worry about that people will find out about you? What do the people around you know about you? But they know that it won't be a pretty day if they ever let that truth out to anybody other than you. Now, some things are appropriate to you keep hidden. We're told in in scripture that there are some things that are best you know not spoken of. They're best not to get the light of day They'll do no one any good. But when it involves something in our lives that needs to change, a work of darkness in our minds or in our actions. We need those things exposed and we need those things cast off. What in your life needs cast off. What in your life that you are doing or thinking is is not something that you want coming to the light of day What steps will you take to rid yourself of that thing? Where does darkness reside in you? I think just that consideration and coming up with plans for how to make sure that that is not a part of our lives and how to remove it if it is. is uh worthy of an application uh for this week. Now, why should we rid ourselves of these things? Why should we rid ourselves of acts of darkness? Is it because it will make us better people? Uh will we somehow win something from God by by doing that in terms of our salvation? Will it make us more saved? What's the motivation that we have for ridding our lives of the dark things? Well, 1 Thessalonians 5, 4 through 5 says, But you brethren are not in darkness. You are not in darkness. So that this day should overtake you. He's talking about the day of judgment as a thief. You are all sons of light and sons of day. Sons of light and sons of day. We are not of the night, nor of darkness. Identity. That's what he's talking about. Our identity in Christ That's why we should cast off works of darkness. They do not fit with our new identity. They do not fit with the new being that we are in Jesus Christ. We know that the devil's crafty. He's the enemy of our souls. It's interesting what he does with good works and works of darkness. In a child of his, in a child of the devil's, he wants that person to focus on anything that looks to be a good work. And you'll find it when you talk to people. He wants that person to become obsessed with that work in its most positive sense. So that when you ask them, are you a good person? Many will say, well, yes, I am. And you ask, why do you think that? And they spout off a bunch of nice things that they have done, or good things that they've done. And they'll especially spout off a lot of bad things that they have not done. He wants the person to assume that he must be okay with God because look at what a good person he is, and he knows what a good person he is by the good things that he's done. And he focuses on those good things Because that's what exactly how you deceive a person about themselves. The devil does not want that person to add up anything regarding his negative acts. But he wants him obsessed with his own personal goodness. He wants the only things that they look at to be their good deeds. Now I'm not saying that's the devil's only strategy, but it's certainly one that he uses a lot. Now, he does just the opposite to a Christian. I don't know if you've ever noticed this in your life. The devil is the accuser of our souls. We're told that in Scripture. He wants the Christian to be obsessed with his own works of darkness. He wants that to become the only evidence in a person's mind. Our enemy knows that we will sin after we come to Christ. And that's usually a surprise to us after we have come to Christ. But we will. So when we do, he whispers in our ear, see There is no difference between you and anyone else. There is no difference between you and the day you are after you say you came to this Jesus and the day before you say you came to this Jesus. You're doing what you've always done because you are what you've always been. He wants to undermine your identity. He wants you to get to the place where you do not trust that God has done something that you have asked him to do. Because your identity is the strongest motivation to do what Christ wants you to do. Who we are and where we're headed in Jesus Christ is the thing that makes it worth it. To put behind us the works of darkness. Our enemy knows if he can undermine our confidence in who we are in Christ, which ultimately undermines where we are going to be in Christ with him in eternity, he can get us to do almost anything. If he can undermine your platform of faith and belief in who you are in Jesus Christ He has worked a key into your soul. That's the tactic he used with Adam and Eve, and he uses it still today. And if he can get you to be afraid to even look at your evil deeds, then he can keep you running. As believers, we've got to look at our evil deeds and see them for what they are We need to see that they are not consistent with our new identities, even though it might look like it 's proof that we don't have a new identity. We need to see that we no longer are under their power, even though we may feel the same desire We need to see that there is a different power at work in us now, and then cast off those lingering works of darkness. But if the devil can make us afraid to look at them, afraid to see what we did accurately, because we're afraid if we see it we'll we'll know what it means and what it means is so awful we cannot even look If he can get us confused that way, we can't, we don't have the capacity to repent of those things. We have to see them clearly. We'll never properly appropriate his forgiveness until we take a look at our sin for what it is, and we'll never have the confidence we should have in Christ. If you're in Christ, if you've trusted in Christ as your Savior and Lord, you have a new identity. You are in Christ. That is a completely different world. than being of the world, than being of your father the devil. It's completely different. And you've got to believe that. And you will sin as a believer It's a sad thing. It's a discouraging thing. It's an evil thing. But those sins do not change the identity of a true believer. They may rob you of confidence. They may rob you of assurance in the temporary. But a believer is a child of light that is receiving light in his life and one day will live in an eternity of light. We are of the light. We are children of the light. That's the very reason to cast off the works of darkness. Because of who you are in Christ. A child of light cannot and will not continue in the works of darkness the same way they did before Christ. The resurrection power of Jesus Christ must have some effect. But on some days it might be hard to see the difference. Some days it's frustrating how slow the progress is that we make The trick in the Christian life is not to make too much or too little of our works of darkness. We need to make just enough of them to repent of them appropriately. and to appropriate the proper changes. So we have to make enough of them to do to do that. But not so much that we come become fixated on them as sign some kind of proof of our lostness. We don't need to fear looking at the sins we commit and calling them what they are, but we should fear in remaining in those sins. Now, that's darkness and light from a spiritual, a scriptural perspective. Now here we are in our text at Calvary, where the world is cast into darkness from noon to three o'clock. Darkness at this point is most appropriate. Christ's crucifixion is humanity's darkest act. It's as if God closes the curtain while the devil pulls off what he thinks is his finest act. God is showing this act to the watching world for what it is, and he displays it in darkness. When God wants to emphasize his glory, he normally does it with bright light. His judgment is often displayed in darkness. Here we see the absence of light Any Jew should know what to make of this. This is bad. This is bad. When God shrouds the earth with darkness, this is bad. It's evil. It's absence of the glory of God. It's a condemnation of the decision made to put Christ to death. It's the devil's prime environment, the surrounding he most prefers to do his work. Even Christ had the darkness of sin upon himself. He had all of our works of darkness cast on him. He had the darkness of his father's wrath upon him. There are some records that say that this darkness extended far out into the Roman world, maybe the whole earth. We don't know, but it certainly would be appropriate if it did. If ever there was a time for the world to be dark, it was then. But that darkness has led to a world filled with light. for every believer, to the children of light. Amazing. Amazing how God accomplishes this stuff. Then verse 34, and at the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Ali, Ali, Lama, Sabak Thani, which is translated, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who stood by when they heard that said, look, he's calling for Elijah. Now we dealt with what Christ said last week, but we didn't deal with the fact that the bystanders said that Christ was calling for Elijah. Now, from everything I've read, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Does not sound very much like Elijah's name. So uh but Malachi 4, 5 and 6 says this, it well it predicted that either Elijah or a similar prophet would come before the Messiah or in association with the Messiah So it's likely that these people, probably the leaders, were continuing to mock Christ when they said this. They were probably inferring that, well, since God's not helping Christ to get off the cross, since God Himself is not getting Christ off the cross, maybe he needed some other help. If God won't do it, well then maybe Elijah will do it. It was probably just more mockery. When Jesus says here My God, when he prays that, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? My God, when he says, My God, this is the first time that Christ addresses God by anything but Father. It's the only time that he addresses God in his prayer by anything but Father. Father is a relationship word. God is more of a power word. Christ is addressing God the way everyone on this earth should address him in their sin. He is God, and we will need to stand in front of him in judgment. Christ calls out not to his father for a relationship, but to his God in utter despair. He cannot exist outside of the provision of God. Then verse 36, then someone ran and filled a sponge full of sour wine, put it on a reed, and offered it to him to drink, saying, Let him alone, let us see if Elijah will come take him down. Now I've read a lot of commentaries on this. No one knows exactly how and why this took place, nor who did it and what the gesture was intended to to convey In John we find that Christ said, I thirst. The effort in our text may first appear like it was an act of kindness in response to that need, but it probably wasn't based on the other Gospels. It seems to have been offered in the context of mockery. It's possible too that there were two separate people here. One was offering the sponge and the other was telling him not to. The understanding would be if we allow him to suffer even more, then the likelihood of Elijah coming to help Christ would even be greater. But they didn't believe that would happen either for a minute. It's all mockery, from what I can gather, based on all of the texts. Another possible meaning was that the person offering the wine wanted to keep Christ alive longer to give Elijah a better chance of getting there, which again would be mockery. Others translate the phrase, let him alone, as let me alone. And evidently it could be taken that way. It's really hard to tell So we're, at least I am, a little confused as to exactly the make out of that verse. But then we get to verse 37, and now we have great clarity And Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last. Normally, when someone died in a crucifixion, at the end, they had nothing left. They would often lose their mental capacities before they died. And even if they didn't, they couldn't speak just from the sheer agony that they have suffered in trying to get breath. There are lots of people who had their lives taken from them by crucifixion. Christ was not one of them. We're told that Jesus essentially yelled these last words He didn't just say them. He yelled them. The words he yelled must have been either it is finished or Father into your hands I commit my spirit or both. Most who were watching were probably seeing this event as the kind of uh as the end of Christ's mission. They would have been watching this thinking, uh, it's too bad he failed. He seemed like a pretty good guy. If if they were even positive at all toward Christ. Christ, even in his agony , knew better. He knew the inside story. He had to go through everything that he endured. Every scripture had to be fulfilled. But now it's all done. It's all done. You ever know one of those jobs that you're working on and it's grueling and you just keep thinking, it'll be done. It'll be done. And then you get it done and you think, aha, finally, it's finished. Well, now it's finished. Everything that Christ had to do for the salvation of everyone who had come to him has been completed At least everything he could do was done. The crowd had to be wondering about this cry of Christ. Alright, they're watching him, they're watching him, they're watching him. He looks like he's gradually going just like every other crucifixion. And all of a sudden he yells out, it is finished. And uh probably into your hands I commit my spirit, Father. They had to wonder what what's going on here? What do you mean it's finished? This man's yelling what sounds more like a victory cry than a death pronouncement. He acts like a mission is just beginning, not coming to its end. He's yelling in hope, not despair. How can that be? How can this be some kind of triumph? He's dying. What is finished? Well, we are so fortunate to know from our perspective what the truth was The wrath of God for the sin of all believers was satisfied justly at this point in history. The wrath of God for the sin of all believers was satisfied justly at this point in history. That's what had to happen. Christ was bearing up through this task. It did not dissuade him that no one understood what he was doing and why. He didn't whine and complain that he wasn't getting the proper credit for doing what he was doing. No. Christ set himself to complete this task for the joy that was before him, and he would not quit until he got that joy. He would not quit until it was finished We are so fortunate that this is our truth. This is the truth that saves us. When Christ said it is finished, it is meant that this part of our salvation was accomplished. It meant the job that Christ had to do was done completely. I you know, I think of some of our kids, they they would tend to do the whole job, but they'd leave one thing undone. And uh It's just so good that there was no thing undone when Christ said it was finished. It was finished. The job was done and it was done right. Now, there's more that had to be done, but that would be completed by the Father. Christ had to be risen from the dead for our salvation to be complete. It's one part to have our sins forgiven, and that's absolutely essential. But the resurrection had to happen for us to experience newness of life. New life. Christ had to be risen so we can be risen. We're risen to a new life and salvation first, spiritually, and then we will taste the completion of this when we're raised from the dead from our bodies, our our bodies will be raised from the dead at Christ's return. When Christ says it is finished, our hearts should cry, hallelujah. Part one of our salvation is done. The part that deals with the penalty for sin is done. I want to encourage you this morning. The darkness will one day end. It's a certainty. It's like the Negro spiritual that says, All my trials, Lord, soon be over. Light wins. The struggles you're facing, the circumstances in your life that seem to make no sense The suffering you feel and want and wish it would go away, all of those things will one day be a distant memory. If we could only prioritize our lives and see our lives from the perspective of a hundred years from now, we would suddenly understand the proper perspective to have. We don't know when, but we do know how. And it will be a result of the darkness that Christ persevered through. The darkness he went through. It will be as a result of the work that he refused to leave undone. And he could cry out triumphantly, it is finished. It's a result of the suffering that Christ accepted as his lot in life. The suffering that he accepted. We live in the time of world history that Scripture describes as just before the dawn. The time of the full light of God's glory is just a little ways away. So be encouraged with this thought. It won't be much longer before we will receive our reward. He will make it worth it, whatever it is that you are facing. And if this is all true, we should also be motivated by this thought. We don't have much time left to finish our mission. This should motivate us to cast off any work that will be out of place when the eternal light springs eternal. So we get rid of the dark works. And we won't have any more time for evangelism once this day comes. So it's a time to do the true works of God. Now is the time for salvation. Let's close in prayer