And I would argue there's when we especially with the topic of prayer, there's really two ditches we land in. We land in the hyper-Calvinist ditch that sees everything as sovereignly decreed. And yet then there's the Hyper Arminian side of prayer, that unless you pray like mad, nothing happens And then you have where I would argue where most of us land, which is somewhere in between. And we don't know where we stand. We know we should pray. We know we ought to pray. Which is why every time I'm given the opportunity, I want to talk about prayer. Because prayer is John asked me to preach, and I wanted to preach on the new covenant, and I also wanted to preach on adoption, and this is where we landed, is prayer. Because it really is the foundation of our communion with God. And there is a wonder, I hope you can see from this text we're going to look at today, the wonder of prayer. But I have a question before we start. What keeps us from praying? Have you ever pondered that? Have you ever thought about what what keeps you from praying? I want to give you a story, and this is the let's move on from the quippy story of Whitfield. I thought you guys would find that funny with Whitfield and Wesley. But uh I want you to picture a little boy. Being adopted out of a really hard place the world. This happens all the time. Children will get adopted out of really, really underdeveloped countries Uh and what ends up happening, they come out of these countries that they're malnutrition, malnourished, they're very they're very um poverty-stricken, uh starvation, they have never slept in a warm bed. And what actually happens, this is actually very, very common, when a child gets adopted into a home that's not like that, it's actually really, really hard for them to adjust. Sometimes I actually heard stories, and one that sticks in my mind, that's one I always remember, is of a child that he had a brand new bed, food, brand new food, all these things moved away from starvation, and yet He they wake up the next morning and they find him sleeping out of the dirt pile. Because out of the dirt pile is where he's used to sleeping. And I I'm fearful, I think one of the one of the reasons Um that story is so compelling, to me at least, uh, is that's actually how we live the Christian life a lot of times. We we are these orphans that are adopted into the family of God. and yet continue to live like poverty-stricken orphans. This is one of the reasons why I love to talk about prayer, because it's one of the beautiful elements. I think when I talk to most Christians, they're either somewhere between disappointed in their prayer life They know they need to do better. And yet I just want you to see tonight, without laying guilt upon you, the beauty, the beauty and the splendor that prayer is. The communion with God is the is the foundation of prayer. So here's what I want to do, I want us to pray. And then I want us to look at actually three I would describe them as and your three points really are based around the f three orphan-like mentalities that we often have. And the first one is forgetting what kind of family we're a part of and what family we're in. So I'm going to pray for us. I want to pray for us because I think the text we're going to look at tonight, I think it's one of the most glorious in all the New Testament. It really is. And I I was I was gonna preach on another text. I told John I was preaching on another text, but as I was praying about this, um the Lord really laid this text on my heart uh to to bring. So I I just want us to take a second and I want us to I'm going to read the text, and then I want us to pray and then I want us to consider what God has for us here. So I'm reading out of the ESV, but it's Galatians 4. I'm going to read verses 1 to 7. And then I'm going to pray for us, and then we will jump in. Galatians 4, this is God's word. I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of woman, born under the law. to redeem those who are under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. This is God's word. Let's pray. Father, this text I am just so I'm always so floored. That you have inspired and told us what we're like And Lord, from day to day, Lord, we look in the mirror and we see how far, how much like orphans we still feel. So, Father, in your kindness, would you grant us the power to know your love? God, grant us the power to know our position in you, in Christ. That we would live in light of it as adopted sons and daughters in your kingdom. Grant us this, we pray. We're asking for something we can't do in our natural flesh, so we ask, Father, that you would grant us the power, quicken our spirits to comprehend the uncomprehendable. Father, help us now we pray. For this we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So what else do you first um in this text. And there's really going to be, it's going to be loosely based on Galatians 4. I think I'm going to be jumping around a little bit. The text should be there on your paper. But I want us to see the Trinitarian nature of what we do when we pray, with communion with God. And it starts with praying to our Father, which is adopted into the family. So we pray, there's a taxonomy or a or a pedagogy or however you want to say it or a direction of our prayer. We pray to the Father in the name of the Son through the power of the Holy Spirit. And that matters. It matters a lot why we say that. Now the Galatians, if you remember the book of Galatians, they had a problem. They had an orphan mentality, didn't they? Their orphan mentality sounded something kind of like this though. They couldn't imagine a world where God would reconcile them to himself on the merits only of his son. So they thought, oh well we what we need is we need circumcision. What we need is you Gentiles, you're coming into the fold. What you need is to add circumcision. If you add circumcision, then God will be pleased with you Galatians 3. 1, so you just turn back real quick to 3. 1 through 2. Listen to what Paul says to them. O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit? By works of the law or by hearing with faith. So we see Paul's concern for the churches in Galatia, they're departing from the gospel. They're having that kind of orphan mentality, aren't they? And he's correcting the orphan mentality. And notice what he says. If you jump back to chapter 4, start actually in verse 29. Just pick up a little bit of the context. And he says, if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring. He's referring to Jews and Gentiles there, heirs according to the promise. How? How are we heirs? And he's going to answer that question in verse 1. Notice again what he says in verse 1. I mean that the heir As long as he is a child is no different from the slave, though he is the owner of everything, but he is under a guardian and manager until the date set by his father. Sorry, I'm realizing my slides are not working very well. Try that. There we go. And notice what Paul does there in verses one and two. He picks up on an illustration, a very earthly illustration, of a of a king, just picture a king having a son who's too young to inherit the promises And he says, the son in verse 2, notice what he says in verse 2, but he's under a guardian and a manager until the date set by his father. Now that guardian and that manager that he's referring to is actually the law. It's the Old Testament law. And he describes the law, the corpus of the law, or the whole of the law, as being like guardrails that are around him. Now notice what that means of us, or what that means of the Christian, that at one time all of us were slaves under the guardian of the law. So slaves under the guardian of the law. I don't know why that's not working on me. It's kicking me out of it. But notice what he says in verse 3. So at one time we were all slaves under the guardian or the manager of the law. Notice what he says. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. Now that elementary principle is that word is the same word or what they would be using for like Earth, wind, and fire, the type of pagan idolatrous practices. Now paganism, very simply, could be described as if I do good, then God will bless me. If I do bad, God will curse me. That's the logic of paganism. And what Paul does is he draws a direct link. Notice what he does again. He says, in the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to these pagan principles. And he says that those who were trying to obey God on the basis of works were like pagans, no different than pagans. Now I think in our mind, I would argue, we think something like this. We sit in church long enough, we think something along these lines. The law is equal to bad, and grace is equal to good. But the reality is, that's but the law is not bad. Picture it like this. I would say it to you like this. Picture the law being given to Israel. Kind of like if I was given I used to open up Christmas presents. Um you've all you've all had this experience probably you get a toy that doesn't have the batteries included I used to get these toys that had that need like the big D batteries, you know those batteries, like the ones that mom never kept at the house, you know those batteries. So she'd give you this present and she to her to her credit, she didn't think through like I needed these D batteries You get this toy and you can't play with it for three days. Why? Because it doesn't have batteries in it. That's what the law was like. The law was given The beauty of the law and God demanded, here's your toy, now walk in obedience. You can see how that would be almost a weight, and why they would even think at some level the the law is bad. So the question, do we believe the Ten Commandments are the rule of life for Christians? Some would say, yes, of course. And the problem is, the moment we have a lawbreaker, we need to stone them. Okay? We don't do that. I haven't seen any stonings outside my new covenant churches anytime soon, have we? Or the other option is to say, no, that was a different law, a different time. That's what we end up doing with it. And I don't want to argue it's more something like this. John Riesinger, he says it like this. I guess yeah. He says this with do we follow the law? Oh my no. Those commandments are far too low a standard for a redeemed child of God, indwelt by the Holy Spirit, living under a gracious covenant. And that's where we're at, friends. We are given not only the beauty of the car, the beauty of the car. Now picture it, get go bigger, go bigger scale. Rather than that little car that needs a D battery. It's like God gave us a Mustang. And now, but the Old Testament was like it was a Mustang without an engine in it. And so we needed to push the Mustang everywhere we wanted to go. We could get going downhill maybe a little bit. But now the glory of the New Testament, the glory of the New Covenant, is that God has actually given us the engine to drive the thing He has placed his spirit in us, and he's done what he says in verse 3, in the verse 4. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And so Paul's point here is that we are now sons redeemed from slavery. I want you to hear this one more time from John Riesinger. I think this is helpful. He says, first, the Christians' laws or standards are much higher than those given to Israel. Grace can and does demand far more than the laws given to Moses. Oh sorry. See if I can. It's not gonna let me do it. Um yes. Well, this is not in front of you. But second, grace both informs and empowers a Christian to do what pleases God, whereas the Mosaic law could only inform. Grace is in every way higher and better than the law given at Mount Sinai. So we're sons. We're sons of our Father. If you're a Christian sitting here today I want you to think about the reality of this. That you, right now, though you feel like an orphan, are son. That God has said, or a son or a daughter, that God has said that you are now part of the family of God. You know what's funny about a father? We don't earn a father. I don't go home when I go home to my dad and I'm like, hey dad, you know, I gotta earn your favor to be in the right relationship with no, not any longer. We are called sons and daughters in the kingdom of God. And so that's the first thing we need to realize as an orphan, as a former orphan. Is that we are now in the family of God. Here's the second thing I want us to focus on. It's the second orphan-like activity. is to distance ourselves from our Heavenly Father because we realize how dirty of sinners we truly are. You know that the first one's to think I don't know what family I'm in. The second posture I think is actually more insidious because it's really true. When we look in the mirror, we see still how disgusting our own flesh is, don't we? We look and we see how far short we fall of the law every day. Not even the law, but what God commands. Which is why we don't only pray to our Heavenly Father, we pray in the name of the Son, our advocate. Our advocate. So we're praying in the name of the Son. We're praying to our Father, adopted into the family of God. We're praying, secondly, in the name of the Son, our advocate. Now picture you probably this is probably very basic courtroom scene for you. You probably think through this all the time. But picture before Christ came what it looked like. What you had in the courtroom of heaven. Was the judge who was God Himself, and Satan as the prosecuting attorney. And we actually see this in Scripture. We see this in many, many places in Scripture. I'll just point to a couple. But Satan's role in the Old Testament, particularly was to accuse. And the accuser cried, what the accuser cried all the time, night and day, of the people of God was guilty. And you know what's sad? Is he was absolutely right. He's absolutely right. Revelation 12, I'll just point point there for you. Revelation 12, he says, for the accuser of our brothers, this is the way Satan's described. The accuser of our brothers has been thrown down who accuses them day and night before our God. In the courtroom of heaven, what you had was the judge who knew full well of just how sickly his children are. And you see this in the book of Job. We see Satan doing the same thing. Going in verse seven it says, Then the Lord said to Satan, From where have you come? And Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth. and walking up and down upon it, basically trampling upon the earth. Now we have all sorts of questions. Why is Satan talking to God in the courtroom of heaven? We don't know. But what we see is he's the accuser, don't we? And what the accuser cries is guilty, guilty, guilty. He says the same thing of you. And the thing is, Christian, he does the same thing of you even now. If he can get the Christian, the current Christian adopted into the family of God to sit and navel gaze, as they used to describe it as, just to continue to stare at yourself And think, look how disgusting I am. What that will do is actually really hamper prayer, won't it? Because all we hear is guilty, guilty, guilty. So we're praying to our Heavenly Father, we're adopted in the family of God. We can't stop there though. It's actually in the name of the Son, our advocate. And what we have now in the courtroom of heaven is our judge, the same prosecuting attorney, and for the Christian, we have an advocate. We haven't a defense attorney that stands and does not plead. That one he'll do better. What we have is a defense attorney that stands and says, Redeemed The Advocate Cries Redeemed. Unless you just turn real quick to me, you don't need to turn there, I guess. It'll be on the screen in front of you. 1 John 2. It's the same same logic that he Paul has here in Galatians 4 when he says, verse 5, to redeem those who are under the law is what Christ does right now actively. Which is to advocate for sinners. And he says, My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous. Now that word advocate I love it. It's the word for paraclate or the word paraclitus, which is the word for well we see it elsewhere as helper. I love uh there's a there's a lexicon that's used for like translating. And they said you should use the word a attorney, but make sure you know that attorneys are liars. So sorry you're an attorney here. But they said be careful translating it to attorney. because attorneys naturally are liars. So I thought it was interesting because it's that's what it is. It's to c call someone to your side. And it's actually to defend or to mediate or intercede on behalf of another I thought that was funny though, but they said be careful translating into attorney because they all they do is lie. But either way, if you're an attorney, sorry. We can talk later if you want to talk to me about that. But that's what Christ does. And you know when he does it? Here's the beauty. I want you to stop and think about this. He doesn't do this when you've cleaned yourself up. He does this actually most when you are most in need. You know, picture that little kid out on the dirt pile. He doesn't know a life apart from the dirt pile. And he literally doesn't wait for the little boy to come back inside. But he goes out in the midst of his dirtiness. And cleans him up afresh. A fresh and anew because of what he has done. My little children, he says, notice what John says. I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate or an attorney or a paraclate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Jay Nortland, I think if you've never read his book, Gentle and Lowly, I I really encourage you to do so. But he writes this. He says, When you sin His strength of resolve, that's Jesus' strength of resolve, rises all the higher. When his brothers and sisters fail and stumble, He advocates on their behalf because it is who he is. He cannot bear to leave us alone to fend for ourselves. So, former orphan, former orphan, in your sin, in your weakest, in your lowest state, you have an advocate with the Father. He's not crooked. He's not ill-seeking. He's not lying. As the old hymn says. He ever lives above for me to intercede, his all-redeeming love, his precious blood to plead. His blood atoned for all our race and sprinkles now the throne of grace. Funny how it's a Charles Wesley hymn, but thought it was funny from the I noticed that earlier today. So he's not only advocating for us, notice again what he says in verse five. But when that were f verse four and five of Galatians, if you're Turn back to there. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem or to buy back Those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And when Christ calls redeemed, he doesn't say Oh well, he'll do better next time. She'll do better next time. No. He pleads his own blood for sinners. And brothers and sisters, this is the foundation. This is the foundation of our prayer, of our communion with God. So we pray to the Father. We pray in the name of the Son. Now I want to just stop and think about this for a second. How does this change the way we pray? Think of how the changes changes the way we pray. We don't approach prayer as something we do in some some like special time. It's actually when we come to God in our absolute weakest, in our most sinful moments, that is when God is most glorified. It's actually not when we feel naked. Which is the beauty, the amazing reality for the children of God. Notice what Hebrews 2, 10 through 11, and we're going to see more about prayer the rest of this weekend. But Hebrews two ten through eleven says, and it's actually not on the screen in front of you, it but I just wanted you to hear it. For it was fitting that he, which is Christ, For or actually which is the Father, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies or sets apart, and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. You know, brothers and sisters, when you sin, God is not sitting up there, Jesus particularly is not sitting up there tapping his toe being like You're one of the real losers. You're in the kingdom, but you're one of the real losers that sits in the back row. No. He is up there interceding, advocating for sinners. And then Dane Ortland, he went on to say, I thought this was helpful. He says, Do not minimize your sin or excuse it away. Raise no defense. Simply take it to the one who is already at the right hand of the Father. advocating for you on the basis, notice this, of his own wounds. Let your own unrighteousness, in all your darkness and despair, drive you to Jesus Christ the righteous. in all his brightness and sufficiency. Oh Christians, how we need a reformation in prayer. And I think this is one of the keys to prayer in that way. It's not cleaning ourselves up. It's not trying harder to muster up more. It's to really see who we are and to run to the throne of grace. So the first first orphan-like activity to forget what family we're a part of. The second one is to see how dirty we are. Let me give you the third and I think the final orphan-like activity, and then I think the the solution to it. The third orphan-like activity is to realize how weak we are as people. Picture being that orphan again out on the dirt pile, knowing full well you don't have the strength to muster up to get yourself back inside. What do you do? What does the orphan do? Well, we're no longer orphans, are we In Jesus Christ, we're no longer outside the family of God, but actually, this is the beauty and the glory of the new covenant that God has actually placed his Spirit in us. To help us in our weakness. Here's the last piece. It's to pray, praying through the power of the Holy Spirit, our intercessor. I don't know what you think about this. Uh most people I mean people don't typically think about it in this way, especially believers But unbelievers, I'm just going to compare it for you for a second. Unbelievers pray all the time. Did you know that? You ever talk to anybody who's an unbeliever? Ask them how often they pray. They will tell you they pray all the time All the time, fervently, seriously, theologically informed. John Owen, he said this, I thought this was helpful about prayer, prayer of the unbeliever, that is. He said If I can get it up there. I promise we'll have better slides for tomorrow. That's on me. Sorry, Carla. That's okay. He says, take an instance. This is what he's talking about in regard to the wicked's prayers. He says, take an instance of the prayers of the wicked men under their convictions, or their fears, troubles, and dangers, and the prayers of believers. The former is merely an outward cry that distressed nature makes to the God of it, and as such alone it considers him. Meaning, what he's saying there, is the unbeliever cries, just like the orphan on the dirt pile. But the difference is between the believer and the unbeliever is the orphan does not have the strength or the power to get up And there is no one coming to his aid. And so if you're ever if you're not a believer sitting here today, and I always want to say this at some level, when you think of that orphan on the dirt pile, that is you And that really is a sad position to be in. One who is far off from the Lord. One who has rejected the beauty and the glory of the gospel. But the difference between the believer and the unbeliever is so stark. It's not merely how they pray. It's not merely what they pray. John Owen goes on to say, maybe this one will work. It's not gonna work. That's okay. But he said, the other, meaning the believer, the voice of the spirit of adoption. Addressing itself to the hearts of believers unto God as Father. You know, the orphan who was once an orphan Now no longer cries the harrowing, orphan-like cry that no one's coming. He might still cry, life will still be hard, but it's the cries of the sons of God. It's not the cries, the weeping, wailing of the unbeliever Now, Christian, notice what he says in verse 6. So he actually go back to verse 4. When the fullness of time had come, God set forth His son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba, Father. 8, 15 and through 17 says, For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you received the spirit of adoption as sons. by whom we cry, Abba, or Daddy, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God, and if children then heirs Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. Do you see the difference? The orphan is one who has no one pleading for him. Yet the Christian, oh Christian. That we would have the power of God, that God would give us, grant us the power, that He would give us the power to understand the love that He has for us. that he shed for us. Not only in the gospel, but what he's doing for us now by the work of the Spirit. Notice, I want you to just turn real quick to Romans and I want to end here. I know for many, there's much weakness. In this life, I don't want to ever paint a picture. But this life is somehow, now that we are adopted in the family, now that we have an advocate and an intercessor, I never want to present it as though life is now just a walk in the park. Watch you guys' problems. It's not Actually Romans presents as a picture very, very different than a walk in the park. Romans eight, eighteen through twenty-two. He says this. He says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subject to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope That the creation itself would be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. But we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. So do you hear it? It's groaning, it's aching in vanity and wind like I put in Ecclesiastes in the word hebel, which is breath That's how it feels. It's longing, bondage of corruption. And yet he says in verse twenty-three And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. So Christian, we have great hope. I don't know where you're sitting there at today. I don't know what sort of weakness you find yourself in. But know this. Know this wherever you find yourself. That the one who has purchased you, given the down payment of his spirit to you, desires communion. And that ought to be ought to motivate as well as encourage us toward a posture of prayer. So if you just want to if you have no if you have your notes in front of you, I always like to make the cookies on the very bottom shelf, because I'm a book bottom shelf kind of guy. The foundation of prayer is communion with the Father, in the Son, through the power of the Holy Spirit. Now , the rest of my time here, tomorrow morning, and then tomorrow evening, I'm going to actually start talking about what should we pray for one another. So really trying to follow Paul's model of prayer for the churches. Because I think part of our problem, and I think for most of us, if you're a born-again believer, I'm confident of this. That the Spirit you want to pray. I think most Christians want to pray. They at some level have a desire to pray If you don't have a desire to pray, then maybe there's a question about is the Spirit working in you. There's some questions we could ask But often we pray the same old things in the same old ways in the same old ways. Lord, Lord help them, Lord comfort them, Lord, Lord, this, fill in the blank. And I think there's a way better way that we can pray. And so I want to give us the next uh t two times I'm here. Um I I want to talk more about um What the biblical model, really praying God's word back to him. We're not trying to do, we're not trying to reinvent the wheel here. We're trying to pray what God has already written. in that way. So I just want us to pray. I want us to just pray right now actually. And I want us to pray with the reality that we're praying not just as orphans out in the dirt pile. But we're praying as orphans, though we feel like orphans that have been adopted into the family of God, by the merits of Christ alone, by the power of the Spirit alone within us. Through the Word of God alone, we have been adopted into the family of God. It should prompt us to pray. So I want us to do that. I want to pray for us. I'm going to hand it back over. Let's pray together. Lord tonight I just felt like A dirty old fool holding a priceless masterpiece. And Father, I just ask that you would impart to us, Lord, postures of heart that would be like children. That we would know, Lord Jesus, that you, our elder brother Have purchased us. That Father, we can actually say and we can pray along with all the saints, our Father who is in heaven. Lord, hallowed be your name. You are so worthy to be praised Lord, even you didn't you didn't need to adopt anyone into your family. But what a wonder it is. It's a wonder, Lord, that you have made the stars in the heaven, but it's a greater wonder Father, that you've taken clumps of clay, sinners, rebels, and made them sons. Lord, grant us the grace to know that, to believe that, to live in light of that. And Lord, when you do that, I know, Lord, we will increase our prayer, our prayer life will skyrocket. Because Lord, we know our position with you. So Lord, help us we pray in this. Grant us this, we ask. For this we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.