So, the religious leaders had tried to trap Christ after Christ and his disciples had crossed the sea to get away from the crowds and to get far away from Jerusalem. They're at the very northern tip of the Sea of Galilee when we left them. The ministry there has fallen on deaf ears, with many departing after finding out that following Christ requires more than just a willingness to receive free fish sandwiches. That's where we start this morning. In verse 24, from there he arose and went to the region of Tyre in Sidon, and he entered a house and wanted no one to know it, but he could not be hidden. Jesus is intentionally distancing himself from both the Jews and the Jewish leadership and King Herod He knows that he has to keep a timetable that requires him to live for a while longer. So he does what he needs to do to make sure that that will happen. But where he goes is interesting. Tyre is about 30 miles away from where Jesus is ministering. Sidon was about 50. This was in the territory of Phoenicia along the Mediterranean Sea. It's Gentile territory. So Jesus traveled at least 30 miles to get out of Jewish territory and tried to get away from the crowd's notice. He goes into a house. We can imagine him looking around to see if anyone is noticing, you know, looking around to see anybody see me going in here. But to no avail, it couldn't be hidden. In Mark 3, we see that some of the people who sought Christ earlier in his ministry were from Tyronsidon. So they had already come to where Christ was, saw him, saw what he was doing, and went home. So they would have known who he was and they would have known what he looked like. Jesus is our example here for how the life of a minister should be lived, and that's all of us. He desired his own comfort. There's no denying that. He looked for, he wanted to be alone. He made plans for it even. But when life interrupted his plans, he prioritized others' needs above his own comfort. I'd be far more comfortable if Christ would have said to this woman, come back on Thursday at sundown and I'll have time for you then. Then you'll fit into my schedule better. I'll have a chance to rest and whatever else I want to do. But that's not what he did. He dropped what might have he he might have felt like doing And did what was most important. Is that how we deal with the needs of others? Are we masterful in letting people know that we're too busy and too important to meet their needs? That's not a good thing. And people pick it up. That's not a good thing. We need to take Christ as our example, and I'm preaching to me as much as anybody else here. about following his way of doing things and prioritizing other people's needs above our own. Now what we're going to see is a wonderful example of how to seek Christ from the most unexpected source, a very unlikely source Verse 25, for a woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit heard about Christ, and she came and fell at his feet. The woman was a Greek Syrophoenician by birth, and she kept asking him to cast the demon out of her daughter. Here's the seeker in this instance. She's a Greek. So we know that she's a Gentile. She's of the Syrophoenician race, and Matthew tells us that she was a Canaanite, so she was likely a descendant of the ancient enemies of the Jews. As such, it was likely that she was accustomed to idol worship, primarily to the fertility goddess Astarte, known as Ashtaroth, in the Old Testament. So she starts off bad. This woman had everything going against her. No self-respecting Jew would give this woman the time of day. While many Jews might think they had much merit to appeal to Christ with, so they might come to Christ on kind of equal footing, like I'm important, you're important, we're you know that we're mutual here. This woman would probably guess that she had done nothing. And that's a very good trait for a follower of Christ. Sometimes the hardest thing for us to let go of is that in ourselves that we consider virtuous. It's hard for us to let go of those things that we think give us merit as people, maybe even merit with God. Those things about ourselves that we're proud of. Those things that make us think we should have a higher position than someone else. When we first came to Christ, we may have thought that Christ chose us because we were smart. or pretty not my case, but pretty or friendly or a hard worker And eventually we learned that we really didn't bring anything to this picnic. There really was nothing of us that caught God's attention. We had no desirable traits that God found difficult to pass up. He saw us as we were, with our desperately wicked hearts. With our stiff necks, with our rebellious behaviors and attitudes, we were unlovable from every perspective, except for one thing. Christ chose to love us. That's it. That's it. That's the only thing that we had going for us in God's consideration of us. Salvation truly is all about God. The Syrophoenician woman had an advantage in that she already realized that this Jewish rabbi she had nothing to offer. And that's the first thing that we learn about following Christ. We all do well to start like she did, realizing that she had nothing to offer Christ. So first, this woman came realizing she had no merit with Christ. The first trait, she had no merit with Christ. Second, this woman recognized her need She recognized that she had a spiritual need that only Christ could meet. She'd probably done all she could to help her daughter, but she knew that all her efforts were futile. Isn't that often what has to happen to us? We get to the end of our own efforts. We try everything we know to try to get rid of a problem, and in the end we still have the problem. It's often then and only then that we take it to Christ in the way that this woman did, in the sense of urgency and despondency and need. She came understanding that the only solution was to put this problem in the hands of Christ. What is there in our lives like this? Something that we've come to realize that only God can change. Something that only God can do. Something we call upon God for because we know it's only He who can help us. Third, this woman came humbly. Look what it says here. She came and fell at Christ's feet. This was probably not an easy thing for many of her countrymen to do. They didn't want to submit themselves to a Jew. the former enemy of their clan, whose whose uh determination was to wipe them out completely. They knew what Jews thought. Most Jews thought themselves superior to these Gentile heathens. To come and fall at Christ's feet would be the ultimate expression of humility. She showed that she was not holding any point of pride as an obstacle between her and Christ. What keeps us from coming and putting ourselves at Christ's feet, holding nothing back in our worship of Christ? What bright idea do we hold that will not allow us to fully submit to His Lordship? What test have we put up to Christ where Christ has not yet quite fulfilled our expectations? So we feel we don't owe him our uh obedience. We need to let these things go and recognize he's king of kings and lord of lords, and we are not He doesn't owe us anything but that which he has promised to us. Fourth, she came worshipful. She knew that Christ was worthy of worship. She knew that he was something and she was nothing. He was a spiritual man and she was an earthly woman She recognized something superior about Christ. How do we come to Christ? Do we come to him like a cosmic Santa Claus who exists primarily to give us what we want and to make us happy here on Earth? Or do we come to him realizing that we are owned? We were bought with the price. It's he who owns us. He is not our heir and the boy. We are his. Fifth, she came committed. This woman displays something that's rare. She would not quit. Until she had received from Christ the thing that she so desperately needed. How quick do we give up? We start praying for something, but if it doesn't come easy or quick, we just give up. And even though we might know it's something that we really need from God and and God has promised to us. And that's an important part. It's the only time you can know for certain that you're praying in the name of Jesus is when Jesus has promised it. We know that God has promised it, but we won't persevere until we have that thing from God's hand. This woman in this text was not that kind of person. She would not quit until she had from God that which she knew that God would give her. Look what Scripture says here. She kept asking. And what was she saying? Matthew tells us more than Mark about this. It says, And behold, a woman of Canaan came from the region and cried out to him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord son of David, my daughter is severely demon-possessed. Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David, my daughter is severely demon-possessed. This woman kept asking. She kept pleading her case to Christ She wouldn't be distracted from it. Oh, to have friends and parents like this woman She didn't give up. She placed herself upon the goodness of Christ and she would not relent. And look at her appeal. My daughter is severely demon-possessed. The devil is having his way with my daughter. He is making her suffer. And there is nothing that I can do. You must do something. You know, having a little of the devil often seems like a positive thing. Even as Christians, don't we look at what the devil offers as being appealing? Seductive, pleasing. Maybe we want vengeance. Maybe we want pleasure. Maybe we just want something that we can't have, that maybe someone else has. And having it, even if it means stepping into the enemy's territory for a little bit, seems like such a desirable thing. But look look at what happens when this that same devil that we give an inch to takes a mile Look what happens when his servants get control of that person. This gives us an indication of what the devil wants to do to us when he gets his hooks in us. He's called the destroyer in Scripture. That's what he wants. He wants to destroy your peace with God. He wants to destroy your relationships. He wants to destroy your fellowships and your intimacies. He wants to inflict pain. He wants you to suffer at his hand. That's the same source as the one that holds all these things out to us, all these things that we are tempted by, all these things we feel m we must have. The things that we feel like God is holding out on us if we don't pursue them. Always keep in mind the heart of our enemy when he appears to be handing out his gifts. They are always handcrafted for your destruction a little bit at a time. Just look what's happening to our society, and you can't miss the point. Of what happens when you follow your heart, follow your temptations, follow your desires, follow your inclinations. It isn't good. Now, how did Christ respond to this woman's pestering? How did he respond to her relentless requests? Matthew says that Christ didn't say a word to her. That's the first thing he said. He didn't say a word to her. Now there she is. She is asking and asking and asking. And he treats her like you know, a a bug flying in the in in in the distance. You know, he's completely ignoring her is the is what you get here from scripture. Can you imagine how much harder that would have made things for this woman? She wasn't getting any response from Christ at all that would lead her to believe that he would show her any favor at all. But she just kept asking. Now what did the disciples do? I would guess they did what most of all of us would do Well, Christ, if you're not going to do anything for her, if you've determined that she's not someone that you're going to minister to, would you please make her shut up? Could you please remove this disturbance from us and make it a little more comfortable here? This is kind of awkward. You know, could you please take care of this? They must have said this where the woman could hear it. And that's what this was all about. Christ was testing this woman. He was going to have her display what she was really made of. And he knew what she was really made of, but he wanted everyone else to see it. Herself as well. He was going to test her faith in him. Have you ever considered that many of the delays in our lives Serve the same purpose. Christ does not always move when we think he should. He often lets his people wait. Because in the delay they prove what they really think. Do they really trust? Do they really have faith? The delay will often bring the truth out about what we really are. Are you in a period where God is delaying your answer? If so, follow this woman's wonderful example. Keep trusting and keep asking him for the things that he has promised to do. And then what does Christ say? Notice, Christ doesn't even say this to the woman. He responds, but he doesn't say it to the woman. He says it to his disciples with the woman right there, as if she is so unimportant as to say anything to It's as if the woman doesn't even exist. She isn't even important enough to be spoken to. Think about this. How would you have responded if you were this woman? How you would respond would prove what you really think about yourself and your need and Christ. This woman proved herself to be congruent at every point. Christ said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Now that's the encouraging word for the day. Can you imagine being her and hearing that? I wouldn't sent for this kind. This would be like a very hungry black man walking up to a restaurant years ago and seeing a sign posted whites only. Christ wasn't even expressing regret here. He's simply saying, I was not sent to minister to women like this. No, that's that's not what I was saying. She isn't a Jew. She's not important to me. That's what would have been understood. Now, what would you have done if you had been this woman? Would you have been angry? Would you have been sad? Would you have been disheartened? Would you have hung your head and walked away? I think most people would have. How do we still respond when we don't get from God those things we ask for? How do we respond to his silence? How do we respond to his delay? How do we respond to his right to do anything that pleases him? That's what this woman's facing. They are many of the same things we face in our normal pursuit of God. God has the right to test us, to show us what we're made of, even when we don't think it's fair. Remember, he made us. He does not answer to us. Notice too what Christ is saying. Christ isn't sent for all humans who happen to be Jewish. He did not say that. He is sent only sent for the sheep who are lost. They are his sheep, and they are out of the flock. At the end of the day, he's going to get every single one of those sheep back. He will not save all the Jewish people Just as he will not save all the Gentile people, but he will get every single one of his sheep, no matter where they are. He will save every one of his lost sheep at the end of the day. Okay, so Christ has just told the disciples why Christ is not going to help this woman. Now he looks at her and actually speaks to her, and he says this. Let the children be filled first, for it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. Not exactly words of encouragement. Matthew tells us a little more. It says, Then she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord help me, but he answered and said, It's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. After Christ said that, he came for the lost sheep. The woman essentially threw herself at his feet. She was absolutely committed to receiving what she needed from Christ. She didn't care what it would cost. She didn't care how that made her look. She was desperate. She had no pride left. She needed what only Christ could give, and she was going to stay there until he threw her out. Or he got or she got what she was at. There is only one wise desperation on this planet. It's the desperation of needing Jesus. And this woman got it right. Then the woman pleaded for Jesus to help her. She is desperate. She is needy. She loves her daughter, and her daughter is simply right now a toy for demons. She must have Christ's help. So Christ addresses her finally, but look at what he says. Let the children be filled first, for it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. This would have been the final straw for anyone who had an ounce of human fleshly pride. Anyone who thought they had any merit, any goodness to bring this encounter, would have left offended at this point. Just think of all the good lines that they would have had as they left Christ's presence and talked to all their friends. He called me a dog. He treated me like trash. And on and on they could have gone. But not this woman There's something in the Greek that I don't ever remember reading or hearing before. Maybe I have and I just forgot. That's likely. But there are two Greek words for dogs. One refers to the mangy mongrels that lived in packs and mostly ate garbage and anything that they could find. They were never referred to in a positive fashion. They were always a slam. Then there was another word for dog that referred to household pets and they that were treated like part of the family. This is the word that Christ used in this instance. Now, this would not have made what Christ said complimentary, but oddly enough, I think it gave this woman a ray of hope. Christ was clearly saying that his priority was the children, basically the Jewish lost sheep, and his ministry was primarily focused on them. And she's not one of them. So those children need fed first. They are the first priority. They are in order as well, the ones that he is going to go to first. And that was very true. That is how Christ prioritized. We as Gentiles sometimes forget that. We've lived a long way, a long time like we are. We've lived all these generations. We have all this history, but we forget. Christ was sent first to the Jew and then to the Gentile, and so were his apostles. We mostly received what we received after the Jews rejected Christ. But this woman heard that cr what Christ said and she must have thought, huh? But what about the pet dogs? Aren't they also part of the family? Sure, they're not as important, but they're also not starved. This woman did not need to be at the top of the list. She didn't go in looking for top status. She didn't need most favored status. She just needed Christ's regard to regard her need. She needed Christ to move on her behalf. She had a faith in the goodness of Christ. She had a faith That he would not let lapdogs starve. And that's what she appealed to. She could take that. She could take that status. I'll be a lap dog in your house. Verse 28, And she answered and said to him, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs. You see what this is? The woman is proclaiming her trust in the goodness of Christ. She can admit that as one of these little dogs, she is not important She has no innate goodness with which to recommend herself. Yes, she is just a Canaanite heathen woman. But surely Christ would not deprive her of the leftovers of the rich Jewish blessing. Oh, that we would learn this lesson. Oh, that we would reflect this Canaanite woman's attitude. How quick we are to bring the goodness of God into question. How quick we are to distrust his motives and his goodness. How quick we are to think that we are just being smart to come up with plans that completely contradict what God says. How smart we think we are when we abandon our trust in God for our trust in ourselves, in our own wisdom, in our own thinking. Will we ever get rid of these dastardly tendencies? Will we ever get as smart as this Canaanite woman started? Even a after every test to her faith She still found a way to glimpse the goodness of God for her behalf. She says, Lord, with all these things you say are true, with all the ways that I don't deserve anything from you. You still wouldn't allow your pets to starve. It's not like you to withhold what people need from those who need it Do we believe that? Do I believe that? Do we live like we believe that? What comes out of our mouths in life's difficult situations? Do we oo this kind of faith when our faith is tested? Why? Has God not proven Himself good to us? Look at us. Why would God have shown us his favor by calling us to himself? We certainly aren't the prime cuts of this planet's beef. Why would he lift a finger for people like us? There's only one answer One answer because of his goodness So why can't we give him the benefit of the doubt when we face difficulties This woman did. And she didn't know a fraction about God that we know. Now let's look at how Christ responded to her response. Then he said to her, For this saying, go your way, the demon has gone out of your daughter. And when she had come to her house, she found the demon gone out, and her daughter lying in bed. It isn't that what she said was so perfect. It's not for this saying, you know, he's saying, well, what you said is just such a perfect answer. She had not stumbled on the perfect answer, and Christ was not re rewarding her for her cleverness in response. No, what she displayed was genuine faith. Bates, you couldn't you couldn't even make her stop. You couldn't say anything offensive enough to make her stop. She found a way to trust in Christ, even when trusting in Christ was difficult, and she placed all of her faith on him. She wasn't holding anything back. If Christ wasn't who she thought he was, she would have looked like an absolute fool. But she was confident that one, Christ had the ability to do what she asked, and two, he was very likely to do it. So Christ granted her request. He sent the demon away. I don't think this woman doubted what she would find on her walk home. My guess is she was very confident that she would find things just as Jesus said. What a wonderful end to this story we find When she gets home, her daughter has no demon, and she's recovering from the struggle that she has had with it. She is resting in bed, getting back her strength to live an untormented life. You can rest assured that this girl was going to hear the good news of what Jesus Christ did to her and her mother. I wouldn't be surprised that we get to meet both of them in heaven. You know, there are a lot of situations in our lives that we will face that we do not understand. When we look at what happened to Job, we can see that God has reasons that we don't know anything about. When we look at Genesis, where God cursed this earth, we can see that God wanted this life to be less than perfect. It's His will. He wanted it to be rough. He left it with enough beauty and goodness to show us what he has to offer, but with enough pain and suffering and sin and ugliness to remind us of what this that this world is not our home. And that the devil and what he offers is absolutely worthless. We cannot fix our eyes and hope on anything that this world has to offer. But in this mix In our lives on this planet, there is one thing that we cannot lose sight of. We can't. It's the goodness of God We are always choosing from one of two options. We can see our lives from the perspective of flesh, or we can see our lives from the perspective of faith. Flesh wants heaven now. And it will blame God for anything that we want badly on this planet but what we don't have. And will blame God for what he could do, but chooses not to do. Faith holds on to the goodness of God and will not let go. It trusts that God would not allow the suffering if there is not something in the future that will make it worthwhile. Faith holds that God is not cruel. We don't know why things happen, but we know to what end they happen. Everything that happens here and now is a preparation for heaven. Faith believes in God's goodness to the point that it always believes that whatever is suffered has a reason good enough for God to have allowed it. The woman in our story had a faith in the goodness of Christ that would not let go. How about us? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for the truth. It's not a truth that we always experience, but it's the truth nonetheless. We thank you for this woman's boldness and her determination and her hanging on to you even though it would appear that you were trying to get rid of her Lord, we don't understand. We don't understand lots of things about our lives and the way that you have ordered them But Lord, we know that we can trust you because you are good. We know that we can trust you because you have reached out to us when we had nothing to offer you. And you have blessed us with a hope. You have blessed us with a promise. And you have blessed us with your Holy Spirit living in us. And you have blessed us with your word. And you have blessed us with And shirt. And we're pilgrims moving through a land that has a lot to be desired, a lot not to be desired, and you you are Moving us toward that land that is perfect. We ask that you'd help us to keep our perspective, that you'd help us to look at our lives and see where we so quickly Hold you in question instead of trusting you and clinging to you and gaining from you that which we need most for our hearts and our lives We ask that you would help us to do that this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.