We are in uh part four of the woman at the well this morning. I think the sermons may almost take up more time than the uh the actual event did. This morning we'll we'll see what Jesus has to say to his disciples. But what a rich text this has been for us. We've been watching Jesus doing evangelism. We've gained hope for ourselves in that Jesus arranged his whole schedule in order to reach the most unlikely candidate for his attentions. He violated a lot of cultural taboos to reach this woman, and now he continues describing what is true to his disciples. In verse 35 he says, Do not say there are yet four months, then comes the harvest. Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Some scholars guess that this is some kind of proverb that Jesus says, but I think it's unlikely because the growing season is usually six months, not four months. Odds are this event happened in December when there were actually four months left of the harvest. So people would look and say, yeah, four months and you'll get the harvest. Jesus was probably at this point surrounded by grain fields, and he uses that to make an impact on the disciples. So Jesus is saying that the way we think about spiritual things is is often flawed. Think about the disciples' expectations here They're in Samaria, after all. Samaria. These people, they know they're religiously wrong. Every Jew knew that the Sumerians were religiously wrong. They espouse beliefs that are against the Bible They seem utterly committed to these beliefs. They're entrenched in these beliefs. This isn't a place to sow or reap. This is a place to avoid in your crusade schedule That's what the disciples would have thought. But Jesus is saying, you might think there's a long delay before the harvest. Even if we were able to plant some seeds in the Samaritan town. But you would be wrong. Lift up your eyes. And when the disciples actually did what Jesus said, I don't think it was figurative. I think he's dumb. Lift up your eyes. They lift up their eyes. And they could probably see the white clothing of the men coming from Sikar across those fields. Since the grain was so young, the village people would be easily seen above the green grain fields, and they would stand out in their white robes Jesus tells him that the fields are white for harvest, and here they come. In other words, you're viewing a harvest walking across these fields right now. Who do you know that will never respond to the gospel? Who won't you share the gospel with because you're pretty sure how they're going to respond? We need to be really careful here. We never know what God is doing in a person's heart. We don't know what seeds were planted and who planted them. We're to assume that any human, as long as he has life, might be part of this harvest. Even our least likely candidates. Carla often tells of her brother Chuck, who at one point told her that he wanted nothing to do with her Christ. And he teaches Bible classes at his church now. Never think you have the harvest figured out. We just need to take great effort to do the sowing and the reaping. And when we're able to actually be part of the reaping, which is a wonderful experience. Verse 36 Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life. so that the sower and the reaper may rejoice together. When Jesus uses the word already, he's saying that all of our figuring has just been shown to be foolishness. If you don't think there's a harvest, You're you're wrong, because here it comes. We might expect this kind of thing to take a long time. We might think about how people make decisions that are important to them, and they they take some time often They're going to take a long time, we might think. Months at least. But we don't know what's gone before us. There were sowers that we knew nothing about. God uses people to plant seeds in people's lives that grow. I hope you and I find some encouragement in this. How many people have you shared the gospel with? Over the course of your life, how many people have you shared the gospel with? How many times have you told people How they can be right with God. How many times have you done kindnesses to people in Jesus' name? Now they have to know that it's in the name of Jesus and not that you're just a nice person. But how many times have you done things like that and nothing seems to happen? Scripture tells us that this is only how it appears. It only appears that nothing happens. It's not how it truly is. Isaiah 55, 10 and 11 says, For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there, but water the earth. So basically when it comes down it it accomplishes something. Making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater. In the same way, so shall my word be that goes out of my mouth It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. When you and I put out God's word, when we witness to people, when we tell other people about our faith and how to be right with God, it always accomplishes God's purposes. Never think that because that person doesn't immediately respond to what you're saying, that it's not accomplishing something. It always is. Sometimes it's a seed that will produce a wonderful harvest in a person's life. On the other hand, sometimes it will be used to render more proof of a person's persistent rebellion against God on Judgment Day. It's always useful. Sometimes it's used to escape God's judgment Sometimes it's used as proof of the correctness of God's judgment, but it is always effective. The only word of God that's not successful is the word of God that's not spoken. I hope this encourages us to be bold and confident in our witnessing to others. What we do matters. God will always use it one way or the other. The one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life. So, what is this one reaping? What are they reaping? It 's the crop. Well, what's the crop? It's people who become followers of Jesus. What is eternal life? Eternal life is that for which the crop is harvested. Remember, that's what Project Earth is for, in God's mind. It is for filling eternity with those whom Christ chooses to save. We are the crop, and eternity with Christ is where the crop goes. It's what we are for. Try to name any other thing we can do in a day that has the capacity for such a rich reward. When a crop is reaped, even the angels rejoice Oh, there is great value in every action done in faith of Jesus Christ. And I'm not trying to take away from that. Living a faithful life is incredibly important and it will be incredibly rewarded. And all of that is good, but name something that has this much effect for eternity This is this one is exceptionally remarkable, whether it be with family or friends or enemies. So someone is reaping way ahead of the predicted schedule And they are receiving wages, we're told, and the wages are basically the the reaping. Uh a farmer, you know, that's that's his Is pay not so much anymore, we sell product now, but back then it used to be that that's how you lived, those were your wages. So that the seller and reaper may rejoice together. It's important to notice here, it's not just the reaper who rejoices. You know the person who wins a person to Christ. It's not just them who rejoice. Both the sowers and the reapers rejoice. Have you ever shared the gospel with someone who came to faith in Christ much later? After you talked to him. Did you rejoice when you found out that that person came to Christ? Now you may have had it go through your mind. It would have been nice if they had come to Christ when you shared the gospel with them. But I doubt you were angry when you found out that that person came to Christ I think of Bob Grove who came to Christ. He spoke in our church a while ago, and Carla and Brad and Diane and I all had a small part to play in his life. God was preparing him We were planting seeds. But they sprouted when a couple invited him into their home and went through a series of videos explaining Christianity. And he had a lot of life experiences up to that point that set him up to finally hear this. But I think we were all thrilled to find out that he came to Christ. We rejoice with the reaper. The sowers rejoice with the reapers. And only God can tell the degree our efforts were used in anyone's salvation. That 'll be a neat time, I think, in eternity when we when we find out how all the threads were weaved in In all of our lives, none of these efforts were wasted. We need to consider also if we find ourselves in the position of a reaper, that we don't get too cocky. Like ministry all depends on us. Like look how great I am. I want all these people to Christ. People coming to Christ is usually a well-conceived plan carried out through many years I think Carl and Diane when they when they give their testimonies, their salvation stories have unlikely sowers coming in and out of their lives. Their lives were reaped, but not until they were properly sowed. In the text, we don't know who the sowers are. But we do know that John the Baptist had recently been doing his ministry in that area in some. Maria. So it's not beyond question that he may have been the sower and his team. And while John was decreasing, the kingdom was preparing to increase Just like he had hoped. And this could also be referring to the Old Testament that these people had read and believed. And that was the sewing that had been done. It could have been someone coming through town with God's word. We don't know who sowed, but somebody did. And verse 37. For here the saying holds true: one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others had labored, and you entered into their labor. Jesus is probably still talking about the white figures following the paths between the fields on their way, working their way to him. Right here, Jesus is saying, this saying is holding true, one sows, another reaps. And when Jesus sent them to reap, they were walking into fields that other people had sown. They didn't do the hard work of sowing, but they did the hard work of reaping. And it's interesting, the word for labor here used used here means something that is tiring and sometimes difficult. It's work. That four-letter word. It's work. And it's not easy. And it's not convenient. And it's not for cowards. And it's the kind of thing that's easy to talk ourselves out of doing. It's those kind of things. When Jesus was talking about sowing and reaping, his disciples very likely would have called this scripture to mind. Amos 9. 13 Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when the plowman shall overtake the reaper and the treader of grapes, him who sows the seed. The mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it. If the disciples thought this, they would know it was about God's promise of restoration to his people. That was the context. of that prophecy that he gave. And it wouldn't be a stretch to think that this Old Testament prophecy would be fulfilled as a result of the Messiah coming. So they would be thinking, we're seeing this that that Amos was telling us about. And the prophecy is wonderful. It's basically saying that the land is going to be so fruitful that it produced far more than one could ever expect. It would result in crops being gathered even before the whole field was plowed. That's the imagery that we're getting. It's something The crops are coming up and they're ripening so quick and so fruitfully that you're not even done plowing. You've got to go back and reap. And think about it. How many people come to Christ without hearing any gospel message prior to coming to Christ? That isn't normally what happens. But it happens when God wants it to happen. I've certainly heard stories like that. People may receive Christ before their first sermon is ever heard, before it's ever done. And that may be what Amos was prophesying about. Then verse 39. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony, he told me all that I ever did. Let's think about this. What did this woman tell the people in the town about Jesus? What could they? What could she have told them about? Did she tell them about how Jesus was going to die on a cross in our place? Did she tell them that he would then raise from the dead and ascend to heaven? No, she had no idea. No, all she told them is what little she knew. All she told them is what little she knew. She met Jesus, and Jesus knew all about her. And I think the emphasis was on her sin, this he knew all about me, since there's no conversation about her hobbies or work that she did or anything else. All the things she ever did had to do with her husband's and lack thereof. And it's likely that she also told him that Jesus said he was the Messiah. So he told me everything that I did, all the sin that I did, and he's the Messiah. Since they mentioned this later as part of what they originally believed based on the woman's story, as we read that we read through here. So two things. She only told what she knew. And what she knew was that Jesus supernaturally knew her whole story without her telling him. And Jesus said he was the Messiah. That's it. That's all she did. But look how God used that little bit that she told Many Samaritans from Sikar believed that Jesus was the Messiah because this outcast of a woman loved her neighbors enough to tell them what little bit she knew. She's a wonderful example to us. We don't need perfect theology to give our testimony of how we came to Christ. We just need to tell people how we came to Christ. We need to tell them how we met Christ. If you're hesitant to say much else, just tell your story. God does amazing things. When God's people tell others how they met Jesus. I think the fact that many Samaritans believed in Christ is evidence that the woman at the well also believed in Christ. We can't know if she was fully converted immediately. But if she was numbered with the men who announced that they believed that Christ was the Savior of the world in verse 42, I'm guessing she believed too I think it's highly likely that Christ made this appointment with this woman because he intended to save her along with many in the village. So the woman's story inspired the people of the village to come meet Christ, and they were very curious. Verse 40. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there for two days. Now, these Samaritans show themselves to be very wise. Remember, we've got to keep putting this in context for us to get the gist of this story. Jesus was a Jew. Samaritans hated Jews, but they also had some regard for the supernatural. And while the woman at the well was no theologian, she knew the supernatural when she saw it. So the Samaritans didn't allow their natural instincts and their prejudices to rule them They invited Christ into their village to change their lives. And Christ stayed there for two whole days, and I'll bet that town changed more in those two days. Than it ever had before or after. Verse 41, and many more believed because of his word. Here's the pattern that we're going to see over and over again, and it should be our pattern as well. When we come to Christ, we tell people we know about it. We tell them what we know. If they have questions, we bring them to the Bible. We bring them the words of Jesus. And for all the things we're not sure about, we get help with people who know answers. That's fine. This always is the aim. To bring people to Jesus. We can invite non-believers to church services. And that's fine. But we need to recognize and realize that they may feel like when they come here they're we're speaking a different language. The danger in depending upon bringing people to church in order to bring them to Christ is that people who would not reject Christ may not feel comfortable to learn about him in church. They may have ideas about church that kind of they they don't want to go there, but if they heard about Christ in their lives They would be excited about responding to them. And we may think that because they're rejecting coming to church, that they're rejecting Christ. And that's why we emphasize that we focus on bringing people to Christ. not to bringing them to church. And then inviting them to worship as a church would make sense to this person who has come to Christ. But like I said, if if a person will come Invite them. If bringing them to church service helps in the process, it's great to have people here in the gospel, here anew at the church. And also, if you have a non-believer contacts and you can think of something that would facilitate them hearing the gospel, please talk to us. We want to help in any way that we can to bring people to Christ. And we would be glad to facilitate evangelistic events Like an evangelistic series that Bob went through, where you hold it in a person's home and they get to see a series of films that are adapted just for people who don't know anything about Christ. Uh man, we want to do whatever is helpful in introducing your friends and neighbors to Christ. Notice here, too, that it's Christ's words that God used to change their hearts. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. We can depend upon the Bible. Simply read and explain verses. You don't need to be a genius. Maybe this week would be a good week to refresh ourselves on the verses that we could use, we could refer to to lead a person to Christ and put them somewhere handy, like on our phones now is a great place Put them somewhere you can see them. Memorize them maybe. We move on. Verse 42. They said to the woman, It's no longer because of what you said that we believe. For we have heard for ourselves, and we know, this is indeed the Savior of the world. The Savior of the world. This is what always has to happen. Our salvation can never be based upon our relationship with another human being. It can be aided by another person. God will certainly use humans to facilitate a person's understanding of the gospel. They may even be drawn to the gospel by a person's life. But I can't come to Christ because you want me to. I can't come to Christ because you expect me to. I can't come to Christ because it'll win me favor and approval by you. Far too many salvation decisions have been counted and baptisms performed that were simply one human's effort to please another human Or to not dis or to not displease them. These Samaritans were telling the well woman, you know, you were convincing You were pretty excited about Jesus. And it was clear to us that you thought you had found someone special. We may have thought you were right, but once we met Jesus. There was no doubt then. We went from believing your word about Jesus to believing in Jesus. And that's what we all have to do. If you prayed a prayer and uh and gone through all the Christian motions, but you know in your heart of hearts you've never believed in Christ for yourself You've got to do business with that. You can't go on with a secondhand belief. That's not saving faith. You've got to believe in Jesus because it's you that believes in Jesus. And look what they know. We know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. These people understood more than that Jesus was the Messiah. They understood what the Messiah's mission was. They got it. Jesus was a Jew, but the Jewish barriers are about to completely vanish. Jesus' mission was not in any way restricted to Jewish people. Its intention had no ethnic barriers or boundaries It was not assigned to any geography. The Jews didn't get this yet, but these Samaritans did. It required no temple. You don't go somewhere to worship Jesus. Jesus was and is God with us. Now the Holy Spirit is in every believer in every place in the world. Man, this would have been difficult for a normal card-carrying Jewish person to hear. If they'd have heard that the Messiah is here to save the world, they'd say, whoa now, hold it. He's our Messiah. They would have trouble believing that being born a Jew meant nothing, absolutely nothing, in terms of qualifications for salvation under Jesus. In fact, Gentiles were run into him more quickly than Jews were. After two days of being with Jesus, the understanding had grown from Jesus is the Messiah and will tell us everything, like the woman in the well thought. To Jesus is the Messiah, and he has come to save the souls of everyone in this world who will be saved. It's very clear that Jesus had taught these people a lot in these two days. I wish it was written down. We'll have to find these folks in the new earth and ask them what it was like on that day. Wouldn't that be cool? We have so many good stories waiting for us. I'm glad they'll be in eternity. Because you know you won't feel like, well I better hurry. I sometimes think that the most valuable skill in eternity is going to be a listening skill. We aren't we aren't going to want to miss a detail In the story of grace in every believer's life. I think by the time those two days were over, there were many true believers in that town. These were not the kind who were looking for a fish sandwich, like we see other places in Scripture. These people don't seem to care at all about milking Jesus for a miracle. That's not even questioned. It's not even asked for. They were thirsty for water and hungry for bread. They went to the right source and they had their souls filled. And the angels must have been thrown apart. And this all started with a Jesus who was thirsty for water. And a woman who is thirsty for Jesus. Notice this too. They said to the woman, and then they go on to say what they said to the woman. Do you want to feel important? Tell people about Jesus. This moment was probably the high point of this Rejected outcast of a woman's life. The village was coming back to her after they heard from Jesus. They were singling her out to tell her this joyful message. They would not have had to, but they did it because she was suddenly instrumental in their lives. She had been a tremendous blessing. to these people, the least likely candidate for such a thing in that village. She told them about J Jesus, and it looks like they were grateful. You know I can't imagine this woman ever getting her water in the middle of the day again. She brought Jesus to town. She brought salvation to her city. Now, no, it doesn't always work this way. We don't always become heroes for preaching Jesus. But when we do Those are the high points. If you want to do something important, tell people about the Jesus who found you at your wealth. And then point them to Jesus. Jesus has a way of making outcasts heroes. It truly does not matter what you used to be. It does not matter what you were known as. It does not matter what your reputation was. Everything can change when you meet Jesus. Let's close in prayer.