Well, we needed to take the the Luke and John accounts together to get the full picture of what we're going to be looking at this morning. John tells us that this is Sunday evening. Now, we need to keep it in perspective here. A lot is happening fairly quickly. This has been one of the most remarkable days in the lives of the people who were present. The reports are coming in so quickly that the disciples are probably having trouble keeping up with it, wrapping their minds around it, sorting it all out. They're probably trying to be wise. They don't want to believe things just because they want that there are things that they want to believe. And that's a good trait. I mean we ought to be suspicious of the things that we we want to believe so that we believe them no matter what the evidence says. So these guys are skeptical. Now remember, up until waking on Sunday morning, their assumption was that Jesus was dead and he was going to remain dead. They went to bed on Saturday evening in a very dismal state. That's very clear by all the evidence that we're given Then Mary Magdalene arrives all out of breath and reports that the body is gone. Then John and Peter race to the tomb. John wins. Peter goes in. John goes in. It's confirmed. The body is gone. Then everyone goes back to the meeting place, and Peter and John, as well as the others, hear the woman's account of seeing angels and eventually seeing Christ as well. It just bothers me not being able to see it all. I have some things to say to you this morning. I want to see how you react. Um The hikers later give us the slant that the disciples probably thought these women were seeing visions. But then the hikers talk with Christ on their way home. And this is probably late morning or early afternoon. When they get home, they discover the person they were talking to was Christ. And poof, he's gone. Now they turn around and walk all the way back to Jerusalem and make it back sometime on Sunday, late afternoon or evening. We know this because Luke 24, 36 says, as they, the men up from Emmaus, said these things, Christ appeared. And John tells us that it is now evening. What a day these guys were having. Can you imagine? John tells us the state they were in still Uh uh it's it's not all good and optimistic here. It says, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews What we see here is a clandestine meeting of frightened disciples. News was spreading, probably. The fact that the hikers knew so much tells us that the disciples were keeping each other up, at least to some degree, up to speed, on what the latest events were. And that's a good thing. The fact that they gathered together was also a good thing. We don't know who all was in attendance at this meeting, but we know who wasn't. Judas wasn't because he was dead And Thomas wasn't for unknown reasons. Thomas was probably a broody kind of person anyway who wanted to deal with this loss on his own Given that he was the skeptic of skeptics, probably a glass half-empty kind of guy, he probably wasn't ever the life of the party. He was likely an introvert, and he certainly had a lot to process. And he probably had lots of reasons not to be in church that Sunday. But it was him who in the long run missed out We also know the hikers from Emmaus were here. There were likely others as well. I mean it's really hard to imagine the women who had been with Christ throughout Christ's ministry and ministered to him just recently, at least tried to. not being there. But we just don't know. We don't know who is in this group. John also tells us that these people were in fear. They were in fear. And it was a credible threat. The Jewish leaders had just killed Christ, and now his body was gone. They didn't know the circumstances that the leaders had heard about. So they didn't know what the leaders knew. They didn't know that he was gone under supernatural circumstances. So they likely figured that if Christ's body was gone, who were they going to blame for it? You know, they probably figured this would be the first place they're going to look. And they're gonna be here any minute now, busting in our doors. They want the body back. They would have Been very smart in their thinking, don't you think? I mean, if you were them, wouldn't you think that was very smart thinking? And it would have been very wrong thinking. Isn't that funny how often that happens? We tell God all the perfectly good logical reasons that we have to worry. And what does he say? Does he pity us? Does he admire our smart thinking? No, he just says, trust me. And if we continue to worry, it's sin. Nothing more, nothing less, just sin. Now, we can never get the idea that we have to reach some kind of spiritual plateau before God will visit us. God is not waiting for us to climb some spiritual ladder to get to him. We do have to relinquish our right to have our own way before we can grow. But we see here God's standard operations toward people who are not as faithful as they could be, or probably as they ought to be. These people aren't stubbornly rebellious. They're just simply stuck at a point where they don't believe something that they have every reason to believe. Sound familiar? This should be pretty encouraging to us, I think. Here in the midst of the disciples' fear and skepticism, Christ shows up. Here in the real imperfect lives of the disciples, the Savior appears. Don't ever get the idea that you are not spiritual enough for God to move in your life. As long as you don't grieve the Holy Spirit by rebelling against what He reveals of God's word to you, as long as you are not living in a state of known rebellion, God's Spirit will work in God's people. Christ will show up in your life if you're willing to learn from him, if you're willing to submit to him. If you're knowingly rebelling against God's revealed word, he will require that you do business with with that before you can go any further. Don't look for any spiritual progress in your life until you repent of that thing. But if you're mistaken or if you're taken by a weakness, Christ is very likely to show his presence to you by the revelation of his word Or by the stirring of your conscience, or by the ministry of another believer. So here is Christ. Poof. He beams in. He's there with matter in a way that matter doesn't work. He's there in a body that couldn't possibly be there, but it's there anyway. Is this a clue to us on what our bodies will be like? Who knows? But here Christ is Now, why didn't Christ show up at the door? You know, why didn't he act normal? Again, wouldn't this be fun? Wouldn't it be a blast to show up in the middle of a group of people who are all talking about the theories of what could possibly be happening to you? Christ may have done it to show his lack of material limitations. But he may have just done it because he wanted to. Now, what does Christ say to them? This is important. What does Christ reveal as the disciple 's greatest need at that moment? You can tell by what he says. Peace. Peace is what he says. These people were afraid. They were worried. They were confused. They were disturbed. And they were stressed. And what does Christ offer them? What does he tell them? He tells them both. Peace to you in Luke 24, and he tells them, peace be with you in John. The word for peace took on a new meaning with Christ's disciples. It was a bit different than how it had commonly been used But it came to be known this way among believers. It ended up meaning the tranquil state of a soul assured of its salvation through Christ. And fearing nothing from God and content with its earthly glot. Let me read that again. It's a mouthful. It ended up meaning the tranquil state of a soul Assured of its salvation through Christ, and fearing nothing from God, fearing no punishment from God, and content with its earthly lot. Sounds like the Christian life to me. These disciples were anything but peaceful in their state. But Christ told them, have peace. Peace be with you. He offered them peace. What a fitting thing to say for the one who just three days earlier said, it is finished. It is finished. Christ had removed the source of our enmity. The opposite of peace. He had removed the source of our enmity against God. He had removed the penalty for every believer's sin. He had died and rose to give us peace. Now Christ tells these guys to apply it where the rubber meets the road. Right now. Apply it in your everyday circumstances. Peace to you, right here, right now, regardless of your circumstance. How about us? What excuses do we use to not have peace? What reasons are there for why we can't have peace in our circumstances? Now let's see how Christ's pronouncement was met by the disciples. Luke says in verse 37, but they they were terrified and frightened and supposed that they had seen a spirit. Their minds were blown. They were sure they were talking to a ghost. That doesn't look much like peace to me. Again, I think we can be encouraged here, the price wasn't finished with them yet. It takes a while I think we can all testify to that. It takes a while for God to make the changes in our lives that he intends to make and will make. The Greek word for terrify means pretty much terrified. It's a pretty straightforward word from Greek to English. The word for frightened contains in it the Greek word that we get the word phobia from. They were pretty much scared out of their wits. And this wasn't just an immediate reaction to a scary thing. The verb tense tells us that. Like when someone or something scares you, you know, somebody jumps out from behind something and your feet leave the ground and you know momentarily and then you're right back to your normal state. It's not like that. These guys are they're scared and they're sc they're staying scared. No, they were in a state of fear. It wasn't going away. Now, why were they in a state of fear? They thought they were looking at a ghost. This did not happen every day. These guys had not yet connected the dots. And they were the dots that must be connected for us to have the proper view of the resurrection. Christ rose bodily. Christ rose bodily. That is a core tenet of Christianity. The way the disciples are viewing this, Christ's body could have been stolen and laying somewhere in a ditch, and Christ's apparition could be there with them at the same time. But that is not how it happened. And Christ is going to make a big point of showing them. That is not the case. That is not the truth. Christ's spirit and body went together. They did not separate. His body must have been instantly changed, just like ours will be. But Christ was not raised separate from his body. So now, now that the disciples believe this lie, what will Christ do to correct them in believing this lie about the ghost? Well, Christ could have just explained it to them. He could have just said, now listen to me close and tell them what the truth was and expect them to believe it. He had every right to do that. But Christ did more than that. to them, just as he often does in our own lives. Isn't he gracious in giving us what we need to believe in the way that we can believe it? And he works in our hearts to accomplish that end. That's what he does here. Verse 38. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. But while they still did not believe for joy and marveled, he said to them, Do you have any food? Have you any food here? It's almost like he's doing an experiment, you know. So they give him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb, and he took it and ate it in their presence. Alright, Christ said, why are you troubled and why do doubts arise in your heart? Why are you troubled and why do doubts arise in your heart? What a wonderful question. Here is a great topic for self-talk. When we get troubled, when our emotions are in turmoil, why not ask the questions of ourselves that Christ asked of his disciples? Why are you so bent out of shape about this? And why do you doubt what God says? Why are you so troubled? And why do you doubt what God says? Isn't that the essence of much of our emotional drama? We've talked a lot about the danger of asking God why and demanding a response from Him. But it's a very safe thing. In fact, it's a necessary thing for us to ask ourselves why and demand a response from ourselves. It's good to know why we do what we do. If we never learn why we do what we do, we're never going to change it. It's good for us to know why we think what we think. It's even good for us to discover why we feel what we feel, which is what Christ is addressing here. We'll find out that we when we run from those hard questions, when we run from looking at why we do what we do, When we run from why we think what we think, when we run from why we feel what we feel, we never avoid the answer. We only delay the answer. The Lord will see to it that we do business with the things that drive us. But it takes a lot of courage Because we'll find that we do ugly things and we think ugly things and we feel ugly things for very ugly reasons. We are not nearly as good as we would like to see ourselves as. Well, Christ gets right down to the disciples' problem. And fortunately for them, while they did not have a good reason to fail, the solution to grow in faith was pretty simple. Christ was going to supply all the evidence that they needed that would refute all the lies that they believed. The first evidence The first evidence for the disciples' belief was the wounds that Christ had suffered for us. Luke says Christ showed them his hands and his feet, and John adds that Christ showed them his side. That would have been kind of an odd uh interaction, I would think. I don't think this is normally how bodies are going to be resurrected. In fact, in eternity, I think Christ is going to be the only one with scars. And his scars will be a reminder forever of the price That he paid for us. We are very likely to have our memories of this life grow into very distant memories. At least I hope so But every time we look at our Savior, we will be reminded of what it took to get us into his presence. We'll see the scars and we will know that we put them there. We'll remember the love that it costs to get us there. We'll remember how much he loved us. Even when we were at our very worst. So Christ showed them the scars. He used this as evidence that he was no ghost. Ghosts don't have scars. These were real wounds. Second evidence, Christ told them to touch him. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see I have. He basically wanted them to prove to themselves that he was matter. He could be touched and felt like a normal human being. He was solid with flesh and bones. Now what changes he had from a normal body to his, you know, we don't know, and we're not given all that. He does some odd stuff, but we don't know exactly what that means. Luke tells us they still didn't believe. It says, but while they still did not believe for joy and marveled, here is the classic example of something too good to be true. It's something they don't think was possible. They marveled. They were looking at something wonderful, wondering how in the world can this be? This this is not is not in our frame of reference. And anywhere that we we have, this is just odd. How can it be true that he was dead and he's alive and he's standing in front of us like he is? And not only that, he poops into the room. They're trying to understand, but they were overjoyed at what they were seeing, and they again I don't think they could wrap their minds around it. God or Christ doesn't seem to be too hard on them. Have you ever looked at what God has done in your life and marveled? Have you ever wondered how God could have arranged the pieces in your life? to get you where he has gotten you. How he has poured out his grace in a way you could have never foreseen and certainly would have never deserved. There's much that God is and does that is worthy of that kind of wonder. The third evidence: Christ did what no ghost could do. He ate. He said to them, have you any food here? And you could just see it. I mean he's it's not like he's saying, I really need a substantial, you know, meal here or anything like that. This is an experiment. Grab some food and I'll show you something. So they gave him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb, and he took it and he ate it in their presence. I doubt that anyone ever watched anyone eat so intently as these guys did. I wonder what they thought would happen Did they expect the food to drop to the floor the moment he let go of it? You know? Did they think that he could lift it with his hands, but surely it could not remain in his body? We don't know. But we can be very glad that they were as confounded as they were, because it gives us insights into the risen body of Christ that we would not have had otherwise. had he not proven these points to this marveling these marveling onlookers. Maybe Christ's followers had rules in mind of what a spirit could do and what a spirit couldn't, but you know, it's like ghost rules. And if if what a human you know what a human was and and what a human could do, so there are people rolls and ghost roles and and and if he ate It was human and not spirit. I don't know. But Christ ate and they finally were convinced. It was like the final proof. Nope. Can't be a ghost. He can eat. Frankly, I'm glad that a resurrected body can eat. Brad's probably glad too. The sensation of eating food is a blessing. A grace that God has dispersed on both the lost and the saved. It's a wonderful thing. And many good things have happened as people have eaten together Communion was introduced as a bunch of men ate together. And the greatest party ever to be held, the marriage supper of the Lamb, will be brothers and sisters eating together. How wonderful that'll be Don't ever get the idea that our eternity will be spent on clouds strumming a harp. We will be involved in the things that are the best of life as we know it. There will certainly be changes But there will be humor. There will be deep, unhindered friendships, there will be worship without the necessity of faith. There will be meals with friends. There will also be the accomplishment that comes with work. That which is best designed to fulfill the human spirit will all be there. I think it's interesting that Christ ate fish and honey. I don't think it's significant. I just think it's interesting It just happened to be some of the most abundant food around. He probably would have eaten a Snickers bar if he was handed one. He was just eating to prove a point. Christ resurrected in a body. John finishes out our narrative this morning, and he says, Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Finally, finally, the disciples believe. They had all of their doubts removed. They were convinced by the evidence that Christ graciously provided to them. Now Christ could simply sh uh Christ could have simply shown up and, like I said, told them to believe There are lots of people who act like any appeal to the mind, any appeal to those doubts that we have, those questions that we have, they're all a waste of time. But that's not how Christ acted That's not how Christ treated these guys. He went out of his way to see that these men had whatever proof they needed to believe that Christ truly was resurrected And now, once those doubts are removed, they're just glad. They were happy to see that Christ had really and truly risen from the dead. Their leader was not dead. Their leader was alive. He had done the one thing he told them over and over that he was going to do. But they were just never really hearing him. They just never really got it. They were never taking the one thing he meant literally, literally. Verse 21, so Jesus said to them, Again, peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. Now the disciples were prepared. to appropriate the peace that Christ had provided and personally represented. So when he says peace to you the second time, they're finally getting it They're finally applying it. They're finally receiving this peace. Their doubts are gone. Their fears are gone. Christ was there, and Christ was risen from the dead. That was the source of their peace, and that was the source of our peace. The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ puts our lives in the proper perspective. There may be things that will do us great harm in this life, but there will never be anything that takes away our destiny, our hope, and our reward. Then Christ looks at all these followers of his, beyond just the ten disciples in attendance, and he says, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. Now, how did the Father send Christ? From what we know, God gave the mission to Christ to come to this planet in the form of a baby, to grow up, teach, preach, do miracles, die, be buried, and rise again. He was sent for the salvation of souls, to provide for the salvation of souls. Now we are not sent to die for the sins of others We have sins of our own. That would not be a good thing. They would not accomplish anything. We are not qualified to die for the sins of others But these followers of Christ would be sent to spread the news of what Christ had done. Christ came to do it. These followers are sent to spread it. In the same way that Christ was sent to provide our salvation, believers are sent to spread the news of salvation. Now we need to recognize here, this is substantial, we need to recognize that Christ is doing all of this with the absolute authority of God. But this is going to fly in the face of everything that the Jewish people would expect. They would expect anything of spiritual significance to come through the card-holding authorities that guarded the access to the temple. the center of Jewish worship. They would have thought it had to go through them. Christ is doing all of this with no regard whatsoever to the current corrupt God haters posing as spokespeople. for God. These disciples are being sent by a risen Messiah and they're going to shake up things in a dramatic way. And they never attempt to take over temple worship. They never even concern themselves with the existing Jewish foundation. Notice too that this is said before Christ does any business with Peter's failure. Peter's still in this group. Peter's still running through his mind all that has gone on before, and we're going to get to that. It's almost like Jesus is telling them, practice is over now, guys. It's game time It's game time. This is what you were trained for. Now I'm sending you to do the jobs that you've been three years in the making. And then look what Christ says next in verse 22. It says, and when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. Now, do you remember the first time God breathed on mankind? That would be in Genesis 2, verse 7. It says, And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being, or a living spirit. You could say God breathed spirit into the man. Again, we see God's breath in Ezekiel 37. 9 in the valley of the dry bones. Ezekiel 37. 9 also he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live. And then that's what happened. Breath came into these creatures. This appears to be a reference to the Holy Spirit. So when Christ breathed on them They would have understood this was a reference to the Holy Spirit, more than likely, the Spirit of Christ. Now, does this mean that this is when the disciples get the Holy Spirit? Well, that would cause a very big theological problem. Christ referred to the disciples as his own. And he made reference to them in a way that one has to conclude, these people are already right with Christ. They have a relationship with Christ. Christ has said as much. They are already in the faith. And since this faith is something that only comes through the work of the Holy Spirit, this cannot mean that this is their first encounter with the Holy Spirit in their lives. So it's not that. Well then, were they filled with the Holy Spirit at this endeavor? Probably not, as we see that happen at Pentecost. That's when the Holy Spirit is poured out on the earth in a remarkable and visible and tangible way. The Holy Spirit then is given to accomplish the mission that the new church is given to fulfill. So what is this? What is this that Christ is doing here? It is very likely a symbolic gesture that represents what was going to happen to them at Pentecost. Christ was breathing his spirit upon them with real breath, but they were going to receive this Spirit of God with great force very soon. And he is, in a sense, handing it to them. Now the next thing that said is easily misunderstood, but to great peril. It's one of the foundations of the Roman Catholic Church. But it does not stand the test of good scholarship in any way that they use it. Verse 23, if you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained. This is where the doctrine of confessing to priests to have your sins forgiven came from. But among the many problems, one of them is that Jesus said this to everybody in the room. Which probably included far more than just the ten disciples. We know it included at least the two Emmaus hikers. So what does this mean? You know what is he saying? We know what he's not saying. What is he saying? Jesus was describing in one of many ways the ministry that the disciples and all followers of Christ were going to have. Let's look at a couple of other scriptures to get some context. First we find in Mark 2. 7 and Daniel 9. 9 that only God can forgive sins. Only God can forgive sins. It is important that we understand that. Mark 2. 7 says, why does this man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins? But God alone. And then Daniel 9. 9, to the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness. To the Lord our God belong forgiveness. Though we have rebelled against him. There are other passages that could be used to make this point, but basically only God can forgive sins. We do not, in some ways, forgive sins. And then in some ways, we do. We have to be very careful about those ways. We have to understand it We don't forgive sins. We are not authorized, or we don't have we aren't qualified to forgive sins. To apply our blood to somebody else's sin. We can't do that. It wouldn't accomplish anything. But we do pronounce God's forgiveness of sins. And in this way of saying it is forgiving sins. It's appropriating the forgiveness of God to a person. We appropriate that forgiveness to them. Christ said it in a different way earlier in Matthew. He said in verse 1619, I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. And then in Matthew 18, 15 through 18, I think it even gives us a more thorough understanding. Verse 15, moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and tax collector. Assuredly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. I think that's the primary application here. Do you see what that is talking about? It's talking about dealing with people who are sinning. It tells us how to minister to them with the appeal that they drop their rebellion against God and submit to God. That's our appeal. All church members are to be about the ministry of reconciliation. Every single one of us. It's not like we need to sit in a little box and have people walk up to us and and us tell them their sins are forgiven if they'll tell us all the juicy details. We're to be about the business of talk Talking to people in an effort to get them right with God, in an effort to convince people to trust Christ to forgive their sins. Now, sometimes we do that to people inside the church Then we're dealing with behaviors or attitudes that are sinful. We're calling them what Scripture calls them, and we're telling people to do with them what Scripture tells us to do with them. Sometimes we minister to people outside the church. Then we are calling upon people to call upon Christ for the forgiveness of their sins. We can assure them, we can speak with ultimate confidence, that if they truly will confess their sin, Christ will surely forgive their sin If they will not, we can assure them that their sins are not forgiven and never will be under their present state of rebellion against Christ. So we're pronouncing God's forgiveness of sin. And we can do that based on God's word with great authority. But it's not something that's mystically happening to us. It's simply recognizing the wind of the Spirit blowing in a person's life in a very predictable pattern. When the word of God is proclaimed to a person and they become conscious of their sin and their need for a savior and they long for that savior, that saving grace more than anything in their lives we can know with great certainty that the Holy Spirit is moving upon that person. When a person confesses their sins and trusts Christ as Savior and Lord and then obeys Christ, we can be certain that a miracle has happened. Over time, we can read the evidence pretty accurately. And depending on a person's response, we can quote from Scripture God's verdict. That's what I believe Christ was talking about here, about forgiving sins. These people were going to be given that ministry, and so are we, so is every believer. But what a wonderful ministry God has entrusted to us. We have the glorious privilege of representing God the man. Us peons, who deserve nothing from God, are given the most important responsibility on this planet. Think about that. What can President Trump do that will forever change the life of a human being? Not a single thing. At best, he can make life more pleasant for lots of folks, and I hope he does. But in one sense, his job is too small. It changes nothing forever. It's limited to the vanity of this life. But every believer has a job much bigger than his job, much more important than his job You and I are sent into a world of people with a message that can save people for eternity. That's what Christ entrusted us with. What do we do with it? Do we regard it as significant enough that we'll tell anyone and everyone who's interested? Do we pray and look for opportunity daily to tell somebody this great news? That's what you do with good news, isn't it? Especially news this good. You tell it I think we have plenty of application points from this scripture this morning. Will we trust Christ with the things we fear like these disciples had to do? Will we apply peace in the areas that we have no peace? Are we thankful that Christ comes to meet us where we are? He doesn't require perfection. He knows we're duft. But if we're not in rebellion against Christ, he hears our prayers and he'll meet our needs. And are points of turmoil in our lives. Will we do business with this hard question? Why are you troubled and why do doubts arise in your heart? Will we set ourselves like a hound on this trail and not be satisfied until we know the answer to that question? Because it's only then that we can replace the lies we believe with the truth that God says. Do we really in our heart of hearts look forward to an eternity in a new resurrected body? Do we set our sights there? And finally, do we really regard the message we have been given to spread as the best news that humanity has ever been given? If we do, no one can stop us from telling you. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you, Lord, that you you show us so much of yourself in your word. And we thank you so much for the humanity of these disciples and your ministry to them. And that you minister to them right where they are, as they are, and uh it gives us hope because we know that in a lot of ways we're like them. We certainly fail in ways that they've failed, and we understand them in that regard, and yet you still love them. And you still reached out to them and you still made of them more than they could have ever begun to imagine themselves being. We lay ourselves at your feet this morning in the hopes that you will do the same thing in us and through us. Lord, we We know that the limitations in our relationship are all on our end. We ask that you would help us to see ourselves as we truly are, that we would follow down. the uh track down the the wrong ideas we have about you the wrong ideas we have about life And that we would replace every one of them with what your word says. And that we would trust you with the very core of who we are and that we would obey you and glorify you and live to see the day when you will reward us and we will say, man, that price was so small for something that is so great. We ask that you would help us to live in that faith and to make a difference based on the truth that you have conveyed to us We pray these things in Jesus' name amen.