Last week we looked at Jesus as the perfect sustenance to our souls. He is that bread that we need more than we need anything else. Our old selves don't run after a substitute, but Christ's work in our lives is always drawing us back to Himself. You can trust that if you're in Christ That is what he is doing in your life. Now last week we were watching the interaction between these self-serving, unbelieving crowds. And Christ. And these were people who wanted Jesus to provide an eternal food supply. But Jesus was speaking one language and they were speaking another, they were hearing another. He's talking about the spiritual, ultimate, life-sustaining food, and they're thinking about a wheat product. That's the context that we return to this morning. Verse 34, they said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. And they're thinking, Bread, bread. These people had an understanding of the Messiah, that the Messiah would provide such a thing physically. That was their expectation of what a Messiah would do. They wanted the curse removed and they wanted to live in a utopia. Or at least as good as it could get on this planet. And they thought it was the Messiah's job to provide that. So that's the bread they're asking for. That's the bread that they're expecting. I suspect that many of the problems that our churches in the Western world experience are due to the fact that so many people who fill the seats are coming to church with the same mindset. These folks see church primarily as a place to go where God will take care of all of our psychological and physical needs. They're coming to church like these folks. We're coming to Jesus. The same kind of expectations. Their primary goal is to make their life on earth better. And they believe that if they can add Jesus onto their life, use Jesus as medicine in their life, use Jesus as a supplier of stuff in their life, Christ will improve their life situations. And that's all that these people in this crowd were doing. But Jesus is not a tool to be used for self-improvement. Jesus is a God to be worshipped and adored. Our laws are to gravitate around Him and His desires, His will be done. He will then fulfill all of our needs as he defines our needs. He doesn't offer himself for self-improvement. What he offers is a heart replacement. To understand this text, we have to understand that dynamic that he is addressing. Jesus knew he had to clarify things if anyone there was going to benefit from Christ. Verse 35, Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. First off, Jesus uses the statement of Godhood. He says, I am. And this is an Old Testament name for God. We miss that in our English, but that's what the Jews at the time, his listeners, they would have heard that. In the rest of John, we're going to see Jesus describe himself with an I am statement. Seven times. I believe uh I believe that Brad covered that when we did our introduction into uh into this. I am the bread of life I am the light of the world. I am the door of the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life, and I am the true vine. These are all descriptions of Christ and the way that he benefits his people. He describes himself as the provision itself. He describes himself as the provision itself. I am the bread of life. When the people heard this stuff, they should have been responding by saying, oh, Jesus isn't talking about stuff. Jesus is talking about himself. He's not talking about bread for our bodies. He's talking about ultimate stuff. He's talking about that which can sustain real life for eternity. Jesus is emphasizing who he really is here. He is not God's delivery boy. He is God's delivery. He's it. Are you hungry to be right with God? Here I am, he says. I'm the answer to your ever ev to every hunger pain that you have spiritually. Are you thirsty to have a relationship with God where you're forgiven of every sin and engulfed in his love for you? Here I am, Jesus says. I'm not bringing you bread. I am it. I am the bread. I'm the only way that you can have this. If your soul longs for God, you will find what you long for in me. That's what Jesus is saying. He's appealing to this crowd that they lift their eyes up from their earthly expectations and their earthly existence to their soul's true fulfillment. This other bread, it's good. It's good for what it's good for. It'll keep you alive so that you can wake up the next day and chase that bread. It's good for that. But this bread I'm talking about, it fulfills your soul. He says, whoever comes to me shall not hunger, whoever believes in me shall never thirst. You and I are created for worship. Our souls will never truly be satisfied until they find their satisfaction in right relationship with Christ. That's why we watch people chase stuff and chase stuff and chase stuff and they finally get it and then they're dismal Some commit suicide because they have nothing else to live for, and they've they've discovered that which they most thought would make them happy doesn't accomplish it Is your life always pursuing stuff in an effort to be happy, but nothing ever makes you happy for more than a few fleeting moments or a few fleeting days? Are you restless to find that thing that will satisfy your soul? Have you been wondering what's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? Why can't I be happy? Your problem is you're chasing the wrong bread and you're drinking the wrong water. If what you start looking for to provide meaning and satisfaction to your life does not start with Jesus Or come from Jesus, it's gonna let you down. It won't give you what you hope for. It'll disappoint you. It has to. It is not Jesus. Your heart was made for worship. You need real bread But when you come to Christ, you've found your soul's feast. We live at Christ's table We're forever connected to him. We can speak to him at any moment. We get filled with him as we read his word and apply it and meditate on it and and meditate on who God is. We're surrounded by people. Who share the same cravings for fellowship with Christ that we do. In that sense We don't hunger. Hunger comes from the lack of sustenance. We have sustenance all the time. We come to Christ, we never need to hunger again, we never need to thirst again because we are continually filled with His goodness and His kindness and His presence. Thirst comes from the lack of water. Christians are like people who have backpacks with straws. You ever see this? Like there's a backpack and you fill it with water and it's got a straw comes around of your mouth and you know you're never thirsty Because you're drinking all the time. Well, well you and I are like that in Christ. We can drink whatever we want There's no reason to be thirsty. And when we drink from Christ, it hits the spiritual spot. That's what Christ is offering to these folks. Christ is saying, I am the sustenance. Come to me. He's saying that to us this morning. Especially if you have never received Christ by faith. He's saying, I am the sustenance. Come to me. And what is the response in our text? What's the response to God who came in flesh to save sinners from their sin? What's the response to the greatest and most costly deal humanity was ever offered or ever will be offered? Verse 36. But I say to you that you have seen me. And yet you don't believe. And yet you don't believe. Think about this. They believed Christ was the Messiah. They believed Christ could do miracles. They believed Christ would improve their lives. They believed Christ would make a great king, so much so they were willing to force it on him. Risking the the temper of Rome coming down on them. They believed it that much. But the beliefs they needed the most they never had. They would not trust Christ as the Savior of their souls. And that's the one thing that Christ came to do. At least this time. Next time it'll be different. But this time. To believe in Christ is not to believe about Christ It's to trust everything we are to the person of Christ, trusting that the work of Christ can truly save us through and through. It's to receive him as king over our meager lives and to rejoice to be declared as an adopted son into his family. It's to accept the reorientation of His kingdom is come, and his will to be done in our lives just like the angels do it in heaven. That's a Christian. That's what Christ came to do. Anything less than that is treating Christ like a bread peddler. Now, is Christ distraught that these people were not believing in him? Was this the surprise to Christ? Does it cause Christ anxiety? No. He holds out the offer of salvation for the sake of his hearers, and he keeps doing that. But Christ was never at the whims of his audience verdict on him. He understood that every faithful decision of a human already has its inspiration from God. God is the one lighting up men's souls. He says this, verse 37: all that the Father gives me, they'll come. This isn't in question. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I'm not going to cast out. All that the Father gives me. Christ wasn't concerned about how fickle human beings can be, because he knew that ultimately the success of his mission was not reliant upon such a fickle base. Christ was confident that the Father had those who he first chose, and they would choose Christ. He knew that. In just a few more verses, Christ is going to say in verse forty-four, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I'll raise him up on the last day. There's no doubt about that. There's no question. No if I will raise that person up on the last day. Clearly the drawing of God comes before the decision of a man. Christ's confidence of his ministry's success is not on man's decisions. It was never in question. He never wondered, oh, will this work? Because I don't know if enough people will decide. It it's on the Father's decision. He had already chosen who he was going to choose. Paul explains this all clearly in Ephesus and in Ephesians, and we've we've dealt with this a couple times, and we're going to keep hitting it because we can't get away from it. Verse 4, 1, 4, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. John describes the process of people coming to Christ seven times in John as the Father giving them to the Son. You and I should follow Christ's lead on this. It's vital we call out to everyone around us to come to Christ for the salvation of their souls I mean it's almost a hateful thing if we withhold that from those around us. And and I I I cringe at the opportunities that I have had and not taken And the lack of love that I've sometimes displayed to those around me by just not bothering to tell them about the gospel because I don't think they'll believe it anyway. That's horrible. But we need never despair about the outcome if we lay out that gospel. Every time we proclaim the gospel, we're not relying on the proper firing of the synapses in that person's brain. We're not relying on how good we are at getting inside of their brain and giving them reason that will turn the corner for them. What we are relying upon when we witness to others is a miracle of God. We are relying on a specific act of God in that person to open up their eyes so they can see and to bring them back from the dead so they can live. That's what we rely on. And God has those decisions covered from before there was time. We don't need to sweat the results. Our attention should be on sowing the seed and watching. To see if it ignites. So Christ is confident the ones that the Father picked out would come, and whoever comes, I'll never cast out. A long time ago, when I still believed in decisional regeneration or that a person's salvation was inspired and caused and a result of their own will. It's usually called Arminian doctrine. Anyway, a long time ago I argued with another Arminian Over once saved, always saved. Now keep in mind, we both believe that humans decided our way into salvation. And my argument was that it was inconceivable to me that we had the free will to decide our way into the kingdom, but then we couldn't decide our way out of the kingdom. You know, of course, if I decide my way in, I can decide my way out. So I my idea was, well, of course you could you could throw your salvation away if you were really of the mind to. And the other gentleman argued, no, once you decide your way in, you can't get out. Which seemed a little absurd to me. Well, it turns out we were both wrong. We failed to notice who made the initial decision. We failed to take into account the fantastic miracle that had to happen to open our eyes and to make us alive so we could even make a decision in a Godward direction. Once we understand that the miracle has to happen to draw us to Christ, it's easy to accept that Christ will always finish What Christ initiated, what Christ started, what God the Father chose from the beginning of time The Father never picks people for half a Christian life. The Father never picks people for half a salvation When the Father gives a person to Christ, the Father knows what he's doing. We may not be able to tell the tares from the wheat. You know, that's that's us, but the father can He does not give his son weeds. Christ will never cast out those who the Father has chosen for salvation from the beginning of time. And that's a wonderful comfort on those days. When we wonder about ourselves. Now, how does Christ describe his mission? This is very important. Some would say Christ's mission was to come to earth. And serve as the perfect example of how we are to live. And while he certainly did that, that is not how he describes his mission Others would say that Christ came to start a new religion that would improve societies and make this world a better place And undoubtedly Christ fulfilled all the promises of God in the Old Testament in such a way that he brought about a new covenant with God. And in those lands where Christianity has most flourished The society has most flourished. And that is true. But it's not Christ's mission. We could go on, but you get the point. It's vital that we understand how Christ describes his mission. This is what he says, and it's all about his people. It's all about the people that the Father gave him. And this is how he starts, verse 38. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will. Now, think about that a little bit. I, the Son, God incarnate, did not come down to do my will. Well, he's God incarnate. When Christ walked the planet, we need to keep in mind he had common human desires that come with having human bodies on this planet. Now you and I have to separate out those desires that come from a sinful nature. And Christ didn't have any of the sinful nature stuff I don't think, frankly, I don't think anyone knows how to parse that out perfectly. Where do human desires and sinful desires begin and end? We don't know. But anyway, Christ would have had a desire for food, a desire for drink, a desire for rest. A desire for comfort, a desire for closure, a desire to avoid pain, a desire for sex, a desire for friendship, a desire to be appreciated, and we can go on and on. He was human. Now when Christ says, I didn't come to do my own will, we can't get the idea that Christ is in heaven saying to his father, I think we should save people by how good they live And the father said, No, I think he should die for it. You know, it's not like they were having a disagreement. It's not like Jesus wasn't going by his own will in in heaven and and his father's will and his will were the same. The Father and the Son are one, which means at the very least they are completely in agreement about all things. So what does it mean that Christ didn't come to do his own will? I think we have to view it from this human setting. Christ is surrounded by people who are doing their own will. How do we get in trouble? If we do our own will. They want an ideal government to live under so they can have happy homes with happy families and they want Christ to do that for them. That's the setting we're in. And Christ says, no, it doesn't work that way. You don't come to me that way Now Christ is saying, I don't even work that way. I think that's the emphasis here. I don't even work that way. I can't prioritize my human desires for all these wonderful things that my father has made and given to us. I don't get to have a wife. I don't get to have a home. I don't get to settle in. I don't even get to defend my human body. I'm not here to do my will. That's what he's saying, I believe. But I'll tell you what I am here for. I'm here to do the will of him who sent me. I'm here to do the will of him who sent me. Here's how life is to be lived. Christ was here to prioritize his father's will above his own. We saw earlier that Christ described doing his father's will as having bread. Remember when he was talking to the woman at the well? And the disciples didn't even know about. Christ found his sustenance in doing his father's will, just as we're to find sustenance in Christ and being absorbed in doing his will. Now keep in mind while we're we're reading this, his audience is hearing this with a whole different set of ears than we're hearing it this morning. What they're hearing is that Christ has gone out of his way to tell them how special he is compared to them. Those aren't his words, but that's the message that's coming through. We can tell by their response. And now this grows and we crescendo into the statement of what the Father's will is. This is what Christ is here for and what he is absorbed in doing, and this is vital. We have to understand when we think of Christ and what he was doing here on this planet We have got to listen to his words about it. And he says, and this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up in the last day. So Christ looks at the crowd and essentially tells them, You want to know what my mic my mission really is? Because they're already telling him what they want his mission to be. He's saying, You want to know what my mission really is? It isn't to set up an earthly kingdom. It's not to satisfy all the fleshly desires of fleshly people. It isn't even really to clean up planet Earth or improve it in the short run. I came to save forever a special group of people. That God chose for this person purpose before a single one of them was ever born. That is why Christ came. We have to get this. God's whole purpose centers around God's chosen people. God's whole purpose Centers around God's chosen people. You'll find this all through the New Testament. In fact, it's interesting. When will planet Earth end? 2 Peter 3, 7 through 10. But by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire. Being kept when Until the day of judgment and the destruction of the ungodless. But don't overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the day with the Lord, one day is a thousand years, and as a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his purpose, as some count slowness, but he is patient to who? Toward you, toward you believers, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. What Peter tells us here is that God is gonna stop evil. God is gonna stop evil. He's promised it. And he isn't slow in carrying out his promise because he's busy, or he's preoccupied, or he doesn't care, or some other reason Now, if we ever understood how much God hates sin, we would be amazed that God allows our existence God hates evil with a hatred that we cannot even fathom. But his love for something is greater than his hatred for something. His love for his people is greater than his hatred for sin. And he's not going to rush the timetable in any way that it would would exempt one of his children from coming to him, no matter how b how horrible the evil is The moment the last chosen person comes to Christ, God will express his absolute hatred toward sin. and all the suffering that it has caused. He will scour the earth of evil people and sin 's consequences and replenish the earth with humans in a sinless condition. But he will not do it. Until that last person who he has chosen comes to him God 's people are at the center of God's plan. Brothers and sisters, don't let the world tell you about your life Don't let it cause you to question the wise in your life that cast doubt on God's goodness. God hates the sin and all the suffering it causes more than we do. Sin is as anti-God as anything can be. God wants rid of it. Never lose sight of that. When you suffer, when you suffer from other sins. When you suffer from living in a sinful world, when you suffer from your own sin, there are still people out there that need him and will come to him. And the earth is going to keep ticking on until that happens Suppose God gave you the choice. Think about this. Suppose God gave you the choice. Suppose he were to say, brother and sister, I can remove all the suffering right now. I can end the project right now. But if I do, there'll be ten million people who will never come to me, who will never glorify me for eternity, will never worship me So which is it? Which would you want? Do you want me to end all the suffering? I could do it. Ten million people. Just an arbitrary number. God would choose to wait. We suffer because God is patiently waiting for the last prodigal. To return to him. We suffer with our exact circumstances because God is using those exact circumstances for our good and his glory. He is conforming us to his image. Romans 8. 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. So, brothers and sisters, know that God's plan has no flaws. It's because he loves his people so. People just like us, that he allows the clock to tick with all of its suffering. But in all He has you in mind. It's not like this is causing harm to you that he is allowing this to continue. He is growing you in those circumstances. He is using what time he allows to continue for your best interest, for his glory and our good, like the song says. We have not escaped his notice. He loves us. Don't read your circumstances or trials as counter evidence to God's love for you. Your circumstance is necessary, but your circumstance is not permanent. Learn from your trials. Repent of the evil that the heat brings out in your life. And worship Christ and allow the magnificence of his grace guide you into the fruit of the Spirit while you're biding your time here. Now in our text, Jesus summarizes the Father's will, verse 40. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life And I will raise him up on the last day. Friends, if we could see What it will be like in eternity for just one day. If we could just see one day In eternity, problems that seem so overwhelming would immediately lose their dread If we would if we could see what blessings we will encounter each and every day Knowing that sin is no longer a possibility. Knowing that every relationship we have is safe. That we're loved by every one of our neighbors. Knowing that Christ lives among us and we can actually fellowship with him and worship him face to face. Knowing that we never need to hurry again. Knowing that our work will never again be futile. Knowing that the best of this life is only a foretase to normal life in eternity If we could just see what God has planned for us, our lives would suddenly take on a very different perspective. That is faith. That is what faith is to do in our lives. Joy would fill our souls, even in the midst of suffering. And this is the will of God that you believe in Christ, that you would get the installment of eternal life here and now, and that you would be raised up either when you die or when Christ comes back. You know, does that seem too good to be true? It isn't. It isn't That has been the Father's will all along. That is Christ's plan. That's why He came to this planet. If you've not come to Christ, what in the world? Are you waiting for? And if you have, ain't it great? Let's pray. Oh fi