What are you most ashamed of? What are you most embarrassed by? What we're gonna see this morning is the people who were ashamed too late. They were embarrassed after the fact. You know what? The only way to know what we should really be embarrassed by The only way to know what is really honorable and to know what is shameful is to hear it from God, is to hear it from God's perspective, is to hear what our Creator has to say about what's honorable and what's shameful. There are a whole lot of people on our media who are very proud of behavior that is very shameful. There are a whole lot of people who are shamed for behavior that is very honorable. I'm always a little bit amazed that people like Miley Cyrus and Madonna and Marilyn Monroe get any respect whatsoever. They end up looking like some kind of icon of virtue, yet much of what they got famous for deserves only shame And there are brothers standing up for the truth of what God says in all kinds of situations, about all kinds of issues in all kinds of places, and they're treated with contempt. Because they're saying what God says. They're s they are ashamed, but they have done nothing to be ashamed of. I read an article about Tim Tebow by an author that was trying to shame him because Tim is politically incorrect. He couldn't this author couldn't find a real reason for shame. He couldn't find anything that Tebow was doing that was against what God said. So he chose to shame him on some political um correctness kind of issue. something out of our our society's wacky ideas of somehow what's right and wrong. Even in our own histories, we're quite likely proud of some things we should be ashamed of And ashamed of some things that were actually honorable. We probably felt pride for some things that we now only feel shame about, but at the time we may have been proud of them How do we know the difference? How do we know the difference between what's honorable and what's shameful? Can we trust our inner gauge, our intuition of what we should be proud of and what we should be embarrassed by? I know I know I can't. I know I can't. My steamer has given me some really bad advice. How about yours? We know what's shameful and what's honorable only by getting the perspective of our Creator. We do well to believe it quickly. We do well to believe it even when we don't feel it God's Word tells the truth about all of life. Our experiences lie all day long. Our hearts tend to be deceitful. Well, our Creator is going to convey to the Judean people what is disgraceful through Isaiah this morning. And they're going to get an education. Or at least they did. Verse 24. Therefore the Lord says, the Lord of hosts, the mighty one of Israel, Ah, I will rid myself of my adversaries and take vengeance on my enemies. We need to look at the names of God that Isaiah uses here because they're very telling. We see words used sometimes describing God as a shepherd or a father. But those words are absent in what Isaiah has to say here. The first word is Lord, add -on. It's a masculine noun meaning lord or master. The most frequent usage is of a human lord, but it's also used of divinity. Generally it carries the nuances of authority rather than ownership. This word is used of God by Isaiah more than any other Old Testament writer, and in its absolute form, as here, it always introduces a note of judgment. So that's the thing to remember. This word normally uses, in fact it always is implied in judgment. The second word is Lord Jehovah, and the word refers to the proper name of the God of Israel Particularly the name by which he revealed himself to Moses. So as God is talking to Moses, he identifies himself with this name, and it's different than all the other names of God. that would have been surrounding uh in in the surrounding areas. The divine name has traditionally not been pronounced out of respect for its sacredness. Remember this is the one that they come up with the letters Y H W H. They took out the the the Jewish people took out the the Not the consonants, what's the other one? Vowels, there we go. I need to buy a vowel. Um they they would take out all the vowels so that it was unpronounceable, so that nobody would use this special word for God. God never said to do that that I know of, but that's what they did. However, since that time, other vowels were added trying to recover the word, and it ends up to be in our equivalent something like Jehovah. And it basically means I am that I am. I am that I am. That is how God refers to Himself. And the third word, the mighty one of Israel, is a somewhat uncommon term, suggestive of bull-like strength. What we get in all of this is that Isaiah was conveying that these people have been messing with the one and only true and powerful God. That's the message he's getting out in even the words he uses. They are in big trouble. The word used convey the power and the right to judge. And this power can't be withstood. No bribe or deal is going to get them out of the trouble that they're in. It is non-negotiable And then Isaiah quotes God as saying, Ah, I will rid myself of my adversaries and take vengeance on my enemies. The word ah lets us understand where God is coming from. He is exasperated with his people. That's what this is telling us. He is exasperated with his people. He is agitated. He is not going to let this go on. Parents, have you ever had your child do something that you and he or she both knew was wrong and they did it in your presence anyway? Like like they were provoking your response to see what you were going to do. That's what we're looking at here. This is the kind of response God is having toward them. And then look at what God says. He says, I will rid myself of my adversaries and take vengeance on my enemies. Now, I have a question for you. Have you ever seen the tract that says that God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life? Well, if you were in Isaiah's vicinity speaking to his audience, handing those tracks out, would you be comfortable in telling these people that you're telling them the truth? God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. According to Scripture, God thinks that a lot of human beings are his enemies. That's what he says. It's not our job to lie to God's enemies in hopes of making them his friends. We do not need to lie to them in God's stead. I don't know if God loves a person that I'm speaking to or not. Or if he's planning to destroy that person. I don't know. I can't know that. I do know that God showed amazing love to the inhabitants of our planet when he died for people in this world. There is no question at all that God has displayed His love to people through sending His Son to die for them. That's a fact. He did not exclude this world from his love. In fact, he singled this world out for his love. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him will not perish, but he'll have everlasting life. That is a promise. From God and it it's across the board. But that doesn't mean that everyone in this world is his friend. God has adversaries, he says. He knows who they are, and the truth is we are surrounded by people who God views as enemies. But since we don't know who they are, we hold out the gospel of Christ to every single person, hoping that they may be one who will respond to this call, hoping that they are not ultimately one of God's enemies. If they respond, we know one thing. They aren't God's enemy, because nobody is going to respond to the gospel of Christ if they're his enemy. But we can rest assured of this one thing. God knows who's who his adversaries are, and he is going to destroy every one of them. That's serious stuff Notice too that God is going to take vengeance. Vengeance in itself is not a bad thing But it is something that we are forbidden to do. It is something we are forbidden to move on. We are not allowed to take vengeance. Just like justice is a good thing. But in many ways, we are not the ones who enforce justice. That's what civil governments are for. In our small realms of households and things like that, we should uh enforce it as we can But God is going to take vengeance on things like the unrepentant prison guards in the Nazi concentration camps. And the North Korean concentration camps, labor camps. He will take vengeance on the unrepentant Muslim criminals butchering Christians and butchering fellow Muslims. He will take vengeance on unbelieving people who have treated you unjustly. And you know what? We simply don't need to worry about it. It's not our job to worry about that stuff. God will uh He will exhibit His vengeance at one point. God will take care of it. We've talked about this many times, but I think a large part of what Christians refer to as ref as uh forgiving those in their past who have done them harm. What they're really doing is simply trusting God that God will take care of it. They're relinquishing their right of something. over to God who got who they're trusting that God will take care of that thing that was done to them. I think we're wrong when we label that forgiveness. I don't think we're accurate. That is not forgiving. When God forgives, that sin is gone. That sin is forgotten. It will never be held against a person again. When we talk about relinquishing those bitter feelings that we have toward people, that doesn't accomplish anything for that person. It might accomplish a lot for us. So we're simply declaring our freedom from pursuing justice for them. We leave it in God's hands. Vengeance is mine, says the Lord, and no one will be better at it than he is. Don't ever get in your thinking that God is kind to those who choose to remain his enemies. He will destroy them. That is a fact. We may not like to view God that way. That is how God is. And his word says it over and over again. Verse 25. I will turn my hand against you and thoroughly purge away your dross and take away your alloy. Now Isaiah defines who those enemies are. I will turn my hand against who are his enemies? He says you. They're part of God's own people. They're living in that society, in that environment. They are what we would call in the church false believers. They're in his bloodline, but they are not blood-bought by him. His enemies are the Judeans. Not all of them are enemies, but the majority of his so-called people now are his enemies. And look where God says he and look where he says God will thoroughly purge away your draws. Remember earlier last week we were looking at silver The silver that they were actually mining had become dross. It's like there was nothing of value left. It's like you you know, it's like peel in an onion. You get in the middle, there's nothing there. Uh they they take the the ore, they put it in the smelter or whatever it is, they they get it down to to where the silver should come up, and there is none. That's what he's saying. You get the idea that there's going to be very little left of value when God is done punishing his people. We need to see this and understand it. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. It really is. We never ever want that to happen to us. And thankfully, that's why the gospel is here, to give us the opportunity to avoid God's wrath and to fall under his blessing. God will rid himself of adversaries. He will take vengeance on his enemies. He will turn his hand against them. That is just as much of what God is like as it is to extend grace to those who respond to his call. They're both very much like God. I often point to the places where God extends his grace to unlikely candidates like every one of us. And say that it is just like God to do so, and we can be so very, very, very thankful that it is. Because we certainly deserve nothing from him, and for him to pull us to his presence. It it requires an awesome amount of grace. And to send his son to die in our stead so that our sins are covered That takes an awesome amount of grace. That's all true, but the opposite is also true. When God destroys the wicked completely, that too is just like God. We have got to see God for who he really is. Now, what is God's end game? What does he hope to accomplish? Does he just want to destroy all his enemies? Does he get a kick out of that? Is that what he hopes to accomplish? No, from the very beginning of the Bible to the end, we see that God is saving people. In fact, history will be over on the day that the last person is saved. I don't know if we grasp the significance of that. History, as we know it, will be over when the last person God accomplishes their salvation. There'll be no purpose, no more purpose. for suffering. There'll be no more purpose for struggling with sin. It has accomplished everything he's out to do, and everything he's out to do is to win people to himself. Now, this text is interesting in its wordplay. The words I will return and I will restore translate the same verb We translate this with different verbs, turn and restore, because uh you know our language kind of requires it to understand it Isaiah is implying that one God acting in one way is able to accomplish two things at once When God turns his hand against us, it isn't a disaster. It's an act of restoration. The discipline of God achieves just what he intends, in purification and in restoration. Both at the same time. We can expect the goodness of God to show up in unlikely places. When he turns his hand against us to purify us, let's trust him to restore us. Look at what Isaiah says here. Verse 26: I will restore your judges as at first and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward, you shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. Zion will be redeemed with justice and her penitence with righteousness. Look at the words here. Restore and redeemed. Aren't those New Testament concepts restore and redeemed? As always, we see that God has never changed. A lot of people like to go to the Old Testament and say, well, that's a different God than the Godman. They don't know what they're talking about. The Bible from beginning to end is God reaching out to save people. Save people who, frankly, most of the time don't want saved. He has to work on that change. He has to create that change in their heart before they'll even respond to his call on their lives. So this is the end game. God is going to restore. God is going to redeem To restore basically means describes things returning. To redeem means to ransom or to deliver, to buy back, to buy back. God's judgments are always a preparation for something better for his people. His judgments are always preparation for something better for his people. When evil got too bad, God destroyed the evil people. Remember the flood. But he still had a plan for the people he chose. He still had some in the ark. It was a better plan. God has constantly through world history had to destroy groups of people. Oh yeah, that's that's very politically incorrect. I we can we can understand that when we can lay it to rest. And we think, how could God possibly evaluate people and say that some don't deserve to live? God does it all the time. And only he has the right to do so. We can't start thinking, well, I'm a Christian. I can I can make these that's not our job. He has granted that right to civil courts some that execute God's justice on his behalf. But we as individuals are not given the right to extre extreme justice. Yes, judgment happens, but God's end game is restoration for his people. God's end for all this human struggle and suffering is an eternal bliss for his people where they will celebrate forever. God's goodness and graciousness to them. Restoration and redemption are what God will accomplish in the end. That's what He is after for His people. Now here we see what God is restoring. He's going to reinstall judges who actually care about justice. We've already heard some of what they are doing already. They will represent him truly. And there will be counselors who will give good godly advice. Who of us has not needed a good counselor Really? I I I know I have. Who of us has not needed help walking our way through the confusing parts of our lives? What have we needed? We needed godly counselors, those who would tell us the truth the best they knew how. Can you see how important that is? That's what God says he's going to restore here. If he sees the need to mention it, it must be pretty important. It's interesting that the means to redemption are put into place before the redemption happens. The means to redemption is put into place before the redemption happens First, the counselors and judges are straightened out, then the redemption of the people happens. Now, how do we know if God has accomplished the restoration he promises? By this, he says, afterward you shall call be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. When God restores the building blocks of his people's character, his people eventually establish a reputation of having God's character. They'll be known as a city of righteousness, a city of rightness. They'll show up in the survey of where's the best place to live if you're one of God's people. Well, they're going to show up as the top place. They'll be known for their determination to live for God and to follow him no matter what. Then verse 27: Zion shall be redeemed with justice and her penitence with righteousness. Now the whole people will be redeemed. They'll be purchased back from those who seem to own them, and it will be a city of penitence, a city of people who have repented from their evil pasts. That's the goal of the punishment that God is soon to inflict upon his people in this text, or at least on his assumed people. It's not simply the removal of the dross, it's also for the purification of the good, of the true, of the valuable to God. What God does harmful to the wicked is always all about what he will do good for his people Verse 28. The destruction of transgressors and of sinners shall be together, and those who forsake the Lord shall be consumed. The words here describe rebellion and those living in a condemned state. Forsink means to leave a location to go to another. Again, we see people who are showing the back of their heads to God. We saw that earlier. We do not want to find ourselves as people who show the back of our heads to God. In other words, we're going in exactly the opposite direction out of rebellion against him. We can never get the idea that we're safe with God if we hold to some creed that allows us to claim God's salvation while rebelling against his lordship. We cannot feel safe in that position. No thought could be more dangerous to a person who thinks himself a Christian as to think that he does not need to do what God says. Owning him as your Lord is not significant. Those people who live in rebellion, who have turned their back on God, who have said, I'm going to pursue this path even though I know God forbids it. Those people are in mortal danger of God's judgment, no matter what assurance they may claim from their self-formed doctrines. God will destroy his enemies, and some of his enemies will probably be described or surprised when they find out that they're his enemy. They may think that they're God's favored children, but they aren't. Verse 29: For they shall be ashamed of the terebinth trees which you have desired, and you shall be embarrassed. Because of the gardens which you have chosen. For you shall be as a terebinth whose leaf fades, and as a garden that has no water The strong shall be as tinder and the work of it as a spark. Both will burn together, and no one shall quench them. These sacred trees played an important part in the Canaanite fertility cult. For deciduous trees like the oak or the cherubins may have well symbolized the death and rebirth of the God. The gardens may be groves of these trees or maybe places of sacred springs or wells. So anyway, you get the idea, these gardens, these trees, are talking it's talking about idol worship So what we see here is that these people eventually see things from God's perspective, but it's too late. One commentary makes the point like this. He says, Why are these verses so confrontational? God isn't slapping us around, He is pressing His point. We think it doesn't matter. My decisions, my attitudes, my thoughts and feelings, do they really make that much difference? But God's saying every moment of your life matters to me. Your choices have lasting repercussions. That's why I am confronting you with this truth. If we set up the course of our lives by the earthly things we foolishly desire and choose, we will end up with nothing. The keys to the metaphors in verses 29 and through 31, the strong and his work, the oaks and garden, are metaphors of human strength and potential and preference The point is that our own brilliance and desire will be the death of us. But repentance opens us up to life. In the ways of God, the weakness of repentance is how we experience the power of redemption. We come back here to the point that we started in our text. Shame and embarrassment. Shame and embarrassment. These people had given themselves over to the idol worship of the Canaanites. Doesn't it seem strange to serve the gods that weren't even good enough to protect the Canaanites from the Israelites? I would think if you were going to pick a god, you would at least pick one a little smarter than that. But why would they do such a thing? It isn't that it made logical sense. No, when you look at the Canaanite idols, what you find is an appeal to the flesh. It fostered sexual orgies in its so-called worship. It was great human fun in rebellion to the laws of God. And the Judeans seemed to like to worship this God during the week and then show up on the Sabbath to worship Jehovah. Uh while the Canaanite so-called gods were happy to accept this arrangement, they didn't mind being being good for two or three days a week, the one true God would have nothing to do with it. And we we learned early on how he viewed it. This is like adultery. You can't just mess around a little and then show up and expect to have a relationship with me. I will not accept it. That's God's attitude toward the whole thing. Well, isn't this tendency so much like us? We claim to be servants of the one true God until our passions and desires lead us in a different direction. We aren't going to drop our orthodoxy for other gods. We're not going to change our theology for other gods. But we will compromise our worship. And we think that God won't notice. And we're so very, very wrong about that. Often the points of discipline in our lives from a hand of God is about these very points. He is not going to let that fly in the life of a believer. But when we see God moving, when we see him assigning consequences to our sinful, idolatrous, other love 's behavior, Then we start to blush. This is especially true when God drips our hearts. We finally get what we ought to be embarrassed by. It says, they shall be embarrassed, they shall be ashamed of the terebinth trees which you've desired, and shall be embarrassed because of the gardens which you have chosen. When you look back on your life Are you not embarrassed? I I think all of us have to be embarrassed at some point. Uh many points probably. We would not want The tape of our life shown on uh on the big screen. Are you not ashamed? Think of it. What thing did you pursue apart from God's command? What God did you sacrifice to, thinking he would bring you happiness and contentment? We've all done it We've all departed from what God has said in the hopes that we could find contentment and satisfaction and pleasure and meaning and happiness elsewhere apart from the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And when we look back on it today, what are we left with? Shame and embarrassment. Who of you would not want to get rid? Of that shame and embarrassment. If a cart came by and you could put it on the cart and never see it again, wouldn't you do it? Wouldn't it be sweet to see it gone? We have sort of that choice in front of us every day. Do we want embarrassment? Do we want shame? Why is it that we find that choice so hard? Why do we find it so hard to simply do what God says and believe what he tells us and trust him to make the outcome worthwhile? Why is that? Shame and r embarrassment, oh the regrets they hold. If we could just shed them, but we can't. Uh Carla and I were talking about this this morning. I don't know how this works out in the turn. I really don't. I think it's going to be some distant memory that reminds us how lucky we are to be in heaven, but not the kind of thing that's going to haunt us every day of our lives there. I don't know what it's going to be like. But we for one thing's for sure in this life, we can't shed the shame and embarrassment. But the beautiful thing about it all is we can be forgiven. Absolutes. And praise God for that. We can't shed the shame, but since we can't shed them, why not take them to heart and avoid ever having that happen to us again? They're there for a purpose. They're for to remind us of God's goodness and our stupidity That's really the path that is open to us. That's the opportunity Isaiah is giving to these people. Will we consider the end results of our behaviors, trust God, and avoid shame and embarrassment? How wonderful that would be for us. How good to live a life free from shame and embarrassment. How wonderful to think back on our lives without needing to cringe. Alright, I'd done a lot of cringing like wait a minute. Maybe it's just me And if we don't, if we don't choose that path, verse 31, the strong shall be as tender and the work of it as a spark. Both will burn together, and no one's going to quench them. We had a bonfire at our house several years ago. Maybe some of you were there. I would think so. Usually there were always young young uh young people surrounding any fires at our house. Sometimes we started them. Uh sometimes not. But the flames were so hot on on this one particular fire that uh uh I guess really putting a fire ring in the middle of the woods isn't isn't probably the smartest thing we've ever done. But this fire had to be going fifteen feet high and all of a sudden the side of the tree lit, th the the side of the closest pine tree. I mean it's like it exploded. It just started shooting flames out the side. I'd never seen anything quite like it. And uh then I had to consider how in the world I was gonna put out a tree. But we did. But anyway. These that's what's going to happen to the people who do what they feel like doing, no matter what God says, if they don't repent. These people who thought it wise to follow the gods of pleasure and self-satisfaction A fire is coming and it is coming for sure. That is what Isaiah is telling these people. And it will ignite and no one's going to put it out. You will not be rescued from the fire that God is going to initiate. That's how Isaiah describes this judgment of God. Do you want that? Surely not Let's be the ones who repent early, who obey God's call, who avoid the shame and embarrassment of a godless life. If you don't know Christ, if you have never trusted Christ as your Savior and Lord, you can do that today. You can be sure On the promise of God sure that you will avoid the judgment of God If you'll cling to his promise and receive him and commit your life to him and trust by faith that his death and life and resurrection Provides for you the only kind of life that you are going to have. Haven't we had enough shame? Haven't we had enough embarrassment Isn't it time to quit worshiping our idols and sell out completely to God? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you for your mercy in the way that you have reached out to us. We thank you for the opportunity that we have. To based on your promise and based on your offer call out to you and receive what you have done for us as the covering for our sin, as the as the removal of our sin as far as the East is from the West And to be right with you, not out of anything that we have done, not out of any goodness on our part, not on any human merit we may have, but all based on the work of Jesus Christ, the goodness of Christ. the righteousness of Christ. Lord, we ask too that you would help us to look at our lives in regard to idolatry, look at our lives in competing loves, and to rid ourselves of them to rid ourselves of those things that will continually bring us embarrassment and shame. And that we would cling to you and the lights that you have for us, no matter what it costs us. Knowing that ultimately there is glory at the end. There is a payoff that is worth it and wonderful and great and worth waiting for. We ask that you would grip our hearts in such a way that we would live a different uh different lifestyle with different hopes and different expectations. than the world around us. And that you would empower our lives to live in a supernatural way like you call us to. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.