I'd like to start this morning with the geography lesson. Oh, uh One thing I forgot to mention to Brad, I had asked Steve about the Bibles, and he basically said they're gone. They've already been distributed. So they're in the hands of some refugee somewhere. Right, anyway, back to the geography lesson. It's interesting and it gives us a much truer picture of where this amazing event happened. I've taken this directly off John MacArthur, and he's taken it from some of Erdman's study. And this is the quote. Jericho was located approximately 15 miles northeast. From Jerusalem and about five miles west of the Jordan River. So you have the Jordan River, and then you've got Jericho, and then you've got Jerusalem down here. The flourishing New Testament city of Jericho was not far from the ruins of the Old Testament city. And remember, the Old Testament city was destroyed during Israel's original conquest of the land. That there were two cities of Jericho in Jesus' day may explain why Matthew and Mark state that the healing took place while Jesus was leaving Jericho. That would be the ruins of the Old Testament city, while Luke states that it occurred while he was approaching Jeropo, the New Testament city. Those statements could also mean simply that the blind man were healed somewhere in the general vicinity of Jericho. The noted 19th-century historian Alfred Eterschheim gave a vivid description of Jericho as it was in Jesus' day The ancient city occupied not the site of the present wretched hamlet, but lay about half an hour to the northwest of it by the so-called Elisha Stream. A second spring rose an hour further to the north-northwest. The water of these springs, distributed by aqueducts, gave under a tropical sky unsurpassed fertility to the rich soil along the plain of Jericho, which is about 12 or 14 miles wide Josephus describes it as the richest part of the country and calls it a little paradise. Antony had bestowed the revenues of its balsam plantations as an imperial gift upon Cleopatra, who in turn sold them to Herod. Here grew palm trees of various kinds, sycamores, the cypress flower, the myrobalsamum, which yielded precious oil, but especially the balsam plant. If to these advantages of climate, soil, and productions we add that it was, so to speak, the key of Judea toward the east, that it lay on the caravan route from Damascus in Arabia, that it was a great commercial and military center, and lastly its nearness to Jerusalem, to which it formed the last station on the road of the festive pilgrims from Galilee and Perea It will not be difficult to understand either its importance or its prosperity. We can picture ourselves the scene as our Lord on that afternoon in early spring beheld it. There it was, indeed already summer, for as Josephus tells us, even in winter the inhabitants could only bear the lightest clothing of linen We're approaching it from the Jordan. It's protected by walls, flanked by four forts. These walls, the theater and the amphitheater, have been built by Herod The new palace and its splendid gardens are the work of Achilles. All around wave groves of feathery palms. Rising in stately beauty, stretch gardens of roses and especially sweet scented balsam plantations, the largest behind the royal gardens, of which the perfume is carried by the wind almost out to the sea. and which may have given to the city its name Jericho, the perfumed. It is the Eden of Palestine, the very fairy land of the old world. And how strangely is this gem set Deep down in that hallowed valley through which torturous Jordan winds, to lose his waters in the slimy mass of the Sea of Judgment. The river and the Dead Sea are nearly equidistant from the town, about six miles. Far across the river rise the mountains of Moab, on which lies the purple and violet color. Towards Jerusalem and northward stretched those bare limestone hills, the hiding place of robbers along the desolate road toward the city. There and in the neighboring wilderness of Judea are also the lonely dwellings of Anchorites, they were hermits, while over all this strangely varied scene has been flung the many colored mantle of a perpetual summer. And in the streets of Jericho a motley throng meets, pilgrims from Galilee and Perea, priests who have a station there. Traders from all lands who have come to purchase or to sell, or are on the Great Caravan Road from Arabia and Damascus. Robbers and anchorites, wild fanatics, soldiers, courtiers, and busy publicans. For Jericho was the central station for the collection of tax and custom, both on native produce and on that brought across the Jordan. End of quote I'd always envisioned Jericho to be a sleepy little village along the Jordan River. The truth is it was a booming metropolis with beautiful lush surroundings. I suspect it would have been some like the Lush Valleys in California with a similar climate. Now, we're about to witness a miracle. Jesus is about to heal a blind man. At this point, Jesus will only do two more healings. He heals people after casting out the money changers from the temple, which we'll see in a couple of weeks, and he heals the ear of the servant of the high priest after Peter cut it off. Other than those healings, Mark only records one more miracle when Jesus curses the fig tree Now, Jesus had performed miracles all over Israel. He had done enough in enough places for everyone to have heard of him in those areas. He gave evidence everywhere he went that he was who he said he was. Now things are winding down. He's headed to Jerusalem, where he would be crucified. His ministry to the masses is nearly over. Much of the ink in Scripture recording Christ's final days records the teachings that Christ did to his disciples. That's primarily where you know the stuff is reported. So Jesus is coming down to the end of his life here in the beautiful city of Jericho. He and his disciples and other traveling companions are walking through the main thoroughfare of Jericho. Verse 46, now they came to Jericho, as he went out of Jericho with his disciples in a great multitude. Blind Barnamaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the road begging. As we learned earlier, there were two Jerichos. There was the ancient city that was in ruins, and it was in ruins because God destroyed it. Remember the walls falling down? And all the kids' songs. Tell of that. Remember how the walls miraculously came down? That was here. Then a few miles further toward Jerusalem is the new thriving metropolis of Jericho. Since some of the gospels say he was leaving Jericho and others say he was coming into Jericho, it could be that it happened right in the middle. Wherever Christ was, there was at least one blind man, probably two, who were begging. Matthew tells us there were two in this account, and the situations he describes are so similar in the same geography that it's likely it's describing the same event. It's also likely that Bartimaeus was the primary spokesman, so Mark's focus was on him, and by telling about Bartimaeus, he pretty well tells the whole story anyway. So we have blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, begging. It's odd that Scripture tells us that Bartimaeus is the son of Timaeus, since that's what bar means, the son of. So his name included the fact that he was the son of Timaeus. It's also interesting that Bartimaeus is referred to by Mark as blind Bartimaeus It looks like the kind of name assigned to someone to let you know in an instant which Bartimaeus you are talking about. It is the Barnamaeus that was blind. This would make perfect sense if Bartimaeus eventually became well known in church leadership. Remember that Mark was written some years after the actual events, and it was it was uh Given to Mark by the eyewitness of Peter. So it's likely that people knew who Bartimaeus was. And if you'd say blind Bartimaeus, it's oh, that's the one that Jesus healed. Now, blindness in Jesus' day was seen as God's punishment on a person. We see that portrayed in John 9, verses 1 through 5. In another instance, Jesus passed by. He saw a man who was born, who was blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents that he was born blind. So the assumption is blindness is a curse from God, a result of sin. And Jesus said, neither, neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed in him. You know, we're often very crafty in how we think. We're often very crafty in how we relieve ourselves from responsibility of ministering to those who are suffering. We often look to find a reason that something about a suffering person doesn't meet the qualification of a person that we should minister to. Maybe we say, well, that person has not asked for my help. Frequently that's true. Maybe we say that that person is in that dilemma because they were disobedient to God. And frequently that is true. We might say that a person has chosen not to remain tightly involved in our fellowship. Therefore, we don't need to minister to them. Often, if we were to be more truthful, we ought to say, I really don't want to expend the effort and the social discomfort of trying to minister to that person. So I'm finding reasons and excuses not to. And our excuses allow us to treat those people as a bother, as an interruption. In fact, we can even blame them for their own suffering. Yes, what a wonderful ministry that is. That's sarcasm, just so you know. So when we see what comes next in our story, it's no surprise. We always act according to what we most truly believe at the moment. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, Son of David. Have mercy on me. It's interesting what Bartimaeus yells out. He hears from others that the person passing is Jesus of Nazareth Get that Jesus of Nazareth. This name describes the human Jesus who grew up in Nazareth. Bartimaeus knew that this was not the best description of Christ. Sight would say Jesus is just another human being, maybe a special one. He's influential, he may even be special, but he's just a man. Don't expect too much. People would tend to be cynical about Jesus being anything more than that. But Barnamaeus does not call out according to sight. Bartimaeus calls out to Jesus in faith. He as a blind man can see some things that those without sight cannot. He can see that Jesus is the Son of David that the Bible prophesies. Look what 2 Samuel says about the son of David. 2 Samuel 7, 12 through 17. When your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, he was talking to David, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the blows of the sons of men. But my mercy shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you, your throne shall be established for ever. According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. That passage is a double prophecy. It refers to the immediate son of David, Solomon, in one sense, and the eternal son of David in another. The second son of David, the one following Solomon, was understood to be the one that would save Israel. Jesus was a direct descendant of David on both his mother and stepfather's side. He was a direct descendant of God on his father's side. So blind Bartimaeus can see better than most of the rest of the crowd. He is calling out to the Messiah. Now, how is he calling out to Christ? The word for crying could just as easily be interpreted screaming. This is a big crowd. It would be noisy. So this man understands what it would take to be heard This man is calling out to God with everything he's got. He's calling out and he does not care what another human being thinks about it. And the third thing we need to look at is what does he ask for? He asks for mercy. Mercy. Isn't that interesting? Mercy is withholding that penalty which we so deserve. So what does that tell you? This man knows himself. Somehow he has gained an understanding that he is lost in need of a savior. He needs forgiveness. He doesn't deserve anything As I was writing this, it brought to mind a song written by Steve Taylor that was popular in the 80s. It says, the title is You Don't Owe Me Nothing. And he says, uh his poetry isn't that great. But uh there there was a time in Christendom the road to God was hard to tread, till charlatans in leisure suits saw dollars dancing in their heads. I heard her say she struck a deal. Her faith will bring in money bags. I'm heading for the mercy seat. My goodness looks like dirty rags. You don't owe me nothing. Need I even say you don't owe me nothing? Why'd you give it anyway? I know you'll give me what I need. They say I need a shopping mall. I claim the victory over greed. Lord Jesus, I surrender all. You don't owe me nothing. You don't owe me nothing. Bartimaeus got this point. He had this same attitude. God did not owe him healing. He didn't owe him anything but punishment for his sin. So the man calls out for mercy. What a wonderful example from this blind man. This man who cannot see has greater sight than those who in the crowd can. He calls out to the right source for what he needs. He calls out with everything he has got to get what he needs. And he calls out with the right attitude to get what he needs. What do you need this morning? Are you calling out to the right source with all your heart with the right attitude? Verse 48. Then many warmed him to be quiet. Then many warned him to be quiet. Here we see the ministry of the world to the Christ seeker. It's easily stated. Shut up. That's what the world is going to say to us when we are seeking Christ. Shut up. Nothing has changed. The advice remains the same If you start talking about our sin nature and us being born in sin and needing forgiveness for sin, most people in the world are going to try to silence you. Even nice, well-meaning people will tell you that you aren't that bad of a person. Stop being so hard on yourself And if you apply these truths to them, they'll become defensive. How dare we insult them in such a way? Shut up about this need for mercy. Shut up in drawing attention to yourself for that need. Shut up in your pursuit for it. And especially shut up because who are you to be asking anyway? Never trust the spiritual advice of the world. It's almost always bad. It'll lead to your destruction. The world wants to conform you to its mold. It will not help you to receive mercy for your need, which is what we really need. So ignore its voice. Your non-believing acquaintances are not going to help you to get to God. When Carla came to Christ, most in her family tried to get her to come back to a way of interacting and living like she used to. And it was hard for her to make that break. She had to resist the ministry of the world Now fortunately, God had planned to show mercy on her whole family as well. Well most. But at first, they wanted life to go on as usual. Bartimaeus shows us the exact response we should have to the ministry of the world to Christians. He shows us the response we ought to have when the world starts to try to minister to us. He cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. When you're crying out to the right source with the right request and the right attitude, never stop, no matter how much pressure, you get to do so. Just keep it up. Don't quit. Don't shut up. Keep calling. Ignore the dissenting voices. That's what he did. Verse 49. So Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. Then they called the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer. Rise, he is calling you. This is how God responds to the person who cries out to him in faith. Notice that the crowd did not sway Christ's actions at all. Isn't that a blessing? Isn't that a blessing? Everyone in the crowd, even in the Christian crowd, may say that we don't deserve to be part of Christ's circle. Look at the poor Apostle Paul. Look at the disfavor that he faced. But Christ never listens to the crowd. If a person responds in faith, Christ will receive him or her no matter what the crowd thinks, no matter what the public opinion is, no matter what the polls are. Essentially here, Christ silences the crowd. He shows them his disfavor over their ministry, so-called. He commands that Bartimaeus be brought. He's putting out his authority here. He commands that he be brought. He's telling them, my ways are not your ways. You are not representing me. Don't get the idea you are. Bring that man to me. It's interesting how the crowd changes its tune so quickly. If you watch that, it's kind of subtle. But it it would seem to me that an apology would have been in order here. The people who are saying shut up Maybe they should have gone back and said, Oh, we must have gotten this wrong. Forgive me. The crowd should have expressed their sorrow over treating Baramaeus as being unwanted to Christ. But instead they act like they're simply, as always, furthering Christ's wishes. Nothing's changed. That's pretty much to be expected in the crowd. Not much truth. Verse 50, and throwing aside his garment, he rose and came to Jesus. The test of genuineness is congruence. The test of genuineness is congruence. This man said he really wanted Christ to show him mercy. He's yelling it at the top of his lungs. When it's offered to him, he jumps up, throws his coat aside, and takes it. He acts like he really wanted What he asked for. What would happen if we applied this test to our lives and our prayers? We pray like we want to have opportunities to minister to others But what happens when the opportunities present themselves? Do we throw aside our garments and rise? Do we think, wow, this is an answer to prayer, I can't wait to do this. Given that our hearts are desperately wicked, we're wise to be suspicious of ourselves. How well do our theories about ourselves fit the reality of our behavior? How well do the theories about ourselves fit the reality of our behavior? We see ourselves, at least we have a tendency to see ourselves, as sincere. Hard workers, lovers of the brethren, good mothers and fathers, good spouses. But when opportunity comes where we can live it, what comes out of us? Does joy come out because we have the opportunity to do the thing that we love to do in service to Christ's name? Or do excuses come out for why we really shouldn't be expected to do this particular thing? Congruence is the test for sincerity and genuineness. What do our lives say as compared to what do our theories say? Verse 51. So Jesus answered and said to him, What do you want me to do for you? Now here's a wonderful question. Jesus isn't playing a game here. He's asking a straightforward question. Bartimaeus, this is your chance. What do you want from me? The blind man said to him, Raboni, that I may receive sight. These kind of interactions are so refreshing. There's no game here. First, Barnamaeus calls Jesus Rabboni. That means master. This blind man is congruent through and through. He acts like he needs mercy. He calls Jesus the Messiah. Now, when he addresses Jesus, he calls him master. That is exactly how someone should talk if they believe what they previously said. And next we see a beautiful thing. It's more rare in believers than it should be. Bartimaeus does not pretend to be more spiritual than he is He doesn't say, well, I'd like to be more useful to your kingdom, Lord. He doesn't say he would like to serve his family better. He doesn't justify why he wants what he wants. He doesn't spiritualize things. He just answers honestly without pretension. I want to see He isn't embarrassed. He's not worried about showing himself to be a third-level Christian, still wanting earthly things. He's not worried about his Christian image and perception. Here is a man who knows what he wants and trusts himself into the hands of Christ exactly as he is. I want to see. If Christ were to ask you, what do you want? How would we answer that? I, for one, would have a list. And some of the things might appear spiritual, and some of the things might appear to be fleshly. There are burdens I wish were removed. I wish I were a better person with better impulses. There are temptations I would like removed. There are people I would really like fixed. Some of the things that I would ask would make me look bad. So be it. I am that. At least part of me. That's flesh is. And some things we would regard as for our pleasure. And oddly enough, sometimes Christ is happy to give us those things. Simply because it gives us pleasure does not mean that God is against it. So you know what? I might as well be honest with God. And I might as well be honest with myself, and I might as well be honest with you. This blind man was just that. What a wonderful example. He was honest with Christ. And look how Christ responds to that honest request that didn't seem to have a hint of spirituality to it. Verse 52, then Jesus said to him, Go your way, your faith has made you well. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road. It's interesting that the word that Jesus used for well here was usually used of people who were saved, not of people who were healed. I believe this word was used in order to show us that this man gained physical sight as a result of crying out by faith in Jesus. God had already given him a degree of spiritual sight. This man called out in faith, and Christ responded to him. But it was his faith in Christ that Christ responded to. It was as a result of the man's faith that he was made well, both physically and spiritually. It's just like when God infused faith into our hearts. We use that faith to respond to the gospel. And it's by grace that we're saved through faith. We don't know exactly how and when it happens, but we can see the evidence that it did happen over time. Well, this morning, Bartimaeus gives us a wonderful example to follow First, what is our need? Barnamaeus was very straightforward about this. He needed mercy, and he wanted sight. Then who are we going to with our need? Are we going to the right place? Or are we treating the symptoms with the world's remedies rather than crying out to the great physician? Then are we going all out to get the help that we need? Are we being straightforward and assuming with God in our appeal for help? And are we going with the attitude that God doesn't owe us anything, but he loves to give gifts to his children? We first need mercy, then we need grace. And lastly, are we honest with ourselves and God about what we really want and why? Then are the actions of our lives congruent with the words of our mouths? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for the example of blind Bartimaeus. We thank you for your love and mercy and kindness that extended out to him. We thank you that you don't you don't care at all what the crowds think. You only care what you think. We are so thankful and grateful for that. We thank you that we can come to you as we are and call out to you with everything that we have and that you will respond to faith That you have placed in us. And that you will provide us exactly with what we need. Sometimes you want us To come to you to get those things, that you create the need that drives us to yourself. We thank you that you are A loving father, and that you love to give good gifts to your children. And Lord, as we come, we understand still that you are our Father No is very appropriate at times, seeing what you see. And we thank you that we can trust our lives, ourselves, our hands, our our our everything we care about into your loving hands, knowing that it is the wisest, best, smartest course of action that we could possibly pursue. We ask that you would help us to apply the principles we learned here this morning and to take a look at our lives and see just how really congruent we are. Or are we playing games with ourselves? Help us to see those things that we would naturally be blind to. And Lord, we ask that you would pierce ourselves. With our sinfulness, and that we would draw you would draw us And our attentions to you as the answer. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.