Mark and most of the uh the scholars say that that was not in the original. So we're jumping around to the rest of the story and the rest of the gospels and using Mark's more as a springboard than as a verse by verse like we normally do. So anyway, we looked at Luke twenty-four, five through eleven, and we're also going to throw into the mix Matthew twenty-eight, nine through fifteen. And that says as they went to tell his disciples. disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, Rejoice. So they came and held him by the feet and worshipped him. And then Jesus said to them, Don't be afraid, go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. So we need to remember where we are in our story this morning. All the Marys and their friends have gone to the tomb early on Sunday morning. Mary Magdalene must have been in the best shape because she got there first. She saw that Christ wasn't in the tomb and she ran to tell Peter and John. Now the order at this point is a little unclear to me. Maybe it's clear to you. It would seem to me that the women following behind Mary Magdalene would have gotten to the king next. So it would have been Mary yet there and leaves and the rest of the women get there. Um they heard from the angel, then on their way to the disciples they meet Jesus. After they left the tomb then Peter and John arro uh arrive. And it could be the other way around. And there are no angels or Jesus at that point. And then they go back home. And then Mary Magdalene returns to the tomb and she sees the angels and meets Jesus. By this time, the rest of the women. and give their report to the disciples. And remember that people in John saw the tomb empty and it says that they believed, which could mean the evidence of how the wrappings laid gave them the impression that Jesus left them from the inside. So the it when it says they believed, it may have meant that he they believed he resurrected. Maybe they just believed that Christ was no longer in the tomb. We're not told what they believed. That's the storyline. we enter this morning. Now we're gonna look at the women's experience and their report to the disciples. So let's take a look at the women's experiences here. Luke twenty four, five through eleven. Then as they were afraid and bowed their faces to the earth, they said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He's not here but has risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and the third day rise again And they remembered his words. And then Matthew twenty eight, nine through fifteen, in in verses nine and ten, it says, And as they went to tell the disciples, behold Jesus met them, saying, Rejoice So they came and held him by the feet and worshipped him And then Jesus said, Don't be afraid, go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee, and there they shall see me. We see the state of mind of the women at Christ's tomb earlier in Luke twenty-four four. They're perplexed. And if we follow this through all of the accounts of all these of these women, these women are in the greatest emotional turmoil of their entire lives, more than likely. First, it's just hurting light by now, and we all probably know. what it's like to walk in dust, especially especially hunters. Uh you're you're in a period of light that you can't exactly see or be sure of what you're seeing. So it's still in that state. And uh They're walking in this semi-light and uh the first thing they see is the stone is rolled away. And that's their first clue that something isn't right. It's not like they expected. like going home and finding your front door broken open. It would be that kind of alarm that they would have felt because they knew that it was closed. And then verse four says that they're perplexed. They can't wrap their minds around what could have happened. Here. They went to find the body. There's normally one constant in life. Dead bodies remain dead. So they're trying to solve this mystery that's been suddenly thrust upon them. And that's the state that we begin our little text in this morning. So try to put yourselves in their shoes as we're going through this text this morning. Grief mixed with dread, because after all they're going to visit a dead body. and in the sweetest time of the day, probably. Grief mixed with dread, followed by alarm and apprehension, followed by being absolutely freaked out. That's the word that scripture. Uses that's the best in our vernacular. They were freaked out. Evidently, these women recognized these guys as angels. Sometimes angels were recognized, sometimes they weren't. And John's account tells us that. The angel's appearance was like lightning. So the women bow their faces to the earth in the presence of these angels, and they're still afraid. Now the angels say something to the woman, and it's interesting to think, now what would an angel say in this situation? Circumstance, what would God want them to know? And uh the question is, why do you seek the living among the dead? Why do you seek the living among the dead? What a truth-revealing question that must have been. These words. These women had allowed all of their expectations to be shaped by what they saw or experienced. They were moving to the grave of Christ in a similar way that people have approached death throughout all human history. Their expectations were based on what they had always experienced in the past. So they think that they are seeking the dead among the dead. Prior to arriving at the grave, I doubt that anyone could have convinced them otherwise. Our expectations tend to be based on our prior experiences. And that's a fine thing, except for one thing. Verse 6, he is not here, but he is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee, saying the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and the third day raised again. And they remembered his words. Now, you're in this state. Can you You see the look on the faces of these women as they remembered. You can almost see, oh yeah, he did say that. The angels told them the truth that they should. have known. Christ was no longer in the tomb. His three days were up. If they could count, they should have been able to come to the tomb for a celebration instead of a funeral. The angels remind these women of Christ words. The wording for is risen is the aorist passive tense in Greek. So it might be more accurately translated, Christ has been raised. Christ has been raised. Scripture tells us in other places In Romans 6. 4, in Galatians 1. 1, and 1 Peter 1. 3, that Christ was raised by the power of the Father. So he was raised by the Father. As Christians. We've got to learn to love the word remember. We've talked about this over and over again, and we'll continue to talk about it. Remember. Remembering summarizes a huge amount of what we do. and what we must do in the Christian life. As I prepare these sermons, I'm really comforted by that fact. Much of how God wants to use his spokesmen, his spokespeople, is not to wow people with new and exciting discoveries. Much of the ministry of the New Testament writers and ministers was primarily to do one thing. Remind people what God has said. There's enough. Biblical knowledge in this room to foster all kinds of faithful thoughts and actions. We have enough knowledge to fool the to fuel the greatest revival in history. My guess is if we were hypnotized, we could probably quote a great of the Bible here. We have it in our heads. But our problem is the same as the problem in the disciples, both male and female. We don't remember it when it can We don't remember it when it counts. Think about it. What were these guilt what were these women guilty of? Weren't they responding like any human being would in light of the experiences that they were having? Having bingo. That's the very heart of the problem. We trust flesh's evaluation of life, so we don't even look for a second opinion. We don't even search the databases of our minds information, just like these women didn't. The problem with us is what we trust for guidance. The problem with us is what we trust. We trust for guidance. We trust our gut. We trust our instincts. We trust our heart. We trust our wisdom. We trust our impulses. We trust our emotions. We trust the life lessons that we have learned. Don't believe me? Next time someone does something to you and you respond in anger, stop in the very middle of it and ask this question: What am I trusting? What am I trusting. Does God's word direct me to respond in anger? Does God's word direct me to put this person in their place? Does God's word direct me to make them pay for what they have done to me? I only use Anger here is an example because it's normally a strong emotion. Any strong emotion will do. Lust, fear, envy, coveting, worrying. These are all places where we easily Forget when we should be remembering. It isn't that we don't know, we just trust something else. We trust what pops into our heads. So we don't look to God. It's like the idolatry. In the Old Testament. They trusted in something else, so they weren't inclined to run to God. Sometimes it isn't even like we're rebelling against God's guidance. We simply just don't think about it. We don't consider. Consider it. We don't look to say, I wonder what God has to say about this. We think, I've got this. We think I know what to do. I don't need to consult God. And look at the unnecessary grief that the These women experienced, because they would not bring to mind what Christ said, it was there. This truth was there in their heads. They knew it. They knew it. It proves, I mean our text proves, they knew it. They knew the fact. They just didn't look for it. They've gone through probably four days of emotional agony. They're feeling loss and grief and longing and confusion and all the things that we would feel if we lost somebody that we love. And worse than that, here's somebody who was a scriptural authority, a biblical uh uh authority, uh uh a supernatural person. They had problems that would keep a ministry team busy for weeks trying to help them. I mean there these people are emotionally distraught. But the reality was if they would have just believed what Christ said, their lives would have been free. From that misery. They could have been spreading joy and encouragement instead of being miserable. You probably know where I'm going with this. What about our lives? How about our lives? This song uh talks about prayer, but I think the focus is similar. It says, What a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer. What peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pain we bear, all because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. There's a last verse to that song that isn't in our books. Blessed Savior, thou promised thou wilt all our burdens bear. May we ever, Lord, be bringing all to thee in earnest prayer. Soon in glory, bright, unclouded, there will be no need for prayer. Rather Your praise and endless worship will be our sweet portion there. How much misery do we cling to because we will not remember what God says and believe it? How much misery do we have because of our lack of belief? We can know this. When our actions do not portray what scripture describes a Christian life should look like, it's because of lack of belief. belief. We are not taking God at his word. It's because of lack of trust in the character of God at some point in our lives. We believe a lie and for some sick reason we like it that way. It usually has to Hurt really bad before we'll give up our favorite lies. I don't know if you've ever noticed that in your life, but that's pretty much how it goes. Now I'm not trying to say that everything we're going to experience should be a barrel of laughs. Loss is hurt. And we are in keeping with our Christian walk to e experiencing it to experience those hurts congruently. Hurt hurts. I've uh found a fresh source of humor lately. Uh Ruth isn't the only one with an odd sense of humor. Uh, for some reason when Carla physically hurts herself now, it hurts a lot more than it used to. And I kid her now that she is now fully, fully human like the rest of us. So hurts. hurt. It's supposed to. And living in this fallen planet will have its share of rejection, betrayal, abuse, loss, suffering. It will. It's expected. David shows us how to live with that in the Psalms. Then he points it out how to live by faith in the midst of the suffering. But there's a lot of pain we invite on ourselves because we will not trust God. Our fears and anxiety. Anxieties are often fueled with lies. Our bitternesses and anger are often fueled with lies. Our grudges and resentments are often fueled with lies. We suffer under the weight of them. And we make everyone around us suffer as well. There is enough suffering in life without inviting pain from ignoring God's word. Think of what the disciples would have been experiencing during this four-day period if they would have just remembered and believed what Christ said. You know what? Scripture describes that we are, in a sense, in the same situation as they were. They faced the future With dread and uncertainty due to focusing on only part of the truth of their circumstances. They face the future with dread and uncertainty due to focusing on only part of the truth of their circumstances. They were given promises in those circumstances that could have transformed their lives. The same thing is true of us. The hope of Christ's promises being fulfilled in our lives is to empower us for God. Godly living and to change our outlook here and now. Look at what Romans tells us. Romans fifteen, twelve and thirteen. It says, and again Isaiah says, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he who shall rise to reign over the Gentiles. Gentiles, in him the Gentiles shall hope. Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. That's a mouthful of truth. Paul is praying that the God of hope, the God who gives us hope, the only true and lasting hope available to mankind, may that same God fill you with joy and peace. But how do those qualities happen to us? Does it come from a zap from God? No, it comes from believing. We remember what God says. That's what this is talking about. We remember it even when all All of our intuitions, all of our reactions, and life lessons tell us something else. We believe what the God of hope has said, and we experience joy and peace when we do. And as that happens, we end up full of hope. That's the progression. And when you see a person who is full of hope, based upon the promises that God is going to fulfill for them, you can know one thing. That person is full of hope. Full of the Holy Spirit. Hebrews 6, 17 through 20. Thus God, determining to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath. That by two immutable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we might have strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us. This hope we have as an anchor of the soul. sure and steadfast in which enters the presence behind the veil, where the forerunner has entered for us, even Jesus having become high priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. Here's hope again as the anchor of a soul. This anchor will keep the boat we're in secure even in the worst of the storms. That's essentially what it's talking about. This wildly looking forward to what God is promising and what God is going to do stay Symbolizes us in whatever environment we may find ourselves in, even the rockiest of environments. We will not be washed into the rocks. Our souls will not be undone. Why? Because of hope. In light of circumstances , That scream to us that God doesn't care about our pain. God doesn't care about our lives. God doesn't care about our hearts. We cling to the promise that God says that He He has prepared for us places to live that were crafted just for us in eternity. And he promises that all things are working toward that end in our current lives. Romans 8:28. And we know that all things are working. Work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. So we find the women in our story forget the truth of God and experience unnecessary turmoil. learn from their lesson? Will we actively seek out and remember God's word and allow it to establish an unshakable hope that transforms us, even in the midst of our suffering? Let's go on. Matthew twenty-eight, nine through fifteen. And as they went to tell the disciples, Jesus uh behold, Jesus met them, saying, Rejoice. So they came and held him by the feet and worshipped him. And then Jesus said to them, Don't be afraid, go and tell my brethren. I know it's odd, but I had to go to the film Risen before uh before I realized that the disciples were told to go to Galilee to see Jesus. It fact all always escaped me somehow. I I've read it lots of times and just never noticed. That's what he they said. So both the angels and Christ himself said this. And like I said, somehow that fact did escape me. Now Remember the roller coaster, this emotional roller coaster that these women were on. They went from the bottom, and here's the top. Here's the body they came to prepare. But it needs no preparation. The women were experiencing grief mixed with dread, followed by alarm and apprehension, followed by being absolutely freaked out, and now they have unspeakable joy. Their wildest hopes have been exceeded. Christ is alive. If anyone describes the Christian life as boring, They have no idea what they're talking about. Now, here Christ says rejoice. I'm not sure that's the best translation. This is a common salutation, and it means be. Well. It might be similar to our word hello. There's part of this that just strikes me as being funny. And I'm not certain that's not in part what Christ intended. I guess we we will know when we Meet him, uh, but it's a very informal greeting. It would be almost like saying, How you doing? You can rest assured that both parties were feeling incredible joy, and then to greet him with How are you doing? Christ was back among his friends after having done the most incredibly difficult task ever done by anyone in a human body. And his friends are shocked to see Christ's invisible form speaking to them. them like he always had, kinda like he'd just gone for a walk and came back. Remembering the state of these women, can you just imagine this thing? How they must have thrown themselves at Christ in their joy and relief. I remember watching in my rear view mirror as the car that Carla was driving flipped completely over. And I think uh two of the kids and Carla were inside. And I never understood the phrase my heart being in my throat until until that happened. And it was an amazing relief, the utter joy that I felt when I reached the car and Carla said, We're all okay And then one of the kids asked if they could do it again. Well , this this experience would be that Times ten. All the time these women had wasted grieving for Christ was shown to be just that. An absolute waste of time. Now it was party time. Christ is alive. The best of all possibilities and a possibility that they had never even considered. It was too much to hope for. But here it is. Christ casually saying to them, Hello, how you doing? After they had expressed their emotion to him, Christ must have known these women were still fearful. I'm not sure why, except the whole ordeal would have been unnerving. This isn't something that you would experience more than once in your lifetime. So in verse 10, then Jesus said Said to them, Don't be afraid, go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. So both the angels, and now Christ, give gives these women the job of taking this message to the disciples. Now, consider this. This is a bit odd. Why did Christ not deliver the message himself? After all, Peter and John were going to find either had visited the tomb or are going to visit the tomb in just a few minutes. Christ could have easily delivered the message. To them. Why didn't he? Now I can't state this with authority, but my opinion is that Christ wanted to make a point with his disciples. The disciples probably regarded the women who followed Christ as second-class citizens. And Christ was going to change that. While males and females have different roles, those roles are no less significant. And while these women would not be allowed by the rules of Scripture to be elders of their churches, they would nonetheless be the spokes people that Christ would use for getting a very vital piece of information to the disciples, and he determined he was going to use those women to accomplish that, and he would not do it through the men. The disciples were not to confuse the importance of the ministry of women with the positions that they are eligible for or ineligible for. They can't make that mistake. Superiority is not the issue. Is. Whether we like it or not, men and women were designed differently with different strengths and different weaknesses. And men and women both get it wrong when they confuse design with importance. We cannot fight what our culture does when it ignores. What God has determined for its creation. But we need to stand strong under God's word inside the church, and we need to tell the truth that God says to each other. In our text this morning, Christ entrusted this information to these women. That he was not going to entrust to the disciples directly. And we can make of that whatever we should. Now, after we're told what the women are supposed to do, we see what they did. Luke twenty four, nine, then they returned from the tomb and told all these things. to the eleven and the rest. It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them, who told these things to the apostles, and their words seemed to them like idle tales, and they didn't believe them. Isn't this interesting? Jesus specifically gave these women a message to deliver. And Jesus did that fully knowing how it was going to be received. Now, how do you think these women received this rejection by the disciples? It didn't go over well. If ever any woman had a gripe, it was these women. They had heard from Christ directly, and these men were not having any of it. The disciples probably made fun of these women, and these women were not. Were of 100% correct. Women, have you ever had this frustration with men? How'd you deal with it? Well, even though these women were correct and these men were not correct, God didn't change the order of things. He didn't suddenly give these women the position of leadership in the church. The fact that the women are correct did not give them positions of authority, but it had to eventually be a source of embarrassment to all those people who thought of themselves as the religious big shots. When they realized how wrong that they were. All this shows us is that just being the correct gender for a certain kind of leadership does not mean proper discernment is inherited. These leaders should have done better, but they blew it in this case. I think there's a very important application for us here. God works through his people. All of them. He sends insights through his people. Sometimes a believer may not do a very good job at being logical or even reasonable, but that does not disqualify them from being the spokesperson Christ will use next to convey his message to the church. We need to be very careful to listen to what fellow believers say. We do not we do well not to put any believer in a box that says that nothing they ever say will be trusted or we take seriously or anything like that. Even if they do Don't seem to be maybe the most accurate with truth at times. These disciples put these women in a box, but the message the women were conveying should not have been disregarded. They should have been heard. Now, Peter and John. Knew something was up. They believed Christ was gone. Again, I'm not sure if they knew he was resurrected. I'd lean in that direction, but it could have meant they just knew that he was not in his tomb. Whatever the case, I'm sure that they thought that. They were being wise and discerning when they rejected these women's stories, but they were as wrong as they could be. The word for idle talk means nonsense, but that had to be hard to take. It just did. These women were telling the truth. truth and it was easier for the disciples to believe that it was sheer wives' tales and their imagination and the fruit of a vig vivid imagination than to believe the truth. And when we hear other believers tell their stories, we need to guard from prejudging their stories as well. We always have to be prepared for God to do the unexpected. And the other application, if you know you're telling the truth, stick to it. Eventually God Himself will back it. Sometimes that can be a long time, but if you're telling the truth, stick to it. There's no sense punishing people for not believing it. It could just as well be you who doesn't believe the truth that another believer tells to you. So just be patient and stick with it. God will validate that truth in his time. As for application this morning, I don't think we can escape the importance of remembering. This week we are very likely to fall into our default patterns. We certainly will find the temptation. to do so. When we experience strong feelings, we are prone to follow it with the same responses that we have always had. And if we look back on our lives, we can probably spot those those places. We have trained them over the years and they don't die easy. This week is the week to break that pattern. It's time to stop in the middle of our pattern, whatever that might happen to be, in the source of our middle and of our strong impulses. Ask, what does God say about this? What does God's word say about this? What truth do I know that I'm not applying here? What is there in my flesh that's being applying? appeal to in this situation? What am I longing for here that I am not getting? What am I afraid of that I think is happening to me here? Why does this situation affect me so strongly? What is the lie at the heart of this trained response? This simple act of bringing to mind what God has said in the middle of our despair or fear or turmoil or lust or anger is the Act, the Holy Spirit will use dramatically to change our lives. That is renewing our minds at its very finest. In it, we will experience peace with God in situations that used to create distance from God. In it, we will experience communion with believers when we have in the past created conflict and distance. If we'll do this just this one thing this week, this experiment with God, this week, we will see real change begin in our lives, in our relationships. relationship with God and our relationship with other believers. Will you commit with me to try that this week? Let's close by singing what a friend we have in Jesus.