Isaiah forty six painted a picture of Babylon for us as a land of idolatry. It told us about the punishment that's coming onto Babylon because of its idolatry. Isaiah 47 painted a picture for us of the spoiled girl Babylon who had everything she wanted and could not imagine that any of it would be lost. Her attitude was encapsulated in the statement of her position. I am and there is no one besides me. We also see the statement in Isaiah 47. 7 where it says, And you said, I shall be a lady forever. And then in 47. 8 , Therefore, hear this now, you who are given to pleasures, who dwell securely, who say in your heart, I am, and there is none besides me, I shall not sit as a widow, nor shall I know the lost children. Nor do you recall uh are now do you recall another place where Babylon is quoted as a woman. Revelations 18 -7, and that's how we've got there this morning. Revelations eighteen seven says, In the measure that she glorified herself and lived luxuriously in the same measure Give her torment and sorrow. For she says in her heart, I sit as a queen and am no widow, and will not see sorrow. See a similarity there. The book of Revelation borrows from the imagery of Isaiah 46 and 47. In fact If we understand our text in Isaiah, we can much better understand this reference in Revelation. So I thought it would be good this morning to take a look at. We're going to cover a lot of material, so uh brace yourself. In our Isaiah text, we've seen several things about Babylon. We see the punishments that she receives because of the idolatrous practices. And the trust that she has in the advice and influence of idols. We see the punishment she receives for the bad treatment of the weakest of the Jews, the old people. At this point, I think it would be good to back up, take step aside and step back and get a bigger picture of Scripture. We've seen over the years in our study of Scripture, from the beginning of the Bible to the end, how humanity cast aside its maker in order to pursue that which they think is better. That which they think will make them happy. We start with Eve. She thought the fruit would give her benefits that were greater than what her God would provide for her. She believed the deceiver when he told her she could have more and she can have it right now. She didn't have to wait. That over time we see mankind come together in a celebration of their humanity to build themselves a tower to God. Verse 4 in Genesis eleven it says, And they said, Come let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top is in the heavens. Let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth. And the problem with this endeavor, if you remember, is that they were successful. They were pulling together this great worldwide rebellion too early. So God confused the languages But we see again, man's propensity to worship himself or to worship the created things over the creator. They're gathering together for prosperity and for unification. And when they do that, they end up revolting against God. It always happens that way. Now in our Isaiah text, we have looked at Babylon. In it we see a mix of idolatry and self-worship. There really isn't much difference. When we created God, it always looks like God. So we have the Isles of chapter 46, and uh in chapter 47 we get uh who The woman who is, and there is no one else besides. They're both kind of the same ideas. Man revolting against God and coming together in unity for themselves against God. The pride just oozes out of people in this position. Now we need to fast forward, and that's where we come this morning. We've seen the garden, we've seen the Tower of Babel, and we've seen the nation of Babylon, now we see where all of it is headed, where it will culminate We see in Revelation a Babylon in a purer form than it could have ever reached earlier. Throughout history, the restraints of God slowed the progress of this event. God sent Cyrus in our example to cut off the evil direction that Babylon was headed into and would have continued in. But God will not always stop the progress so soon. The actual literal geography of Babylon was only one step in this devilish progression that the devil was behind. Revelation looks back to some attributes of the actual Babylon and brings them forward to the completion in this figurative Babylon. We see what Babylon is at its heart when we look at Revelation. We see what Babylon always was and will be until its end. So let's look at the end of the story, Revelation 17. And we're going to cover like four chapters, so I'll be reading a lot of scripture. I encourage you to read it for yourself, too. But Revelation 17, verse 1. Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and talked with me, saying, Come, I'll show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication. And the inhabitants of the earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication. So the physical geography of Babylon was a city on many waters. That was the descriptive term of the actual place. The intensive system of irrigation is what made Babylon a fertile food production area and what allowed Babylon to be the center that it was. And its ability to be reached by the Euphrates River made it a trade center. Now, look at the accusation made here against this prophetic Babylon. It says the kings committed fornication and the whole world was involved in this process. Now, as we read this, the first thing that stands out is how many sexual references there are. Fornication is mentioned many times in these two chapters So whatever you think, is the primary sin here than sexual? And no, it's not. That's not the point at all. The primary point is idolatry. The Old Testament, as well as Isaiah's writing, is full of sexual references when describing idolatry. God puts idolatry into terms that people can understand, that we can relate to, that we can actually feel. It's the picture of God's chosen bride giving herself willingly to another suitor. Jesus used the word adultery to describe this idolatry very often. So did many of the New Testament and Old Testament writers. We learn that physical fornication is a big deal with God. It's mentioned in the list of sins from which people will burn in the lake of fire in Revelation 21. But it's not nearly as dangerous to the soul as spiritual fornication. And that is the sinful intent of battle in the whore. That's what we're going to learn. She wants to seduce all people away from the one true God. That is her intent. Now, before we go any farther, what is this Babylon? What's he talking about in Revelation? It's not the literal Babylon, that was long gone. That land was desolate by the time Revelation was written. Again, modern writers have said a great deal about identifying who the real Babylon is, and it's always interesting. And each one of them seems to be equally as sure as every other. David Wilkerson said that it was New York City. That's battle. Lots of people believe it's the Catholic Church. Some think it's the Muslim religion. And it goes on and on. There are a lot of theories, as many as there are paperbacks, probably. I've been reading a book by Dennis Johnson called Triumph of the Land. Triumph of the Lamb. It's a very good book. One if you want to see a different view on Revelation, it's a very good one. And evidently Art Azurbia used it extensively in his a millennial study. on Revelation. So he sort of bases his stuff on this guy's stuff. As we've discussed before, I like this approach. this amillennial approach because it assumes that the readers of the letter of Revelation would have known what John was talking about. It makes that assumption. A lot of the other views of Revelation do not assume that. But this does. And this view allows the Bible to interpret the Bible, I think, better than any of the other views do. Now let's take a look at Babylon's attributes and see if we can make sense of this. And we'll we'll talk about it a while before we draw a conclusion. But I'll borrow from Mr. Azurtia's outline here because it's a very good one. We see these things about about Babylon. Five points. With some sublings. She has universal appeal. She has universal appeal. Two, she exerts universal influence. Universal influence. Three, she functions in partnership with the beast. She functions in partnership with the beast. For she pursues the annihilation of Christians. She pursues the annihilation of Christians. And fifth, and this is one that I've added, she represents all things that culture offers. She represents all things that culture offers. And then under that point would be commerce. Commerce, transportation, transportation, music and the arts Music and the arts and everyday domestic life. Everyday domestic life. Now, when we read Revelation 17 through 19, we need to understand something. This seductress seems wonderful to the world and holds even a seductive appeal to Christians. The imagery of verse 3 is probably intended to show that it was important that John be carried to the wilderness. This wasn't just a side thought. It was important that John be carried to the wilderness. The angel was going to show John the harlot battle, but he was not going to take the risk of showing it to him up close. He allowed John to gain distance, to gain perspective, because this harlot is seductive. Harlots are dangerous because what they offer on the outside is what is so appealing. And unfortunately for us men we can often think our see better than we can think, which makes it even more dangerous. A man has to gain a perspective of what is at stake for him to make a wise choice. He has to see not just what appears to be happening, but what is really happening. Before he can make a wise choice. He needs some distance, he needs some time. So the angel takes John away. And then he looks at a distance at this harlot. The thing we need to see is that the harlot is appealing, almost universally appealing. It's rare to find someone not enthralled with her, someone not seduced by her. She's one of the women models that is strikingly beautiful, like in our imagery. And the problem with what she offers is not that it looks bad. No, the problem is it looks so good. In fact, it looks so good that all the countries flock to her. That's the woman we're dealing with here. She's offering her wares to turn souls away from God and onto herself, and she is very, very appealing. She has universal appeal. The second point is that she exerts universal influence. And we read that in verse 2. It says, with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication. And the inhabitants of the earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication. The kings and the inhabitants of the earth have bought into her system of idolatry. They have essentially sold their souls to her. So whoever this harlot is, the whole world is influenced by her. This is not just an isolated market. She has an idolatrous influence over everyone that has the mark of the beast, or essentially every non-believer, if we take it in that interpretation. Then verse three, she fun she functions in partnership with the beast. Verse three through thirteen. So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness. Remember, he was getting perspective. And I saw the woman sitting on a scarlet beast which was full of names of blasphemy, having seven hands and ten horns. But the angel said to me, Why did you marvel? I'll tell you the mystery of the woman of and the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and ten horns. The beast that you saw was and is not, and will ascend out of the bottomless pit and go to perdition. And those who dwell on the earth will marvel, whose names are not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they see the beast that was and is not and yet is. Here is the mind which has wisdom, the seven heads of seven mountains on which the woman sits. There were also seven kings, five have fallen, one is, and the other has not yet come, and when he comes he must continue a short time And the beast that was and is not is himself also the eight, and is of the seventh, and is going to perdition. The ten lords which you saw are ten kings who have received no kingdom as yet But they receive authority for one hour as kings with the beast. These are of one mind and they will give their power and authority to the beast. Now we're not going to cover all the nuances here because we'd probably break out of fight Um we would likely have a lot of differences of opinion. But the the the solid things we're gonna stick to Now, to make sense of this, we have got to know who the beast is. And I don't have the time that it would take to make a study of this. It'd be a valuable study, but not this morning. So I'm going to present what many in the amillennial view believe it to be. I think there's a lot of proof. It fits the text and it fits ways that other scriptures interpret this passage. The beast is most likely the destructive power of tyrannical Totalitarian governments. So it's basically totalitarian governments. These governments make open war on Christians They make no apology for that fact. It's man's political power pulled together in enmity against God. Obviously, we have governments that serve a very useful purpose and are very uh they care about justice and they care about those sort of things and they care about spiritual freedoms, but there are a bunch of them who who want to destroy Christians. We've seen such a thing over and over again in the world's history It ebbs and flows and it shifts from one country to another, but the beast has always existed to some degree in some fashion. But there have not been many government Many governments controlling as much of the world as this final East Cuts. It's like it's all coming to completion. It is all coming together. At the time of the writing of the Revelation, the beast was probably represented by the Roman government. It was at war against believers in some of its regions. Now, this woman, Miss Babylon, rides the system. That gives us some more important clues about who Miss Babylon is. What influence could rest upon governments but not be a government? That's the mystery. What seductive influence could these governments carry But not be. What symbiotic relationship here could be developed? Verse 4, or point four, she pursues the annihilation of Christians In 1706, it says, I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled with great amazement. And then 14, these will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings And those who are with them are called chosen and faithful. And then chapter 18, verse 24, it says, In her was found the blood of the prophets and saints and all who were slain on the earth. So, whatever this woman is, she hates believers. And she hates the very idea of a true God. She wages war. Now my guess is this would take discernment. She looks more like a seducer than a murderer. She's appealing to a dark motive, not using force. Yet somehow she is drunk with the blood of the saints and the martyrs. This woman is seducing people who call themselves believers to their spiritual death. That's what she's trying to do. She's appealing with all her economic appeal to avert any gaze off of the face of Christ to herself. And on top of that, she demands that for anyone to buy and sell in her system, they must be part of her system. They must have some kind of ownership in her system. They must have the devil's mark of ownership rather than God's stamp of ownership. And they do not have, if they do not have the devil's mark, the mark of the beast, they will die. So one way or another, she gets the blood of the believers on her hands. The seductress ends up being a murderer. Point five. She represents all the things the culture offers. And I think this is kind of like the concluding evidence that helps us to know what this is talking about. The first is commerce. And we see in Revelations 11 through 16. I'm not going to read the whole thing. But uh it says, The merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise anymore. And then it gives This list, this long list of the merchandise, ending with verse 13, and cinnamon and incense, fragrant oil and frankincense, wine and oil, fine flour and wheat. Cattle and sheep horses and chariots and the bodies of the souls of men. He's got a lot of stuff being sold by this this woman. And then it goes on in 14, the fruit that your soul longed for has gone from you, and all the things which are rich and splendid have gone from you, and you shall find them no more at all. Look at all the goods available at the hands of the Babel of a Babel, look what she has to offer. No wonder she was so seductive. Who doesn't want her wares? And notice in her list of products was human slavery. She was making a business of buying and selling people. Whether this is figurative or literal doesn't make much difference. And look at the commentary right in the middle of verse 14. The fruit that your soul longs for has gone from you. And all the things which are rich and splendid have gone from you, and you shall find them no more at all. I think this is a huge clue as to what the woman Babylon is. The stuff that your soul longs for has gone from you. Isn't the stuff that our souls long for either God or idols? Isn't what our souls long for the core of idolatry Look at what else he offers, transportation, 1817-19. For in one hour such great riches came to nothing. Every shipmaster, all who travel by ship, sailors and as many as trade on the sea, stood at a distance and cried out when they saw the smoke of her burning sail, What is like this great city? They threw dust on their heads and cried, weeping and wailing, and saying, Alas, that great city in which all who had ships on the sea became rich by her wealth, for in one hour she is made desolate. Look at the travel that is made available by this woman. Wasn't this the hub of transportation? And then Music and the Arts, 1822, it says the sound, harpists, musicians, flutists, and trumpeters shall not be heard in you anymore. And then the fourth point, everyday domestic life, verse 23, the light of the lamp shall not shine in you anymore, and the voice of the bridegroom and bride shall not be heard in you anymore. For your merchants were deceived, for your merchants were the great men of the earth, for by your sorcery all the nations. were to see. Okay, I think we have learned enough to at least guess what the harlot is here. I believe that the harlot is the culture that offers all the things that the world has to offer. The harlot is the culture that offers all of the things that the world has to offer. It offers the pursuit of money, all the enjoyments of flesh. It's the world's allure. And simply stated, in fact, Brad read this in Sunday school last week out of the book that he was studying from. He he mentions this. I felt a little better when I heard that. It is the fallen human society organized against God. The fallen human society organized against God. That's what Babylon is. It sits on top of governments, it rides governments, they serve each other, but they are not the same thing One creates an environment for killing the saints. The culture creates the environment for killing the saints. The other, the government, is the instrument in doing so. One provides the platform for world commerce, but the other carries it out. No one is going to worship the idea of government, but they will worship what a culture and economic system have to offer them. This was no new concept for John. Remember, John wrote the book of Revelation. He addressed this in non-apocalyptic language in 1 John. In 1 John 2, 15 through 17, he says this: Do not love the world or the things in the world. That's what we're talking about. Do not let idolatry creep into your view of the world. Do not love the world or the things of the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. It is that big of a deal. That's what we're talking about. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but it is of the world, it is of Babylon. And the world is passing away, and the lust of it, but he who does the will of God abides forever. Now, what is going to happen to this completed version of Babylon. This Babylon that finally gets to be what Babylon wanted to be all the time. What's her faith? And this is where we get into a lot of scripture. Revelation 17 15 through 18. Then he said to me, The waters which you saw where the harlot sits are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues. So you said I'm not talking about a physical location that has a lot of water running through it. I'm talking about this these waters. Um These are people. And the ten horns which you saw in the beast, these will hate the harlot, make her desolate and naked, eat her flesh, and burn her with fire. For God has put it into their hearts to fulfill his purpose. We see a lot of that. God puts it into even hearts to fulfill God's purpose, and every single time they do it perfectly. So anyway, he did this, put it in their mind to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled. And the woman we saw is that great city which reigns over the kings of the earth. Then uh eighteen one through twenty-four, actually we'll just read one through eleven. After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was illuminated with his glory. And he cried mightily with a loud voice, saying, Babylon the Great is fallen. is fallen and has become a dwelling place of demons, a prison for every foul spirit, and a case for every unclean and hated bird. For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich through the abundance of her luxury. And I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, lest you share in her sins, and lest you receive of her place. For her sins have reached to heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. Render to her just as she rendered to you, and repay her double according to her works in the cup which she has mixed. makes double for her. In the measure that she glorified herself and lived luxuriously, in the same measure give her torment and sorrow, for she says in her heart, I sit as a queen, and am no widow, and will not see sorrow. Therefore, her plagues will come in one day, death and mourning and famine. That sounds a lot like what Isaiah had to say. And she will be utterly burned with fire, for strong is the Lord God who judges her. The kings of the earth who committed fornication and live luxuriously with her will weep and lament for her when they see the smoke of her burning. Standing at a distance for fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city battling, that mighty city, for in one hour your judgment has come. And the merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise anymore. Now, something struck me as odd in all this, and maybe it struck you as well. Why would the beast hate the heart? Why would the governments hate the culture? They share the same goal, sort of. Why would the beast destroy the culture of commerce and transportation and the arts? I thought it was odd until I thought about it a little bit. Think about most totalitarian regimes, especially in the takeovers. Where total totalitarian regimes go into a country, for instance, China. You know, if you remember their history, when they became communists All culture was destroyed. All the people who had knowledge, all the people who were educated, they were pretty much wiped out. Do you know any of these totalitarian governments that are known for thriving economies? Generally, they destroy economies. Do you know of any of them that are known for cultural sinners where arts arise from within their ranks? Not usually. That's not usually what they cater to. Power in the hands of humans always leads to the destruction of beauty and humanity. It tears down, but it does not build up anything that does not exalt itself. So it's not at all unusual that such a thing would happen. I'm just guessing at this, but it it seems like it would make sense. From that perspective. And so be it. The culture was not an aid to knowing God anyway. The only way John could even see it clearly was to be removed from it, to a distance. And look at the appeal of John, verse 4. And I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, lest you share in her sins, and lest you receive of her place. For her sins have reached to heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. What a wonderful thing it is when God forgets sin. Scripture says he remembers a believer's sin no more. And it's not like amnesia. He does not hold them against. He does not remember them for the purpose of prosecution. Basically They won't do us any harm. He does not remember them in his case against us. But what a horrible thing it is when sins are remembered. When God says that your sins are remembered These sins will be used as evidence in the prosecution of the human soul. They are not covered because the person did not trust Christ to forgive them. of their sin. They're remembered because they maintain the status of an enemy of God. They would not submit to God. They would not receive God's grace. That's where Babylon and all her children are headed. God's gonna punish. Question we've got to ask ourselves, obviously, with this information is how much hold does Babylon hold over us, have over us? How much sway does Babylon have in our hearts? Are our hearts fixated on those things that any human can acquire? If we lost the things of Babylon The positive things in this life, maybe even our health, our stuff, our entertainments, even maybe the people we love, would we be lost? Would we have lost that which is most important to us? Would our faith in God be destroyed? We are called to come out of Babel. We're to wean ourselves from the loves of the flesh. The loves of this world and the it and the addictions and its necessities. We are not citizens, we are aliens here. That's how we're referred to It is vital that we work that into our mindsets. There is nothing that this earth offers that is worth losing our souls over. Now, there was more I didn't have time to get into, but I wanted to mention one more thing. In Revelation 19, 19 through 20, it says And I saw the beasts, the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him, who sat on a horse and against his army. Then the beast was captured, and with him the false prophet who worked signs in his presence, by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image. These two were cast alive into the lake of fire burning with brimstone. Okay, so this is after Babylon's demise. This is what happens with the beast. From what I can gap, Satan, the dragon, is going to be allowed by God to do that which he was not allowed to do during the whole history of the world. He's going to be allowed by God to amass all world governments to his side. He's been stopped from doing this in the past, but now God will lift the restraints. At first, this will seem like a good thing for the inhabitants of the world. But as we saw, the culture, the things that are most enjoyable to the human citizens, is going to be destroyed. And then the beast will wage war against God, and this isn't just some subtle thing. All the subtleties are gone now There is no more illusion. The true intent of the devil and the beast and all of humanity apart from God is going to be seen in all of its clarity. There'll be no mystery anymore about why bad people are so good. They hate the rule of God and they will want done with it and they will be consolidated in that effect. There is nothing that says that believers won't be around as this progression comes about. And I'm not saying this to trouble you or to bum you out. But it's important that we understand this. We don't know what period of time we live in. We don't know exactly how close to the end we are. But sometime this is going to happen, if I understand it correctly, and it will be hell on earth for believers. We need to always be prepared with the mindset. That our God is worthy of every obedience. To die for Christ is an honor. We are blessed when we suffer for Christ's name. We need to understand that this is where the world's culture and the world's governments are headed. We can't have our head in the sand about what the basis. Of the world's culture is all about. They will unite with a common enemy, and that enemy will be Jesus Christ, the love of our soul. We need to orient to that fact and let it sink into our plans and our goals and our expectations because it is the truth and it is coming. We don't know when. But then remember this. We weren't left alone with this mega thought. We have a tremendous truth here in Revelation 20 and 11 through 15. It says, Then I saw a great white throne And him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and grace, standing before God, and the books were opened. The books were open in that sweet thing. Another book was open, which is the book of life. That is an even sweeter thing. And the dead were judged according to their works by the things which were written in the books. The sea gave up her dead who were in it, and the death and Hades delivered up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one according to his work. Then death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death And anyone not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Then Revelation 21. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. There's a loving gesture there. This is this is a dwelling place that was conceived in love. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts. He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable Murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Now I I realized that I did not bring out a whole lot of application from this text. There's plenty here, and it's a really good thing for you to look into and study. But I wanted us to understand the heart of this Lady Babylon. And why God expresses such anger toward Babylon in our study and the ultimate Babylon that is to come. We need to guard our hearts. From her. We need to guard our hearts from the love of this world. We cannot allow our enjoyment of things in our culture to seduce our hearts and minds until we must have it. until we worship Ms. Babylon. She's a good looking harlot, but she's a harlot just the same. Lord God, we thank you. We thank you that you have given us such a warning, such insight into our culture. Such insight into the world that we live in. The Lord is so hard to see. There's so many supposedly good things that go on. And you know how much we need this to see the reality of what runs this planet. And Lord, we're still given over to the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, and pride of life. It oozes from us. Lord, we ask that you would continue to work in our hearts as we have been praying That you would bring to our attention the hooks that are in us that are so easily hooked to the stuff in this plan And that we would not trust our reactions, our responses, our cravings, our feelings, our thoughts about what our needs are, even. Without running it all past you and past your word and submitting it all to your lordship and receiving your permission for everything that we choose to do. We ask that you would protect us from love of the harlot, of this culture, of this world and that you would protect us from the harm the government can do. But more important, Lord, I ask that you would protect our souls. And our faithfulness to you so that we will be faithful to you no matter what happens. And we know that your eye is on us And that you care about us. And that even now you are preparing lovingly a place for us to live with you in eternity, where you'll wipe away all the ugliness. We thank you for all this in Jesus' name.