Well good to be back with you uh this morning. Uh and again just uh as I probably say this every year, but uh so grateful to have been invited into uh your world and your church family and to have been uh just a small part of that uh for some amount of time it's uh very big I don't know that I can say that enough. So we are looking at uh again sort of our theme uh for the weekend uh is is loose idol by the blood. We're looking at our guilt. We're looking at how Jesus dealt with it. We're looking at our response then. In light of our guilt and Jesus' provision, how we are to live that out. And we'll look tonight about how to a snippet of how to live that out in a church. And then tomorrow how to live that out more broadly as we consider our identity in Jesus. But ultimately, this is a call to Christ-centered personal holiness and to Christ-centered unity. as we operate and live in this temporary world, a world that is not our home. We said our theme verse for the weekend is Ephesians 2. Verses 12 and 13. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. You were once separated from Him, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of the promise. Having no hope and without God in the world. That at one point in your life, for those of you who are believers That described your entire existence, having no hope in without God in the world. , Ephesians goes on, all right, I said, but now Beautiful turn of uh of direction there. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near You were once far off, now you're near, it tells us how you were brought near. Near, you're brought near by the blood of Christ And we saw in uh last night's session, we looked at Mark 2 and skimmed through uh parts of Mark chapter 1 that our ultimate need uh is really in this uh this idea of the fulfillment of the kingdom of God, the coming kingdom, this kingdom of God that is at hand, that Jesus came and and preached and proclaimed. Our ultimate need is for someone somehow in some way to fill that chasm. between our sinful hearts and a holy, just, and perfect God. God cannot be, I don't know if we said this expressly last night, but God cannot be in the presence of sin. We know that. Right? He is perfect. He is holy. All that he does is good. But when you hear that, when we hear that God cannot be in the presence of sin, don't think, don't read into that, that God is somehow dainty. That he's so fussy and clean that he's some uh some dandy fox who doesn't want to get his hands dirty. Uh his holiness is so completely holy His goodness is so fully good that even the slightest stain in us would leave us consumed in his presence. And so the distance between God and man because of our sin is not because God is fragile. It's because his holiness and goodness are so holy and so good. uh we would we would be eradicated immediately. Uh it's it's because of of of our sin. And our sin is as we know uh is more than some slight little uh stain. And so as we consider again this theme of of looking at our own guilt, of Jesus dealing with it, our response as we follow him , we rejoice Well as we'll look at uh today, uh that Jesus has made a way back for us. Right? He bridged that gap. The way on one end I think as we said it's so simple. The way back to the Lord is so simple that even children can understand it. And yet We, as we mature in Christ, should be constantly coming to a knowledge and some amount of experience And some amount of uh understanding of the cost that was incurred on our behalf, the more we understand what Jesus has done for us. The more we love Jesus, the more we understand what we have been saved from, the more we love the Savior. And so this morning is is in a sense counting the cost. We think back on his book on the kingdom that sets the stage for what we look like look at in this session. So we're fast-forwarding to Matthew 27, which is We were in Mark 1 and 2, so you flip back a couple pages, boom, you're Matt in 27. And we're going to look at this session, the blood that is on our hands. Now, I remember as a non-Christian growing up in rural Kentucky, I remember being told at one point that I needed to be bathed in the blood of Jesus. and that I needed to be washed in the blood of the Lamb. And while that is true in one sense, that was an evangelistic technique that, to be quite honest, really creeped me out Uh I'm I'm one of those guys that uh talked to Lamar last night. Um I I don't deal with blood super well. I don't mind if your b your blood is fine. I can handle your blood Uh but my blood when it's uh coming out of me, I it's involuntary. I mean I go out. Needles can't do it. Uh uh yeah, so If you if you're he showed me last night, he's like, hey, you like those pictures? It showed me why its hands get open. Uh which was fine, and so I read, oh, that's a video, it's pulsing in the s Well I understand those phrases now uh a little better, you know, being being washed in the blood of Jesus. Again, blood is not something I tend to think about. I mean most of us don't tend to think about it on a regular basis unless it's coming out of us. But no one can argue that blood is important as a way of serving sort of our local community or rest in my church. We host uh blood drives every month or so. And if you go on our website and and click the little link that uh has information on blood drive, you'll read this uh paragraph in there. It will say uh there is an immediate need in our area for most blood types. Blood must be available when needed for patients whose lives depend on it. Blood and platelets help many people, including trauma patients, surgery patients, newborn babies, cancer patients, and transplant patients. More donors are urgently needed every day, seven days a week, to help save lives. That's what a blood donation thing said. Blood saves lives Uh why why is that? Well because blood is life. That's a pretty uh straightforward statement. Whether you look at that uh from a biological perspective Whether you look at that physiologically, medically , symbolically, or spiritually It is irrefutable that blood is life. Levitical law in the Old Testament, Leviticus 1711, says it clearly and plainly. The life of a creature is in the blood. In blood is light, and by contrast we know that sin brings death. Right? Romans 6. 23, wages of sin is Is that uh Hebrews 9. 22 gives us uh uh uh a a statement as to the remedies without the shedding of blood, there's no forgiveness. This is how seriously a holy and just and loving and merciful God takes sin. An exchange must be uh inactive. An exchange has to take place. There's a death that our sin incurs, uh and it is a death in blood. It is blood debt, blood guilt. Uh in the Old Testament book uh of Joel Chapter 3 verse 21. Joel is the first one who uses the word, but I think you see the concept even in Genesis 3 at the fall, where God must clothe Adam and Eve with sin. and they're now naked and ashamed. Their sin has brought uh shame to them. Uh and so he clothes them in sin. And so imp implicit in that is that something had to die. Blood had to be shed there. But Uh I think Joel uh is the first to use uh the word uh in in the NIV he said uh he used the word blood guilt. Their blood guilt, he says, this is the Lord speaking, their blood guilt, which I have not pardoned, I will pardon. For the Lord dwells in Zion. Their blood guilt. I have not pardoned, I will pardon the ESV, that's the you know the ESV renders it, I will avenge their blood, that blood that I have not yet avenged. The King James Version renders it this way. It says, I for I will cleanse their blood. The New King James says, I will acquit them of the guilt of bloodshed, whom I have not acquitted. And so this concept, this word blood guilt, is the condition of being culpable of bloodshed, of murder. Murder is a horrendous crime in the eyes of both man and God. To be blood guilty, then is to deserve Severe punishment. And yet this is the sin that God promises that He will avenge and Forgive. If you are familiar with Shakespeare. Anybody read Shakespeare? Familiar with Macbeth? Macbeth is a play about blood meals. Right? You've got two main characters, you've got Macbeth and Lady Macbeth, who together very quickly have plotted to murder a rival so that they can take the throne, they can take uh the place. But uh It's so interesting as it plays out. What you see is the devastating effects in this in this play. It's a great portrayal of blood guilt and you see Lady Macbeth uh slowly going insane because she has she is culpable And so she begins to sleepwalk and have nightmares, and in her nightmares her hands and garments are covered in blood. If you know the famous line from the plays, you know, she she says, Out, out Sam 's fire. Because whatever she does, because she is culpable in murder, she can't get the blood off of her hands. The blood is constantly uh sort of following her uh around She lives a nightmare because of murder. There's a similar story written by Edgar Allan Poe, right? The Telltale Heart is a depiction of a man who's murdered somebody and gets away with it. but slowly goes in pain until at the end of this little story he breaks down and he admits his guilt and he shrieks out and says, Villains, dissemble no more. I admit to thee. Tear up the planks Hears the beating heart, the hitting heart, because the whole time after he's committed this murder, all it consumes him on the inside. Now these are fictional stories. But I think it's it's fascinating to me how even in secular uh literature, and I'm sure there are there are modern parallels as well, uh there these are deeply biblical themes that whether they realize it or not, those authors were exploring. Innocent blood bears witness against those who shed. If you want to flip over back to Genesis 4, if not, I'm going to read a little portion to you. Genesis 4 is is almost a a it seems like man that that uh uh Edgar Alpo and uh Shakespeare may have just read the portion of Jen's four in the base of their stories uh on this. This is Cain and Abel. Cain uh spoke to Abel his brother. This is verse um what verse is that? Verse six. Yeah, there we go. Nope, perceived. Cain spoke to Abel, his brother, and when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him. Because his sac they both brought sacrificing before the Lord and Cain's was not accepted. And so he gets jealous, gets angry, grows up, and kills Abel. Then the Lord says to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? And he says, I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? By the way, this is a retelling of what? This is a retelling of Genesis 3. This is Genesis 3 just in another, with different characters. Yes, something horrible happens. God comes up, asks some questions that he already knows the answer to, that he's letting us in to to what's going on. Where is Abel your brother? I don't know, not my brother's keeper. The Lord says another question. What have you done? What is it that you have done? The voice of your brother's blood It's crying up to me from the ground. That's a harrowing statement, is it not? The voice of your brother's blood is crying out to me from the ground, and now you are cursed from the ground Cain was the one who worked the ground. Abel was a keeper of sheep, he was a shepherd. Cain was a worker of the ground. He says that thing that you were meant to do, that you are familiar with, you never is now cursed. Um you are cursed from the ground which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand When you work the ground, it will no longer yield to it your strength. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth. And Cain said to the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear. Behold, you have driven me away from the ground, and from your faith I shall be hidden, I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth. Whoever finds me will kill me, the Lord says to him not so If anyone kills me, vengeance shall be taken upon him sevenfold. And the Lord put a mark on Cain, any who found him, that anyone who found him should not attack him. Your brother's blood cries out from the ground. It's not my intention to be dramatic with that statement, but I think it shows us certainly the heart of God. But also those of us who are made in his image, we are Imago Dei, we are created in the image of our Creator. There is something both within and without that affects The human heart, when blood is spilled. Murder does something to us When when when we take the life of a fellow image bearer, that will destroy you, it will degrade you. I'm guessing, I'm assuming, I don't know, you can correct me. uh not and we'll take some appropriate action here. Uh I'm guessing you've never murdered anyone. Uh probably probably most folks in this room have not uh committed uh murder. But Jesus tells us in Matthew five, not so fast. Not so fast. He said, You have heard, Matthew 5. 21, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder. Right? It's one of the commandments. And that whoever murders, whoever takes the life of another energy bearer of God, will be liable to judgment. But I say to you That anyone who is angry with his brother will be liable at the same judgment Same as murder. So, like all other sins, murder really starts from somewhere within us. It's interesting that one of the uh first things that Jesus mentions there, he goes through uh a number of things there, right? uh as in teachings, oh you you thought adultery was the physical act, was it? No. It began as as what? It began in you and later manifested itself outside of you. As evil thoughts within us germinate and grow, they begin a process that ultimately produces a terrible fruit. Jesus shows us that the character of our thoughts will eventually become the character of our conduct. That's why scripture is emphatic that we take captive those thoughts, that we renew our minds. The central thought that Jesus expresses here, I think, is that our thoughts can be tantamount to murder in God's eyes. No one ever had an evil thought, never would not exist. Uh John 3. 15 reveals how important Christians uh w how port how we should consider controlling our thoughts. He says John 3. 15, whoever hates his brother is a murderer. Whoever hates his brother is a murderer. That's something inside of you before there's any physical uh blood on physical hands. And so um Hey, happy Saturday morning. We're all contributors to the way this world is. And so we don't get the out the same Maybe the point is we don't get the out of saying, hey, Jesus, I know I've done some bad stuff, but at least I'm not like those guys, right? At least I'm not a sinner, a murderer to that degree Jesus Evans complained to we are all participants in the way the world is and we are all participants in what uh what had to happen to Jesus. When we consider the spilling of innocent uh blood, we must consider Our part in that. We consider uh the blood on our hands as we look at Jesus Christ. So we're gonna zip through Matthew 27. And by the way, a lot of my insights here are formed and shaped by a guy named Dr. Tim Mackie. who I don't know if you're in the podcast you can look him up. He did a great exegesis of Matthew 27, which I'm borrowing from. He does it a lot more justice, a lot better than I do. Uh I just wanted to throw that out. So in case you come across his podcast and you're like, oh man, Jason plagiarized that guy. He must have been listening to Jason. Matthew 27, let me tell you the cast. Here are the characters we're going to be looking at. We're going to see the chief priests, right? The religious leaders, who are their role in this is sort of as both de thieves and de thievers, uh the the chief priests, the religious leaders. Um and by the way, this this is this is uh Following Jesus of the rest. That's this chapter. Following Jesus of the rest, but prior to his actual crucifixion. We're going to see Judas. Judas is a man who will realize his sin and guilt, but will come to the wrong conclusion about dealing with it. We're going to see Pilate, who is aware of his contribution to this injustice. He's aware that he's got blood on his hands, but he will declare himself innocent. We're going to see the crowd, and we talked about crowd last night, tickleness of crowds. the danger uh oftentimes of crowds and how we need to be very careful uh concerning the crowd that we associate with, the crowd we stand in, a crowd can be a congregation uh or a crowd can be a mob. But in this Part again, pretty typical I think for a lot of the New Testament writers and Old Testament maybe. The crowd is not shown It's a less than favorable light, because they are actually unwittingly, voluntarily taking on the blood guilt. And then we'll see Jesus, the one whose blood is still, and really the only truly innocent one in this cast of characters. Let's look at verses 1 and 2. It says when the evening, or when morning came, rather, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death. They bound him and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate the governor. So in the middle of the night, they've already arrested him Jesus, the disciples have scattered, you know, Peter's cut off the ear of the guy, and Jesus said, no, this is not how my kingdom is coming in. And so they've taken him. They hold a meeting. The chief priests and the elders. They hold a meeting and they say, look, we're going to put this guy to death. It has a sort of mosque trial to this point. where two charges were brought before him. The first is that Jesus is essentially heroic. They say, look, this guy said he's going to destroy the temple. Now that's a false charge. He didn't say it in the way that they mean it. The second charge they bring is that Jesus is claiming himself King, Messiah, Christ. That one's truth. And that's the charge that they'll bring up before Pilate, that this man claims to be king of the Jews. Israel at this time is under the military rule of the Roman Empire. Uh and Pilate is the general in charge of this area. So he is there and he absolutely hates it. Anything we know about Pilate from both biblical text and general history, historical , not non-biblical, not non-true, but historical text. uh makes it pretty clear that uh though Pilate has been assigned uh here he hates it. He doesn't want to be in Israel, doesn't want to be in Jerusalem, he hates his job, he hates the Jewish people. They hate them. They are constantly rioting. There's constant insurrection. It's very unstable. And the way Pilate, if they when they show up in his place to riot, the way he deals with them, is he just murders them all. And so he is unpopular. Everybody hates him. He is falling out of favor with Rome because of the continual riots and instability in Jerusalem. And again, He's not a good guy. He doesn't want to be there and they don't want him there. But they have to work with them. So that's the dynamic between Pilate and the chief priest. Is there they're you know an attempt to sort of smooth things out and keep the peace and say, hey look, you guys sort of uh you can't render ultimate judgment for life and death. That's Pilate's job, but you can you know you can have your part in the stuff, you know, sort of the religious things of your your country and culture. And so they are bringing Jesus, they will accuse him uh before pilot the governor. The governor he's a military general as well. So that's the context. Our first Sort of portrait, our first character here will be Judas. So let's look at verses 3 through 5. So then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind. And he brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders, saying, He says, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? See to it yourself. And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed. And he went and hanged himself. So Matthew as an author sort of he begins setting a scene, morning came, she creeps me, they're gonna put Jesus to death. They bound him, take him away the pilot to get that done. Matthew interrupt this story here to sort of zoom in now on Judas. And it's such a sad , heavy portrait of his last moments. And you see, I think you get a sense here of his utter hopelessness coupled with the callousness and and apathy of the religious leaders. You know, and he he says, what he confessed, he says, I have sinned By betraying innocent blood. There is blood on my hands And their responses no matter how. Right? You made that bed. You sleep in it. You figure that out. It's not on us. That's on you. And that's all. I mean I I I again this is speculation, but I I would have to think that that at some point uh as Judas is tempted to betray Jesus that he's got to turn something off inside of himself. uh to be able to do that. And at some point, uh though in this process between uh the time of the garden when he betrayed Jesus with a kiss, that's the sign, says, hey, I'll go and I'll give the guy you know a a typical greeting. That's the guy you guys need to come uh snatch up So between that time and this time, something has changed back. That switch has maybe flipped back on. Maybe he's been uh watching Jesus actually live out what he taught. Right? Not resisting, he's not putting up a fight, he's not uh you know, he he's not making a uh a ruckus. He's watching Jesus live out what he taught about love and humility. And so Judas tries to deal with his guilt, deal, try to get this spot, this blood off my hands by doing what? By giving back the money. But there's no release there. He can't he can't get the blood off him. It's very dark. And so he he kills himself. He takes his own life He's right in his assessment and right in his acknowledgement that he has betrayed innocent blood. He sees that and that's that correct. But he is wrong in his conclusion that there is no hope He's wrong in his conclusion that there is no redemption. He's wrong in his conclusion that there's no way to get that spot out It's right that he betrayed innocent blood. He's wrong in how he dealt with it. By taking his own life. And it uh it destroys him. It's a sad, heavy. Let's look at the next set of verses starting in verse 6 from read through ten. But the chief priests taking the pieces of silver said it is not lawful uh to put them into the treasury since it is this is interesting since it is blood money note how often blood and innocence are are used in this little count It is not lawful to put it in the treasury because it's blood money. So they took counsel and bought with it the potter's field as a burial place for strangers. Therefore that field has been called the field of blood to this day. When Allah was fulfilled, Allah Sorry, then was fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying, and they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price on him, of whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel, and they gave them For the potter's field, as the Lord directed me. So here we have those chief priests, those religious leaders. Do you think that they understand That they are accountable for an innocent man's death. Like do they really believe what they are saying, which is what they're saying is they're the charge Hey, this guy in sort of national uh saint of national security. Uh this guy's causing rockets, he's gonna blow up our uh you know the temple, it's a big deal Do they really believe they are serving justice and bringing down the law on an actual criminal? They do not believe that They know that what they're doing is a total sham because they call it blood money. They say, look, we, you know, this this money that they paid Judasop came out of the treasury, you know, and it came out of people's ties It's been used for a nefarious purpose that they now realize. So we can't put this back in the Treasury because it's blood money. It's dirty money So they know and admit it outright. What we're doing is shedding the blood of an innocent man. So we're not going to give this back as an offering. So let's uh let's buy a field. And I think this is an interesting detail that Matthew points out. He doesn't have to tell us this, but it does And so this field is going to serve as a burial plot for strangers, for foreigners. Now uh like today in in in uh If you go somewhere, you go to Hawaii, you go on vacation, you're out of town, and you're there and with your in your family or party dies at this place that you're visiting. You would exhume the body, you would ship it back, and you'd have a burial in your hometown. Now, uh in Jewish culture, uh that would not happen. A lot of people travel to Jerusalem, they travel into the temple from all over the place. And if you die there What was valued in Jewish culture was a quick and proper burial. They're not going to take your body back to Nazareth, back to Galilee, back to wherever. You're gonna have to purchase a plot there where where the death uh took place. You died on a pilgrimage, uh, you buried where you died. It's a cultural value um compt and copper burial. That was a very normal thing in that time and place for that day to have public burial spots for the out-of-counties And so the chief priests of buying this field uh is kind of like a public service, right? It's a good and noble thing. So instead of putting this back in the treasury, uh we're going to do something nice for the out of town, for the people And like Judas, they realize there's blood on their hands. But they're trying to offset it by doing something, quote, good, something that's that's noble. They're investing in the public Good. And you can see it. I think it's still there. I've looked at that field. If you ever get the chance to go to Israel, go to Jerusalem, you can still see where they believe that field is today. It all checks out. It's interesting to consider that if you are one of the people who purchase a plot In that field, that particular one , you are now benefiting from the death of an innocent man. Even if you don't know it, there's now an amount of complicity on your part. That's part of the city. Being built on the blood of the innocent. Now, this isn't just something that's sort of way off far away in space and time and history. We have a category for this, I think, today. Like when you read about in, you know, a news article or whatever, uh, and I'm sure probably we all have, you read about how the shoes you're wearing uh were built in a s sweat factory somewhere uh by child labor. Right? Um Interesting today, uh, if you pay attention to all, you know that companies don't just sell products anymore, they now sell causas. Right? I I read statements r regularly now. It's babbling to me on one uh on one hand. Uh like soda companies. I don't need to know what your stand is uh on the transgender mood. Or or uh or or your stand on whatever cultural issues your is. And yet that is common now for a company to say, hey, we stand with this. We support uh that and most of it I neither stand with nor support and yet honestly I find myself still drinking my Coke, eating my Oreos. Um there's a a complacency there. I I I still I still buy shoes. I I I don't know where they kind of I don't know the hands that are making them So there's some combination of unwittingness, maybe apathy, that puts Blood on my hand. The idea of blood again I I'm not trying to be dramatic. To me in my mind, and Jason , I'm a little dramatic. Uh my real point is that blood guilt is not just sort of out there. This is not something that just for other people who are really bad. And maybe in more ways even within we realize it. I listened to something the other day that was talking about like, you know, how e I mean, since the pandemic, right, Amazon the Amazon shipping now, we just order everything now. I'm like uh toilet paper, date, paper down, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop. Clicking buttons Um and I saw something the other day about how the conditions of workers who are in warehouses uh doing this stuff, um, it's not in great form, so they just like It's it's kind of a crazy situation for a lot of them maybe. Although they have jobs, but it's it's not but I'm still I I'm still doing it. I'm like shipping group. Uh there's a complacency there And so that burial site, again, if you bought something, you bought a plot there, you're benefiting from the blood of the innocent. How often is it that we are, you know, blood on your hands, you don't even know how to adapt it. Let's look at the next few verses. We're looking at pilot, we're looking at pilot and the crowd together, uh, because their stories Intertwined. Verse 11. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asks him, Are you the King of the Jews? This is the only time Jesus states this whole thing. He says, You have said so. But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer. Then Pilate said to them, Do you not hear how many things they testify against me? But he gave them no answer. Jesus. Jesus gave them no answer, not even to a single charge. So that the governor was greatly amazed. So here we have Pilate. He's trying to work with these guys, trying to keep the peace. Let's just sort of get through this. I don't need another ride. I just You know, uh and and it says that he is amazed by Jesus. Uh and Jesus says He says, look, uh, Pilate said, are you the king of the Jews? Jesus says, well you you have said so. I don't think this is like sniffy or sarcastic on Jesus' part. He doesn't deny the charge. But I think he's indicating here, look, we have we have very different views of what that means. We read on in verse 15, and it says, now at the feast of the governor was it was a custom to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted. And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barackas. So when they gathered, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release for you? Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? For he knew that it was out of envy that they delivered him up. He's aware, but this is an issue of justice. He knew it was out of envy that they delivered him up. Besides, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent a word to him, Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered much. because of him today in a dream. Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas. and destroy Jesus. And the governor said again to them, Which of the two do you want me to release to you? And they said, Barabbas. Pilate said to them, Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? And they all said, Let him be crucified. And Pilate said, Why? What evil has he done? And they shouted all the more, Let him be crucified. So uh they call a notorious prisoner called Barazz. Anybody have anybody have it here by me from the ESV? Anybody have the NIV? Anybody have a different or an additional word of translation there with Barazz? You 've got me an ID. You'll notice that it says Jesus Barazz. Some translations, and it'll have a little marks there. It'll say some manuscripts say, a little footnote, says some manuscripts say Jesus Baratus. That's fascinating. Because that's two Jesus's here. Jesus Barat. Bar Abas. You know the Hebrew bar? You know Simon Peter? His name is what? Simon, Bar , Jones. Bar , son of Abba, Abba. How are we taught to pray? Pray to in the name of the Father who is Abba. Isn't this interesting? Did you know that? Uh so this is Jesus, Barabbas, son of the father. So you have two Jesuses. One is Jesus, Son of the Father, and one, whom Pilate reiterates several times, is Jesus also called the Christ, the Messiah. Matthew notes that Barabbas, Baraba is a notorious prisoner. He doesn't say why, but he is notorious. He's well known. Mark, in his account, tells us why he's well known. Mark 15, 6 describes Baradus as a man who is among the rebels in prison who had committed murder in the insurrection. And so Barabas is a murderer. He's a Jewish freedom fighter. He's been fighting for the Jews against Roman rule and oppression. And so it is, it's so interesting. There are two Jesuses here before the crowd. Jesus is a very common name, by the way. Yeshua, Joshua, super common, you know. A lot of people named Jesus at the time. One is the Christ, and the other is a Jewish freedom fighter. You could not have two more opposite people here Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus the Christ who represents the kingdom of God and the way of peace, Jesus who hours before tells his own disciple, put your sword down. We're not doing it that way. And then you have Jesus Baralas, who represents the opposite of that. Rebellion, bloodshed , an imprisoned murderer. He represents Jewish freedom by way of the sword. And so the crowd now has a choice to make. In the midst of all this, you feel for Pilate, is in the midst of all this, he gets a message from his wife, who says, look, have nothing to do with the innocent man, Jesus. You know, she's kind of reinforcing that by way of uh you know some some sort of sign, some sort of dream she has suffered because I had a dream about this guy, you should have nothing. Uh to do it. She's not there, she shouldn't have any direct involvement except for this uh this message that she sent. So Pilate turns to the crowd looking for a way out, I think, uh of the predicament then, because it seems clear to him that he knows Jesus is innocent. He knows Jesus is innocent He knows that he's been put before them because of their envy. And so we have to remember again the character of Pilate, his background, he does not care about justice for the Jewish people. He hates the Jews, he hates his job, uh he wants to be back at his house which is uh many, many miles away on the beach. Um It would be entirely in character for him to just render a verdict of just do what they want and then move on. But he asks and then asks again. What should I do? You know, what do what do you who do you want? And then and then what should I do with? And and why? What what has he done? What should I do with him? Crucify him. Why? What does he do? Crucify him. A riot has started. So he calls for a bowl of water and he washes his hands. Verse 24. So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was beginning. Another riot. He took water, washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man 's blood. Blood and innocence. I'm innocent to this man's blood. See to it yourselves. You guys take care of it. I'm out. And all the people answered, His blood be on us and on our children. And then he released for them Barabbas, having scourged Jesus, having beaten him, whipped him, and delivered him then to be crucified. Pilot says, I am innocent of this man's blood. He knows Jesus is innocent, but he doesn't want to deal with another riot, so he declares his own innocence. Right? Before everyone, he denies Jesus justice for his innocence. It's completely self-serving, right? It's it's tragic uh and ironic that he declares his innocence while taking on uh the blood guilt uh for his part in the shedding of innocent, actual innocent blood. And the crowd's response is so damning. His blood be on us and on our children. Now they're misinformed. They've been manipulated by the chief priest, verse 20 uh the the the religious had been uh persuading them, had been working the crowds, driving them, shepherding them. And they willingly accept the responsibility for Jesus' death. Because they view him as a as a threat, as a threat to national security, as a threat to temple, whatever. They willingly take on something that they don't really understand. And they choose Instead, the Messiah that they really wanted all along. A military Savior. Jesus Bar Abbas. Who would usher in, he won't, but uh a Savior who would uh usher in a physical kingdom, not the kingdom of God but a physical savior for Israel. And so we have these portraits, these portrayals of blood, guilt here. Uh and I wonder where we would see ourselves uh in the story as we reflect. Again, we have Judas who realizes his sin and his guilt. He realizes that fully, but comes to the wrong conclusion. He says, there's blood on my hands, but there's nothing that can be done about it. There's no hope, there's no way out. And so he he he dips out. He doesn't finish the story. He retreats so far into despair that he takes his own life. You know, the religious leaders, again, both deceived about who Jesus is, and so they become deceivers. of the people. And they're aware of it. Right? It's blood money. We can't give this back to God. Let's be summing nice to the people. We're going to work on bifields and convince ourselves and others that we are on the right side. We've got Pilate, who's aware, I think, of his contribution. He's not unaware of how he's hurting people. He's already shed a lot of blood. He just doesn't care. And so there's a level of apathy, there's a desire there for self-preservation , and he will just say, I'll put it all on you guys, and I'll declare myself innocent. It's self-righteousness. And you have the crowd who are willing, though they don't understand what they're doing, they're saying, yeah, like for the state of what we think needs to happen as far as Kingdoms and rule and this this present age we'll take we'll we'll take on that guilt. You know what? I'll take it, we'll take it on us and put it on our children as well. Not fully knowing what they're doing, not understanding the cost. And so um we're all participants uh in the blood of the innocent. But there's only one innocent person in the story. Again, that's Jesus, the only truly innocent one. Who makes no attempt to stand up for himself, as we think maybe a good American might. Or even a normal human person might do. He doesn't stand up for himself. He doesn't declare himself innocent or guilty. He simply moves calmly and purposefully toward the cross, toward the kingdom that he is ushering in. He is going to die for all of these people. And you consider the people and the stories, many of whom we can look at and say, man, that's despicable. Right? Look what Judas did. Those crowds, how dare they? Pilate, what an idiot! The chief priest, what jerks. Jesus is gonna die for all of us. He's going to die for Judas. He's going to lay his life down for the chief priests, for Pilate, and for the crowd. We probably have a category of person in our own minds and hearts whom we despise Jesus has laid his life down for them. In the midst of our brokenness and our guilt, in the midst of the blood that's on our hands Whether that is from actual physical murder or if you understand the text correctly, just as bad, uh the murder that's taking place in our hearts. There's still blood on our hands. So Jesus, the Son of God, will die for that. You will shed his blood. To cover up that look. Romans five, six, seven, and eight said you see, at just the right time At the perfect moment when we were powerless, at just the right time when we were powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. Very rarely Will anyone die for a righteous person, though for a good person, someone might possibly dare to die? But God demonstrates his own love for us in this, while we were still sinners. While we still had blood on our hands. We can't wash it off. We can't just declare ourselves innocent. We can't Check out early. And just for our time while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Hebrews 9, 12 through 14. Tell us that Jesus entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats or calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing for you eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctified for the purification of the flesh hearkening back to the Old Testament sacrificial system where um you know you blood must be shed for the forgiveness of your sin. This is uh the most symbolic um sacrifice that takes place Right? If it's got to put all that in place temporarily , it worked in a temporary way, how much more then will the blood of Jesus Who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience From dead works to serve the living God. There's a lot there, right? What we have here in Matthew 27 is Jesus offering himself. On our behalf, purifying our conscience, which should rightly be pretty upset about the blood on our hands. Purifies our conscience from dead works. Whatever fields we've bought, whatever how however it is we've declared ourselves innocent. However, if we try to convince others how innocent and good we are, dead works. We're freed from all that now to serve the living God. Ephesians 1 7, in him, in Christ, we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches Of the great Acts 2028, pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the Church of God. which he has made with his own blood. Colossians 1, 15 through 20. He is the image. Jesus is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created. In heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. See his majesty and his greatness there. You're up here. I'm I'm here, you guys look yep here, I might as well preach a little bit. Um He is before all things And in him, all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything, Jesus Christ might be preeminent, for in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace By the blood of his cross. Revelation 5:9, they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you. To take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain, and by your blood, he ransoms people for God, for every tribe and language and people and nation. And so it is the blood of Jesus that brings forgiveness. It is the blood of Jesus that covers the murder of the that we have committed, the blood on our hands, and the blood that stores our lives. It's not the blood of bulls, it's not the blood of lambs, it's not the blood of your sacrifice or mine. 2 Corinthians 5, 21 said, God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. And so at the cross Jesus takes your sin and my sin upon himself. The only truly innocent one in this whole mess To become the very worst of what we are or could be. We stood in our place and took our punishment. Served as a perfect sacrifice before God for our sins, what Martin Luther called, I'm sure you've heard the phrase, the great exchange that Christ takes on our unrighteousness, gives up in exchange his righteousness. It's our death for his life. It's our filth for his purity. It's our debt for his payment. It's our punishment for his reward. It's our brokenness for his wholeness. It's our complete imperfection exchanged for his eternal perfection. It's our utter sinless sinfulness for his perfect holiness. All exchanged through the medium of his blood. His blood is life. And so we uh as we again consider these these themes of the kingdom of God, the coming kingdom, the kingdom that is at hand, this kingdom, this gospel, this good news. That we saw Jesus proclaiming in Mark 1 and 2. As we consider our own guilt. As we feel the weight and heaviness of that, as we should. Christian maturity is not losing sight of that Nor is it being crushed under the weight of. But it's realizing that tension between who we are and who Christ is making us. Realizing that tension between what we have been saved from. And whom we have been saved to. And so as we consider all of this Uh we should consider it with certainly with gravity, certainly with uh some amount of sadness and repentance for the way this has played out, but also with uh A deep sense of gratitude and thankfulness. We approach in humility for the fact that by his stripes we are healed, that in him we have redemption through his blood. In accordance with the riches of God's grace, that we have confidence now to enter the most holy place, to enter into the presence of God, Hebrews 10, 19. confidence by the blood of Jesus. 1 John 1. 7. It's the blood of Jesus, the Son of God, that has purified us. That's washed out that spot. Revelation 1. 6. Jesus loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood. And so to him be glory and power forever and ever. Amen. Because of the blood on our hands, Jesus Christ has lived the life that we should have lived and died the death that we should have died. So that through him and him alone we are forgiven and reconciled, no longer rejected as enemies of God, but welcomed as friends, no longer vile and dirty and unclean, but clean. Now pure as snow. So I'll end our session by reading a section from 1 Peter. This is 1 Peter 1 , verses 13 through 19. It's a good section. We want to take some time to Read, reflect , chew on something this afternoon. 1 Peter 1, 13 through 9. Therefore, preparing your minds for action , being sober-minded Set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. We'll look at that later this evening, the revelation of Jesus Christ. The fact that Jesus is coming back. We'll look at it through the lens of 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, where a church body, not unlike our own church bodies, misunderstood. How I win what that was gonna be like, Jesus coming back. And so how did how to navigate that? But here we're to set our mind and our hope fully on this grace brought to us at the revelation of Jesus Christ, as obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call upon him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourself with fear throughout the time of your exile. Knowing that you are ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers. Let his blood be upon us and upon our children. You're ransomed from that. Not with perishable things like silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. Thirty pieces of silver didn't save you. Minefield doesn't save you. Nothing perishable like silver or gold saved you. It was the precious blood of Christ, like that of the Lamb without the remote for it. Great Father, thank you so much. For your goodness and care and kindness in saving us, Lord, not through perishable means. But in the sacrifice of your son sent on our behalf. Father, what a tremendous reality that we glimpse this morning. Lord, as we consider our heart, Father, we confess the blood that is on our hands. Father, we repent. We are saddened. We are grieved by that Lord, but because of your word and your spirit, we don't grieve as the word grieved. We don't grieve as Judas grieved. We don't unwillingly uh take on responsibility for for for uh denying the cost as the crowd did. We don't like like Pilate simply declare ourselves innocent. Father, we look to you, to your son, who shed his blood on the cross. We look there and there alone. For the blood that that cleanses, that both indicts us, shows us our guilt But also removed. Father, only you could could put such a thing together. So Father, we come humbly and gratefully, grateful for this time together, and I pray, Father, that it would be Refreshing for us to be here and spend time together knowing, Father, the great cost that you have incurred on our behalf and rejoicing in humility and gratitude that you have made a way back. So Father, we give you the remainder of our time. We pray that your word will take root in our hearts bearing good fruit through the power of your Spirit, setting our minds and our wills and our affections. on a right path. As we become conformed to the image of our Savior, Jesus Christ. So we give you the rest of our day. Thanking me for it in his name. Amen. I don't think it's a call, we have to open it.