Welcome back to the evening session when you've been out playing softball, got a big spaghetti dinner in your belly, wood fires burning in the back. Oh man, this is the tough one, but it's gonna be a good one. Uh so again, just to uh revisit our our theme first. Uh uh that's sort of anchoring our anchoring thought for the weekend. Uh from Ephesians 2, 12 and 13. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the Commonwealth uh of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world But now in Christ Jesus, you who are once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. And so we uh looked That was at stake with the coming kingdom of God, the message that Christ Himself proclaimed as uh his ministry during his time of of of earthly ministry. Uh and in looking at that message we've seen what our greatest need is, not uh uh emotional, it's not physical, uh, it's not otherwise, it is a a spiritual need in God's uh great provisions Through the death of his son , Jesus, the Christ, whose blood was shed on our behalf That shed blood we said both uh indices us, uh it shows us our guilt, it shows us the blood on our hands, uh, and also cleanses us and covers us uh simultaneously pointing out our incontrovertible uh guilt while making infinite provision for it And so we sort of are going to turn the corner now and delve into a chapter in an epistle, and we're going to look at how we might live this out. We're going to look at a What probably seems like an unlikely place to examine this, but it's going to be in set uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. And what I want us to see this evening is that because we are now, we are purchased people, we are no longer living in blood guilt, but we are blood bought Blood purchased, purchased by the blood of Christ. We are blood-bought people. And so now we have an obligation to our master, to Christ. And that specific obligation, as we're going to see tonight, is to uh both proclaim and honor The Word of God. Jesus is the Word made flesh, the living word , and has given us the text that we have, the scriptures. The inspired, inerrant, God-breathed. Bible that we are to allow in our lives to be a guiding force, the guiding force, to lead and guide and convict and correct and rebuke and encourage Uh his people. The word is both rod and staff. In Psalm uh twenty-three, uh the a comforting thing about The shepherd is that he carries two things, right? He carries a rod, he carries a staff. You can think of the rod as that uh hard, abrupt thing that's for beating off uh the wolves, giving them away and rebuking and correcting. And you have the staff, which is for more gentle, specific guidance, pulling us back from the edges when we wonder. leading us this way and that. And the word is both. It's both rod and staff. And I think as we will see today, we are called to honor and obey the word in light of the reality. That Jesus has purchased us by his blood. And in light of uh the The fact, the hope, not the hope like, uh, I hope it does rain, but I don't really know, uh, but the hope, uh, that is the biblical hope, the reassurance. of Jesus' return. The story doesn't end at the cross. That is simply the point of purchase for you and I. So now we await his return. Um if you are familiar in, I think you're probably familiar to some degree with how I tend to uh teach When I do, uh I often will start with a story that is loosely related. Usually about my kids. Uh lately uh about Sam though I figured maybe giving him a big head but I'm gonna I'm gonna start with a uh a Sam story. Uh another one. Uh those of you who have interacted with him or observed him this weekend, you know he's He's just he's sort of his own thing. We had Caleb and Bat, the boy and a girl, and then we had a Sam, so we often tell people, well, we had one of each. Uh last summer at the end of uh in the summer my family and I usually take uh a vacation down to the Outer Banks, North Carolina. Unfortunately, we did, we did go. But a day before we were about to leave, uh Sam injured himself, which is not a rare occurrence. uh in our family, but he had ripped, uh jumped off of something, landed on a uh a jagged stump and ripped uh a large sweat down his chin. And it wasn't so bad that he needed stitches, but it wasn't bad enough that the doctor said, hey, he needs to not go into the water the first three days. He's got to keep recovery, he's going to get infected. We want to avoid that. Uh and so that was kind of a bummer. So we get there, we're there the first day, uh Sam's cousins and and uh the rest of the family are getting ready to go to the beach, uh but we don't know where Sam is. I can't find Sam. I think, ah, poor guy, he's probably sitting in a dark room feeling sorry for himself. Can't go out to the water. Not the case. A downstand in the driveway of the house we were in. Stacked up two boxes. and uh was selling seashells. Uh made himself a sign for 50 cents. He had an umbrella out and sitting in a chair And being the good, encouraging father that I am, I went out to him as a champ. I don't want to point out the obvious, but people can just pick these things up off the ground. They're not going to come to you to buy them for 56 piece. Also, we're on this sort of weird little side road I don't know if this is really gonna work out for you. But he said, hey Dad, I'm gonna give it a shot. What else am I gonna do? So everyone. Um so about two and a half hours later, Sam comes back in the house and he has twenty-five dollars in cash. And I said, Sam, where'd this money come from? And he said, Sam sells seashells by seashore. It doesn't stop there, he's better. He said, here's Here's five bucks. Can you can somebody go to the store and get me some cup limited mix? Uh tomorrow I'm gonna sell T-Sailed and Limited. And I said, be any critic. Sam, we got this pandemic on. Nobody's gonna buy lemonade. He's like, just let me do it. All right. So the next day he got two, two, three hours. Just sitting there by the roadside, comes back and about 35 bucks cash. Additional 35 bucks cash. Uh the third day, third and final day before he can uh get in the water. Uh he's out there for twenty minutes. He comes in and he has a handfuls have fifty dollars in once. And he said, some lady came by and paid me fifty dollars for one cup of lemonade. I'm retired. And she was like, hey, I'll I'm and she's a good thing. Hey, this is my story. Well I appreciated uh I uh I'm not sure I agreed with retiring, totally retiring at nine, uh, but I I appreciated his work And apparently so did a lot of other people. And that's sort of the transition. That's my loosely related story into the transition into the text, the Second Thessalonians III. In 2 Thessalonians 3, what Paul is doing is encouraging a local church body, a body like yours, like mine, a church, a blood bot. He's encouraging them in their love for Jesus and in their love for each other and instructing them how to deal with some people within their church who have fallen into a specific bad work practices. In fact, some of them have stopped working altogether due to a theological error and their refusal to course correct. when called out on this error. What was the theological error? Well in 1 Thessalonians, the first, you know, so we're in the second, the end of the second letter that he wrote to the first letter he wrote to the Thessalonian church. Paul instructed, one of the things he did in that letter was instruct them regarding the day of the Lord or regarding the return of Jesus. And at some point after they had received his first letter, where he teaches about the day of the Lord, false teachers began infiltrating The church there, telling the church in Thessalonica that Jesus had in fact already returned, and that now the day of judgment, the day of final judgment was upon And these false teachers were saying, hey, also this message that we're giving you, this is from Paul. So they were pretending to deliver this message in the name of Paul. And so that's why Paul writes the second letter to directly. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, you'll see that's a pretty short chapter. It takes up about half a page in my Bible. But there's a lot here. Paul's prior teaching about the return of Christ had been so misunderstood and so twisted Again, that some portion of this church body had quit their job. They'd abdicated their responsibility to work. uh in order to wait on judgment day, which on one hand you say, man, that that sounds pretty spiritual, until you see that Paul points out that all it really did was lead to them being busybodies and meddlers. That they were so heavenly-minded that they were no earthly good, to borrow a phrase. And so a segment of believers within this church Again, even though they're all believers, we're going to point that out. They are all purchased by the blood of Christ, but you have a segment of them living in a way That was unloving, that was burdensome, and that was disruptive to fellow believers within the church. And also served as a bad witness to those outside the church. And so this chapter is really a disciplinary call to obedience to the Word of God. It's going to be fun. So let's look at the first five verses, 2 Thessalonians 3. Paul writes, finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you, and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men, for not all have faith. But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one. And we have confidence in the Lord about it. and will do the things that we command. May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. Paul says pray, so let's take a moment too to keep praying. Father, would you be kind to continue to dwell with us? Now as we open your word, as we search your scriptures, Father, as we examine what it is in a practical way to live as people who are purchased. people who were once uh dead in our sin, uh Lord, drowned in our guilt, but now washed clean because of Christ. And so as we consider what your word has for us this evening, we pray that you would leave God directly. our time for our good and for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. So Paul says Pray for us that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored. And so here, immediately, Paul is calling his church uh the churches of of the Lord to obey the word. He says, yes, Jesus will return. We have that assurance. But don't check out or disengage or conduct your lives as if the time up until that point does not matter Because in relation to those outside the church, he says you should be proclaiming the word. It should be speeding out. It should be speeding ahead. And for those inside the church, It should be obeyed and honored. So we begin at verse 1. Finally, brothers, pray for us that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honor. So Paul is uh has a has a two-part prayer request here. One is that the word may speed ahead and be honored. And then in verse two And that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men. So a two-part prayer request. So right off the bat, the importance of a praying Church, a church that prays for the word to go out expediently and prays that it will be honored. Paul says to pray that the word will speed ahead It's the King James, I believe, that renders that phrase that the word may have free course, that it may run out, go out like a runner, be unencumbered. That nothing would slow it down as it goes out from the church into the world. We think of Romans 10, verses 13 through 15, which says, For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then will they call on him whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? And so we want to pray for those who bring the word, who teach the word, those within your body. You should be praying for those who teach. But you know, we don't want to just as the church uh show up and consume and evaluate. Uh there's no teacher, no pastor, no elder No volunteer within any church, yours or mine, who are so gifted and competent that they do not desperately need your prayers. So pray for the elders. Pray for your pastor and those pastors around you. Pray for me and my church, our pastors, our elders. Pray for the volunteers. Pray for those teaching children and youth. Pray that they would be diligent. Pray that they would be careful and faithful with the word. Pray for those missionaries with whom you may have relationship. as a church, pray for missionaries around the globe who are bringing the word to places that you and I may never see. Pray for each other. Pray that we would honor the word. Pray that we would seek to obey the word. Pray that we would not simply be hearers of the word, but doers of the word, as James says. Pray for those in the seats next to you. Pray for those who join you via Zoom. Pray for those who will listen to your recordings later. Our children's uh ministry guy named Tony Cho has a, he's sort of famous in our church. He says, uh for this little phrase he said. He says, uh prayer is the most we can do. I got I got tired of thinking to myself. People would come to me and they'd say, Hey, will you pray for me? And you'd say, Ah, it's the leap I can do. And they got peacefully , no, no, prayer is the most I can do. Uh prayer is so important. So be involved in the life of your church uh by praying. The bride of Christ in the church was never meant to be merely a spectator. support your participation uh in your body through prayer at a minimum is absolutely vital for your spiritual well-being uh and uh the health of your church. And so pray that the word of God would speed ahead and pray that it would be honored. And so by those within the church That they would honor the Lord and pray that it would be honored by those who will become the church, those who are not yet believers, but who will hear the word of God. And through his Spirit, honor and give their lives to Christ, praying that the word would go out and praying that it would be honored and obeyed as a hallmark of a blood-bought Christian. And I love that Paul includes the phrase here. In verse 1, he says, and be honored as happened among you. See, the Thessalonian church had been recipients of the gospel faithfulness of others. Others who had been sent out, others who had done the thing that Paul is commending them to do here. In fact, it was Paul and Silas in Acts 17. You can read about the foundation of the founding of the Thessalonian Church in Acts 17. The Thessalonian Church had been established. by the saving power of the gospel brought by Paul and Silas on a missionary journey. And they were transformed from a community of pagans into a community of Christ followers. Blood bought men and women who submitted their lives to Christ And Paul actually gives us some specific uh insight into how they honored uh the Word of God in his first letter, in 1 Thessalonians 2 verses 13 and 14, he says, and we also thank God constantly for this: that when you receive the word of God, which you heard from us You accepted it not as the word , of men, but as what it really is. The word of God, which is at work in you believers. For you, brothers. Became imitators of the Church of God and Jesus Christ that are in Judea. You, as uh Ferndale Baptists, right? You are recipients of the gospel faithfulness of hundreds or thousands of churches before you who sent out the word To those who received the word and became those who honored the word, so they sent out the word to those who received the word who learned honored the word and so on and so forth. You have received And we trust honor the word. And so pray as a church that you will be able to continue that beautiful That's the first part of Paul's prayer request here that the word is to be proclaimed to those outside the church and honored and obeyed by those inside the church. Let's look at verse 2, the second request. He says, and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men, for not all have faith. So second request is to be delivered from evil men who do not have faith, those who oppose the Word of God. So here Paul is giving us two categories of people. In relation to the word. There are those who honor the word, and there are those who oppose the word. There are those who enable the word. They're those who inhibit the word. We are surrounded, this is not a news flash, we're surrounded by those who oppose the word Who opposed God's word? I don't need to cite examples to you. You can just pick the headline. It was the same for Paul Everywhere that he went, he was opposed. He encountered evil men who opposed the proclamation of the Word of God and prohibited others from obedience to it. And so in light of that, the church is not to just remain silent or passive, the church is to continue to proclaim, to continue to pray, because not all have faith. And that is that's difficult. That's a difficult environment to have to live out your belief in. It's difficult to live for Jesus when so much outside of you and often so much within you resists that. But it shouldn't dishearten us. Because as we see in the next verse, God is faithful. So not all have faith at the end of verse 2, verse 3, but The Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one. Verse 4, we have confidence in the Lord about you that you are doing That you are doing and will do the things that we command. And so while men are not faithful, God is. And it's God's faithfulness that's the basis for Paul's confidence in the Thessalonian church. He says, I have confidence in you, not because you are so great. In your faithfulness, but because God is great in his faithfulness. Paul says that he uh will establish and guard you. Against the evil one. That he will keep us from evil. Not meaning our lives won't be untouched or unaffected by evil or evil things or evil happenings. But that evil in general, an evil in the specific person of Satan, will not ultimately overcome us. We have assurance. Because of God's faithfulness, an ultimate victory, ultimate rest. And therefore, Paul says to you are we are being established. He strengthens us, he sets us in place. Part of what a good shepherd would do, a good master will do, being purchased, he now establishes us. Even when we struggle to be faithful as believers, when we struggle to be faithful to the Lord, we struggle to be faithful in prayer, we struggle to be faithful in honoring or proclaiming God's word, even when we struggle in our faithfulness, God is faithful. Our faithfulness matters, and the absence of our faithfulness has consequences But it is the faithfulness of God, not the faithfulness of man, which is the keystone element of the gospel that he has done for us, right? But we can never do for ourselves And so when we sin, when we step away from his word, when we refuse either in willful uh rebellion or simple ignorance when we refuse to honor his word uh in whatever ways our unfaithfulness is flaunted before God uh he is not dismayed he is not discouraged He is not disengaged, he remains faithful. And because of his faithfulness, you and I can be confident in that which he has called us. And in uh because of his faithfulness, when the word that we treasure is opposed by wicked men, we too can be encouraged. We ought to be encouraged because we too were once those wicked men. We too once opposed the word. No one seeks God, no not one. Ephesians makes it clear as well that we were born dead in our sins. Romans tells us that all have sinned, all have fallen short. God has always been faithful when men are faithful. That the good reason To not lose hope. It is the best reason to not grow weary in doing good, as Paul will tell us later. And so in verse 5, after he makes his requests, says to me This encouragement out praise relief. And may the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. Uh if if by way you at times struggle to know how to pray Pray that. Pray scripture. Scripture is full of these beautiful, simple little prayers. This is an example of one of them. It's so simple, but yet have a uh there's a profundity to it But the Lord, he says, the Lord will direct their hearts to two things. The love of God and the steadfastness of Christ. The love of God is that love by which we are saved. That love is the foundational element of who God is, according to 1 John 4. So God is love. And it shows us his foundational stance toward his people, those whom he has purchased. out of blood guilt and ushered into his family, into his kingdom. That's that transformative love of the gospel. And so he prays that their hearts would be constantly directed to the love of God and to this such vastness of Christ. And so again, as they consider the day of the Lord, if the Thessalonians are wrestling , uh with what it is and when it is that Christ is coming, uh as they consider that. And as they do endure evil men uh in evil days, he prays that they would be steadfast. In patient endurance through the passage of time and affliction. Now, you need both the love of God and the steadfastness of Christ. You cannot uh know the steadfastness of Christ. without the love of God. But if you cease to be steadfast in Jesus, you will begin to doubt God's love. So we are to be patient and steadfast until Christ returns Knowing that God loves us. But we should make a distinction that some in the Thessalonian church failed to make, the distinction that patience It 's not passivity. Let's read the next six verses, starting in verse six. He says, now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness. And not in accord with the tradition that you received from us. For you yourself know how you ought to imitate us. Because we were not idle when we were with you, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you It is not because we did not have that right, but rather to give you and ourselves an example to imitate. For even when we were with you, we would give you this command. If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busy bodies. Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. So again, what's happening here is that because of the false teachings about the coming of Christ, the day of the Lord, covered uh in uh in chapter two actually of of uh 2 Thessalonians, uh he goes into the specifics of that, correcting uh their theological error. Now he's correcting this this chapter is correcting their practice. But some portion of their church body has quit their jobs and are now taking advantage of the generosity of others within their church who are continuing to work and provide for their families. And so you have a segment of people there who have potentially said, Hey, Jesus is coming back real soon, so let's quit our jobs. Uh we can forget about work. We don't need to worry about uh providing for our family, we don't need to worry about paying our bills. But you can only do that for so long before you run out of food. And so what it appears that they're doing then is showing up at the working families' houses. Hanging out all day, eating their food, uh disrupting the regular rhythms uh of life for these other families because they have nothing better to do Paul says that they'd become busybodies, they'd become meddlers. And this has caused, as you might imagine, no small amount of tension and division within this church. Body. Let's break it down sort of verse by verse. Verse 6. Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you receive from us. It's a very strong command that he gives there. He says command, and then he goes as far as say, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's an emphatic call to withdraw from those whom he says are uh walking in idleness. Uh some translations may say uh walking in unruliness. The word that Paul is using there is a word that has military connotations, meaning that these people are out of rank. They are disorderly. They're out of the prescribed order. They're living in a way that would be opposite of Paul's desire for them to be established, as he says in verse 4, and to be steadfast, as he says in verse 5. You don't get the sense, given Paul's tone here, that these are that these that these brothers walking in idleness are folks who are just sort of living a life now of quiet Piety, humbly waiting for the Lord, but rather they're living in such a way so as to presume uh upon their brothers and sisters in the Lord in ways that are unloving, in ways that are burdensome, and in ways that are disrupted. And in ways that are a poor witness of Christ to those outside the church observing them. So these brothers are living a life that is consistently unruly in regard to what Paul calls the tradition that you received from us. That he used the same word in the last chapter of 2 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians 2. 15. uh and he tells them to stand firm or to hold to the traditions uh passed along to them. Now when he is using the word traditions, uh what he means are the instructions from the Lord. That's not in uh tradition in terms you know that we would use it, like what sort of food you always prepare at Easter, what you know, whether you wear a suit or not to to church. What sort of songs do you like to sing in Christmas? It's not tradition like that. What the word means is precept. It's the traditionary law, or the instruction given to them, to the church by God. through the apostle Paul. And so these are brothers within the church who are walking in this, Paul says. These are brothers who are being deliberately disobedient in an ongoing Wait, and this is not the first time he's addressed this uh this crowd. In his first letter 1 Thessalonians 4, 11, and 12. He's already identified maybe some perchance for this in the church, because he wrote to them in the church letter that they would aspire to live quietly, that they would mind their own affairs. He says, work with your own hands. as we instructed you, so that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one. And so he's now commanding the church to withdraw Or to draw away from these brothers. I don't think it means like, hey, don't let them show up to worship, but it's saying relationally, you need to create some distance. You need to create some space here Because though they are brothers, he will emphasize this later. They are any and he emphasizes without he calls them brothers. He never refers to them as unbelievers These are brothers, but they have seek to walk in humble obedience to Jesus. Not as a brief stumble, but as a habit, as an ongoing habit. In verses 7 and 8, he says, For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us , meaning him, Paul, Philas, and maybe Timothy, who probably delivered this letter. Because we were not idle when we were with you. Again, Acts 17. Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any. So these are brothers, these idle brothers are not to be imitated. But rather Paul is asking them to consider the example that he and Silas When they planted the church there in Thessalonica, again, Acts 17, when they were there, Paul and Silas didn't presume upon anyone. in a burdensome way because they were able to work. And so Paul's not instructing them to do something that he has not already done himself. He's not telling them to do something different than what he and Silas did when they were there. And so if we consider, you know, any application for ourselves, you want a good uh reflection question. So what do I do with that? And you say, well, is your work ethic one that is biblical? Would you, uh in those tasks that you have stewardship over, would you be comfortable saying with Paul, imitate me? Remember my example as a blood bought Christian person. Probably a question worthy of our consideration on a regular basis. In verse 8 he says, so that we might not be a burden That's an interesting statement. When I first sort of read through that, I was like, wait, aren't we supposed to actually bear one another's burdens? Because Paul does write in Galatians 6. 2 exactly what he says. He says, bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. But that particular part bear one of his burdens. It's like one of the it's a coffee cup verse sometimes. So just that part gets printed on the coffee cup, or that's what's in our mind, ah bear one of his burdens. But it's not meant to be a standalone verse. Galatians 62 is followed by Galatians 6. 5, which says uh Each must also bear his own load. And so with there within a few verses, Paul is saying, well, bear one of the burdens, but also bear your own load. You know, what do you want me to do, Paul? I think what Paul is saying is that we are to aim at not being a burden to other people. But we should recognize and realize that there will be times when we miss that mark, either due to our own sin , or due to circumstances outside of our control. And when those times when those times come Other brothers and sisters in Christ, other blood-bought believers, should be ready and willing to lock arms with us to bear our burdens in the season that we need them to do so, and we should be ready and willing to allow them to do that But there will be those who willingly burden others as a result of habitual and ongoing disobedience to the word. And that, according to Paul, would be a different category, one that Paul says here is not acceptable and should not be imitated because it dishonors the word of God. Verse 9. Paul says, it was not because we did not have that right. Right? He said, while we were there. We didn't you know we we conducted ourselves in this way. We we worked toil and labor, we didn't take your bread without paying for it. It wasn't because we didn't have the right to do so He said we we we could have, but to give you and ourselves an example to imitate. And so here again. Paul's life, for example, if you sort of hold the thread of Paul's life and writing, it will always lead you back to Jesus. And here he's pointing us, I think, to Jesus, who had the right to deny the cross, but instead went toward it, scoring its chain, laying down his life that he might purchase ours. And so again in terms of uh personal reflection or application uh we might ask ourselves, uh what are those areas where I have taken up my rights? But I need to set them aside Because of taking them up, my life, my example is no longer pointing to Jesus. Again. Probably a consideration, a question we should ask ourselves regularly. In those areas where I've taken up my rights Where do I need to set them aside again? Because in taking them up, my example is no longer pointing to Jesus. Verse simple It says, for even when we were with you, we would give you this command. If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. Now that resonates with me. I grew up in uh in rural Kentucky. We had no electricity. Uh by choice, by great choice, my dad, my mom was a schoolteacher, uh, my father was a green beret uh in the special forces of the army. Uh they were hardworking people who did not want to be dependent on anybody, and so we grew our own food, we worked the land. Uh I was that this was I don't know that I don't remember them saying it, but it was pretty clear you don't work, uh you don't eat. Now I like that Paul does point out, he says, for even when we were with you. So it's like maybe a little jabby, but God has sort of already covered this But they have clearly not responded. He says if someone or if anyone is not willing to work, if anyone is not willing to work. No, so this is not about people who are incapacitated. This isn't about sending your small children out to labor camps This isn't about those who have legitimate circumstances that keep them from Working in some form or fashion. Paul is addressing specifically those who can work But choose not to. They choose instead to take advantage of the work of others. I wonder if there are modern parallels to this. is an interesting topic because a lot of people associate work with difficulty And there's reason for that, but what we have to look at is that work is actually an aspect of God's creation. Work was in place before the fall. Work was part of the system that God had already declared good. Now the curse of sin has affected work. It makes aspects of work burdensome and painful and difficult. But work itself is something that is from the Lord. And so we don't want to give work more than it is due, right? We don't make work the thing in which we find our ultimate fulfillment, our ultimate identity, our ultimate security. But we also don't make it less than what God intended it to be either. We're to be God given responsibility To able-bodied people. For some within the Thessalonian church, they were able to work, but chose not to, chose to live off the work of others instead. It's not A matter of could they? It's a matter of would they. They were not unable. They were unwilling. Now their issue was And so again, thinking back maybe to a way to bring this home for us, a good reflection question. might be in you know in the context of your church and your life, what are those things you are neglecting or refusing to do Not because you are unable, but because you are unwilling. Worthy of ongoing consideration. Verse eleven. He says, For we hear that some among you walk in idleness. Not busy at work, but busy bodies. It's a funny little play on words that he uses there, the phrase uh in the Greek uh is uh essentially I I think says uh you are busy doing no business. And so we have here a thing that we are to do. You are to be busy at work. Those things that you have stewardship of. You're to work diligently, quietly, and humbly. As a blood-bought Christian waiting for the return of the Lord. So we have a thing we are to do. We have a thing we are not to do. We are not to be busy at doing no business. Busy at but but not doing anything that's actually productive. We're not to become idle busybodies. There's a Greek phrase in there that means to sort of bustle about meaning to meddle in the affairs of others, to take up their time, effort, energy, and resources because you are not managing your own money. And again, he uses the term walking. You 're walking in this, again, pointing to their ongoing perpetual denial of the goodness of God's gift of work. Verse 12. He says, Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. Again, this is truth with love. I think there's a refreshing clarity here. There's Brahmas. He is wielding both rod and staff. I encourage and command you in the name of the Lord. He's reiterating again, hearkening back, I think, to that section in 1 Thessalonians 4. 11 that we read earlier, aspire, where he tells him to aspire to live quietly, to mind your own affairs, to work with your hands uh as you were instructed, so that you're walking properly uh before outsiders uh and dependent on no one. Uh it sort of points, I think, to a dual purpose within a local body. It's seeking to honor uh God by obeying his word. But it's healthy and right for those worshiping within the church to obey the word and is a compelling witness to those outside the church when we do so. Looking at verses thirteen through fifteen. Excuse me. He says, as for you brothers Do not grow weary in doing good. If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed. But do not regard him as an enemy, but warn him as a brother. Verse 13, he says, do not grow weary in doing good. There's an aspect where we can read this as part of the warning to those who are idle. Because look, it is good that you work. So don't grow weary. But it is also an encouragement to those who are doing the good work of work. So he says do not grow weary in that. It is generally easier To just enable others in their sin might have been easier in many senses to not call these brothers to obedience to the word because that's hard work. It's hard work to be in someone else's life to the point where you might go to them and call them out of an area of disobedience into an area of obedience. That's hard work, but it is good work. To proclaim and honor the Word of God is hard work, but it is good work, and so we are not to grow weary in that Because God is faith. Verse 14. If anyone did not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person And have nothing to do with him that he may be ashamed. Modern therapeutic culture Um I don't know if it's sustained in your area. In my area, there's a lot of there's a big emphasis culturally on um Counseling and therapy, uh and uh I'm for counseling. Uh I'm for therapy for those who need it. Uh but a lot of the modern approaches to that I I let me say I'm for it when it parallels uh the scripture. Uh uh I find that a lot of uh modern therapy and and and the culture surrounding that. Uh Reinforces that all shame is bad. And I think that's wrong. I think that's worldly thinking. I I think that there is a place for shame in the human experience. I think there's a place for shame in the Christian experience. I understand that's a broad statement with a lot of nuance, but I think at a minimum Shame serves as this sort of alarm bell that says, hey, something here is not right. Something's off. I think there are things we should be ashamed of. And I think Paul is pointing one out here. They have not honored or obeyed the word of God that has been delivered to them. These are Christ's followers who have received instruction from the Lord via the Apostle Paul. They have disobeyed the word And they have been warned by those who love Jesus and who love them. And yet they continue in deliberate, ongoing disobedience. And so Paul, in reaction to that situation, says Shame on them. You should be ashamed of that. It's my opinion. I think a lot of cultural pushes that take place in our day regarding uh gender and sexuality, issues of abortion and life, I think a lot of those things are driven by shame. When we feel a shame, there are three broad ways that we can deal with that. We can hide our shame, right? That's what Adam and Eve did We can bring our shame to Christ , so we should be covered in His blood. Or, and this is what you know I think we see a lot of today, you can deal with your shame by trying to convince others that it's actually something to be accepted and celebrated and promoted. And I think that's part of the reason that Paul is asking them, asking the church to withdraw from this group of believers within their church. uh because they are bad examples and they're busybodies. Meaning they're up in everybody's businesses and meaning that either implicitly or explicitly they're promoting their view and drawing others into their error. And so Paul says, back off. Had nothing to do with them Now for some of us, that may seem harsh. You know, we may struggle, that may change a little bit in our uh with our flesh, uh, but Paul is not being mean or manipulative here Remember, this is part of a longer ongoing process. In his first letter, they've already sort of been warned on this. But they didn't listen and they didn't correct course. This analogy situation that escalated to discipline And I think it's meant to demonstrate that obedience, or sorry, disobedience, rather, it's meant to demonstrate that disobedience to the Word of God always yields consequences. And in this case, the withdrawal, the consequence is the withdrawal of the blessing of close fellowship. With those who love you enough to obey God's word, even when you will not. And so this is something that's meant to bring about what Paul calls in 2 Corinthians 7 You actually mentioned to me earlier it is about it is to bring about a godly grief that produces repentance And so Paul is saying withdraw from them that they might be ashamed of their error and so desire to step back in obedience to God's word and fellowship with God's Now implicit here is that their involvement in the life of a local church means something to them, that it is in fact something that is precious. There are some, I'm not pointing fingers, but there are some who view direct involvement in a church body as something tangential. It is a disposable aspect of following Jesus or being a blood-bought Christian, but that is unbiblical. So false, wrong view. And here in Paul's statements is a high view of the involvement in a church body that it would seem That would be shameful for the care and comfort of fellowship to be withdrawn. And so we shouldn't miss that. Scripture assumes that ongoing fellowship with other believers in a local church body is so precious and so good that if it were taken away It would draw you back to obedience to God. Verse 15. Do not regard him. as an enemy, but mourn him as a brother. Again, this is showing Paul's love and care for those who are trapped in disobedience. And so he gives a clarification to the church. He says, this is not your enemy, this is a brother. He's reinforcing to them, look, the goal here is not punishment, the goal is repentance and restoration. The goal is that the testimony of believers would honor the word of God, not make a fellow believer into an enemy. And then why would Paul specify this? Uh because I think that's often our propensity. Right? It's so easy to see the sin of others. It's easy to see the guilt of others. It's easy to see the blood on their hands. And say, well, I'm not so bad. Lord, thanks that I'm not like that person, a sinner. And so then we fall into sin ourselves when we see the sin of others if we make that person a brother or a sister into an enemy. Instead, we are to extend the grace and peace of Jesus, even when that grace and peace that is extended looks like For a prayerful season, stepping back from that person in hopes that they will fall back into the goodness of obeying the word. Does now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way? The Lord be with you all I, Paul, write this reading with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter of mine. It is the way that I write. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. So he says, now may the peace, may the Lord of peace himself give you peace in all times and in every way. The Lord's very presence is our comfort. It is our peace. And we have direct access to that peace. Not from circumstances, not from situations Good or bad, but directly from the author of that piece himself, that is there and readily available to you. In verse 17, he says, I Paul write this reading with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter I write, or every letter of mine, it is the way that I write. You can tell that this is mine because of the way that I am. It's kind of a funny little phrase. But again, it does point out to us the need to discern that which is false and that which is genuine. uh the sources of the messages you receive. Everything around you is preaching to you. Every advertisement, every somebody selling something, every somebody proclaiming something, it's all preaching. Is it good preaching or is it bad preaching? Is it pointing you to what is true and genuine and right in accord to the word or not? Paul says we should be able to discern that. And for Paul, he says you can discern the genuineness. Don't listen to these guys who are telling you something that's different than what I've already told you. It's interesting in Peter , in 2 Peter 3, actually addresses the same thing. In 2 Peter 3, 3, verse 5, I think. He says that uh Paul's writings are so deep and that there are so many who will try to twist his words uh but they uh as they do with the other scriptures and so he admonishes people to take care and don't be carried away uh with the error of lawless People. So we should discern the authentic. Verse 18, his final one. He says, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. It's the same closing, if you flip back a couple pages to 1 Thessalonians 5. It's the same closing that he gives them there, with the exception of one word. In 1 Thessalonians end to 5, he says, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, be with you. Here he says, be with you all. And I love that he adds that because I think it shows us again the depth of grace that is extended to those who are though they are blood, but have stepped away into habitual disobedience from the word. And Paul is extending, reinforcing, look, this grace. Be with all of you in the hopes that you who are obeying and honoring and proclaiming the word would continue to do so. Until Christ comes, until the day of the Lord. And those who have stepped away from obedience to the word , his grace would also be with you. And in that grace you would return to obedience to the word. This is Paul calling them to unity because of their blood-bottness Unity in the midst of division is reminding them of that transformative grace of Christ. And the blood that was shed that mediates their path back to unity as a church. And so may we too live out our blood botness in an uncompromising Obedience to the word. May we proclaim the word. May we honor the word. May we love it enough to call others To obey it as well, even when they will not, even when it is hard to do so, may we not grow weary in that uh good work Let's pray. Father, we are as ever so thankful, Father, for your worship, even in uh an obscure sort of last chapter of a small letter. Father, there's so much here. And Father, we are so grateful for the depth of instruction that your word provides us. We're grateful for your spirit. which sets it to work, confirming its truth and putting it into practical outworkings in our lives. And so Father, we pray. That you would give us the grace to proclaim and obey your word in light of the fact, the reality That we have been purchased by the blood of Christ in light of the reality that there are others who do not know that joy, that don't know the gospel. And in light of even those hard circumstances where there are those within our own lives and churches who have stepped away from obedience, that we would love them enough to love you first. And call them back to obedience. Father, we are grateful for the time you've given us this weekend, grateful for the fellowship, grateful for the families gathered. Grateful Father to see generations being raised up here as well. So we pray your hand of protection and blessing. The rest of our time, the rest of our evening, our day tomorrow. We give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen.