Remember that last week in our text We read that many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing, but Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them. And we mentioned that Many believed in Jesus, but Jesus didn't believe in them. Well, chapter 3 is a continuation of that text. We don't want to separate it, even though it's separated by an artificial chapter break. Nicodemus is an example of a person who saw the signs that Jesus was doing, but Jesus was not impressed with Nicodemus. Jesus didn't see Nicodemus as someone to side with or to get on his team. Now think of the temptation from an earthly point of view. Like if we were in Jesus' spot Nicodemus appears to be impressed with Jesus. Now, if Jesus can have a good interview here, Jesus might win over some of the Sanhedrin. Maybe Jesus can win some of the movers and shakers to his side. And if he can do that, think of the influence that Jesus would gain. We learned something right off the bat. The soul of a person was always more important to Christ than what that person could do for his cause. The soul of a person was always more important to Christ than what that person could do for his cause His kingdom truly is not of this earth, and he employed no fleshly strategy in the building of it. We need to keep this in mind as we drop to our text this morning. When Jesus deals with Nicodemus's soul, Jesus treats it with equal importance to every other soul that he deals with. Verse 1. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. Well, we've dealt with who the Pharisees were previously. They were the more conservative theologians in the leadership groups in Israel. Their tendency was toward excessive legalisms and creating rules that then became traditions that would end up in their belief system as being more important than Scripture themselves or itself. That was their their weakness The fact that Nicodemus was a ruler means he was a member of the Sanhedrin, the ruling government that the Roman government allowed to enforce various laws in the territory surrounding Jerusalem. It didn't go all the way to the ends of the uh what we think of as Israel proper. But right off the bat we see that Nicodemus was an important person. He was a VIP. People would have known of Nicodemus. If you had lived in the area, you would have heard of his name Verse 2, this man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that your teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with it. Now we can focus on Jesus coming at night. But the problem with that is that we can't know why he came at night The two reasons most often suggested are that he came at night because he didn't want to be seen with Jesus, because that would make it difficult for his life. Or he came at night because that's where he would have the most time to focus on what Jesus had to say. Both are equally likely. So we're not going to focus on a secondary point here. I think the better point to focus on is that Nicodemus came to Jesus. We live in a world where Christians are often maligned. Accusations are made against them with no knowledge of who they are and what they stand for. We do well when we encounter these people to ask them to do what Nicodemus did. He heard about the claims of what Jesus was doing. So rather than wasting his time with other resources, he goes right to Jesus. You can't do better than that. If you're seeking truth, you can't do better than that. We do well to bring people directly to the words of Jesus as we have opportunity to do so. It's good to talk and it's good to share with what you know what we know, but boy, there's nothing like them looking at the words of Scripture. He is ultimately the one that people have issues with. They should check Jesus out. Now Nicodemus says this: Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher from God. So Nicodemus, right off the bat, calls Jesus a rabbi. Now, for a religious leader who himself is probably called rabbi. This would have been an honor. In Nicodemus' head, he is issuing an honor here to Christ. It was certainly a term of respect. It was like calling Jesus doctor. This is a respected teacher. Nicodemus had no idea. No idea at this point how far short his title for Jesus was. God the Son. Creator, sustainer of the universe, Word of God, Messiah, the prophet All of these were less limited than the phrase rabbi. But Nicodemus had to start where he was. God is gracious in that. We all start where we are, not where we wish we were We'll see that Nicodemus appears to be sincere, but he does not seem to be prepared for what he's about to get. Then Nicodemus says, We know that you're a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. When he says we, it looks like some of the Sanhedrin agree with him. So he's he's talking, probably some of the Sanhedrin say, no, he's not of us, he can't be of God And others are saying, you know what? We better look into this because he's doing some some miraculous stuff He's not alone. So now Nicodemus would probably be used to people when he says this. He would expect them to feel pretty good about themselves when he gives, when he, such an important man, gives a compliment like this It's like we've been talking about you and we're we're pretty impressed with you, Jesus. If Nicodemus said that to most people, they they probably got pretty excited. You know, what a nice compliment. That's um you know they're The heads its well a little bit. And odds are that that's what Nicodemus expected from Jesus. For Nicodemus to treat Jesus like an equal should be in Nicodemus' mind a boost to Jesus' ego. But Nicodemus had no idea what he was dealing with. Now, Nicodemus has it right as far as it goes. Jesus is the teacher. Jesus is from God. The signs are true and convincing evidences of who Jesus is and of Jesus' origin. These are all facts that the human mind can look at and conclude. This is all a product of properly used human capacity. Nicodemus is thinking well. Nicodemus didn't resort to the flawed logic that Jesus was doing these signs in the devil's power. Some others get to that point. Just a wrong thinking. But no, Nicodemus was thinking better than that. But there's a side point here, and it's an important one as we deal with non-believers. These signs of Jesus were not in question. By Jesus' enemies, even. No one was denying that Jesus was doing miracles. Even Jesus' enemies had to admit that he was doing the impossible. Now, 2,000 years later, many doubt and balk at the idea of Jesus doing miracles at all. Yet those at ground level with a front row seat, even though they hated the man They couldn't deny that Jesus was doing the supernatural, that which cannot be explained. For a person to think that he knows more about Jesus than the people who surrounded Jesus is pretty absurd and foolish. If you ever hear anyone say that they doubt Jesus did miracles, you may want to point out that this idea is a bit funny, because even Jesus' enemies, who had all the incentive in the world to deny it, couldn't The miracles were real. Now, Nicodemus is being a smart man. He has a firm grasp of logic, he sees things as they are, and he's going as far as logic can take him The problem is, logic cannot take him far enough. Our minds cannot get us. to God. They can only tell us so much about God. Now we have to remember that Jesus is coming in as the expert. I I hope I'm painting that clearly. We've got to keep this in mind if we want to get the flavor of what happens next. Nicodemus is not prepared for what's coming. He is probably expecting Jesus to recognize and appreciate what Nicodemus said, but this is what he gets. Verse 3, Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he can't see the kingdom of God. Jesus offers no, well thank you, Nicodemus. That's kind of you to say that. Jesus is not relieved by an equal recognizing Jesus' importance. Nicodemus gets none of the things that Nicodemus would normally get. He isn't asked to banter back and forth about theological matters as equals. He isn't asked for any of his opinions. Now, right off the bat, he's told something by Jesus that immediately immediately lets Nicodemus know. That Jesus does not think much of Nicodemus's idea of spirituality at all. Truly, truly, is making an announcement of something that is profound. Jesus presents himself as the expert on the topic from the very first word. It's as if Jesus is telling Nicodemus, listen up, I'm about to tell you that which is most profound here. And he then he says, I say to you, I say to you, again, Jesus comes from a position of authority, and that immediately would be offensive to Nicodemus. And the fact that I am telling you this is important. That's what Jesus is inferring here. You better listen because I am telling you. We need to get this. No one comes to Jesus on equal footing. We don't come to Christ as if we're somehow on the same level as He is. We don't come to Christ as if we can give him information or influence that might help his cause. Our opinion never adds anything to the knowledge and plan of God. We really can't expect we even have the right to scrutinize or evaluate Christ. He's merciful to us and he allows us to To do some of the things that we feel we need to do, but it's it's all a grace from Him. If we hope to gain anything from Christ, we need to come to Him as a servant to His master. Nicodemus could not have been prepared for this. But then Jesus lays this on him. It's like this is the secret of spirituality, Nicodemus. It's the starting place of being right with God. It is the requirement of being able to even know anything about the kingdom that God sets up. And what is it? You've got to be born again. You've got to be born again. The word for again also means from above. Either meaning fits. In fact, sometimes the word is used and is meant to have both definitions, and I think this is one of those times. You must be born again from above. We can see Nicodemus's mind right there spin. He is caught completely off guard and it it's what? Huh? It's vital that we understand what Christ is saying to Nicodemus. I've often thought that when Scripture tells us we must be born again, it means I've got to go out and do something. I better do this thing. I better get this born again. I must receive Christ because that's how you get born again. I honestly thought that for years. But it doesn't mean that at all. That'll be the result. That is not the cause. That is not how a person gets born again from above. Think about it. Before you were born, Before we were born, if we could even hope to be born, we certainly are not in a position to do anything about it. Something has to be done to us and for us. And until that's done, we are powerless to do anything. We don't even exist. Talk about powerlessness. Jesus is addressing one of the most important people in Israel. And the first words out of his mouth tell Nicodemus that whatever Nicodemus has done up to this point To be right with God, to be spiritual, to be in God's kingdom is absolutely and totally useless to do so. What you do as a result of the first birth does not count. What you do out of your own power does not count. All the study, all the obedience, all the memorization, all the teaching, zero eternal effect. None of that even allows you to be aware of the kingdom of God, to recognize the kingdom of God. What do you need? You need a different kind of birth. Has this happened to you? Has God placed in you a new self? Has He made you a new creation? Do you long to know God and serve God and please God? As something that you would not if you did not have that new birth. Is calling out to God irresistible in your heart? Does your heart cry out, Abba Father? Because it's who you are. That is what has to happen. And without it, without that happening, we are totally lost. Well, Nicodemus got the point. This meeting was not going anything like he expected. Respected e expert to respected expert. That wasn't happening. Jesus has taken Nicodemus to school. Jesus is telling Nicodemus your birth doesn't get you in. Even if you're born an Israelite, and that would have been a big thing to Nicodemus. He said, your first birth doesn't cut it, it doesn't get you in, it doesn't matter at all in terms of the kingdom of God. Your lineage is not an attribute to getting entrance to the kingdom. In a sentence, Jesus tells Nicodemus that everything that he has thought and taught up to this moment is flawed at its core. Imagine this. This is the first sentence he gives to Nicodemus. And this is how Nicodemus responds Verse 4. Nicodemus said, How can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Now it's really interesting to read the commentaries here. Some think that Nicodemus could not have been dumb enough or simple enough to think that Jesus was talking literal. I mean he didn't get where he was by being stupid or you know un not perceiving. Nicodemus was a sharp guy. So they they think he can't be talking. He couldn't have taken it that way. They say that Nicodemus was really responding to the Alanogy that Jesus put forth. They say that what Nicodemus meant as a grown man, how could I even hope to start all over again? How could I go backward spiritually to nothing and start again? How can I crawl back into this spiritual womb? You're talking about an impossibility. That's how a lot of the commentaries and Bible scholars think it, and it could well be. But there's another way of taking this. Please check it out for yourself But this is what I think as of right now, which has a capacity to change fairly quickly I think Nicodemus was knocked completely off kilter in this conversation. He's getting nothing to what he expects He's responded he he responded in a kind of sarcasm, like when we're stricken by what someone says and we want to say something to undermine how stupid it is that they just said It's kind of like the first thing you can think of to defend your position is to make fun of the other person's position. He wanted to regain his credibility by undermining what Christ said, as if what Christ said was absurd. It's similar to what happens now in the news when somebody shows the facts about what's happening and the response is, oh yeah, that's a conspiracy theory. It's the same kind of idea. Nicodemus is taken back. He entered this conversation like it was between equals, and Jesus has taken him to school, and I think Nicodemus' response was one to make Jesus' evaluation appear idiotic I think he was mocking what Christ said. Yeah, I need to be born again, like that's possible. That sounds ridiculous to me, Jesus. I think it's in that frame of mind And many think it was a sincere question. I don't. I think that was said by a proud man who didn't know what else to say. But Jesus didn't give up on Nicodemus. He's like that. He didn't back down either. He didn't sudden oh you're offended. That that's bad. He he didn't respond that way. He He continues saying what he means, and he makes no effort at defending himself by responding to Nicodemus's question. He doesn't tell Nicodemus how a man can do anything, because what Jesus is talking about is nothing a man can do. There is no pride that comes from a man's entrance to the kingdom of God. It is by grace through faith, not of yourself. Because it's never something that a man does. Verse 5, Jesus answered, truly, truly, here we go again. Here comes again. I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Jesus does it again. It's as if he's saying, listen up, Nicodemus. This is me who's telling you this. Listen to what I'm saying, and I'm saying it right to you. There is no excuse to not understand this. First time Christ said, unless one is born again. This time Jesus says, unless one is born of water and the Spirit. Now this is really interesting when you go to the commentaries. They go all over the place. No one is really sure what the water refers to. Some say it's the water of when you were born. So this would mean uh you must be born naturally and then born again supernaturally. And that makes sense, but the problem with it is that no one in that period of history referred to being born as being born of water. So this would be something completely new that would not register with Nicodemus. Others say that Jesus is referring to John the Baptist's baptizing, that water. So this would mean you've got to go through the water of baptism and new birth. Others say that Jesus is referring to Christian baptism, as if to say you must be baptized and have the new birth That would be unlikely because no one knew about Christian baptism yet. And it would also have excluded the thief on the cross from entering the kingdom of God. I think the most likely meaning is one that would have come to the mind of Nicodemus from Scripture. When he heard water and spirit, it is very likely he went right to this passage in Ezekiel. Uh Ezekiel thirty six 24 through 27 says, I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. Verse 25, I will sprinkle clean water on you And you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols. I will cleanse you, and I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. This whole passage in Ezekiel is a passage talking about what God will do. This is not something that people do. It's not a call even for people to do anything. This is a call of God, what God is going to do. Anything they do is going to be a result of what God has done. So it fits with our passage perfectly. This would be the reverse of how Nicodemus taught and thought and lived his life. Nicodemus didn't think a miracle was necessary to enter the kingdom of God. He thought he could do that in the power of the first birth. Ezekiel said, no, you need a new act of God, even Ezekiel knew that. The water is a reference to God cleansing us from our uncleannesses. This is the removal of the guilt of our sin. It's putting on Christ's clean robe of righteousness in the New Testament, replacing our sinful robes. The water is about the removal of our guilt of sin. The Spirit is about this new Spirit that we're given and the Holy Spirit that is placed in us. Outer and the Spirit. Nicodemus thought the heart of flesh needed to be reformed by trying hard. He thought obedience to God would convert the heart of flesh. Christ is saying that's not how it happens. Recreation is necessary. You need this act of God that Ezekiel prophesied. Without it, you are powerless. No amount of effort can overcome your obstacle. And Jesus goes on to explain: that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. This is exactly what Ezekiel was teaching. You and I were born with a heart of stone toward God. We were born with a heart that manufactures idols all of the time at every turn. Our fleshly inclination, what we were born with in the first birth, is evil. So we need some outside force. To come upon us and to incline our hearts to walk to our lives to be obedient to God. We need an outside force The fleshly heart of stone cannot do it. It will never come from us. So the first birth is fleshly. It's ineffective spiritually. It's capable of living on this planet for a while, but that's all it's good for. We need that second birth. We need that spiritual birth. We need a thing in us that does not exist in us by the first birth. We need that thing born into existence in our lives. We need birth one and birth two. And God has to bring to birth a spiritual person with a new heart. It's as if Jesus is telling Nicodemus, you're looking at this from a material mindset, a scientific mindset. You're believing in those things you can understand. A man can improve his behavior. He can become a better citizen. Nicodemus is probably a role model in self-discipline and self-control. This makes everything understandable and controllable in the mind of Nicodemus. There are natural methods that a man can use to make himself into a godly man like himself That's how he thinks. It's predictable. It's a system just like any other human system. And if you're not cutting it, it's your fault. And this can be led by human efforts, human methods. Now you can understand why Nicodemus would think this when there has not been a movement of God for hundreds of years at that point. But Jesus keeps going and gives Nicodemus an example of how things really work. And he says in verse 7, Don't marvel that I said to you, you have to be born again. You gotta know some things here, Nicodemus. This is not outside of the uh uh uh uh the the natural if you think about it. The wind blows where it wants and you hear its sound but you don't know where it comes from. You you certainly don't know where it goes. So it is with everyone who's born with the Spirit. So Jesus continues to drive his point here. But in verse 7, we get the idea that what Jesus said That not only shouldn't Nicodemus be amazed at this, he ought to already know this. It isn't all that complicated. Just look at all of the Old Testament and God's movement in the Old Testament. Isn't it just like wind? How so? Well look at the wind. Can you explain how the wind we experience is generated? Do you know where it comes from or where it goes? On the week that I studied it, I'd driven up to my mom's. I'm driving down the road and all of a sudden, like I'm off the road. I've never had it ha happen before while I was awake. And uh anyway, it was wind. It just sort of real sudden gust of wind. It hit here too and this was a while later I don't uh like I said, I don't think that ever happened to me before, but I had a fresh experience of wind as I was studying this. Now look at God's actions in the past. Did you always know when and how God would move? Look at the Old Testament even. Did you know when he would do a miracle? Did you know when he would rescue his people? Did you know exactly what he would do from day to day? No, you didn't. Nobody did. But you did you know when God did move? Of course you did. We knew that. Just like the wind blew me off the road, the Holy Spirit did things to make his presence known. When the Israelites crossed through the Red Sea, did they know that the Spirit was moving? Of course they did. They knew the wind was blowing. I read a quote this week that I liked. The brightest genius in the world can't explain the wind in concrete terms, but even the dimmest of fools can tell when it's blowing. And that's the point. Well the same thing is true about God saving people. You can tell that he's done something because of the results in that person's life. They repent of their sin. They have faith. They are drawn to Christ and they can't help it. They have to get right with Christ They're drawn to it. Well, they didn't do that of themselves. That was caused in them by the Holy Spirit. That is the reaction of the wind. That's what happens after the wind blows. That's what happens. Their life conforms to the demands of Christ. They call out to Christ: save me through your son. Or through you. They love Christ. They follow Him. We can't make that happen. We can't know when it will happen, but we can tell when it has happened over time. Surely Nicodemus should know this. Certainly he didn't think you can put God in a human box. Surely he didn't think that everything that God is doing can actually be a result of human decisions and human willpower. Nicodemus has got to know better than that. Jesus is saying that if a person is able to see the kingdom, something outside of himself has happened to him. So this result is achieved. It's not of human origin. It is of the Holy Spirit's origin. I think at this point Nicodemus realizes that Jesus is explaining a spiritual reality that should have been obvious to him, but is completely different. Than how he has been reading things. Now his mind can't his mind can't turn on this dime. He needs help getting this. So he says, n Nicodemus says to him How can these things be? At least that's a more honest response, I think, a more searching response than the last one he gave. That's my opinion. Maybe he was saying, how can it be so much different than what I thought it was? How could I be so wrong about this? I mean it's not like I'm ignoring Scripture, I'm going by Scripture. How can this be? How do I make sense of this? How can I call people to spirituality if I'm not somehow appealing to human effort? How do I go about these things for myself even? How can it really work the way you're talking about, Jesus? Jesus said to him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you don't understand these things? That had to be the final flow in this conversation. You know, Nicodemus is like he's at the bottom now. Notice how Jesus calls him the teacher of Israel. Nicodemus was probably a distinguished teacher. He was probably used to receiving a great deal of respect and status. But there's a principle in Scripture that those who teach have a greater requirement of being right. They're held to a higher standard, and so they should be. Nicodemus was teaching a generation to see the kingdom in a way that would never work His job was to represent God to people, and through his representation, no one would get saved. So he was misleading a whole generation. If this were the woman at the well or the prodigal son, Jesus may have gone softer on them. But this is the person responsible to represent God and God's salvation to the people of Israel. So God is very hard on Nicodemus. Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you don't understand these things? The primary, the first thing you need to know about getting right with God, and you don't know it. Clearly, Jesus demands more of Nicodemus than Nicodemus was doing. Jesus is letting Nicodemus know that he has failed as a teacher up to this point. You don't even understand the basics. This would be like a math teacher who doesn't know the math facts, or a history teacher that doesn't know about the Revolutionary War. These are the basics. This is Gospel 101, and Nicodemus is clueless. So not only does Nicodemus not know that he himself needs to be born again in order to enter the kingdom He can't teach the elementary principles to those in need of salvation around him. It was very good that Nicodemus came to Jesus That's the one thing he did right in this all of this. But he is getting far more than he bargained for. Don't we often From Jesus' first words, Nicodemus is going to school, and how he responds to Jesus' words will show whether the Spirit is blowing in his life or not. Because the nature of flesh is not going to respond to Christ by saying, oh, that's me. It's going to say, I got this right, we got to kill you. But it's good for us to see this. Often when we go to Christ, we receive comforting words, words of encouragement, words of love, and oh praise God that that is so, because we need that so badly. How sweet and necessary that is in our day-to-day life. But when we're believing something that's very wrong and what we believe is going to hurt us and hurt others, and we're being a little dense to it Christ is not always going to be so gentle with us, and praise God for that as well. Sometimes we're required to look at the snake on the pole, as we're going to see next week. Sometimes we need to look at the sin that put Christ on the cross that we did. Sometimes we must do business with those things we believe about ourselves. and about Christ in such a way that feels more like a trip to the woodshed than an uplifting touch of heaven. But fortunately all God always gives us what we need when we need it. Not always just what we expect, as Nicodemus found out, but what we need when we need it Is our understanding of salvation such that we need a miracle of God for us to get right with Him? When we're presenting the Word of God to others, Are we depending upon a miracle to happen in that person's life, knowing that apart from that miracle, that person cannot get to God. They cannot get to that state where they want to be right with God. On God's terms. Is that what we're counting on? That's evangelism Evangelism is counting on a miracle of God. Evangelism is waiting for the faith response, and when we see the response by faith, we know who put it there. Do we believe that we need to actually be born from above? Is there evidence in your life that the wind's blowing? Is there evidence that God is doing things in your life that make you look more like Jesus? Let us approach Jesus this week with thanks to him if we see that evidence, and calling out to him for his merciful change in our hearts if we do not. Oh Lord, thank you so much. We're uh taking