Remember last week we saw Hezekiah receive the message from the Lord that he was going to die. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. And by it he revealed some things that were lacking in his faith in God. That isn't how you would have described it. But like so many things we hide from ourselves, that's the thing that would prove itself to be true over time. So now we move on to God's response, to Hezekiah's prayer. It's vital that we keep in mind that God knew exactly how this would play out. There was no mystery to God. God wasn't trying something to see how it would go. The end was determined prior to the beginning. So verse 4 says, And the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, saying, Go and tell Hezekiah, thus says the Lord, the God of David your father, I've heard your prayers. And I've seen your tears, surely I will add to your days fifteen years. Which rhymes, by the way. Just notice that when Brad was reading that. I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will defend this city. Woo-hoo! This is great news, isn't it? We need to learn something here. To make the final verdict on what is good and what is bad, we are wise to see life from God's perspective. God does not say that this was an improvement. This little passage is so pregnant with truths about us and about God. We learn in this passage that we are so very blessed that God does not answer every prayer that we ask of Him. We were talking about that in Sunday school. My kids used to want motorized vehicles, like four-wheelers and those kind of things. And eventually Jonathan brought home a motorcycle. And I'm not sure I remember this right, but I think the first ride Jeremiah had on it uh went right into a tree. Is that is that accurate? So anyway, it isn't always good to get what we ask for or what we long for or we what we think will bring us pleasure. I think all of us in our lives have experienced that. And with what we ask from God, that's even more true. I think about the relationships I asked God to repair. And I see now that I was spared a great deal of turmoil by God doing what he wanted. Instead of what I wanted. Usually God does not grant our prayers when it's to our own misfortune But if that is what it'll take for him to make his point with us, sometimes he will. We see that in scripture. It's difficult to see here if God was rewarding Hezekiah, or if he was teaching Hezekiah, or if he was teaching everyone who would ever read this. I tend to think it's the last two. I think he was teaching Hezekiah something about Hezekiah, and he was teaching us something about God and Hezekiah. God knew what lay in Hezekiah's heart, and he was going to expose it. That's often how God plans our lives. We don't see who we really are. And it's it's probably a good thing we don't see it all at once. We've talked about that a number of times. If any of us later in life, would see ourselves for the fullness of who we are, it might be more than we could take. But God gives us a steady diet of showing ourselves to ourselves over our lifetime as Christians. And it's very good that he does it that way. But anyway, we don't see who we really are. We don't see what we would really do. So God lines up our circumstances to show us what we're really made of. That is much of how our lives play out. And often that is not at all pretty. It's interesting that God says, the God of your of David, your father, here. He mentions that before he talks about answering the prayer. This might actually imply that God is answering this request based more on who God is than on who Hezekiah is. God made a promise to David. He was going to establish and maintain David's bloodline until the Messiah arrived. So to refer to David here in this passage may have been a reference to that. He may have been saying, I'm going to do what I promised I would do for David. God is always faithful to his word, to his promises. And we can be very, very grateful that he is. Now, God promises 15 more years to Hezekiah. When a person is forty, which is about what Hezekiah must have been, uh, and does not yet expect to die, that would be a huge relief to get fifteen more years. Although 55 still seems a bit young to us , particularly to those of us who are over 55 , but the the life expectancy back then may not have been what it is now. Wouldn't it be odd to know exactly which year you were going to die? Wouldn't that just really be strange? Maybe that's part of the reason that Hezekiah's life did not go so well after this point Knowing when you are going to die also means knowing how long you are going to live. It could make you complacent about your relationship with God. You would know he was not going to end your life before this point. We're told to live in a way that we're prepared to meet God at any time. That's how Scripture talks to us. This is an exception to the rule here. Knowing we have 15 years might not be a real good thing. God is wise in keeping our day of death a secret. It 's better for us. And God's promise is to deliver both Hezekiah and the city for the same fifteen years. That seems like a very good thing. It looks like God is honoring the faithfulness of Hezekiah. But we just can't tell for sure what's really going on because we know the rest of the story. Because we know that God knows exactly what the outcome is going to be. It looks like God is throwing Hezekiah a blessing. It looks good for Hezekiah and for Jerusalem. But at the same time, there may be more going on here than meets the eye. This same fifteen years will be a time when Hezekiah does great arms at Jerusalem. So this is a tough one to figure. Verse 7. And this is the sign spoke, this is the sign to you from the Lord that the Lord will do this thing which he has spoken. Behold, I will bring the shadow of the sundial which has gone down with the sun on the sundial of Ahaz ten degrees backward, so the sun returned ten degrees on the dial by which it had gone down. Now this is the place where all the scholars seem to go in different directions. And when that happens, I'm pretty sure we can't be dogmatic about it. It's possible that this this sign is a direct answer to the inside story that we're going to read in the following verses. So we get a passage and then a following passage that describes the passage. that we just read. So in verse 22 we see Hezekiah asks the question, what is the sign you will give? And this is probably the answer to the question that's given in 22. I think that's how it goes. And what about the sun? Well, it seems unlikely that the world would stop spinning and then go backwards. I don't know a whole lot about science, but given that an object in motion tends to remain in motion, I think everyone on the planet would have become human projectiles if the globe were to suddenly stop. The more likely thing is that God meant light. And it's his light, why shouldn't he? I mean he is light. If he wants to light up and you know send the sundial back, what is it to us? It that would be, you would think, easy for him, not like anything star. So we don't know how it happens. Some scholars like to make this all figurative because that gets you off the hook right away. God doesn't have to do anything hard if anything is if everything is figurative. He doesn't have to do anything impossible if everything's figurative. But they say that what this means is that the normal events of life will be changed as they were in Hezekiah's lifespan being extended. I think that's unlikely Maybe impossible. I think the sign God promised was a sign Hezekiah could go out, look at the sundial, and he could say, Wow, that just moved backwards. I never never saw that before. How could God do such a thing? I've heard all kinds of people give all kinds of scientific explanations for how it happened. I think some have gone so far as to lie, to help God out of some dilemma, some imagined dilemma. I don't think they need to work so hard. The people who don't trust God aren't going to believe it, and the people who do trust God aren't all that surprised He's God after all. So he can pretty much do whatever he wants whenever he wants, and as long as he doesn't go against his character It's God. You get to realize that. The more we read scripture, the more you get to realize it's God. You can't tell what He is going to do. The Sunday went back and Hezekiah saw it and Hezekiah believed. You know, there's an obvious little application here. Do you have any trouble that the solution is harder than making the sun go backwards? Do you have any trouble that is a bigger solution than making the sun bowl go backwards? Think about it. This isn't fiction. This is real. This is something a real God did in real space and time He has not changed. What problem are you facing in your life if the solution is harder than turning back time? If the answer is none, you're in pretty good hands. Now, Isaiah gives us the inside story of this event, and this is the the poetry Hezekiah wrote, or at least it's what he wrote about himself. In verse 9, it says, this is the writing, Hezekiah, king of Judah, when he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness. I said, in the prime of my life I shall go to the geese of Sheol. I am deprived of the remainder of my years. I said, I shall not see Yah, the Lord in the land of the living. I shall observe man no more among the inhabitants of the world. My lifespan is gone, taken from me like a shepherd's tent. I've cut off my life like a weaver. He cuts me off from the moon. From day until night you make an end of me I have considered until morning like a lion, so he breaks all my bones. From day until night you make an end of me. Like a crane or a swallow, so I chatter. I mourn like a dove. My eyes fail from looking upward. O Lord, I am oppressed. Undertake for me Okay, Hezekiah is facing the outcome that God had told Hezekiah he would have. I think it's interesting what we see here, you know, when God told him he was going to die. It's interesting what we see here in Hezekiah's reactions. Look at what Hezekiah focuses on. Isn't it the same thing we focus on when uh maybe a young person dies? Or isn't it what we would be tempted to focus on if we knew it was our life that was going to end I am deprived of the remainder of my years. I am deprived of the remainder of my years. Suppose you have $50 in your wallet, and a lawyer calls you up and tells you that you have just received an inheritance of $100 billion. The only condition is you must give up everything you have, put on a new suit of clothes that they will provide, and travel to the new site. When you arrive, you'll receive your inheritance to use it as you choose. Would you say, wait a minute, I've got a $50 bill in my pocket. Oh please, please, can't I spend that first? Come on. You wouldn't have me leave this fifty dollars without spending it, would you? That's the gist of Hezekiah's complaint if we're to take God seriously. We really believe what God says. But you might say no one would respond well if their life was truly threatened. Well, I don't know what I would do, but I know without a doubt what true faith would do. Faith would trust to what God says. Faith would cast itself upon the promises of God and the character of God. Faith would say, Let it come. I know God has something better for me. We see here what Hezekiah did, and it is not what faith would do. Look at his focus. He was saying, God, I'm deprived of my $50. I'm deprived of the remainder of my years. You're ripping me off. You're taking away something I was dependent upon. You know, there's gotta be a point where we really believe this stuff that we read in God's word. There's got to be a point where we say that the eternal city beats this one a million times over. The city of God is worth being at as soon as I can get there. We should have the ambivalence of Paul as we walk through our life that as long as we can serve Christ and glorify him by service. We want to. But at the same time, we have a growing longing to be with Christ, to have the fullness of what he is that he has offered. Look at what Hezekiah says. In the prime of life I am cut off. Like God has taken something good to give him something crappy. Second, I won't see God anymore in this lifetime. Yeah? So what's so bad about that? Is seeing him through a glass darkly really worse than seeing him face to face? Look at the words he uses. My life is taken from me like a tent, cut off like a lever, made an end to me. What is this? Does this man not read holy scriptures? Does he not get what God says about rewarding those who seek him all through the Old Testament? Does he believe that he only goes around once in life? That's a beer commercial. That's not God's word. Look how he spends his time thinking. All night, and this is the best he can do. He's nothing like David. He cannot see the goodness in God's plan or even trust that there might be a goodness in God's plan. Frankly, we do not have the luxury of thinking this way. First, what is Christ worth? If he's not worth our lives, we should renounce our faith right now and go do what we feel like do. But if he is worth our lives, we should consider any price as small in comparison. And second, what is it that God has told us about the reward that we'll receive? Are we waiting for some shabby shack, some oboe shanty to pass our eternity? Or are we promised a wonderful reward in the presence of God forever? A habitation in his world. We can have some sympathy, I guess, for Hezekiah if he were talking about his concern for his loved ones. You've got to respect that. That would reflect the godlike quality. But no. Hezekiah was concerned about what God was ripping out of his hands and what he felt he deserved that God was taking away. We don't see any mention of his loved ones. Isn't that where all of our foolishness and discontent comes from? Oh what unbelief, whether we find it in Hezekiah or whether we find it in ourselves when we dig that way. Then look in verse 14. Verse 14. These are the sounds that Hezekiah has been making. He compares them to birds. He has been making the bird calls of unbelief. Quiet, shrill, mournful. Those are the sounds of Hezekiah mourning his own death. We see no praise. We see no trust. We see no joy. He is oppressed. He is oppressed by God's plan for his life. Can we see this for what it is? Can we see what it is when we do it? Oh, there are lots of people who might give us sympathy for this unbelief. But it's wasted on us when we are in that state. That is not what sympathy and empathy are for. We should receive rebuke and correction when this is our attitude toward God. But we're probably not in a very good state to take it. When we're like Verse 15. What shall I say? He has spoken to me and he himself has done it. I shall walk carefully all my years in the bitterness of my soul O Lord, by these things men live, and in all these things is the life of my spirit. So you will restore me and make me live. Indeed, it was for my own peace that I had great bitterness, but you have lovingly delivered my soul from the pit of corruption, for you have cast all my sins behind your back It's real difficult to know for sure what is meant here. And again, it's one of those places where a lot of scholars think it means a lot of different things. But it looks like Hezekiah has heard God's verdict and he's appreciative for God's verdict. And it looks like the things that cause men to live are from God. So Hezekiah gives full credit to the God who has restored him. Hezekiah is thanking God for delivering him from the misery of considering his own death. And Hezekiah assumes that his death had to do with discipline for sin, but that God had put that sin behind his back. Yet Hezekiah never names the sin. We find ourselves in an odd spot. Who here is against forgiveness? Kind of an odd question. I mean if anyone's against forgiveness, we're pretty short-sighted. Who here is against God's blessing? None of us, I hope. I'm pretty sure I get the right answer there. But what God is doing here isn't going to ultimately result in greater service to God. What it will result in is Hezekiah's unfaithfulness and dishonor to God. Have you ever watched a believer who you know is not honoring God and they seem to keep getting their way? And you think, God, why don't you intervene? Why do you not expose the duplicity in that person's life? But God doesn't. Sometimes what looks like blessings is really extra room for a person to reveal what they really are through and true. Those things that appear good are not always blessings, and those things that appear bad are not always punishments Verse 18, for Sheol cannot thank you, death cannot praise you, those who go down to the pit cannot hope for your truth. The living man, he shall praise you as I do this day. The Father shall make known your children, your truth to the children. It is true, as Paul noted, that he could not provide service to God's people when he was dead. Alright, that that is the truth. And that is what made Paul's choices so hard. But in this case, Hezekiah wasn't exactly going to spring into a life of praise to God. We always envision what we would do with all the blessings of God we want. But often we do not do with them anything like we think we will. We ask for more money so we can use it for ministry. God gives us more money, we use it for pleasure. We ask for a spouse that we can love and cherish. God gives us a spouse, and all we can seem to do is find fault with them. We ask for ministry, God shows us needs. All around us. And what do we do? We whine about the problems with the people that God has surrounded us with. Hezekiah wanted a longer life. And what did Hezekiah do with a longer life? He became proud. His heart was lifted up, and he used the extra years for glorifying Hezekiah. Not God. Sometimes God does not answer our prayers because He will not hater to ourselves the such Sometimes God does not answer those prayers because he wants to reveal our self-deception. Or sometimes God does answer our prayers because he wants to reveal our self-deception. That's what he did with Testime. So sometimes God doesn't answer our prayers because he won't cater to our self-deception. Sometimes God does answer our prayers because he wants to reveal our self-deception Hezekiah said, the father shall make known your truth to the children. We'll soon find out in the upcoming chapter just how dearly he really loved his children. And that is sheer sarcasm. One thing I've learned, it's far easier to repeat truth than to model truth. It's easier to say with great earnestness, have faith in God, than it is to display faith in God. And do you know which one our kids is most likely to catch? I think we do. It's not our words. It's our true belief that they see in action, especially on our bath days. We all want to think we'll make the truth known to our children, like Hezekiah said. He's basically saying, this is my intention. It's a good thing you're letting me live this. Boy, this is what I'm going to use my life for. I'm going to make sure to make truth known to my children. But often we show them how not to believe. And that's what Hezekiah did. Verse 20: The Lord was ready to say to me, Therefore we will sing my psalms with stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of the Lord. I still wish that the faithfulness I imagine myself having is the faithfulness I really have. No , I mean, wouldn't it be nice if you were really as faithful a person as you see yourself as? How many times have we left this building with the best of intentions only to have Monday morning sweep it all away? We know it's truth. We know God's word 's truth. We know that his truth applies to our life. But we walk away and it's gone. How many times have we promised God that we would do these wonderful things? But the wonderful things never seem to materialize. They never seem to get done. There's so much to learn from Hezekiah, and most of it is way too familiar, way too common. This is the difference between commitment and intentions. Intentions are probably one of the most deceptive things in our lives We can fool ourselves with good intentions all day long. We can say, look how good I intend. I intend to do this good thing I intend to think this good thing. And we feel good about ourselves. Did you ever notice what God brings up in the judgment day? In Matthew 25, 4 through 40, or 25, 34 through 40, it says, Then the king will say to those on his right hand, Come you blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me. Then the righteous will answer him saying, Lord, when did we do that? When did we see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you a drink? When did we see you a stranger and take you in or naked and clothe you Or when did we see you sick or imprisoned and come to you? And the king will answer and say to them, Assuredly I say to you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brethren, you did it to me You know something about all these things? They're not intentions. They're actions. We cut ourselves too many brakes, at least I do We say, but I'm intending to do this wonderful thing, or I'm intending to do that thing, or I'm intending to think this. So what? That doesn't cut it. What are we doing? What are we doing? There's the truth that explains every one of our lives. We do the things we most want to do. We are the quickest to do the things we love the most. Follow your life. Pull out a stopwatch if you like. You'll find it almost universally true. You will rush to do the things you love to do the most. You'll delay to do the things that you do not. That's how we are. Intentions don't mean much because we're too easily deceived by our intentions. Actions tell a whole lot more. They tell the truth. Hezekiah believed his statement of intentions, but it didn't turn out to be true. Verse 21, now Isaiah had said, Let them take a lump of figs and apply it as a poultice on the boil, and ye shall recover. Now, did the medicine cure him or did God? Well, I would guess that obeying God was actually the cure, but who knows? Maybe a lump of figs did some good too. We don't know. But whatever the case, this is what God said would be the result, and that's what the result was. And now the next verse tells us a lot. And Hezekiah said, What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the Lord? You see this? Hezekiah did not believe what God said. That's not a good thing. Why did he not say, Well, thank you, Lord? I am so grateful for what you have promised me, because I know you and I know that you will always fulfill what it is that you promised. No, he was way too much like us. God, prove it. Prove that your word is true. Prove that I can trust you. Show me the results before I believe. That's what he wants. How God shows time after time how pleased he is when people believe him simply because he tells them something. We see that all through the New Testament. Those are the heroes of the faith. People who believe it because God has said it. That's what he wants from us. He wants people who believe it because he has said. People who go to the Word and say, it's all I needed to know. You said it, I believe it, changes my life, I'll do it. Requiring a sign is a weakness God is good to us and He often accommodates our weaknesses. We were talking about that in Sunday school as well. But how wonderful it is to simply believe God because God has spoken, how that glorifies God. But we take him at his word, even when the proof seems to go against it. That's what God wants from us today. We have so much to learn from Hezekiah this morning, but I think underlying everything is the danger of believing our own propaganda about ourselves. And ultimately, that flaw in Hezekiah led him to selling out all the people he was responsible to serve. That's the end of the story. We're going to get to that in future weeks. We have to examine our lives. We have to know ourselves and the reasons that we do what we do. Only then can we come to Christ as we truly are to receive from Him what we really need. And ultimately what we really need is not extra years, we need extra life. We need more of Jesus. We need more of the Holy Spirit's influence in our thoughts that leads to our actions and that leads to our feelings. We need more truth in the inmost place. We can't afford to be self-deceived like Hezekiah. It only leads to dishonoring the God that we say so often that we love. May God grant us more of Himself. Closing prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word again. We thank you for a guy like Hezekiah and all that you teach us through that. Lord, it's a good thing that you don't just receive perfect people None of us would have a chance. But we thank you that you show your long suffering through your word with your people. We thank you, Lord, that you show us the truths about ourselves by looking at a person like Hezekiah. And Lord, we just want We want to come to you as we are. We ask that you would reveal ourselves to us, our duplicity and our Our uh self-deception. And that we would come to you believing you, trusting you, and obeying you, and then ultimately glorifying you. And that we would long, like David said, pant for the living water that we find in you. Make us the people you want us to be. Break us to whatever is necessary, but make us the faithful people that you want us to be. And we ask that in Jesus' name. Amen.