Okay, remember that we've spent two weeks looking at what Scripture says about marriage. Hopefully it has strengthened our resolve to honor marriage as God intended it. It's a big deal. At the same time, we're told how to handle situations that are less than ideal It's a real life we live in in a real world and scripture gives us real instruction. No matter what situation you're in, you can always do the right thing moving forward. And that's what a believer must do. We must determine by God's word what the right thing to do is for our next step and do it no matter what our situation Now we move on to our next text, and I hate to disappoint you, but this is going to be a very short sermon Because I don't want to start into the next text. So I I can always remember in college, you know, we would hear that the the class is going to be let out early. And you and you never thought, man, I feel ripped off. I paid a lot for this. You're always thinking, well, that's great, because then I get to go do what I want to do. So anyway, I I don't um I don't want anything to distract us from next week's text, so this week it's gonna be a little short So we learn again this morning of Jesus' attitudes toward actual children and childlike attitudes necessary to enter the kingdom of God. In verse 13, then they brought little children to him that he might touch them, but the disciples rebuked those who brought them. We don't know who the they is in this sentence. They were probably mothers and fathers and brothers and sisters. And why were they bringing the children to Christ? They wanted Christ to touch them, to physically touch them. Implied in this, in their culture, is that they wanted this great man, Jesus, to bless their children. He wanted uh Jesus to pronounce God's blessing upon them. Now we don't know what this people's mindset really was. You know, if they had it spiritually straight or if it was kind of superstition, uh maybe it was superstition more than actual spiritual alertness. But maybe intentionally, maybe by mistake, these people were doing the best thing humanly possible with their children. They were bringing them to Christ. Our culture has caring parents run ragged. They're rushing their kids to sporting events and dance classes and all kinds of activities all day long. Parents tend to sacrifice all kinds of time to have their kids physically active and socially adapted. But what about their souls? What about the things that last forever? What about the thing that pleases God? Really, what does it matter if our kids excel in sports or arts or education if their souls are lost? Our greatest effort should be to do what these parents were trying to do in our text. We need to bring our children to Christ. Kids soak up 90% of what they experience from age zero to three years old They're sponges for good information and for good examples, also for bad information and bad examples. Somehow they pick up more than what we say They tend to perceive what we are, even when they can't put it into words. There's no guarantee from God that 100% of children raised by Christian caring parents will come to Christ. After all, Adam and Eve rebelled, and the only father they ever knew was God. But there's a much greater likelihood that a child raised in a family that loves God will come to love God Himself. I wonder sometimes about the amazing statistics of how many young people who have made a Christian profession of faith turn away from that faith. The numbers are alarming. The theory used to be that this happens when they go away to college, but the statistics say that the ratio is the same whether they go to college or not. When they become when young people, our young people, having grown up in churches, become free to live life the way they want to live it, a large percentage abandon their religious beliefs and practices. Some of the studies about why this is happening are showing that young people really don't feel like they're leaving much. They're leaving religion and church attendance and meetings. One young person, when questioned about abandoning his faith, said, Christianity is something that if you really believed it, it would change your life and you would want to change the lives of others. I haven't seen too much of that We need to think about that. Our kids probably know us better than anyone but our spouses. We need to ask ourselves. What do they see in our lives? What are they picking up? What are they catching? Do they see a life-changing faith? Not one that we're good at articulating, but one that we're good at living Do they see a faith that causes a man to lay down his life for his wife and family? Do they see him obey God while he wrestles with hard things in his life? Do they learn that daddy's answer when he's scared or when things are hard is to call out to God, to trust God Do they see their dad lead the family and deal with insubordination or rebellion as needed? How about their moms? Do they see mom fostering a faith by feeding her faith? Is she struggling to do all the things she teaches her children to do? Do her kids look at her and know that God truly is at work in her, changing her to be more like Christ a little bit every day. Is there the humility that comes from honesty about oneself and one's failures? At the end of the day, it matters what comes out of our mouths But what comes out of our mouths can be perfect and perfectly fruitless. What our kids need to see is faith in action. As ugly as that looks sometimes, that's what they need to see. Many young people don't really feel like they're leaving anything important when they leave their parents' religion. And ultimately they often feel that way because it did not change their parents in the core of who they really are. It did not provide the power to live a godly life to their parents, so why should they hold on to it? We owe it to our children to both go to Jesus ourselves. And to bring our children to them to Him as well. We do well to spare no energy or expense to be certain that our children are taught and shown Christian lives inside of our homes. Now the word for children here means a young child, a little boy, a little girl, infants, children, little ones, one recently born. But in Scripture, it's used for children up to age 12 and maybe even older. So the word itself doesn't really help us a whole lot in knowing exactly how old these children were. The fact that Christ took them up in his arms gives us a better indication of size and age. These are likely very young kids, maybe toddlers, kids you can pick up easily Okay, so what happens? The disciples again become Jesus policemen. Why? We don't know. Uh maybe they're like us. Uh maybe Christ was wearing himself out and they wanted to protect him from working too hard. So they intrude their understanding of what's best into it without ever understanding what Christ wants. And after all, what will Christ accomplish with all these little kids? What what good are they going to do for the kingdom of God? They'll never get anything done for the kingdom agenda that the disciples had of taking over the world. So the disciples are slow to give up this idea that kids have any importance I like what one commentator said. He said the one thing you can be sure of is that the disciples simply didn't think that children were important. Isn't it interesting that our last text dealt with the idea that what men did to their wives regarding divorce was really not all that important? That's what What men thought. And Jesus turned that idea completely on its head, and he showed them how vitally important it truly is. Now Jesus is doing the same thing regarding the worth of children. The disciples were rebuking those who were bringing the children to be blessed by Jesus. Again, we don't know their motives They might have been really good motives. They may have been very concerned for the strain that Christ was under. He was doing a lot of work. Wearing himself out, and this may have been their heartfelt concerns, but they completely missed what Christ said earlier. They've already been rebuked once before for blocking the children's access to Christ. If they're going to represent Christ's wishes, they must get the wishes correct. They must get that information from Christ. Well, we're the same Just because we have a concern, a heartfelt concern, that doesn't make acting upon that concern always defensible or wise. I've moved upon a lot of my concerns, and I've been wrong in my actions lots of times. We probably all have. We have to get to know the mind of Christ. We have to get to know his word. We've got to know his will if we are going to speak and act accurately for him. The disciples should have known his will by this point, at least on this point. But they didn't. In fact, I don't know what made them think that Jesus needed their help in any way at all. We don't see anywhere where Christ appointed them as security guards or gatekeepers. This was an assumed responsibility, one they picked up on their own that they should not have. Then verse 14, but when Jesus saw it, he was greatly displeased and said to them, Let the children come to me. And don't forbid them, for such is the kingdom of God. Assuredly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. The word for greatly displeased here means to feel pain, to grieve, to be moved with indignation. Jesus saw this and basically he was instantly angry. There is something important to learn from this. Always there's good things to learn and bad things to learn, bad things to avoid, and this is one of those bad things to avoid. When you wrongly hinder a person from coming to Christ That is something that makes Christ angry. So this is an obvious mistake we want to avoid. Now, how would we make such a mistake? How would we do such a thing? Often we do it by requiring more of someone or different things of someone than God requires. Maybe we demand a person's theology be exactly the same as ours. Maybe we expect them to fit into our cultural expectations. Maybe, like in James, we prefer those who are rich, people who we stand to gain something from. Maybe we want only those who have more social status, or we only want those who can help us achieve whatever ends we might be trying to accomplish. Anytime any of us hinders another's approach to Christ, we can rest assured that this is something that Christ will be angry about. We've got to continually look at our motives when we're representing Christ. And as we have often said, we've got to strive to never prohibit someone from inclusion in God's family that Christ would welcome. And we should never assure someone of inclusion that Christ himself would exclude. Then Christ said to them, Let the little children come to me and don't forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God. Assuredly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. In the first half, we learn what Christ does not want. He doesn't want the kids forbidden. Now we learn what he does want. Let the little children come to me. Now again, Christ knows all these little children. This is not saying these sweet, wonderful creatures are all going to heaven based on the virtue of their cuteness. This is not an idealizing of little children. It does not ascribe to them a bunch of virtues that they don't have, but we imagine them as having. Proverb tells us just what lies in the heart of a child, and it isn't all that wonderful. And if you spend any time with them, you find that out pretty quick. But Christ does have a point to make. Christ's reason for not forbidding the children, his reason for welcoming the children, is based on the four in the sentence. The reason Christ is welcoming the children is because these children have an attribute that is common to everyone who is in the kingdom of God. Now, what's the attribute? That's the million-dollar question. What's different in a child than in an adult that is necessary for entrance into the kingdom of heaven? We talked about this from a different angle earlier. It's easy to come up with a list of things that we like about children. For one thing, their evil is easily detected when they're very young. Uh they don't realize it fortunately, which helps us a great deal. But when they get smart enough to realize it, then things start getting tricky. But little children often have a sincerity about them. They're not duplicitous. They're not smart enough to be yet And the list goes on, but that's not what the Bible says about what qualifies people to come to Christ. We do well to think about this backwards. To think about the things that we know, Scripture says in other places, about what attitude you must have to come to Christ in, and then apply it to children. So, what does Scripture tell us elsewhere that's required in a person who comes to Christ or wants to come to Christ? What must they believe about themselves in order to be saved? And how must they regard God? in order to be saved. If you have children, how many of them at age, say, three, say, hey, it's okay, mom I've got it. I'll take care of myself from here on. I'll bathe myself. I'll beat myself. I'm good. Just do your thing. We'll be alright Now little children never do that. They might say it in an isolated point. They might get full of their head that they can do lots of things like Caleb used to think he knew how to drive when he was what four years old. But but overall They respond to a position of need. They recognize they cannot make it on their own They are completely dependent upon their caregiver and they don't think about deciding that. It's who they are Uh you know, they know how to call out for help. They live in that condition. Kids don't pretend to be self-sufficient or self-sustaining. They need the help of somebody greater than they. And they assume it. They take it for granted. They need someone to take care of them. And when they feel the need, they're glad to have the help. They don't think twice about it. They're never above asking for help. Well, I can't say they never are. Sometimes they uh They want to do it themselves, but they instinctively call out to the one giving them care. Every mom has heard their n m the word mom a gazillion times by the time their kid is uh very old. Now, what must the person believe when they come to Christ? Can they come to Christ thinking, I'm okay, I've got this covered, I can take care of myself, I'm good, I don't need you, God. No. We know from Scripture that we have to see ourselves as people without alternatives. We have all sinned That sin has damned us. Even if we never sinned again, it wouldn't matter at all. An improved record will not will not earn an improved outcome. An improved record will not earn an improved outcome with God. We are lost. We are hopeless. We are dependent. Absolutely dependent. If we're to survive spiritually, it must come from a source outside of ourselves, not from inside. It must come to us from the holiness of God. No one comes to Christ without the recognition of their powerless, needy position. No one comes to Christ without understanding that they are completely reliant upon Christ to provide for them what they absolutely need. I believe that's the attitude that Christ is referring to when he says, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it. A little child is dependent. A little child is needy. A little child is trusting. And a little child is impotent. He cannot meet his own need. He can only announce his need. Someone crying out to Christ is dependent He must rely on Christ to provide for him. He cannot do it for himself. No matter how hard people try, they cannot do what needs to be done to save themselves. Someone crying out to Christ is needy. Their sin has damned them, and they are in a state of complete and utter lostness. They need They need to know, they desperately need to know that their sins are forgiven. They must know how they're forgiven. And they have a deep and utter need to experience that forgiveness that God has given. I've been thinking a lot about forgiveness lately. It's becoming clearer and clearer that when I'm slow to give it, it's because I've not fully appreciated what I have received. I've not delved into the real horror of my own sin, and I've not basked in the forgiveness that I have received for that sin. Sometimes I just need a reminder. Oh, I accept it intellectually. But I've not swum or swam in that ocean of grace Have not swam in the ocean of grace. How about you? Have you truly experienced forgiveness? Do you know that your sins are forgiven? Are your feelings congruent with your knowledge of them being forgiven? Satan is the accuser. Christ offers forgiveness. Complete opposite. And it often requires a battle in our minds to believe what God says about us, because we don't feel it. We see our sin and uh and we think technically, yeah, God forgives sin, so I'll make it to heaven, but we don't understand, we don't incorporate Well, I am truly forgiven. The record of this has truly been removed from my account. And that's a wonderful thing Anyway, the point was a person who's crying out to God is needy. Someone crying out to God is trusting They must trust that what Christ did accomplish for them what they could never accomplish for themselves. They have got to trust that. Everyone who comes to Christ completely trusts that what Christ did on the cross Counted for them and took away their sin. And someone crying out to Christ is impotent. He does not have the power to overcome the penalty or the power of sin. There's nothing that he can do. Now there are surely more qualities of a child that could be used, but the point is that a child needs someone outside of himself To provide those things that lead to life. The same is true of everyone calling out to Christ. So these little children are important to Christ. He welcomes them. He ministers to them. And he doesn't want their access blocked. Again, the disciples probably don't get it. They will someday, but they haven't yet. Then verse 16, and he took them up in his arms, put his hands on them, and blessed them. I love this. The word took them in his arms means to enfold in one's arms. It means to hold them close like when we're being affectionate to our children Uh yeah, I think of when uh Emma and Will show up at the house and when they're getting ready to leave or when they first get there, you just hug 'em and hug 'em. That's what it's talking about. It's that kind of enfolding that Christ did. Uh that's actually uh an answer to prophecy. Uh Isaiah 40, 11. It says, He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom. and gently lead those who are with young. I don't understand this about God. I mean I I understand it in intellectually, but uh it's it's difficult to grasp that the God who created this universe By breathing a word, you you're talking about that kind of awesome power Loves us that way. But that's not the reason Christ said he wanted the children to come to him. He said it was because of the qualities in them that were requirements of salvation. Why in the world would Christ care about these perfectly insignificant children? Some of whom are likely to never come to Christ as adults when they have the chance. Why would Christ care? Why would he affectionately draw them into his arms? Why would he then offer them a blessing? Why would he protect their access to his presence? The only thing you can conclude is Christ is loving. He loves us even though we have done nothing to deserve it. These children have never done anything for God. If they've prayed, it was probably under duress by their parents. If they've obeyed, it's probably because they feared the penalties they would face if they didn't. If they learned God's word, it was probably because they were forced to do so. They've probably never done a selfless thing in their entire life so far. They've never done anything that would gain any merit with God. There's nothing about their actions that could impress God. They simply exist. And that wasn't even their choice. But Christ draws them into his arm and into his lap. Do you see the implications? We are all so gloriously blessed. God has loved us, not because we're so lovable, but because he is so loving. He has drawn every child of his into his arms. He has expressed his affection toward us. Why? Certainly not because of us. We never did a single thing to win his favor. He loves us because he is loving. He drew us to himself He caused us to see our need for him, our dependence upon him, his provision for us, and then miracle of miracles He calls he called us to or caused us to call upon him. And when we really look at it, what do we see? The picture of salvation is the child in the master's embrace. We see that it's all of him and none of us. We see that it's just as Christ said. We become like a little child. And Christ drew us to himself. The applications here this morning are fairly simple. First, we better not be like the disciples. We cannot block access. To those who have no status. We can't forbid those who we determine have no merit. We must welcome everyone to Christ. We aren't the Jesus police. We make the appeal to everyone. Then it's up to God to sort out who He will choose and who comes. And then second, we've got to get this concept of being like little children. The Pharisees would have been outraged by what Christ said here. They believed salvation had to be something that someone in some way deserved. And you better work hard, and we'll tell you how. That's how the Pharisees looked at it. Little children were unimportant because they could offer nothing meritorious. But Christ loves the unlovely. Christ loves those who have no merit. Christ loves those who grant him nothing. And that's us. And we come to him as we are, as we really are. Really are. And he knows it better than we do. We keep learning of how we really are, and we keep being surprised. He's not surprised. He knew all that when he saved us. In that condition, he pulls us into his arm and into his lap. We're drawn into his fellowship and his acceptance as children of his. And what a wonderful truth to think about this week. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. Thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you for this wonderful picture of your affection toward children. And we know that it comes out of character, out of your character, that is loving. And it's a display, a direct display of God's love. for us and that he loved us so much that he sent sent you, sent Christ for our benefit. We ask that you would help us to apply the truths that we learned this morning and to honor you by our inclusion of everyone that we can include. And uh the opportunity to welcome all into your kingdom. And help us not to uh get too uppity, help us not to start Choosing in your stead who should come and who should not. But that we would leave it all up to you. And that we too would understand your love for your children. And that we would incorporate that in our thinking. And be grateful for it and bask in it in that sea of grace. We ask for these things in Jesus' name. Amen.