To understand our text, it's necessary to understand how the sheep industry was carried out in the Orient. This will take half of our time this morning, but it's kind of crucial. To uh understand in what Jesus is saying. Hopefully it'll help us to understand not just this text, but all the texts about shepherds and shepherding. Here in the West, we pen and fence our sheep, and then they feed within that pen, and sometimes we have to take food to them. In the Orient, they take the sheep to the food. In the West, you rarely see a person with a sheep. In the Orient, the reverse is true. You rarely see sheep. Without a shepherd. The migration of the sheep was pretty well seasonal. The sheep would be kept near home as long as they had food to eat And after the gleaners had gleaned the fields in the mid-summer to fall, then the sheep would graze on the remaining grain. When the food supply was exhausted, then they'd move out. While close to home, the sheep would be kept at a communal type of permanent sheepfold. This sheep the sheep would be taken there in the evening by the shepherd, dropped off, and then picked up the next morning by the shepherd. The gatekeeper in that fold would be in charge of only letting the shepherds in and keeping all others out. If the family only had a few sheep, they would keep the sheep at home, and the village shepherd would come by in the morning and get the sheep and then bring them back at night He would shepherd a flock made up of sheep from many different families. And this type of shepherd may actually own none of the sheep. The communal sheepfold Was a building with four walls of stone about three foot about three foot thick at the bottom, and it would taper up to the top. And often you'd have the big rocks would be used to stack and then the little rocks would be used on either side of it. And then sometimes thorn bushes were cut and placed on the top of the walls, and it served the same purpose as barbed wire. The walls were usually about four feet thick, uh four feet tall till it was done. And the ferns were to keep the predators out. And the walls were to keep the sheep in. Over part of the walled space would be a roof, and that would be naturally for the sheep to get under when it rained and stuff. if they're smart enough to figure that out. The rest would be more or less clear. The only time a shepherd would be free of his sheep would be in the evenings, when the sheep were in the communal fold And then only if they were healthy. If they weren't healthy, then the shepherd would be working on them. The rest of the year, the shepherd would be with the sheep day and night. Shepherding was not as much an occupation as it was a lifestyle. Now, these folds, these shelters, could easily contain many flocks They all intermingle. And then in the morning, the shepherd shows up and he divides his flock from all the others This is this also had to be done at watering places as well. Anytime the sheep would get together, they would intermingle and then they had to be separated. He would group his flock by simply standing off and calling his sheep. Each shepherd had his own kind of call. And even though the notes and the tune of the call could be duplicated by another person, the sheep wouldn't ever be fooled by it. They know the voice. In fact, sheep are alarmed and sometimes panicked when someone other than their real shepherd attempts to call them. It's likely to drive them to the real shepherd, oddly enough. In the Orient, shepherds have a unique communication with their sheep and goats. They sometimes seem to talk in sheep language This is kind of interesting. And the sheep know what the shepherds call means. Now after feeding and glean fields, the shepherds lead the sheep to higher ground to eat the standing grasses. And they'll be away from fall to late spring. On this track the shepherd will make his own fold each night or use one that's made by another shepherd. It's a temporary shelter. And i when they would make these things, there would only be one opening, and that's where the shepherd would sleep. No sheep would get out, and no wild animals would get in except through the shepherd or over the wall. That's why Jesus can be both the shepherd and the gate. or door of the fold. Now during the rainy season, December through mid-January, the shepherds have to find caves to use for their sheep And while running from Saul, we see that David stayed in one of those that was evidently used for that purpose. The shepherds will keep moving their sheep to better pasture until pasture is impossible to find. Then things are getting pretty tough and they're probably hoping for uh spring to come. And they'll cut limbs off of branch bushes and trees to feed the sheep on the twigs and the leaves So they would cut down brows for the sheep. And on top of this, water had to be found daily. Since sheep are often afraid of moving water, the shepherd would have to find a pool or a well to water his sheep. And again, if he must water his sheep by well, you know, his work is cut out for him or her to haul all that water out of the well. On the travels, sheep would often have to cross streams and rivers. And that's hard on sheep The sheep that prefer the shepherd the most, you would find, would follow the shepherd across first. They would stay closest to their shepherd. And then the rest will follow with the lambs coming last And sometimes one will be swept away in the current, and then the shepherd has to jump in after it. And on the other side, the sheep gather around. It's kind of a common thing to see this. They uh gather around the shepherd in like an apparent gratitude for their shepherd's aid. They get all excited that, yeah, I guess we all lived. And in the travels, special attention had to be paid to lambs and mothering sheep. If they're pressed too hard, they'll die. That was one of Locke's fears while he was uh uh uh going to Esau. Often the lambs had to be carried. Psalms 28:9 says, Save your people and bless your inheritance, be their shepherd and carry them forever. And then in Isaiah 40 verse 11, he tends his flock like a shepherd. He gathers the lambs in his arms and carries them close to his heart. He gently leads those who have young. How gracious is our shepherd. As the sheep and the shepherd travel, the shepherd may lead from the front, from the middle, or from the back. But they have an amazing control over the sheep. Even today it I I've read that you can see shepherds leading their flocks on paths between two grain fields with the sheep never straying. into the fields. I suspect there was some training before that happened. But anyway they do. And then there's the shepherds equipment. The rod for Shepherd was a hard wood club about 30 inches long with a knob on the end, and the knob was often studded with nails. It's a formidable weapon. It's probably the rod that that David used to kill a bear and a lion. Uh which when you think about it makes David pretty one pretty tough dude. And often the shepherd, while gathering his sheep, would have the sheep pass under the rod And he would stop each one and inspect them for harm and for anything they might need. Now in the bigger herds sometimes they would dip the rod in the colored dye and mark every tenth sheep in order to count them. In Psalms 23 it says, Your rod and your staff they comfort me. Well, these rods were not exactly a comforting thing when you would look at them. You know, it's a it's a bit all out of a phrase when we're told that they comfort us. They weren't comforting to wolves and to lions and to thieves They aren't something you'd snuggle up next to. But the fact that they were to be used on the enemies of the sheep was comforting to the sheep. When we realize the shepherd's intentions, we become comforted by his power to do harm. King's scepters are probably a takeoff of the shepherd's rod. Kings were recognized as shepherds of people, hence the broad. Now their staff was usually a stick about five to six feet long, with or without a crook. And it's i it's like what we would have for a walking stick, except taller probably. And this would be used to guide the sheep and to aid the sheep and to you know do what they had to do And then they would carry a sling. And and boys, this sling is not like, you know, ours. It would be a pocket with two leather straps And they would zing that thing around and let go of one string and uh it was incredible um their accuracy They could uh David had men who could sling a stone at a hare and not miss. My curiousness is about how'd they How'd they see the hair? Must they had some pretty good looking guys. But uh the sling was also used to get the sheep's attention. A stone would be slung past the sheep to get the sheep to move in the direction that they're supposed to head. They would get the idea that I don't want to go that direction because I'm going to get whacked with the stone. And then the shepherd carried a leather pouch that hung up by a strap over his shoulder, and he would carry his food, his projectiles, oil, and other things for the work. Shepherds generally wore sheepskins with the fleece in, and often they had hooded garments to make their sleep a little more comfortable. And shepherds often had flutes and uh horns full of oil. And that's about all the medicine that they had for ship uh sick or armed sheep. Now, the qualities of a good shepherd. It's easy to see already. Shepherding isn't an easy job. But there are a lot of good qualities you would need to be a good shepherd. It'd be important that you had strength and courage, because hungry lions and bears have a lot to say about their dinner being taken away. And robbers often don't take the hint easily. So it's going to take everything in a person to stand up against the forces that stand against the sheep. The same courage is still true of human shepherding. The roars of the devil will often be heard by those who are seeking to protect and guide and find God's sheep. Another quality would be ceaseless, unsleeping vigilance. Predators don't make appointments Robbers don't announce their arrival. Sickness just happens. And if the shepherd gives in to desire for his own comfort or escape Sheep die and they die quick. It's amazing. Uh we lived on a farm that had some sheep and it was remarkable how how quick they could kill themselves and how stupidly. But But how true that is of shepherding people as well. Pastoring is not a great occupation, but it's a blessed lifestock. People don't wander off on schedule. A shepherd can't afford to be lazy or self-absorbed. His sheep depend on him. And keep in mind here that all ministry Is a shepherding position. All the ministry that we do is shepherding. We'll all find that we shepherd somebody in some ways. Another quality that's hard to find is infinite patience with sheet 's wayward foolishness. And wayward foolishness is another way of saying stupidness. I mean, they're dense creatures. You can count on sheep to stray. You can count on it. They will. If you'll only shepherd sheep that won't stray, you'll you'll only shepherd dead sheep Because they're gonna. If if you're gonna shepherd in Jesus style, you can count on being taken for granted, you can count on being unappreciated, except in disaster, to be s self-sacrificing, sometimes having your Councils ignored, and all other things that sheep do to shepherds. Just count on it. And just one more quality, and I'm certainly not listing them all, is the spirit of self sacrifice The spirit of self-sacrifice. Shepherds in the Orient still occasionally are killed for their sheep One writer told of the r a recent event in you know in our time of a couple of bandits hacking a young man apart with their swords who wouldn't abandon his flock. So if you want to be a shepherd, first look at the stakes. They're pretty high and you gotta put yourself in harm's way. Now, what's the shepherd's attitude toward the sheep? Well, to a good shepherd, shepherding is more than a business. A good shepherd makes his sheep a source of pleasure to himself. Shepherds are often seen playing hide-and-seek games with their sheep, which is kind of cool. I'd like to see that. The word used for knowing sheep and knowing the shepherd is gonosco. And that word is a relationship of trust and intimacy. A shepherd often doesn't even have to count his sheep. He knows when one is missing. It can't be like you go into the grocery store or something if you've got kids. You you're gonna notice if a kid's missing. We don't always notice if a kid was missing, but most of the time we did. And uh he knows when one is missing. Also each sheep is handled differently according to their need. If he had a troubled lamb or a strayer He would search for it once. This was kind of interesting. He would search for it once. The next time he strayed, he would take his rod and he would break its leg. And that was a severe mercy. If he strayed again, he'd kill it. That's just what they had to do with sheep Recently a writer told of seeing an Arab kill called his fifty-one sheep by name. Okay? It's an Arab farmer, an Arab Arab shepherd, calls his fifty-one sheep by name. Found all of their lambs, put them with their mothers, and he did it all in the dark. That's the kind of relationship that the shepherds had with their sheep. And a good shepherd doesn't just want his sheep to survive. Like at the end of the day, he's not he's not thinking, well, they're all living, that's good. You know, and not that it would be good if they weren't, but um that's not enough for a good shepherd. He takes care of his flock in a way that would appear to onlookers as if his sheep were more important to him than he is, to himself. His job was to feed them, water them, protect them from harm, find strays, doctor them, and provide shelter And a good shepherd treated his sheep as if they were worth it. And then when we think about it, you know, what kind of a shepherd do we have in Jesus? Phenomenal. But anyway, shepherds' attitude toward predators and robbers. Now there's not a kindness here. A shepherd was harsh on predators, to say the least. He'd protect the flock at all costs. Now he wouldn't leave the flock for the sport of hunting one. He he didn't they weren't sport hunters. Uh but when it came to a threat a shepherd would kill that that predator as quickly as possible if he was able to Amos 3. 12 says, As the shepherd saves from a lion's mouth only two leg bones or a piece of an ear, so will the Israelites be saved. You'll notice that this shepherd takes the lamb chops in mid-meal. Live lions frown on that. Dead ones aren't much of a problem. The words used for thief and robber in this text are different. A thief connotes subtlety and trickery. They climb over a fence, cut throats, and throw the lambs to or sheep to their friends. A robber would stand up in the gate and basically tell you, you're going to give me this or you're going to get pounded upon. And predators are pretty straightforward in their attacks, but generally they rely on being unexpected. Even today, assaults on sheep are varied, but shepherds have to respond with a viciousness designed to protect sheep. That's why when we read Paul's writings, And he starts you know he talks about you've got to watch out for this guy and this guy and this guy and he has some pretty harsh things to say. That's what a shepherd does with people who are attacking his sheep Now, what's a shepherd's attitude toward a stranger? There's a marked difference here. A shepherd is pretty indifferent to a stranger who's only going to resort to calling the sheep as if they're his. Because his sheep are never going to be fooled by that. So there a stranger doesn't pose the same danger. That person's not going to be effective. But I'm sure that a good shepherd would note that person's intent and watch him. Okay, that's the end of the shepherding lesson, and I think that sets us up for what we're about to hear. Our text in John is so wonderful because having a good shepherd is such a wonderful thing. To us. Christ is a king. If you think about that, Christ is a king. Christ is a high priest. Christ is God in the flesh. Christ is a whole bunch of these things that are just astounding and honorable and and uh uh lifted up, you know, glorified. But none of those titles are as comforting to us as Christ being our shepherd. Christ be, it's all necessary. But it when Christ is a shepherd, it hits home We so long for a good shepherd to protect us from the wolves and to provide for all of our needs. We all have that longing. When we see Christ describing himself as the good shepherd, we ought to allow our hearts to rejoice at that, to ponder it, to think about what that means. Because that's for us. That's for those things that we feel the need of every day. That's what a shepherd's job is. They they take care of that That which our hearts so desperately need, we have in Christ as our shepherd. Okay, verse one in our text. Truly, truly, I say to you. He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. Now we need no explanation for the truly truly. You know, we know that Jesus is saying something impactful here. This was usually a mind-blowing statement by Jesus that would explode a person's prior understanding. So we we'll discover later that the thieves and the robbers are the Jewish leadership. Jesus is contrasting by what he says, how he deals with sheep. Like this man born blind, and this is a part I didn't catch, as I've read this I don't know how many times in the past It's a contrast between how the religious leaders dealt with the man born blind and uh how Christ does. This truly, truly is essentially saying that the Pharisees are not shepherds. Don't be confused. These Pharisees are not shepherds. They are thieves. They are robbers. They intend you no good. Now we know who the shepherd is, but what is the sheepfold that he's talking about? The person who doesn't enter the sheepfold. What's he referring to? And fortunately, in verse 16, the context tells us what he's talking about when we interpret his spiritual meaning. In sixteen he said, I have other sheep that are not of this fold, I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice The sheepfold that Jesus is talking about is actually the Jewish nation. The Jewish people That's the sheep fold. In that nation are sheep that belong to Jesus, and there are sheep that do not belong to Jesus. There are also sheep in another fold that he's got. So he's got more than just in this one fold, he's got another fold, and we'll find out that's the Gentile nations. And they're both equally his sheep, they are both equally loved, they will both be equally taken care of. So, the legit shepherd does the legit thing. He comes into the fold through the door that's designed for that purpose, and he legitimately takes the sheep that are his. If someone's trying to get in by some other way, he is up to no good. He isn't there to care for the sheep, he's there to feed on the sheep or gain some kind of advantage by stealing the sheep Okay, so the legit shepherd shows, goes to the door, announces his presence, the gatekeeper knows him and lets him in. Verse 3, to him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls out his own sheep by name and leads them out. So the shepherd calls his sheep. The sheep know the shepherd and they come out. Well what two things do we learn from that transaction? At least two. Well first the sheep legitimately belong to the shepherd because he calls them by name. He knows exactly who they are. We'll expand on this in a later text. And also the shepherd legitimately belongs to the sheep because they know his voice. If you wanted to know who owns the sheep, watch them. Watch what voice the sheep respond to. At least if you want to know who the shepherd is of the sheep. Watch him. They'll reveal it themselves. Verse 4, when he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they'll flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they didn't understand what he was saying to them. Okay, so the shepherd goes ahead of his sheep. Isn't that good to know? The shepherd goes ahead of his sheep. You can count on Christ to have faced and tested everything he ever leads you to face. Everything. If something is in your life, you can handle it with the shepherd's help. Are you facing something hard in your life this morning? Your good shepherd was in front of you before you got to this place. He placed it there for your good. Christ goes before you. In the Jewish fold, not everyone is going to follow Jesus out of the Jewish sheepfold, only those who are his. Will follow him. He says, a stranger they will not follow. You know, the hirelings might pull sheep, but strangers don't. As long as he just keeps talking, a stranger is no threat to real sheep. The sheep will know who the stranger is. It's comforting that as we get to know Jesus better, the counterfeits get more and more obvious. Have you found that true in your life? Like you you know enough doctrine and you hear somebody and say, that doesn't sound right. There is something wrong with that. Don't know what it is. Never heard it before. But that does not sound right Their voices don't resonate with us. There'll be something fishy about what they're saying. We'll know that their voice is not right. This is not the voice of Jesus What they're saying doesn't jibe with the truth that we know. Now at this point, the people who are listening to Jesus talk, they're probably looking at each other Do you know what he's talking about? No, I don't know what he's talking about. What do you know? No, I don't know. Maybe they thought Jesus was showing 'em how much they he knew about raising sheep. We don't know. They'd they'd be thinking, Well, this is odd. Normally he talks about something important. And verse 7, so Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, I am the door to the sheep. Now remember, every time he says a truly, truly, it's it's bringing forth a truth that is going to be explosive. And now the truly truly hits home, I think. The first truly truly. Jesus is talking about himself being the central figure in the eternal salvation of any Jewish person. That's a huge claim. And I think they'd have got it here. Jesus is making it very clear just how important he is in the plan of God He is so important that you get into God's kingdom by Jesus Christ. And those who oppose him are false and evil and have bad motives. You want to pick off a bunch of Pharisees? You do this. Verse 8: All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. Now, this could not mean that every human who came before Christ. Christ are these things. Abraham, Moses, and David are not who Christ is talking about. He's probably talking about first the false messiahs. That had shown up. But I think we can take that farther to include anyone who postured themselves as being spiritual leaders. But when given the chance to deal with Christ, they reject Christ. Our Jewish leadership audience would be included in this mix. They came before Christ. They came as leadership before Christ, and they would have nothing to do with Christ. They're robbers. They are thieves. They're out to no good. Every false Messiah and every set of Jewish leaders had their own following, but their following was not made up of Jesus' sheep. Their voices did not resonate with the sheep of Jesus Now, you and I cannot know motives. We can guess accurately sometimes But man, I I mean think about when when we think about when we think that we know motives without being told by a person what they actually are, we we're sometimes entering into God's territory Really, how much trouble have we gotten into? I know I've gotten into a lot, because I assumed certain motives, bad motives, and I was completely wrong about it. Well I mean I could imagine how a person could think about this differently than I do, but odd oddly enough, you know fortunately enough, people don't all think like I do. And then we find out, oh, there's other motives involved here That I was wrong about. Well, anyway, Jesus tells us the motives of the false teachers of Israel. And they are bad. Bad motives. Now You could think that they were good and you might think they might be doing these things sincerely, but Jesus tells no these are bad. They came to get some advantage from the sheep that was not theirs to have. So instead of feeding the sheep, they were feeding on the sheep. And they wanted it that way. If you want to learn something about leaders, if you want to pick leaders, whatever, watch this. You know, that's a a core uh indicator. Are they feeding you or feeding on you? But fortunately, there's a difference here between how literal thieves and robbers act and how these spiritual thieves and robbers act. When a real chic uh thief comes in It doesn't matter how the sheep responds to the voice of the thief, the sheep are still going to be eaten for supper. But in the spiritual realm, those who don't give in to the voice of the robbers will resist being stolen. So there, you know, we we always have to take it when when Christ gives us a figure of speech or he gives us an illustration. You can never take it too far. You always have to keep it in the bounds that he puts it in. Verse 9, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he'll be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. Okay, Jesus is the way to life. Jesus is the means of salvation. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the light. No one comes to the Father except through the door of Jesus. And that life is safe. And this is the astounding thing, and this is, I think, an extremely comforting thing if we'll let it be absorbed by it. Whether you're in the fold or out to pasture. Our life in Christ is safe. We don't live in the fold. We have things in the world that need done. There are people to reach for Christ, but no matter where we are, Christ will shepherd us. If we are his. If we'll follow Christ, all of life is shepherded activity. And in the going, we'll realize that it's not the fold that keeps us safe. It's the shepherd that keeps us safe. There is no unsafe place if our shepherd is present. There is no unsafe place If our shepherd is present. Verse 10: The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they might have life and have it more have it abundantly. Alright, let's look at the motives for each of the characters. Wolves, thieves, and robbers profit by the death of the sheep. Hirelings, like we see in verse twelve, profit from the living sheep. The shepherd lives to profit. The sheep. The Good Shepherd wants his sheep to have life to the full. That's amazing. The word abundantly means something that goes far beyond what is necessary It is lavish giving. He wants us all to be all that we can be in him And you have to throw the in him in there, or you end up with Joel Osteen. And that's that nonsense. He wants us to be all that we can be in him. He wants to remove the deadly influence of sin from our thoughts, from our actions, and he wants to fill us with freedom-giving truth. He wants us to bask in his grace, in his all-encompassing love. He wants us to quit resisting his influence in our lives because we trust him and we want what we he wants, he wants, what is best for us. How much misery and unhappiness we create in our own lives by clinging to things that God does not want us to have We think there are better pastors than the one that our shepherd is leading us to, but we're just making ourselves wolf bait. When we do that. I'm sure Mark could give us plenty of stories about how his cows are never satisfied to be in the field they're in. You know, it's always the field next, but it's far better. That's off. That's us and well how much we waste our time, waste our effort. It's like when you watch your little kids and they want something and they get fixated in their mind they must have this thing and you think You're stupid. You know. It's not gonna give you what you want. I know it's good for you. Give it up now. You'll waste less time. You won't be so frustrated But that's how things are. That's how we are. Encouraged, he doesn't want she that just survived. Like he's not thinking, well, you know, if I if I keep that person spiritually alive so that they they will enter my kingdom, well that's that's good enough. He never has that goal. That's like the beginning and the entryway of his goal. He wants sheep that thrive. He wants us to be enveloped in him to such a degree that we are thrilled. To be his and to have relationship with him and to have relationship with his people. And to be growing continually and feeding on his word in such a way that it it touches us in a way that it didn't the day before. That's the kind of thriving, abundant living that our our shepherd wants for us. I mean We know that fact. I think all of us could get this right in a multiple choice question, you know, uh test. But do we really get? That our shepherd, our eternal shepherd, wants that much good in our lives for us, individually. That's the point of this good shepherd. And that truly, truly, that he just said, is the kind of God we serve. Are you struggling to submit to something you know God wants you to do, or God wants you to stop doing? Why do you distrust him? And maybe you're saying, well, I uh it's not him I distrust, it's me, because I'm not very good at well Are you afraid that submitting to Christ will make you unhappy? How could it? How could it? If Christ's will for you is to have life that is far better than necessary, how could Christ possibly give you something outside of that which he says is his purpose for you? How could he do that? Sure, some stuff is brutally hard, but the end Christ has in mind is eternally good. Look into your heart right now. Do you truly believe that Christ's purpose for you is that you would have a life that is far better than just necessary? If you know the right answer, but your heart hesitates to fall in line with that, do business with it. Get to the bottom of that. You will never gladly obey a God that you do not believe has your best intentions in mind. You will never gladly obey a God that you do not believe has your best intentions in mind. If your heart does quickly say, Amen, to this purpose of God, rejoice, because God put that there. Brothers and sisters, we're here together to worship a God who truly has in mind our highest good. We are people who are blessed beyond belief no matter what temporary tragedy we might face Because we have a God who committed in writing to our good. Verse 11: I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. The Greek here literally reads, I am the shepherd, the good one. I like that. I am the shepherd, I'm the good one. As opposed to all the others. You know, it's in contrast. Christ is also referred to as the great shepherd in Hebrews thirteen twenty. And great means the top ranking. So we have the A number one shepherd. He's the chief shepherd. 1 Peter 5, 2 through 4. Chief is the word used for tribal chiefs. So there's only one. We have the top shepherd, so that tells us. And then the one shepherd, Matthew 2, 6. Christ is the one that is for us when all the others simply want to use us. Jesus is in a class of good all by himself. Now, wouldn't it be a bummer if we had a shepherd, but he was a substandard one? Maybe he's watching us, maybe he's on his cell phone, maybe he knows where good pasture is. Maybe he doesn't think it's all that important we eat that day Maybe he counts his sheep or maybe he notices a few days later, oh, I'm missing one. No, that that isn't for us. Our shepherd is the good shepherd, the only one like him. How good is he? There is no price that he will not pay for the good of his sheep. He would rather die than have his sheep meet any true harm. How do we know? Because he did. Let's ask ourselves, what could a shepherd possibly do to prove his love for his sheep? That Jesus did not already do for us. If we're slow to believe that Christ loves us, It's only because we're dense. The evidence is overwhelming. Jesus loves his sheep. The contrast is that the bad shepherd will not lay down his life for his sheep. The bad shepherd spends his sheep for the shepherd's welfare or convenience, which is exactly what the Pharisees did to the man that was born blind. Then verse 12, He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and I'm gone, I'm out of here. He leaves the sheep and he flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them, and he figures, well now I just need a new. job. That's that's the bad shepherd. He flees because he's a hired hand. He doesn't care about the sheep. He cares about his job. John Piper wrote a book to pastors that says we are not professionals. I think that's the title of it. We are not professionals Essentially, he makes the point that a pastor is not to see his position as a job as much as a lifestyle and a calling. He has got to prioritize the people under his care and make sure that he is feeding them with the word. It's an expectation that their needs will cost the shepherd some things that the shepherd would prefer not to pay. But a pastor is not a hired hand. He is not a hireling who has no skin in the game. No, a pastor cares deeply and intimately for the sheep, and they are his responsibility, and he sees it that way. Are we looking to be rewarded by the people that we lead? And that's not just for for us as you know elders or whatever. It's in every Aspect of our life. Are we looking to be rewarded by the people that we lead? If we lead in order to do anything but enable our sheep to thrive, we're doing it with the wrong motive. Hirelings are far more dangerous to the sheep than most other dangers. With a hireling, the sheep feel safe, but they aren't. It would be better if they felt unsafe if they've got a hireling. At least then they'd realize the danger and respond accordingly. Jesus here warns of religious leaders who are in the leadership with the wrong motives. They may work to see that the sheep are doing well. They don't look like they're good shepherds. They're doing the same things as long as it doesn't cost them too much. But somewhere they have a limit of what they're willing to pay. And when it crosses that limit, they're going to abandon their responsibilities. They're going to abandon their sheep. They won't enter into conflict if conflict's what's needed. They won't initiate the hard conversations. They won't stand up to wolfish influences and refuse to yield to them. They won't pay the price of their safety or their livelihood, and they may not discipline themselves to stick with what Scripture says. They might feed their flocks substandard food that's going to starve them spiritually Notice too that the wolves desire to scatter the flock. Sheep are more easily picked off when they're separated. We should keep that in mind. And we do well to keep communication open with each other and to look out for one another regularly. There are far too many hirelings in churches today, and that explains how so many churches have wandered off into many bizarre and evil paths. Alright, we're going to stop here this morning and we'll take this up next week, Lord willing. Let's close in prayer. Lord, thank you.