John MacArthur opened his study of this passage with this quote, and I thought it was too good to pass up. He said these verses might be introduced with a riddle. Who is permitted to speak, but not able, and able to speak, but not permitted? That enigmatic question finds its answer in this dramatic account. Verse 31. Again, departing from the region of Tyran Sidon, he came through the midst of the region of Decapolis to the Sea of Galilee. If you follow this on a map, you would see a very big semicircle where Christ starts at the tip of the Sea of Galilee. Then he goes up into Gentile territory through Tyrant Sidon. Then he swings around and comes into the east side of the Sea of Galilee. Now, does the word decapits ring a bell? This is where Christ set a man free from a legion of demons. This is where the pigs died in the sea, and the man wanted to follow Christ, but Christ told him not to. The man was to go to his home area and tell people what Christ had done. This was one of the few times that Christ actually told someone to proclaim what Christ had done and he did it. He did it well, in fact. We're going to see lots of evidence. that he was an extremely successful evangelist and preacher. This area was outside of the rule of Herod Antipas, where Christ is now. So it was a little safer than some of the Jewish territories. This area was definitely a Gentile area. And since Mark was writing to Romans, who themselves were Gentiles, it's very likely that he included the story in our text Because the Romans would relate to it more than the Jewish readers would. Decapolis was like a little taste of Rome outside of Rome. Here's an excerpt about the area again from John MacArthur's commentary. He says the region encompassed ten city-states, the name Decapolis from the Greek Deca, ten, and Polis, city. Literally means ten cities. Archaeological discoveries indicate that these towns were centers of Greek paganism Littered with idols honoring pagan deities like Zeus, Aphrodite, Artemis, and Dionysius. So this was a very pagan place. The fact that Christ went here and ministered is a look into the future when the ministry of Gentiles takes front and center stage in the book of Acts. So it's like a little taste of what's to come. The Jews at this point had no idea that Christ would take the true faith. The faith that's found in the heart of the Old Testament and spread it all over the world. They would not have guessed that. In fact, before Christ comes back, he promises that it will have spread, the gospel will have spread. to every people group all over the whole globe, which is pretty exciting. Matthew 15, 29 through 31, which is a parallel text, sets the scene for our s story this morning. Jesus went along by the Sea of Galilee, and having gone up on the mountain, he was sitting there, and large crowds came to him. Bringing with them those who were lame, crippled, blind, mute, and many others, and they laid them down at his feet, and he healed them So the crowd marveled as they saw the mute speaking, the crippled restored, and the lame walking and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. This is often how we see Christ, but in the past it was largely with Jewish crowds. This is a Gentile crowd. And next week we're going to see him feed them. Now these Gentiles knew power when they saw it. So they brought everyone that had something wrong with them to this master healer. And notice the last phrase. And they glorified the God of Israel. Very specific. They knew exactly who they were glorifying, the God of Israel. Isn't it interesting that these Gentiles who were familiar with Satan-like worship, serving the idols inspired by demons These people recognized the miracles as from the God of Israel. But the ones who were supposed to be the experts of the God of Israel, the Jewish leadership, Attributed these miracles to Satan. It is tragic what religion can do to a person. And verse 32, then they brought to him one who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech, and they begged him to put his hand on him. It's very easy to read over this and miss the real drama here. It's just a sentence. But a deaf person in this society would have been regarded as mentally handicapped. Deaf people would be used used to being treated as unwanted members of society. They're kind of awkward They had no status. They couldn't express their thoughts except in language that seems to be more sounds and guttural, you know, uh sounds than language itself. If you've ever heard a deaf person speak, have you ever thought about the first impression that you have? At least if you're anything like me, it's not a favorable one, it's not an impressive one. A person who is deaf can't speak clearly because they can't hear themselves enunciate, so they can't self-correct. They have no idea what sounds are coming out of their mouth other than the vibrations that they feel. They can't tell what volume is appropriate. They can't do or experience so many of the things that we just absolutely take for granted. We might look at this and think, ah, big deal. It wasn't life-threatening. The person could eat and drink and sleep and live without pain. But we think this because we've never suffered this kind of treatment. Just listening to Carla's stories about how being partially deaf has affected her history It's easy to see that being completely deaf from birth would put a person in an extremely difficult situation. Well, this man was fortunate. He had people who loved him and who could hear. It's heartwarming to see what friends do in many of our stories. When friends bring their friends to Christ, they're performing the most loving thing they could possibly do. The same is true today. When we bring a person who does not know Christ to Christ, there's nothing more loving that we could do for that person. When we bring the needs of a brother or sister to Christ in prayer, that is a very loving thing to do. When we bring the words of Christ to a brother or sister who needs to hear the words of Christ, we are being very loving. And then look what else our passage says. They begged him to put his hand on him. They begged him. This is a form of the word paracalla. Which uh that's the coming alongside, the paraclete word, the coming alongside word that's so frequently used in scripture, often in uh how we should minister to one another This word means to urgently beg. The difference is between a good-natured, wishful regard And a desperation to acquire the thing that our loved one needs. Much of our natural way of loving is to wish that someone had what they needed. You know, I wish you had that. We in our intentions intend them well. We would even give it to them if it was convenient for us, if it was comfortable for us. But often that is as far as it goes in our intentions. James describes the problem. In James 2, 14 through 17, he says, What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled. Yeah, I I wish you well. But you do not give them the things which are needed for the body. What does it profit? What good is it? What what good are those good intentions if they don't deliver the goods Thus also, faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Christ told us to love one another like we love ourselves. Have you ever thought about how really hard that is to do? What I find in my flesh is that I love me. I love me without thought. I love me urgently. When I feel no pain, or when I feel pain, no one will concern themselves with finding a solution for that pain more than I will. If I'm hungry or thirsty, no one will give more consideration to meeting that need than I will. I am most urgent about those things that I feel desperate about Then next, most of us display a sense of urgency in meeting the needs of our children if we have some Especially small children who totally depend upon us. We'll often meet those needs sacrificially without consideration of what it costs us. Well, we're getting somewhere when we do activities that display that we have that same sense of urgency for others. We'll find it supersedes our excuses for why I shouldn't need to do this or that for my brother or sister. And we'll stop waiting for others to come to us and we'll go to them. We must have good intentions toward our Christian family. You know, we we must. That's a given. Of course we have good intentions. But good intentions by themselves are not enough. Love causes us to put feet to those good intentions. Love meets needs if needs can be met. It doesn't just wish they're met. The friends of this deaf and mute man were true friends. They had an urgency to meet his need. Verse 33. And Christ took him aside from the multitude and put his fingers in his ears, and he spat and touched his tongue. And then op looking up to heaven, he sighed and said, Affatha, that is, be open. First, we see here that Christ took this man aside from the multitude. We aren't told why. Maybe it was for the man's sake, so that he wasn't made a spectacle of. Maybe it was because he knew that this miracle was going to excite the crowd and he didn't want them that excited. We don't know. Christ knew, but we don't. Now, look how he treats this man. Christ knows this man's limitations. He can't hear. Christ knows what life is like inside of this man's mind. So Christ meets him exactly where he is. There's such compassion here in this story. It's kind of almost hidden, but when you look at it a little while, it starts to make sense. Essentially, what Christ does is akin to sign language. He communicates his intentions with actions, with symbols. First, Christ puts his fingers in his ears. Now, I don't know enough Greek to tell whose ears he put his fingers in. I'm not sure that it tells us. Maybe they were his own. Maybe they were the deaf man 's. But the deaf man would have gotten the idea that Christ is going to do something about his ears, something about his hearing. And then Christ spat somewhere. We don't know where. Evidently, spit was commonly understood as being used in conjunction with healing at that time. That is not something that I had ever read before, but it makes things make a little more sense in some of the things that Christ does. Why spit? That is not usually what we think of for healing. But he did. So he spat and then touched either his own tongue or this man's tongue. So what Christ communicated is that he intended to heal both this man's ears and his tongue. And the man would have understood that. He did it in a way that the deaf man could clearly understand. That was very compassionate of Christ, an example for us, and how to minister to others. We need to put ourselves into their place. And treat them the way that we would want to be treated if we were in their shoes. Then Christ looked to heaven In other places you see that he prays to heaven, like before he feeds people. But here he looks to heaven. Why? This would give the deaf man a clear understanding of where the source of this healing was going to come from. Christ was depending upon the God of heaven to heal this man. And then he sighed. Why? The word used for sigh is the same one used for groan in this following verse in Romans 8. 23, where it says, not only that, But we also ha who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. And this is a serious groan. Christ essentially let out a loud groan with this man looking right at him. I think that Christ was conveying to this man that he understood The plight of man in the world of sin. I think that's what it's all about. I think that's often what it's about when Christ weeps, when he displays emotion This world is not what it was, and this world is not what it will be. It is cursed. And as such, it is full of such sadness and desperation and turmoil and suffering. The man has suffered the consequences of the cursed state of the world all his life. His ears, which are designed amazingly by our Creator to hear, never worked for this man. He never heard the word of God. He never heard singing. He never heard loved ones' voices. How sad, how tragic, but how common in this world of sin. I was thinking about this the other day. God did as good a job of cursing the planet as he did in creating it. As thorough a job. It was his will, and he did it. He wants this to be a flawed existence. He wants our life situations to leave us longing for something better. He wants the negative to be a reminder of what world and rebellion looks like. He wants none of that rebellion and sin in the world he will place us in forever. Whenever we curse God because his life is not what we wish it would be, is not what he could make it to be, we make a huge mistake. It is what it is, so that we will be most prepared for what He has in store for us. The priority of the future glory is worthy of the present suffering. That's what the curse is about. Christ's groan, I believe, conveyed his deep-felt emotions regarding the fallen state of things Things that included this man's lack of hearing. And it could be that he groaned because while this man could not hear, he could feel vibrations. This may have communicated to this man in a way that nothing else that Christ could have done would have communicated. And then he said to him, A batha, that is, be open. And immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was loosed, and he spoke plainly. Here is a dual miracle. Christ fixed the ear mechanism that was broken. So instantly this man could hear. I don't know if you've ever seen it. It's on Facebook a lot. It's just so sweet to see the films that show small children who are born deaf when their hearing is repaired. It's amazing to see them when they hear their mother's voice for the first time. It's touching. It's just really something. Well, this man would have felt something like that. The miracle of sound. It's difficult to even imagine what it would be to hear after not hearing for so long. They wouldn't know what hearing was. But he experienced it all in a rush. Right now, he could hear. And then, after many months of practice and speech therapy, he began speaking clearly. No, not at all. Instantly, he could speak right. He could speak straight is actually the literal word That's more literally what the word means. It's orthos. You recognize that? Orthos, which is the word we use in orthopedics, a doctor that straightens feet out, or orthodontics. A doctor that straightens teeth out. This person could articulate clearly. His speech was as good as anyone else's The impediment of his deafness, the bonds of deafness that held back his tongue from speaking clearly, was loosed, and he spoke plainly. Then verse 36, then he commanded them that they should not, they should tell no one. But the more he commanded them, the more widely they proclaimed it. Does this strike anyone else here as being a little humorous? This deaf man, who's probably looked at as being stupid, is finally free to clearly articulate his thoughts. He can also finally hear his sounds. He can hear speech. And what's the first thing he hears? Don't tell anyone. Don't speak. Don't tell this story to anyone. You would think that just one of these people that Christ healed would do what Christ told them to do. But hardly of them, hardly any of them ever do. The words he commanded in this text are in a continual tense. So essentially it's saying Christ kept telling people over and over again, don't tell anybody. And over and over and over again they kept telling people. There was coming a time when this would be a good thing, but it was not a good thing now. Partly because what these people were communicating was the wrong agenda, the wrong expectation. And the other problem was the negative attention it brought to Christ by his enemies. We might think it odd that Christ told the demoniac to spread the good news of Christ to this land, and then he told this man in our story to remain quiet. But they were in different circumstances at slightly different times. Christ had different expectations and different needs. And verse 37, and they were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. He makes both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak. The words astonished beyond measure would be best captured by our figure of speech, it blew their minds. It was more than they could take in. It's like overload. It was amazement to the highest degree. It's the kind of thing that would leave a person speechless. When we really see Christ for who Christ is and what he can do, this is what we will feel. Our minds are blown with the excellency of Christ, with the power of Christ. And what was their evaluation? He has done all things well. He makes both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak. The crowd was saying Christ did all things rightly, correctly, perfectly. When he healed someone, there was no partial healing. There was no short improvement and then a relapse No, everything he did was thorough and complete. And when he was done, it was done. It would be good if they could see all of our lives And come to the same conclusion. It would be good if the world around us could see our lives and jump to that same conclusion, say the same thing I have friends in Leonardtown who the Lord has used to lead lots of people to Christ. I was talking to the wife's father. He was 72 years old when he came to Christ. Extremely unusual. That hardly ever happens. I asked him about it. He said it was simple. He saw what they had and he wanted it What Christ did in them, he did very well. And he recognized it. This man recognized it and he wanted it for himself. Do we display enough of the miracle of Christ in our lives that those around us would be tempted to say, Christ does all things well? Look at this person. Christ does all things well. Before we finish this text, there's a use of words that's very interesting. Jesus quoted Isaiah 29, 13 in last week's text Later on in that same passage in Isaiah, down in verse 17 through 19, it says this. Is it not Yet a very little while till Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field be esteemed as a forest In that day the deaf shall hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness The humble also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel This is a prophecy that Christ was fulfilling by wandering out of Israel into a foreign land. And then along with this, the phrase that Mark used in verse 32 about Dumb had an impediment in his speech. Is only used one other place in the Septuagint Bible. Verse 5 in Isaiah 35, 5 and 6. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. The lame shall leap like a deer, and the tongue of the dumb, which is the same wording. Singh, for water shall burst forth in the wilderness and streams in the desert. These two passages appear to be part of the same prophecy. What this would mean is that Christ was prophesied to do this very thing in Scripture, in the Old Testament. And the word that Mark chose to use was the same word to draw attention to it. It was the same word used in the Isaiah prophecy when translated into Greek. He brought those two scriptures together intentionally. Christ had an appointment with this deaf man. And by meeting it, he fulfilled one more of the hundreds of scripture that assure us that Christ truly was the promised one. He certainly does all things well. As I thought about the application of this passage, I wondered something. If people were able to view our last week. Being able to see what we thought as well as to hear what we said, what would they say? Would they see the reaction of a person Who believes that Christ does all things well? Did we display a quiet confidence in the one in whom we have placed our faith? Did we act like we know our Savior and we know that He is working out everything for our good? He does all things well. Or did we display the same confusion and desperation as the world around us? We should know by now that we can trust this same Christ who healed, cast out demons, walked on the water. Brought the dead back to life, and fed the crowds by creating food out of nothing, we should know by now that we can trust him Can we really imagine him doing anything badly? Half-heartedly, incompletely If so, then why do we resort so quickly to acting like all is lost and all is out of control? Do we really believe the assessment of these Gentile onlookers? Do we really believe Christ does all things well? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your kindness. We thank you for showing your mercy and grace. To this this man who had never experienced the wonder of sound, and you gave it to him. Lord, we thank you for the example that you show us and how to minister to people, to put our our feet in their shoes. And to minister to them the way they need to be ministered, not the way we find most convenient for ourselves. We ask that you would help us To be people who one believe that you truly do do all things well. We trust you in that. We ask that you would help us in that pursuit, that we would depend upon you fully. In the knowledge that what you're doing, you know what you're doing, and you'll do it well. And we ask too that you would use your work in us to draw people to yourself, that they would look at us And they would see you and your fingerprints all over it. And they would see something where they would say, I want what Christ has done to that person there. And that you would use us to draw people to you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.