Last week was to wrap up studying five today, but as I read and studied this past week, I realized that a few more points of emphasis were justified, I think, even necessary. So I ask either I asked either for your kind indulgence or your patient tolerance, whichever is whichever is the case. As we've encouraged already, please as well read this section as one unit. Read it in one sitting as much as you can. Chapters 5, 6, 7, and 8. It's really not that much material. We just make it seem that way by spending so much time in it. And it is good also to periodically review chapters 1 through 4 as a unit so that we maintain our perspective. We're still tied to chapter 1 verses 16 and 17. That will be the headline theme all the way through this book of Romans. Everything derives from And is explanation of or application of those those verses in chapter one So we need to gain the maximum benefit. That's our intention. What benefit does the Lord have for us for spending a significant amount of time in our lives studying this book? And since this is the systematic book of the gospel in the entire Bible, it's worth as much time as we can profitably spend in it. We've seen that Just as the sin of Adam brought condemnation to all who are in him, even so the righteousness of Christ brings justification to all those who are in him. Just as our condemnation is not based on deeds of unrighteousness which we have done. Now that's a radical, controversial concept, but we need to get it through our heads. Our condemnation is not based on deeds of unrighteousness which we have done. And if you remember Titus chapter 3, I'm deliberately turning that reference backwards for this effect Because Paul makes the point in Titus chapter 3, and he's making it here in Romans 5, that our justification Likewise, is not based on any deeds of righteousness that we have done. Now, certainly we have done unrighteous deeds, and certainly in Christ we begin to do righteous deeds. But both of those are set aside in Romans chapter five. Let's read Titus chapter three just uh for refresher. This was you remember from church camp last year, but I don't trust my ability to quote it. Um Starting at verse three, Paul says, We ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived. We served various lusts and pleasures. We lived in malice and envy. We were hateful. We hated one another. In other words, that list could go on and on and on forever. There's no difference in us and any other sinners. All sinners were represented in us. That's what he's saying. But when the kindness and love of God our Savior toward man appeared, not by any works of righteousness that we have done, but according to his mercy, it says, He saved us. And how did he do that? through the washing of regeneration and through the renewing done by the Holy Spirit. Now his emphasis in chapter 5 and in Romans 1 to 4 has been on the legal work of justification. and the atonement and how sin is forgiven. His emphasis for Titus to pass on to the to the citizens of his church, the residents of his church. is the emphasis on the new birth. We understand both, of course, to be involved simultaneously. Through the renewing of the Holy Spirit, verse 6, whom he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that having been justified, that's where he brings in the other side, the two steps of s of salvation. Being justified by his grace, we would become heirs, inheritors, according to the hope of eternal life. That's exactly the same reference he has. early on in chapter 5 here, you remember. So the pattern is is showing us how Adam and Christ are similar. And then we saw last week how they are different. So our understanding is our condemnation is not based on our personal works of unrighteousness, neither is our salvation. based on any of our works of righteousness. It's important to understand that under the head the headline label of justification. So Adam's deeds condemned us. We've made that point a hundred times, but Adam's deeds condemned us. Christ's deeds saved us. Incidentally, by the way, did it ever occur to you How Eve's deed did not condemn us. She sinned before Adam did. Why didn't she condemn us? You need to work this into your theory of women's liberation and all that Eve was not the representative federal head of the human race. Her sin did nothing to anybody except herself. She corrupted herself. But she was not Adam's federal head. He was her federal head. Interesting to think about. What if Adam had used his position to minister truth to her, or at least to maintain his own position? What choices did he have? That's pure speculation. What if instead of joining her, he had tried to think about some other options, or dare we imagine, prayed about some other options? She certainly tempted and provoked and enticed the sin that condemned all of us. So she has no glory in this whatsoever, but her sin did not sink our boat. Adam's sin did. That's just the Messiah. Adam's deeds condemned us. Christ's deeds saved us. We sinned is the way Paul has put it. In chapter 5. We sinned in Adam sinned and we are saved in Christ's righteousness Now, it's certainly true. The other piece to this is not being addressed in chapter 5, but we need to have it in our understanding because we're going to talk about it in the next two chapters. It is certainly true that in Adam's sin, all humanity, and in fact all creation, was not only condemned. Condemnation to the wrath of God is the issue of justification, but that's not all that happened. Creation was also corrupted. All human beings were also corrupted. That is a second problem. A second problem. That's the problem that requires the other step of salvation, which Paul brings out in Titus chapter 3. So all humanity, every person really did become not only technically legally condemned. But also corrupt in heart and motive, as well as corrupt in sinful personal behavior. Paul's not focusing on this second problem of sin here in chapter 5. He will talk about it in chapter 6 and in chapter 7. But Paul is concerned that we clearly and unmistakably see that our justification is in Christ alone, by grace alone, through faith alone. But it is also clear that we were not only condemned in Adam's sin, we were also corrupted by his sin, so that we who belong to Christ Became by nature at birth or even at conception, children of God's wrath, just like all the rest, is the way Paul puts it if you read Ephesians chapter 2, verse 3. Just like all the rest of humanity. So our very natures were altered We died spiritually, and furthermore, we were constituted. It's an interesting word study in this text in chapter 5, the word constituted. It's not like the word imputed or reckoned or accounted. We were constituted sinners and sinful as well as counted to be sinners in Adam. So we've often pointed out that salvation therefore necessarily consists of two parts. Not one. Don't just focus on one. Justification is required. We must be justified because we are condemned. We must be legally, justly, righteously Justified from condemnation with sins forgiven, satisfied, so that there is no more payment, no more debt for our sin. That has to happen. That's one step of salvation. One action. But additionally, regeneration has to happen. There has to be new birth. You must be born again, Jesus said to Nicodemus. There must be a spiritual birth to new life. So we're not only condemned in Adam, we are also rendered unrighteous personally and corrupt and perverse and spiritually dead by nature. And all humans equally in this, one in sin So we have two problems that need to be addressed, and the two steps of salvation address those problems. We have our guilt and condemnation, that is remedied by justification and forgiveness. Achieved and paid for entirely by Jesus Christ, our substitute, plus nothing on our behalf, on our on our part It is all for our b on our behalf. But secondly, we have the problem of our personal corruption, our depravity, our personal sinning, our particular flavor of the problem, which we each have. That was solved in the new birth. The salvation story throughout the Bible, every passage is dealing with Salvation from one of these two perspectives. Sometimes both, as in chapter three, reference is made to both. Usually there's an emphasis on one or the other, and you assume whichever one is not being presently discussed. We're either hearing about salvation from the angle of the new birth or from the angle of justification. And note as we near entry now into chapters 6, 7, and 8, if you're reading ahead, note that we could just as well say that our condemnation was remedied by justification while our corruption and depravity are remedied through sanctification. Because that's what we're going to get at in chapter 6 Our justification, our righteousness is provided entirely by the work of Jesus Christ incarnate. Our new birth, our regeneration, our sanctification is entirely by the work of the Holy Spirit. There is this sense, therefore, that sanctification is what begins immediately at the new birth And it assumes justification. The work of Christ. The shedding of his blood has cleared the way for that to begin immediately. Simultaneous with it, of course, is the application of justification to us by faith, because we receive faith as a gift of the Father with which to believe justification. And be led in sanctification. But sanctification is the continuous sense of regeneration And sanctification is at the exact same time simultaneous with an experience a reception of justification. It is inseparable from justification. You can put a discussion of sanctification on pause or on hold while you talk about justification, but in real life, both are simultaneous. Notice Paul has not even used the word sanctification yet. So be careful about making a separate class and labeling it sanctification, a separate class of study or class of doctrine. Because he's assuming it. He has paired justification with glorification. That's the final outcome that reaches beyond this present life. That's what he's saying is guaranteed. When he starts talking to us in chapter 6 and 7 and starts giving personal direct instruction, he hadn't given a single instruction yet. But he's soon going to begin, and he's going to assume this, that the new birth has happened, that the Holy Spirit is involved The Holy Spirit didn't achieve our justification, Jesus Christ did. But it is simultaneous and inseparable from the new birth and sanctification, therefore. So Sanctification is progressive instantly from justification, just as it is progressive instantly from the new birth. We don't always know when that instant is, even in our own lives. But it is absolutely inseparable. We must be clear on that. We noted this continuing sense, this continuation. of salvation in chapter 1, in verses 16 and 17. That was the sense there. This is believing that continues. It is faith that continues. Salvation is from faith to faith. Justified people are just living by faith all the time. That's how justified people are being sanctified. That's how their new birth is powerfully being worked out in their lives. As chapter 6 is going to assume. When you're told you have power to do something in chapter 6, it's a power for which the way's been cleared by justification. That takes away all the excuses of Adam. All the excuses we had in Adam. And it also is telling you about the power of the new birth by which you presently exist in a spiritually alive state before God. If you're not in that state, then obviously when you read those instructions in chapter 6, you'll find there's a disconnect. You'll say, that isn't me. I can't do that. If you can't, then you need to be born again. Then you can So our fallen human nature, which enslaves us personally to sin, is powerfully repaired in regeneration. Our condemnation, the legal case of God against us, is repaired by the work of Christ, and it's called justification. Being justified and being born again, we are called upon then to live as the new people we are. We're called upon them to apply both faith and effort. That becomes the ugly word, doesn't it? Nobody wants to do that. But if you're in Christ, you do because that's how you glorify him. We're called upon to provide faith, to apply faith and effort to this process by which God is now, this word we need to study again, constituting us. in righteousness. We were constituted in sin. Sin was imputed to us from Adam. Righteousness is now imputed to us from Christ, and we're being constituted in that righteousness that was imputed to us. That's called a process of sanctification. A process of being as holy as God said we were. By the means God has declared and provided. So in chapter 6, we start to encounter this direct assumption. And this direct instruction. Be careful that people that buck up against the instruction are doing the same thing Jesus encountered in John 6. When everyone said, You're wonderful, you're Lord, you ought to be king. We believe in you. And the next day he starts teaching them about their sin and what power he could give them over it, and they're saying, Who are you to call us a sinner? Don't trample on my toes and expect me to do anything, that was their attitude. Alarmingly, that's the attitude of a lot of people that call themselves Christians They like the idea of being called righteous. They don't like the idea of being righteous. God doesn't call anybody righteous that he isn't going to make righteous. We need to get that through our heads. Chapter 6 and 7 and 8 are going to tell us how he does it. And it involves our effort. Because in Adam we have no aptitude, no power, no capacity for any of this. You don't give chapter 6, 7, and 8 to somebody who's in Adam But if you're in Christ, you do have the capacity and the power because you have the Holy Spirit, because you're born again And greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. That wasn't true when you were in Adam. It certainly is true in Christ. So justification and righteousness are imputed to us in Christ. Holiness and the transformation of our nature Don't get into this idea that you have two natures, and you can kind of pick which one's more fun at the moment. You have one nature. You have one nature. It is being transformed We're going to be told that specifically later on. We're to all minister in that transformation of each other's natures The transformation of our nature comes to us as righteousness is progressively imparted to us. Sanctification is not imputed to us, it is imparted. That's why we don't need to know what imputed means. And then after you're in Christ, we begin to see righteousness imparted. These two works Of justification and sanctification are not identical, but they are not separable either There's absolutely no gap between justification and sanctification, and in Paul's logic, as we said, he's in fact saying there's not any gap between justification and glorification So none of our deeds, none of our thoughts, none of our intentions, none of our choices, none of our even decisions are involved at all in justification, have nothing to do with justification. But every single one of our deeds and thoughts and motives and choices and decisions, in fact, the entirety of our whole being, everything we are. Is addressed in sanctification and holiness and is being changed and are very much involved in the process. And the common ingredient, one primary common ingredient in both justification and sanctification is faith. We should say in applied justification is faith. Faith doesn't have anything to do with causing your justification either. But it's how it is applied to you in your experience. Faith. In justification, all of our believing and trusting and receiving and however else you label it when you came to Christ. All that faith was by grace and through the power and gift of God to you, which you call faith. And it is a faith that is typical of believing God, as Abraham did. It takes a particular response to the Word of God, which is very unusual, because in Adam you don't see that response. It requires a miracle for anyone to hear the word of God and have the response that God calls faith. So all of our believing and trusting and receiving was by God's grace. But then throughout sanctification, which is to say, for the rest of your life, after being born again, all of our works which are righteous and Are entirely by grace through faith and the obedience of faith. And faith always obeys. That's what Paul says, the purpose of his ministry is the obedience of faith, obeying faith. That is also the gift and power of God. It's the power of God through the power of the Holy Spirit in the process of sanctification and in the work of the new birth. It's the power of God to give you personally the gift of faith by which you will receive Christ. It changes your hearing before it even changes your believing. Because you begin to hear God when he speaks. And spiritually dead people can't do that. Adam's all of that. But when you do, that's a gift of God. That's the grace of God. That's the love of God. Taking you, claiming you as his and saying to you, Christ died for you. He paid for your sins. And it's God saying to you that He loves you. If you love God, you couldn't do that if He didn't love you first. We've said that probably a hundred times. Now we cannot ever say that in these mortal bodies We are 100% entirely righteous in word, deed, attitude, motive, choice, and all those, all that list. Absolutely not That's not achieved in these mortal bodies. The end product can't really be accomplished in these mortal bodies, but God can do a whole lot more in these mortal bodies than we think He can. A lot of times we're not even given the chance But the entirety of our being is open to this, is the focus of this work and this process, and is the perspective of the uh the approach of the Holy Spirit in sanctification is directed to the entirety of who we are and what we are So we're forgiven and justified by faith. That's where faith's initial work in a person begins. And then, beginning immediately, we begin to be purified. We begin a course of being made holy. We begin this process of being constituted in the righteousness which God has declared of us. And it is achieved on our end by the persistence of the same faith. It's the same faith. The way you test genuine believing faith is put it to the test of obeying faith. If they don't line up, the first one is a fraud. Because this is the power of the Spirit of God that is achieving this change in us. We're not trying to talk people into it. You don't want to dare try to talk someone into it. You encourage someone to believe in Christ. That's what you're encouraging them to do evangelistically, and that's what you're encouraging them to do once they're in Christ or once they say they're in Christ. But the result is by the power of the Holy Spirit. The hearing that is changed when you come to Christ is the hearing that is maintained when you hear Christ's instructions as your Lord and as your master and as your ruler. Meanwhile, the doctrine of original sin in Adam is teaching us something here in chapter 5 And as Jonathan Edwards wrote, he says that doctrine is teaching us to, quote, think no worse of others than we do of ourselves. Never think any worse of somebody else than you do of yourself. Do you have a hard time with that, especially when you have what we call quote unquote a notorious sinner, for ha perhaps someone like Hitler Or E. O mean we referenced in Sunday school. Surely that person was worse than I am No, we're to think no worse of anybody else than we do of ourselves because Hitler's problem was that he was in Adam, and that's my problem Isn't that hard on human ego? Because that's the ground that Paul's leveling here in chapter 5. And the other side of that is we never think any better of ourselves than of any other person. For whom Christ died. You dare not. Never think any better of yourself than any other person for whom Christ died. The only question you have to know. In terms of fellowship and duty and responsibility and ministry, is did Christ love this person? Because if he does, you do. You have no choice. You may have duty, but you have no choice. You don't dare vote against your Lord. You don't dare harbor a heart that is unlike his. And we're going to get to all that in chapter 12. Any sinner, you see, can be constrained to commit any sin. Any sinner can be constrained to commit any sin. No sinner is as depraved as they could possibly be because God is limiting things so this planet can continue for the years He's appointed. But any sinner could be constrained to commit a sin. Don't take the sin you were constrained to commit and value or polish that up to look a little better than the sin someone else was constrained to commit. You could have traded roles in that very easily. Realizing, you see, our position in sin, and then realizing our position in grace clears away all the rubble of human ego. And human pride, and all these evils that sneak in that we don't think our sins, they're just the way we are. There's no excuse for anything by that retort of that's just the way I am once you're in Christ. What you are if you're in Christ is going to be described by Paul very clearly. You don't change the text to fit how you are, you change how you are to fit the text. So realizing our position in sin and our position in grace is what gives us compassion. We don't choose compassion academically, we feel it by what's called empathy. We feel it for others because they're in a position in Adam that is no worse than our position was in Adam. That's a very powerful realization. That would ruin the occasion, the reason for 90% of the gossip that goes on if you just realize that fact. Gee, that person's showing me myself in a wonderful way in Adam. There's not much to talk about all of a sudden We all sinned in Adam. We were all condemned in Adam. We were all perverted in nature as a consequence of Adam's sin. We are all one in Adam. That's what the world's still promoting. They're proud of their oneness and their unity. They're all united In evil, but they're united. They're one. There's one in sin, one in failure, one in futility, one in vanity, one in need of Christ. That was us. That was our group. But now we're one in Christ. That makes a difference. All of God's elect people were written, you remember, by name in the Lamb's Book of Life before the foundation of the world. But they were all cast into this resulting condition just like the rest of humanity, Ephesians chapter 2. And then Christ saved them out of it. The effect of having been cast there and being saved from it is a powerful dynamic. It is an eternal dynamic in the relationship of God's people to God Himself. And we're supposed to exhibit that we have the full weight of that dynamic in our hearts and in our feelings and in our passions and in our compassion and in our attitudes. That's how he wanted it. Jesus said the person who sinned much is the one that can actually love much. Because they've been forgiven much. That's how they figure it Everybody has the data according to which that could be figured, but everyone doesn't live that way. Only the redeemed do, put with their debt paid by Christ for in full for free and then given to them They lived with that appreciation and died as we called it attitude of gratitude. So the remedy for every one of those sinners in Adam, whoever they are , Who were already named in Christ, but not a one of them knew it. It was all achieved and it was all effectively applied in heaven at the same time by the work of Christ. So how silly is it? How stupid is it? How insane is it? How self-destructive is it to separate ourselves according to relativities of sin or degrees of being in Adam? There are no degrees to being an atom. If you're an atom, you're lost. You're condemned. The sentence of God is, get out of my sight and stay out of it. There are no degrees. How ignorant to rank order ourselves according to some relativity of sinfulness, which obviously varies from culture to culture, and tribe to tribe, and family to family, and person to person. How ridiculous that is. That's all in Adam. All were condemned in him. All in Christ were justified by Christ. Their ticket was paid by him. None of them contributed anything to it, and none of them deserved any of it. That's just as great an equalizer on that side of the fence as what being an Adam was on the first side. Every one of the resulting sinful natures. The natures that resulted from Adam's sin of every person who is in Christ from the foundation of the world, every one of those sinful natures was addressed by the regenerating, sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit. That changes everything. That's why, as Paul says, or why or in a different passage he says, there's only one Lord, one faith, one baptism. That's in the sense of the word baptize that we'll see early in chapter six. One God and Father of us all. He has one family, one fellowship, and all the reference points in that statement concern only people who are in Christ. It is not talking about anybody who's outside of Christ. The world has its own oneness indeed, but it's evil. But Christ's people have a oneness also. And so in chapter 6, Paul starts to give instructions to people who are in Christ as individuals. In the interest of their personal holiness. Then in chapter 12, you see a dramatic shift of emphasis, and he starts to instruct us as a group. In terms of Christian fellowship and interdependence between individuals. And he starts giving us instructions according to those dimensions and the spiritual gifts that are given by which we provoke and build up other people's holiness and sanctification and minister to them The final outcome of being in Christ is that in the long range, at the end of our lives, at the end of time appointed to this age of grace. Christ is going to present all those who are in him, we've used this reference dozens of times, as faultless with exceeding joy. Imagine that. That will not be irrational. It'll not be arbitrary. It'll be a product of the life we're called to live now. You should be able to imagine that. You should not lose respect for the awesomeness of being in the presence of a holy God, but neither should you minimize what the work of Christ was and is to address that, because that's Paul's point in chapter 5. He's saying if you're justified and have peace with God, it spends on judgment day. It counts on judgment day, and if it doesn't count there, it's worthless now. But if it counts there, it's very powerful now. That should change what you do next and what I do next and what we think next So, this money, if you want to put it that way that we get in justification, it spends on judgment day. And we're supposed to live like it does. We're not living so as maybe to cause it to be effective on Judgment Day. We're living because it does. We're already told it does. If you're right with God, you see you're now in the process of being made right with God for the glory of God And so are your enjoyment. God's interested in your joy. He knows there's only one way to have it, but he's interested in it. He wants to share, Christ wants to share his inheritance with you and with all who are in him. That was as good as done when he wrote it down before he ever made the world to start with. The outcome is as good as done right now if you're in Christ. That's the reason to forsake the sin that so easily besets us and to follow the course He set in front of us. That's the reason to do it. You don't forsake the sin and try to do better so that he might have favor on you. You do it because he already did. That has a leverage in the life of the person in whom he's put his spirit. It has no leverage in people in Adam who would rather stay in Adam. It has no leverage. They'll read that information. They'll try to appropriate it. They'll do all kind of violence to it. But it really isn't talking to them. It's not about them. So he's going to present us on Judgment Day as faultless. Imagine that. And he isn't going to lie. He's not going to lie, consider that. With exceeding joy, he'll present us to God the Father. That's not just an isolated text in Scripture. There are Many, many references. We could be here all day looking those references up. According to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, we are to be blameless and guiltless on the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's not telling us to try to accomplish something, it's telling us something that's already accomplished. Blameless and guiltless on that day. Do you realize that describes you right now today as we sit here and stand here, that's what you are right now, and so you ought to act like it That's the greatest reason there is not to do the sin that you're tempted to do, or to quit doing it if you've been deceived by it and the light has come. That's the best reason to walk away because you're blameless and guiltless And Christ paid for it? That is the result of grace abounding to sinners Grace abounding over sin, as we've seen it emphasized in this chapter. That's the consequence of Christ's work in justification justifying all those who are in him. And according to the flow of logic in chapter 5, that status is true right now of everyone who's in Christ. If it's true now, then it's going to be true then. That's the kind of logic he's using in this chapter. If God's already done such and such, how on earth would he not do the rest that he said he would do? Glorification is assumed in justification. In fact, it's guaranteed because it's according to God's grace. In John chapter 17, verse 2, the prayer of Christ, he indicated that the Father, he says, the Father, he thanked the Father for this, that the Father had given him authority over all people. over every single person, so that he could give eternal life to all those the Father had given to him. That verse comments very well on verse 18 in our text. He had authority over everybody, so that he could give eternal life to those the Father had given him before the foundation of the world And that eternal life which Christ gives begins at the moment of the new birth. And the outcome, if you know the new life you have in Christ right now is never going to die. Jesus said this much. He said if you're in me, you actually aren't ever going to die. You and Adam will die, your body and Adam will die, but you never will. And so the outcome by grace is already guaranteed. We're not achieving that outcome in sanctification. We're experiencing it. We're not causing it, we're following it. So, as we've said before, we're not to be acting like we're trying to get something. We're to be acting as if we have received something. That's the secret of sanctification. And you have to watch for false teaching here, because many sincere, well-intentioned people are telling you to do better so God will regard you more highly, or so you'll be more holy. You're made holy, that's why you do better. That's why the commands of Christ resonate to you as good news and late burdens. Or his burden is easy, his yoke is easy, his burden is light. That's not the way someone in Adam would see that. So in Adam, there is no ability to obey Christ, there's no ability to hear Christ, and not even the least concern about Christ. But in Christ there is ability to obey him. There is great concern with what he says. We hang on his every word, but our attention is to him all the time, undivided, without interruption. We have a power to obey him, to please him. We're being caused to even desire what he desires, to want what he wants, to will what he wills, and to do according to his pleasure. He's at work in us achieving that. We're experiencing it. It's merely our pleasure and our joy to apply it in obedience of faith. So we see that the instructions and guidance for those who need to be born again are radically different than for those who are born again. Never cross that up. Never give instructions from Romans 6, 7, and 8 to someone who's not even in Christ. They'll get the wrong idea, they might even try it. And it'll be to their harm, not to their good. You're never trying to get a person in Adam to act like they're better than they are. You're just making them a hypocrite. They're already phony enough. Just describe it and see if it bothers them to be as they are. See if the light goes on. Tell them what's in store for people who are condemned by God's justice. But don't start telling them to be better citizens They should be what they are. We're never seeking or promoting. We might have said this already. We're never seeking. We're never promoting works-based righteousness. Never But we're always promoting righteousness-based works. There's a world of difference in those. Righteousness-based works are impossible in Adam. These are works by faith, by grace. So, what's happening in verse 19 of our text is that those in Christ are being made righteous. They're being constituted righteous by the obedience of Christ. And Christ's righteousness is being plowed into their souls and into their characters. Justification again is what Paul's emphasizing here, with sanctification inseparable from it Glorification as the already assumed guaranteed outcome, because it is all of God's grace. So Paul is not talking here. And he's not talking in sanctification about what we will maybe do, or what some Christians do, or about what only really true Christians do. He's not talking about some option that we have to be more holy than most. He's telling us what God does. He's not even telling us yet what we do. He's telling us what God is doing. We're going to be carried along in that doing of God's, and we'll be delighted with it. We'll be happy with it. But it's because God is doing it that it is a certainty. So justification includes the forgiveness of all our sins because they're paid in full. That's how we're guiltless and blameless, right now and forever, and on judgment day. You will add nothing to that. It's already done. Justification includes, therefore, as well, personal reconciliation with God. God is reconciled to us, we're reconciled to Him. He makes the declaration that he regards us as righteous. The war is over between us and God. The wrath is over between us and God. We have peace, verse 1 says. Furthermore, the righteousness of Christ is put to our account. He came as our second federal representative head, and we're clothed with that righteousness that he put to our account from his account. We're clothed in it. That's the process of life. We're to put those clothes on and put off Adam's clothes That's what's revealed in the gospel, this righteousness. That's what is placed upon us. That is what what that which we're being constituted in here in chapter 5. The righteousness talked about in the gospel which is the power of God in verse in verse sixteen and seventeen of chapter one So we're not forgiven of sin and then left as we were. We're not forgiven of sin and said, now you have a couple higher options if you're really, really interested. That's not going on at all If you're forgiven of sin, all the rest is automatic. Guaranteed. In process. Much more they which, verse 16 and 17, receive the abundance of grace. And the abundance of the gift of righteousness, they're going to reign and rule, as John developed that word for us, in life. in this life right now by Jesus Christ. And surely there's a present tense to this, and there is definitely a future tense. We're not, as we said last week, merely giving back what Adam lost. He never had the righteousness of Christ to begin with. He had his own righteousness for a while. The righteousness of Christ is infinitely better than the righteousness that Adam had. That's why God wanted his people to have the righteousness of Christ, not the righteousness of Adam. So this is what we receive abundantly, the righteousness of Christ. The Pharisees are always just trying to get back Adam's righteousness, self-righteousness. Paul says that's worthless. But we're given abundantly the righteousness of Christ. That is why sin does not rule and reign over a Christian. Does not. Christians may sin, but it's not because sin is ruling and reigning over them. It might be because they're deceived, might be because they're tricked, it might be because they're learning a lesson, could be for any reason except that they're a slave of sin, because they're not a slave of sin. That's impossible. A believer no longer is enslaved by sin. A believer is enslaved by Jesus Christ. The reign of a believer, you see, begins immediately at conversion. It involves a belief in this freeing power of justification, because the devil will always give us the logic as, oh, well, you're already a sinner, so one more sin ain't gonna hurt much. He's always talking that way in your head, in your mind. And it's a lie. It does matter. Because you're in Christ. You don't use the old logic anymore. It's gone, so if it's dead, why are you using it in your logic? You're in Christ. He's perfect. He's holy. He's giving you his righteousness. That's why you ought to do the next thing the way you should do it. That rain becomes immediately as we believe in our justification and our forgiveness, and as we apply the power of the Holy Spirit who now resides in us, even in these mortal bodies. And so this rule and this reign is applied when we obey by faith. And we'll have opportunity to apply it directly in chapter 6. But and surely at the same time we know and expect that the present tense of this reign of grace in our lives is going to be greatly surpassed by the eternal future of it. We're certainly going to be a lot better at it a couple thousand years from now. But we're to start doing it right now by faith in these mortal bodies which will oppose us. We're carrying dead weight around all of our lives, but we're alive in Christ and we're to live as overcomers. Proceeding in victory. Revelation chapter 1. He has made us kings and priests unto God. That's that rule of grace, the reign of grace in life. And your life, if you're in him. You're a king and a priest unto God. Revelation chapter 3, Christ says To him that overcometh, I will grant that they are seated with me on my throne. Revelation chapter 5 He has made us unto our God, kings and priests, and we shall reign on earth. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Don't you know that the saints are supposed to judge the world? Verse 3 of 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Don't you know that the saints are to judge angels? We could go on and on with these kind of references. When Christ is disappointed as the king of kings, he's not talking about all the kings in the world because they're going to be eliminated. He's talking about you. He's the king of kings, but you're made a king and a priest. For a queen, perhaps you'd rather apply it that way You're the kings of whom he is the king. And it's supposed to look like that in our lives. And the extent of his administration right now is concerned with personal holiness. And evangelization and victory over sin, which he already effectively achieved, and we're just supposed to act like it by faith. We have the thrill of that victory, the feeling of it, the joy of walking in it. Adam, you remember, was Lord of creation before he forfeited that position. He was to take dominion. He was the ruler residing on earth. And we're far more than just restored to the position he lost, as we emphasized last week Ephesians chapter 2, we're seated with him in a sense in heavenly places right now And since we are to reign in life, both now and forever, judging the earth, judging even angels for our future existence, shouldn't maybe the quality of our judgment right now be important? Shouldn't maybe the quality of our priorities right now be obvious? Shouldn't maybe the quality of our ministry and representation of Christ our Lord be expressed in the way we handle the Word of God? And the way we hear it, and the way we handle the lives of the saints of God that we know about or have contact with, or that God's arranged around us. Shouldn't it be obvious in our mastery of sin right now if we're going to be judges and kings in the future? You won't have any more Holy Spirit then than you do now. Same Holy Spirit, eternal. Jesus isn't going to get any more powerful by the time you get to heaven and live there for a while. All power has already been given to him. He said, In heaven and earth I've already got it. He's not fully expressing it. We don't see everything brought to heal to that power yet. He's not trying to do that yet. He's bringing his people to grace. He's saving them. All creation is groaning, is being spent in that process, but that's the only reason we're breathing. That's the only reason there's another day. It's all for the people of God. It's all for us. And being brought to this grand climax of Judgment Day. For people who are in Christ, wherever sin has abounded, grace has abounded all the more. Verse 20. Is that the way we carry out our ministry of reconciliation when we encounter sin? Is that the way we are as ambassadors of Christ? Do we regard ourselves as equal to everybody else in Adam and no better than anybody else who's in Christ? Verse 21, so that just as sin reigned in death, even so grace is reigning through righteousness to life. That's our ministry. Paul says the ministry of reconciliation, Christ gave it to us. In chapter 1, verses 16 and 17, we see that the gospel, in the gospel The righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. It is, Paul said, the power of God unto salvation for everyone who is believing it. And he's just telling us more about that power, more about that process. And the outcome of that reign of grace will be the glorification of everyone who is in Christ. And the Father and Son will be glorified, as we read in Isaiah 53. You could as well read Isaiah 54, incidentally. They will be glorified, they will be pleased, they will be delighted with that result. They'll be happy for you and with you. On that day appointed when God will judge the world and all of its residents, multitudes of people are going to realize Upon their resurrection, that it is a resurrection to terror, to dread beyond their worst imagination. They never believed in any of that, and there they are. You don't they'll remember their lives and what they did with them and they'll know there's a God in heaven. There won't be any debate about if there is there a God or not There won't be any debate about what time might have been for. The certainty, but furthermore, the justice, the righteousness of their condemnation. To the wrath of God, and eternal doom will be as clear as crystal. There will be mourning and sobbing and crying like you've never imagined or ever hoped to experience Yet at the same exact time, people who are in Christ will be bold in Christ by faith, exactly the way they are today, right now. And they will be blameless and faultless and guiltless just as they are right now, just as they've been ever since his shed blood. And they'll stand with exceeding joy, because the judge of all the earth is their Savior. He's made promises to them. They've believed him. He's their friend. And the righteousness in which they stand is his. They got it from him. He gave it to them. It's his own righteousness. And in that righteousness they've lived. Their plea is a plea that he is not going to reject. He cannot reject it. It's not even possible that he would reject it. You insult his name when you even Pretend that he could reject it. That's Paul's argument here in chapter five. He cannot reject it, it's his own blood. That etern for all those people's sins. It's his own words that they've believed. It's his promises that they've hung their lives on. They've strengthened their souls in their in the days they had on earth in expectation of this event, believing him to be true. To his word, and he's going to prove to be. There's not even a shadow of a doubt about that. They are in Christ. And that's a very safe place to be when Christ is the judge. They've been listed in Christ from the foundation of the world. There is no charge that can be brought against them, period. No charge by Satan. No charge from the law of God. No charge from the justice of Almighty God Himself. Because his testimony is, I'm satisfied. They're going to be acquitted. More than acquitted, they're going to be glorified. Their sentence is justified, and that's their sentence now. That sentence was declared long ago in the plan of God. They believed it by faith at the time of their conversion. And at that day of judgment, they will be recognized and affirmed In that status publicly to the joy of heaven. They are judged, as we've already seen in Romans, according to their works of faith. That is the fruit and the evidence of their union with Christ. And that's all we're talking about in sanctification. It's just the middle ground. Between justification and glorification. But it will be obvious on that day that they are in Christ It will be clear by the story of their life, sins included, that they've been in Christ, and that their works, which are according to his righteousness, have been done in him. Therefore, being judged according to those works will glorify God, and their sins being forgiven Will glorify God. And Christ will say to them, Matthew chapter 25, Come now, you blessed of my Father, inherit now the kingdom I've prepared for you from the foundation of the world. That is the goal. That is our joy. That is the life that we're talking about when we move into the subject of sanctification. And it will be the outcome of the reign of grace. It's simply the continuation of the reign of grace and of the eternal life that has begun already for those who are in Christ. Listen again to the beginning half of our chapter Because he's just still commenting on it, plowing it deep into our minds. Therefore, verse 1, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. That's peace all the way through to Judgment Day. That's peace on the day of death. That's peace that cannot be taken away And we have it through our Lord Jesus Christ. And through Jesus Christ we also have access by faith into this grace in which we stand and in which we're we're supposed to reign And we're rejoicing already in the hope of this outcome of the glory of God. And not only that, no matter how tough life gets. Verse 3 Tribulation will glory anyway. We'll know that tribulation merely causes more perseverance. And perseverance just causes an improving character. And character Improving just gives us more hope because it couldn't be happening that way if we're in Adam. We must be in Christ. And character just causes more and more hope. And that hope, whatever you hope in God according to his word, will never disappoint you. Because all the while the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. For when we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for we ungodly people Verse 8. But God demonstrates his love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Now we weren't even alive, but we were still sinners. We were already marked in sin in Adam. We've covered that pretty thoroughly. Much more than, verse nine, having now been justified by his blood. we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son Much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only that, we rejoice. In God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now already received this reconciliation with all of its consequences and results.