The contrast of the two kingdoms. Let's start with verse 15 of Daniel 7 this morning. As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious, and the visions of my head alarmed me. And I'd also like to add verse 28. Here's the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts greatly alarmed me and my color changed, but I kept the manner in my heart. This is the question that gripped me as I studied this passage. Who is most likely to know how to take a message from God? The person who received it first or someone who reads it thousands of years later. Now, there may be exceptions. But usually it would be the one that God gave the message to, who would most know how to take it So we can assume that if we understand the prophecy the way that Daniel understood it, we're likely to respond to it in a similar way that Daniel did. What evidence do we have about how Daniel received it? Well, his spirit was anxious. The visions alarmed him. His thoughts about the visions alarmed him, and he turned white due to his emotional state. We'll see, too, that the horn held his attention. That was the thing that he focused in on. The last kingdom held his attention. It was deeply upsetting to him Why? Because what he saw was really, really scary and probably very, very different than what he expected. Daniel may have thought from his reading of Jeremiah that once the 70 years of exile was over, remember we read that in Jeremiah, and so did he. That the Jews would return from Babylon to the promised land, and everything would be hunky -dory Well, the Jewish kingdom would be free, it will grow, and it'll take over the world. After all, isn't that what some of the Old Testament prophecies seem to say? And if you were just reading those prophecies, you would think, okay, yeah, eventually Israel will take over the world, the you know, God's kingdom. the Jewish nation would take over the world. What Daniel saw in this vision is that his worldview was completely wrong. First, the Jewish political nation did not even play a part in this. The kingdom of God is different than all the other kingdoms. It is more than the Jews The kingdom has people from all over the world speaking all different languages from all different cultures, Jews and Gentiles. What might have been even more shocking to him is that the political kingdom of Israel was just as beastly as the other beasts. A restored Israel is not where the answer comes from. It's not where the solution lies. We know from history what the restored Israel did. Even when they were under the Romans, they used what power they did have to do what? To kill the Son of God, to kill the Son of Man, that we we see in our text. Can you imagine anything more wicked for a government to do? Anything more beast-like, Daniel would have gotten the implications that only a spiritual kingdom can accomplish the spiritual good. Nothing that arises from the sea of mankind is going to be of any help whatsoever. There's no hope to come from the kingdoms of man. Daniel also experienced the beastliness of the beasts. He saw where they came from. They arise from human origin. They come from the turbulence of humanity. They are destined to destroy. They are violent. And they are particularly violent when they have the opportunity to be to the people of God. None of the beasts exist with an intention to love God or his people. None of them. Plus, all kingdoms are temporary. None of them last. But while they exist, they are motivated by the same kinds of evil. I think this is probably the main point of our chapter. The beastliness of the beasts contrasted with the sovereign rule of God that we looked at last week. The beastly kingdoms are temporary. The heavenly kingdom is eternal. The beastly kingdoms hate God and his people. The heavenly kingdoms hate wickedness. The beastly kingdoms love power. The heavenly kingdom loves God and his people The beastly kingdoms culminate in blasphemy against God. The heavenly kingdom culminates in true enthusiastic praise of God. The beastly kingdoms are found to be impotent to chart the future. The heavenly kingdom is omnipotent in charting the future. All the beasts are different in their wicked characteristics, but they are all similar in their wicked motivations. Now, suppose we read this chapter with a different focus. Okay? Remove ourselves from this focus and Think about it differently. Suppose we read this chapter and begin to focus all of our attention on the specifics of the beasts Suppose we think that the scripture is given to us for us to play essentially detective with the beasts. Well, if we're to approach it that way too much, we're not going to respond to the chapter like Daniel did. We'll be driven to solve a puzzle. We'll want to play a matching game with world history We'll all feel excited to imagine how we can match these things in a unique way to describe to us what we are right about. And the whole prophecy could actually be fulfilling to us if we think that we're solving it properly My point is, that is not how Daniel received this. He certainly was curious. He had a lot of questions, but that is not how he received it. This was not some objective puzzle to Daniel. This was horrifying news to Daniel. It was deeply disturbing to Daniel. It set him on his heels. He had to rethink how he thought about all of life. And he especially had to rethink what he thought about the world kingdoms. That's why I've approached it the way that I have so far. And next week I might change my mind. I think we're looking at it the way we're supposed to be looking at it so that we get the points that we are supposed to get. Now, the section we are in is very interesting, so let's look at it. Verse 16, I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things. Okay, so Daniel asks this angel, essentially, what 's all this stuff mean? And the angel says, I'll tell you. These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. This would have been where most of us with the futurist Uh most of those with a futurist take on prophecy would have flipped out. What do you mean? You haven't given me any anything solid to peg which kingdoms you're talking about. I want some details. How in the world will I write a bestseller if you don't tell me more? It's your job to make these kingdoms easy to identify, isn't it? That's what's That's what I was asking. But no, the angel gives no specific details because we don't need it, and it's not the main point of the text. What comes next is more important than the details about the beasts, and he's verse 18. But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever, and ever. Here's what Daniel most needed to know. No matter what he's asking, this is what he most needs to know. Here is what we most need to know. Believers benefit in the end. Believers will not create this kingdom, but they will join it. They will become part of its structure, and they will be in it forever and ever and ever. That is the positive note of this whole prophecy. That is what Daniel has to have clear, and that's what this angel is making sure to emphasize. So Daniel is probably thinking like we would. What happens between now and then? You know, give me some details. And how in the world is this wicked horn getting away with what he's getting away with with God? How can God possibly allow this? That would have been the point, that would have been where Daniel was coming from. Verse 19, then I desire to know the truth about the fourth beast. It's like, tell me more about this fourth beast, which was different from all the rest, exceedingly terrifying, and you know. stamped what was left with his feet and chomped what you know, what it was against with his teeth, and about the ten horns that were on its head and the other horn that came up and all that stuff. And he sa as I looked his horn made war with the saints. This beast is killing Christians and prevailed over them until the ancient of days came and judgment was given for the saints of the Most High, and the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom. Okay, what what about this one? It's easy to see why Daniel would focus on this. He understood kingdoms and kings. I doubt Nebuchadnezzar would have put up with any kind of this kind of insubordination. So what about the King of Kings? We saw plenty of evidence that Nebuchadnezzar was quick to have people killed if they stood against him. So here's a king that was overtly and continually speaking blasphemies to God, to the King of Kings, to the ancient of days. He's making arrogant claims. He's sassing off the God and insulting God. And he's killing the saints. He singled the people of God out and is actively and effectively killing them. And God is letting that happen. That'd be a mystery to Daniel. Now it's clear that God was not going to put up with it forever, but it was probably a mystery to Daniel that he'd put up with it at all. So Daniel explains, so Daniel says, explain that. Tell me. Tell me why. And the angel says this. Verse 23, as for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on the earth, which shall be different from all the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down and break it to pieces. Yeah, we saw that. As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them, and he shall be different than the former ones, and he'll put down the three. And he'll speak hot words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and the law, and they shall be given into his hand For a time times and a half time. There we have that three and a half times again, probably three and a half years. And we'll get into that later. Now, if you were Daniel, how satisfied would you be with that answer? You know, he's telling me, tell me more, and this angel just pretty much repeats what he said before with a little bit added on. The fourth kingdom is violently superior to the other kingdoms Maybe its power is more absolute. If it's talking about the future, maybe technology allows it an even tighter grip over the control of the lives of its people. The kingdom appears to be made of parts that are joined together rather than a singular government that has taken absolute power over all the nations. You've got king, king, king, and now you've got ten kings. And then one king that arises out of that ten kings. It looks like a bunch of countries come together and then a single king takes over the three nations of the alliance. This leader will be the height of arrogance, so much so that he draws Daniel's stupefied attention He will wear out, which pretty much from what I've looked at means he's gonna kill him. He's gonna kill the saints. That's the ultimate of wearing them out He'll probably attempt to change how God is worshipped, and that may be what the times and the law mean. Now, the Reformers mostly thought this was all referring to the Catholic Church. And I mean they're writing in the 1600s, so you would have that. That's what you would naturally think. Because the Catholic Church was who was mostly changing how people are to worship God and they are killing the saints. So it would be it would have been natural for them to think that And the people of God will be given over to his hand for three and a half times. Now, many believe that Vodhi Bakam, our good friend. He thinks this, that that number is symbolic of an incompleteness. Seven is perfect completeness, three and a half would be incomplete. Futurists say it's an actual three and a half years, and most of them say this is going to happen right before the millennium. Others say that it was during the period of Antiochus Epiphanes Others say that it was the sacking of Rome of Jerusalem by forget the guy's name. But anyway. Titus. Whichever it means, the saints will not be completely destroyed. Only a portion of them are going to be killed. He will never completely have his way with them Then verse 26, but the court shall sit in judgment, and his dominion shall be taken away, to be consumed and destroyed to the end. And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. His kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom. And all dominions shall serve and obey him. Now, isn't it interesting that Daniel only asked about the last kingdom? He doesn't ask about the end judgment. But the angel does not let the judgment out. Knowing our God is always more important than knowing our enemies. Knowing our God is always more important than knowing our enemies. Knowing who got who wins is more important than knowing about the threats. The enemies of God are never the focus. The enemies of God are the props. They'll all serve to provide greater glory to the King of Kings. Now the court shall sit in judgment. While this will be a one-time event at the end of history as we know it, it's not like God never sits in judgment now You know, we get lots of those pictures as well. And maybe what that's what is intended with a couple of the kingdoms continuing after their judgment, like we mentioned last week. That's a puzzle to me. This it appears like a final judgment and then you have these kingdoms continuing. How can that be? How can earthly Earthly kingdoms continue after the final judgment. That doesn't fit into anything I understand. So maybe this court, this isn't the final judgment. This is a judgment that God does on this warrant, but he's not done yet. We're not at the end of history yet. We just got a picture of it being set up to function. You know, we saw the picture of the courts being functioning and the dominion being handed over to the Son of Man. We've seen that. But maybe it's not the end judgment. I'm still working through all that. I hope you are too. But we know for sure that the Thrones and the Judgment is the primary focus of the text. It's the point of the text. And the angel is not about to leave that out. He keeps stressing it. Daniel keeps saying, tell me about this, and and the angel makes sure not to leave out. And their final judgment. And God will judge. And and the saints will win. All of the power that the world leaders are so proud of, all of the things that made them think they were so great, all those things will be stripped. from the world kingdoms and given to the saints. That's what's going to happen. It'll be just like Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount. And I I hadn't really connected these thoughts, but uh somebody did. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is what? The kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall what? Inherit the earth Blessed are those who hunger and thirst, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven For so they prosecuted persecuted the prophets who were before you. On this day we will see all of Christ's words to his followers fulfilled on this final judgment day. God always makes what happens here worth our while. Even on the days we can't see it by sight. We can know it is true by faith. Now, what are we to do with this truth that Daniel 7 provides us? Well, we're to do exactly what Daniel did with it, for one thing. He processed the truth internally. While he faithfully did his service to the beasts as he experienced them, he served the Babylonians for close to seventy years, then he served the Medes and the Persians for a few more years Our danger is to, as Bodhi Bakham points out, fall off of either side of this road. One side of this road about we're to serve faithfully while in these beastly kingdoms is to say that these kingdoms are so wicked that we should have nothing to do with them. The extreme of that way of thinking is probably the Amish extreme. That was not Daniel's response. Wherever Daniel was working, his environment was better for his presence. The civil government was better for his part in the civil government The people of God ended up having a protected state because of the testimony of four Hebrew children. Well, actually, three Hebrew children. Daniel rose through the ranks, and he was able to help more people because of his hard work throughout his years. So God putting God's person in the beast's lair. Helped the people of God. A Christian working for civil government is not contributing to the beastliness of the nature of that government. It might be helping the success of that beast, but it's not contributing to its beastliness. Jeremiah can probably be comforted in that As well as Sarah and Ruth and Carla and Jared, who all work for government services. When a Christian enters that environment, he or she is bound to have a tempering effect, a salt-like presence. Just like Daniel, Christians are strategically placed in all kinds of positions to do good They will never save the beast from being a beast, but they will represent the sweet fruits of heaven in the environment that the beast provides. The other side of that road is to say that it's the church's job to change the beast. Okay, you got one that says It's the church's job to stay completely out of anything having to do with the beast. The other is it's the church's job to change the beast, to take away its beastliness. Those on that say , that side say, because we have a democratic republic, that we are given some power to make changes. Therefore, we owe it to our government to take away its beastliness. We should spend our time and resources on prioritizing, passing better laws, and fighting corruption, and on and on. Well, if that were so important to Christ, one would think that he would have mentioned it somewhere. Christ's focus was always on rescuing those who live under the shadow of the beast. His efforts were never prioritized to changing the beast. He did, however, tell Peter to go fish for a little so that he could pay the temple tax. Sort of government, and he told people to give the Caesars what is Caesar. And we've talked about this a lot. How much we owe to Caesar is a matter of faith. in our world. It would not have been so much if we had a king or a lot of other governments. But because we have what we have, it's a little more confusing. But we cannot make it our mission to change the heart of what God says He will destroy. We, like Daniel, can make a lasting change for the people of God. But we like Daniel will never take away the beastliness of the beasts. And he was in a powerful position. If anyone could have, he could have. But he could. So we need to keep that in mind as we're making our decisions about what we owe to the civil government. It is not our mission to change the beast. Another point I'm borrowing from Bodhi this morning is something he pointed out that I would not have thought of. Have you ever heard someone quote this? The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. The next appeal we usually hear after someone gives that quote is something like. If you don't want your gun rights to be taken away, you need to be willing to die to keep them. And this can be applied to more than just guns, but gun rights is probably the clearest example. And it might actually be true. If in the future, every time the government tried to confiscate a gun, there was a shootout, they might give up trying to take guns. That's a possibility. So we might feel like we owe this to Caesar. After all, our Constitution says we have rights. We should make a stand for the Constitution. That's a common line of reasoning But the question comes down to, what do we owe to Caesar? And what do we owe to God? Without a doubt, what we owe to God supersedes anything that we owe to Caesar. And we have to keep in mind, Caesar is a beast. So we give something to Caesar, but we cannot lose sight of what it is we are contributing to and what that contribution is costing to us in the kingdom of God. We should never rob the mission of Christ to support the mission of the beast. Civil government has a valuable purpose, so we are for it, but we need to walk that tightrope closely. And right along with that thinking, have you ever heard that the sad state of the world's affairs is because the church is not doing its job? If the church did better, the world wouldn't be so wicked. You ever heard that Have you ever thought about it? That's simply not how the Bible describes things. It's not the true church's fault that there's an abortion bill in Cumberland. It's not the true church's fault that there are so many women willing to use that service that's legal in the state of Maryland. It may be the church's fault that Christian women would use it. There may be some things we can do to minister to the women who pursue such a thing. We might be able to pull some out of that burning house, but it's not our fault that the house is on fire. The true church has been preaching the truth about this issue for 50 years now. They've spoken with clarity and persuasiveness. The world has known the church's teaching on this for a long time. Scripture does not tell us that the world is so bad because the church isn't doing its job. Romans 1 tells us why the world is so bad. We are born with a predisposition to hate God and to rebel against what He tells us to do. That's why the world is in such a bad spot. We all by nature love darkness until God wakes us up, until God saves us, until God brings us to Himself. We might want to go back to that statement and rework it. Instead of the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing, it should say the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for God to remove his straining hand. Is for God to remove his restraining hand. The question is never, why is the world so bad? Given the nature of the beasts, we can expect back. The wonder is really, why is it so good? Why are there so many kind humans around us that don't know Christ? Why are people in general so good to each other? That's a harder question. And I think it comes down to the common graces of God in our world. God allows this wonderful rain to fall on the just and the unjust. We have some people who have wonderful characteristics who that surround us that know nothing of Christ. I hope that the Lord provides you with the application from this morning's sermon. I'm kind of working on that myself, but I maybe you have received an application that I have not thought of. The biggest takeaway to me is the need to have a proper expectation of this world. It is not our home. It is not our home. God certainly blesses us in this life, and we are free to enjoy every single one of those blessings that He gives us He provides us with his church family. He provides us with our individual families. He provides us with some excess income compared to the rest of the world that we can spend on enjoyable things. We have the beauty of our surroundings. We have warm homes and plenty of food. And we can go on and on with these blessings that God provides us in this world as we walk this path that is not our home. But it's important that we frame things properly all the time in our head. This world does not have the capacity to fulfill our souls. That is not what it is currently for. And that is not what we are made for. So we must comply lift our eyes to the hills. We have to set our minds on things above. We have to flip our perspectives from what we see to what God says. Then, when the beastly kingdoms show their character, when our God allows the kingdoms a longer leash, we'll not be shocked or dismayed Daniel will have prepared us. We've already gone through that. We'll be able to say by God's grace, Praise God. I am only passing through. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you again. And you continue to just bring us more and more.