Good morning. How is everybody doing today? Good? Good. So if you would turn with me in your Bibles to Psalm 51. Starting in verse one. So I'm gonna tell a little bit about myself. So I'm I'm Daniel Sisler. Um some of you we all know stable friends. I'm Cable Parent. I went to school with Cable. I graduated, same degree as Cable from the University of Maryland. I would currently work for Orbital ACK as a design engineer or a rocket motor. And I'm actually right now transitioning to full-time ministry, actually with crew at Frostburg. I will be the missional director with Frostburg State University. So That's new in my life. That's what's new with me. But I wanted to I was I was thinking this morning about like where I wanted to start this off and and really I was I saw turned your home book to number 107. It's one of my favorite hymns by a guy named William Cooper. And I'm going to tell a little bit about it. You don't have to read the hymn, just maybe keep it there, put it beside you. We'll look at it to the very end. William Cooper was a guy who lived about the 1700s somewhere in there. But there's something funny about William Cooper. He struggled with extreme depression. William Cooper, um From all the time all the time that he ever lived, doubted that he was really ever a believer. You may know William Cooper because he lived in a guy named John Newton's backyard, basically. John Newton obviously wrote to him Amazing Grace. And William Cooper lived in his backyard. He was a guy who struggled with extreme doubt. And maybe you walked in here today and you might be like, Daniel, none of us struggle with doubt. But I think we all in some way, shape, or form, struggle with what William Cooper had felt. And he felt extreme doubt that if he ever really was actually a believer. So maybe you feel like that this morning, or maybe you felt like this bad the past month or past week. We're gonna be looking at Psalm fifty-one today. And it focuses on David's life and a time in his life, and it even says in the beginning of the Psalm 51, in the subscript at the very top, to the choirmaster, a psalm of David when Nathan the prophet met , when the prophet went to him. After he had gone into Bethesda. So we see, turn with me real quick if you would in your Bibles, and you're going to be flipping around a lot in your Bibles today, so I hope your fingers are ready. I usually don't make people turn to it, but I think this would be really good. It's been these passages have been really stuck out to me in a lot of ways. So sec 2 Samuel, starting in chapter 11. And I'm going to read it to you so if you don't turn it in, it's okay. But 2 Samuel chapter 11, starting verse 2. It kind of gives the framework of what happened in this song. So we have to see what they're talking about. It says that Started in verse 2. It happened late one afternoon when David arose from his couch and was walking on the roof of the king's house, that he saw from the roof a woman bathing, and the woman was very beautiful. And I'm not going to continue on in there. You can read there later if you want and check me on this. But obviously, if you've been here a while, you know that David went and committed adultery. Worse than that, David goes on and he Starting in verse 14, the same chapter it says, In the morning David wrote a letter to Joab, bringing in Bathsheba's husband, Uriah, and sent it by the hand of Uriah. So he brings in your eye and he tries to cover up what he's done in manipulation. But then he doesn't. Your eye is too He's too upright, he's too outstanding. He he will not go home and be with his wife. And he sends back, he even then sends his own your eye's own death letter with him to the front line To send Joab to kill Uriah. So we see David eventually breaks half of the Ten Commandments just in his 2 Samuel 11 and 12. He commits adultery. He murders his soul, he bore false witness and he coveted. And we see David's lament In Psalm 51. We have to understand what David's talking about. Psalm 51 necessarily wasn't necessarily, it's more than just David's own lament. The church has used this passage of scripture during this time of Lent. Leading up until the resurrection to set to really set the church's heart in a posture that is accurate and is good. So if you will, would you pray with me and then we'll jump into God's word and we'll see what He has for us today. Father, I just thank you for your word. God, I think you It is true. And I just pray that you would be with us now, Lord, that you would speak through your word to our hearts, each one of us. Or awaken in us or where we need to turn from sin. But show us where we are broken. And I pray, Lord, that they would not hear my words, but they would hear what you have to say to us this morning. Move me out of the way, Lord Jesus. I pray that you would be glorified in this time You would feed your people this morning. We love you, Jesus, and we thank you. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So I'm going to walk through the text. Let's start in verse 1. And I'm reading from the ESB, by the way, so it's a little different. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. According to your abundant mercy. And if you notice, it's really interesting. In the first three lines of what he's saying, the point of what he's talking about, he begins with God. I think too often, and we even see it in the prayer in the prayer of Jesus when he teaches the disciples to pray, he starts with God. He doesn't begin to list off his sins, he doesn't begin to think about him, but he says, have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love , according to your abundant mercy. He's imploring God, according to himself, mercy, steadfast love, and abundant mercy. He doesn't begin imploring God upon what he wants to implore God on. He's actually referring, he's hearkening back to something that God had called of himself in the Old Testament Turn with me real quick to, and this is super important. This is this passage in Exodus 34, turn with me to Exodus 34, starting in verse 6. This passage in Exodus 34, it came during the time that the people have rebelled against God. God Moses had broken the the Ten Commandments, and God comes now and he He s he meets Moses on the mountain. This is a beautiful time. The church from the beginning of time has looked to this passage. And let's see what God says of himself. He says, the Lord the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast law of the faithfulness, keeping steadfast law for thousands. Forgiven iniquity and transgressions and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. These are the reasons that David is imploring God upon himself. This is like the foundation that David's basically saying Have mercy on me, O God. According to who you are, according to what you have said of yourself. He's not trying to justify what he's done, but what he's doing is he's pleading with God based upon who God is and what he has said of himself to forgive. Then he goes on and he says, this is super interesting the way that David says this. Oftentimes when we're reading the Bible and we see that words are used, or words that are similar, are used three times, they're used that way for emphasis. And he says, according to your mercy and your abundant love and your set of love and your abundant mercy. But David goes on, and he says in verse the second part of verse one, he says, Blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly of my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. And he does it again. David does it one more time. He uses he actually used two sets of threes. He says, transgression and iniquity and sin. These are all very similar. Transgression is a heavy word, very heavy. It would have been very similar to a child's rebellion. It's the best way we can really understand it is a rebellion. And iniquity is deliberate deviation from the right path. And sin implies that the divine appointed goal that has been set for us has been completely missed. So we have three different sets. Oh negatives, basically. It's basically like David saying Sin, sin, sin. He's just saying three abundantly, three large, magnanimous sin, sin, sin. In pleading for forgiveness, though, he uses different language. He goes on and he says, blot out, he uses blot out, wash me and cleanse me. Brought out means to wipe away as one would wipe away a dirty plate. Would wipe away the slave transgression Wash me can be vestigated in the image imagery of somebody cleaning clothes by a river. I remember one time, this is real quick, and since you guys are okay with this is good We were when we were in China, we didn't have a laundromat. So when I hear every time I hear wash me now, all I can ever think about is like Me and him in the sink washing our dirty clothes, which was really gross, really disgusting. We were there for a month, didn't wash our clothes except for what we did in the sink, and it was disgusting So when I think about wash me, it's this imagery of someone that would clean their clothes on in the river. And what did they do with it? They would beat them on rocks, they would walk on them. This is the kind of cleansing David 's asking for And then finally he says, cleansing. Refers to a ritual cleansing. So David basically saying, I have sinned, sin, sin, and I need you to wash, wash, wash me. He goes on in verse 3. He says, For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. so that you may be justified in your works and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive. He's basically saying that the sin is always staring you in the face. I don't know about you all in this room, but Jesus said words like The greatest two commandments were to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. And I realize that a lot of us in this room haven't committed as grievous of sins as David this week. But what if, what if, just for a minute, we were to step back and say that God demands that we love the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. How would we stack up with that? And then going on, it gets worse. Then to love your neighbor as yourself. Hear me, I'm just as convicted as you are in this. This is this is what God commands for us. It's all throughout Leviticus, it's all throughout Numbers, it's all throughout Deuteronomy. of all these commandments really boil down to this idea of loving the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and then loving the neighbor as yourself. He's basically saying, though, that this sin is staring him in the face. He knows exactly, David knows exactly who he is, and there is no way that he can hide it But he goes on and he says something that should make us scratch our heads a little bit. And he says, Against you, and you only have I sinned and done what was evil in your sight. And you hear you in the back asking the question. That's insane, Daniel. He had adultery with Bathsheba, and then he murders Uriah. Don't we think for a minute that's that's not really sinning against God necessarily? That's sinning against them. But what's he saying? Against you, and you only have I sinned. He's basically meaning that every time we sin, it's not that we're saying that there's no earthly consequences, but ultimately sin is an affront to a holy God. This is why we proclaim. This is why he proclaims that God is right in his judgment if he chooses not to part of it. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Basically, he's saying that you're still perfect in your judgment because I should be condemned. In other words, he's saying I don't deserve to be forgiven. But God will still be perfect. You will still be perfect if you punish me as you ought. And David goes on, and he says further that not only is God just as judgment, but basically he has always been a sinner, even from the time of his conception. This is one of the main passages for the doctrine of sin that we believe that mankind has depraved from its very nature. It is a hereditive cancer that dwells in each one of us. He goes on in verse 6 and he says, Behold, though, you delight in the truth and the inward being. And you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. He's saying that God delights in the truth and the inward being. Basically it's saying that God delights in trustworthiness and faithfulness that we have. And only through him can we really have wisdom. It's God alone who teaches him wisdom in the secret heart. And he's basically confessing that I don't have that. You delight in truth in the inward being, he says over and over and over again. For I know my transgressions and my sin is going back to verse 3. For I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. And he goes on in verse 7, and he says, Purge me with hysteft, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Back to this ceremonial language. Paul, their data's going back to the ceremonial language of purge me with hissa. And I shall be cleaned. Wash me. Back to the imagery, taking clothes upon rocks and beating them. Wash me and I shall be white as the snow. Hisop was a plant. That was used for sprinkling. Basically what they would do is in Leviticus, you can see it over and over and over again. They would bring in the sacrifice, and then they would take it against it, and they would throw it upon the mercy seat. This is what he's asking the Lord to do for him, to purge him with Hissa, and then he shall be clean. Leviticus 16, 15, I'll read it for you. Don't turn a minute. Then he shall kill the goat. This is for the Day of Atonement. But God says it and says that he shall kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the people, and bring his blood inside of the veil, and do it with his blood as he did with the blood of the bull, sprinkling it over the mercy seat in front of the mercy. Springing it over the mercy seat and in front of the mercy seat. That's what David is asking of the Lord to do with his own soul. Purge me with his When David is asking him to purge him, basically he's asking him to unsin me. Unsin me, Lord. De-Sin me. It's the same language we see in Isaiah 1, chapter 18. I'll read it. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. David is imploring God that he would cleanse him and make him clean once again. And he goes on in verse 8, he says, Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all my anquest. David longs to worship God as he once had. Even says the bones that you have broken, he's longing that they would sing once again of the joy that he had in Christ. But he casts off his request with the same phrase. Blot out. And this is basically like David, if you see the first thing that he asks of God is that he would blot out his transgression. This is like the capstone of his request. And honestly, at this point, I hope this feels really weighty Because at this point there's been no hope. Mainly because this is our state as well. Even if our sin is not as grievous as David, like I said, we all, every one of us in this room, have fallen short of the command to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength It's a wonder day virtuous of. We are broken and we try to hide it. We rebel , move against what we know the Lord is leading us to do. And then worse than that, we try to look our best in front of our families or our friends. From the Gospel of Luke , turn up to Luke fifteen, we see phrase, but is used in the story of the Protestant. But it's similar to verse 4 of this passage. This says, Against you, you only have I sinned and done what's evil in your sight. So we all kind of know that maybe the story of the problem son, this idea of a son. Who basically, let me just read it and start in verse 12. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of your property that has come to me. And he divided his property between them. Well let me give you the context of this parable that Jesus is giving us. Basically what he's saying, thus far, the Pharisees have said to Jesus, why are you hanging out with sinners? Why are you doing these things that you probably shouldn't do? You shouldn't be with these Gentiles. You shouldn't be with these non-believers. Jesus gives them this parable. And he starts with basically this younger son saying to his father, that I wish you were dead. And I want all the money that's coming to me. And in verse 13, we see what the son Leslie. Not many days later, the younger son gathered all that he had and took a journey into a far country. And there he squandered his property and reckless living. We see this same language that is used in verse 4. We all know what happens at this point. The son goes and he he ruins his life. He wrecks his life. When he comes back to the Father, and he says in verse 21, he says, and the son says to him , this is the same language, listen, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. You hear that? It's the same language that's used here in Psalm 51. Father, I have sinned against you, against heaven and against you. And I am no longer worthy to be called your son. And what do we expect? What do the Pharisees expect to be said here? I think they expect that the Father would be like, get out of here. I don't love you anymore. But what's he said in verse 22? But the father said to his servants , bring quickly the best robe and put it on. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring the fat to calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate. For this my son was dead and is alive again He was lost and expounded. And they began to celebrate. Now some of you, I hope you're asking the question. In your mind or somewhere. Well, Daniel, what are you doing with the holiness of God? What's David saying here? Isn't God holy? Why is he just okay with these things? Why is he just okay to say, I'm just gonna look past his transgression? God was holy. He can't look past sin. But this is where the song, Psalm 51, makes a turn. And friends, this is where our story turns as well Romans 2, 4 says, For you pursue on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. God 's steadfast love and abundant mercy will forgive even the most heinous of sins when people ask with a contrite heart. The beauty, friends, of the entire Bible is that God has sought out broken and hurting people to bring him to bring them to himself for his own glory. And good fun. Turn with me to Romans five, starting in verse six. Starting in verse six, it says, For while we were still weak. Friends, hear these words. To you who may be hurting today, to you who may be like our friend William Cooper. Who says, I don't have a chance? Who says, I feel so broken. Who says, I know who I am. Who said, I know my sin and what I have sinned before a holy God. He said this Romans , Paul does in Romans. For while we were still weak, at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even die. But God shows his love. Hear these words, friends. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved. By him from the wrath of God. For a while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. Friends, this is the hope that the Bible has laid forth from the beginning of time, since Genesis 3, and God's saying, there will come one who will crush the head of the serpent. This is the hope that we have. And it is the hope, nothing in ourselves. With this language, what do you do with this language that David's talking about the Psalms? Basically saying for God to book, just look past what I've done. And I say this, turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10. And I wasn't going to read all the scripture, but John said you guys just love reading scripture, so I just wanted to just read as much as I could. Because it's the Bible so good, it's so true, and it's the hope that we have. pointing to the fact that God has sent Jesus to stand in our place. Undeserving. And to bear the wrath of God and to be appropriation for our sin. To take on the wrath of God and impute to us his righteousness. Hebrews 10, starting in verse 4, says, for it is impossible. Listen to the writer of Hebrews. He's literally answering the questions in Psalm 51. For it's impossible for the flood of bulls and goats to take away sin. But consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired. But a body have you prepared for me? Burnt offerings and sin offerings, you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God. As it is written of me in the scroll of the book. Going on to verse 8, he said, When he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings. These are offered according to the law. Then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. He does away with the first order to establish the second. And by that will we have been sanctified as the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Hear those words. And by that, we have been sanctified to the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands daily, service, going on in verse 11. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeated the same sacrifices. Which can never take away sin. All of those things in the in the Levitical priesthood of all of these things that are sacrificing daily. Every year the Day of Atonement would come and the priest would have to offer a bull even to walk into the most holy of places just for his own sin. But what is the point of all that? If the point is it's all pointing to Jesus. In verse twelve, it goes on in Hebrews, it says, But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins He sat down at the right hand of God, waiting for that time until his enemy shall be made a footstool for his feet. The priest would never sit in the inner temple, in the inner most holy of places. Have you ever noticed that? In the Levitical system, the priest would never sit. They would constantly walk, they would constantly have work to do to quickly remove themselves from the holiness of God. But Jesus sat at the right hand of God. And in 14, verse 14, for by a single offering he had perfected for all times those who were being sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us, for after saying, This is the covenant I will make with them, after those days, declares the Lord, I will put my law on their hearts and write them on their minds. Then he adds, I will remember their sins and their longest deeds no more. Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering. This is David's hope as well. David had no idea what he's even writing of. Because the mystery of the gospel hasn't even been revealed to him at this point. But we have this blessed hope, friends , that God has sent one, one perfect sacrifice for all. And David's only hope, go back to verse 1 of the three, have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. according to your abundant mercy, which all these things were the mystery until the time of Christ. Only God's steadfast love and abundant mercy shown in the work of Jesus will truly make us king. Let me say that again. Only God's steadfast love and abundant mercy Shown in the work of Jesus will truly make us holy. That was David's only hope. That was our only hope. And it will be anyone's hope from now until the end of time. But here David's plea, he's not done in verse 10. This is where the text shifts. And he says, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. And uphold me with a willing spirit. The Hebrew Bible uses this word, this verb create, only for God. No one but God can create a clean heart. Not only is he praying that God would create him a clean heart, but that he would not depart from him as he did Saul. You can see that in 1 Samuel chapter 16. Please, in all these things, I ask that you go check me on all of these things. Don't ever just stand up here and listen. Sit there and just listen and not ever check someone For my only authority is from the Word of God. 1 Samuel chapter 16. David is keenly aware of his inability. Once again, he uses this three. In Hebrew poetry, he just uses it once more. Renew a right spirit within me. Take not your Holy Spirit from me. And uphold on me with the willing spirit. Who is doing all the work in all of those things? Is David the one helping to do those things? Is he the one renewing the spirit within you? No, he's pleading with God based upon God's abundant mercy. That he would renew a mighty spirit within him. And that he would take not his Holy Spirit from him. And he would uphold him with the willing spirit. This similar situation we see Nicodemus bring to Jesus in John chapter 3. Nicodemus comes to him, you can turn it around if you want. John chapter 3, first part of it. Nicodemus comes to Jesus and he basically basks him the question, how do you receive eternal life? How does this happen? And look at what Jesus says. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Jump with me real quick down to verse 8. And it says, The wind blows where it wishes and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is everyone who is born of the Spirit. And it's the same thing we see even in the Beatitudes. In Matthew 5, I think it's chapter verse 5, I don't know what's the other question. But blessed, it started in verse 3: Blessed are the poor of the Spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And Jesus came proclaiming this truth of repent and believe the kingdom of heaven is at hand. This Psalm, Psalm 51, highlight the inner condition of the ceremony 's place All of these ceremonies, all of these things of the Old Testament that point to this most beautiful sacrifice that would one day come, which is found in the person and work of Jesus. God's steadfast love and abundant mercy will forgive even the most heinous sins when people ask with a contrite heart. And that's what we see David at in Psalm 51. He's acting, he's imploring God to save him. And ultimately, all the workings behind all these things are ultimately God changing David's heart. And as Hebrews says David trusted that God would do that. By faith, David lived. He didn't know necessarily of Christ, he didn't know the mystery of the gospel at this point But that's what his trust and his hope was in, was in the abundant mercy of God. So go with me real quick to the hymn. I told you my favorite hymn was There's a Fountain. And I just want to read some of the words of William Copper. I think they're so beautiful because they're set of a man, set from a man who had no hope Who thought he was apostate his entire life? Just reading the first line. He says, There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins. And sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all of their guilty stints. Friends, I'm not sure what you walked in here with today I'm not sure what you're going to struggle with the rest of this week, the rest of this month. But I can promise you this. And I can promise you from Psalm 51, and I can promise you from the Bible. From the whole meta -narrative of the Bible. That God has sought rebellious sinners. He didn't come for the healthy. He didn't come for those who don't need a physician. He came for those who are hurting and are weak. William Cooper was he knew this of himself. The last line is there as a fountain says Redeeming love has been my name and shall be till I die. It's a beautiful hymn. But Psalm 51 is just even more beautiful of a passage that tells of the gloriousness of Jesus, long before even Jesus came, and the mystery of the gospel was revealed. Friends, I hope that you leave here this week, in this next month going forward, up until the time of Easter. That we would prepare our hearts, that we would repent of sin, and that we would turn to God with a contrite heart, humble and meek and mild. Knowing that none of that is what saves us, but knowing that the work of Jesus alone is what justifies us. Let's pray. Father, we are grateful That the gospel is true. But the good news that you have looked upon our lowliest city Sent your most precious treasure to die in our place for lowly and weak people. Father, you have said the Lord to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. But to love your neighbor as yourself, and where we fail in that every moment of every day. Father, I pray that that would not be our hope, our ability to uphold the law For our ability to hang on to you, but Lord, that you would change our hearts, as David says, Lord, that you would create in us a new heart, a clean heart. Not based upon anything that we've done, but Lord, based upon the work of Jesus. And Lord, by faith in him, that we would walk in a manner that is worthy of the calling of the gospel. Lord God, you are faithful to redeem. And Lord, we trust in you. Help us, Lord, to trust in you more. We believe, Father, and I pray that you would help our unbelief. As we go from here, create in us your clean heart And renew our right steadfast fear within us. Be with us this week. I pray that our gaze would always be fixed upon us Jesus. And Lord, even when we wander, even when we fall away, I pray, Lord Jesus, that you would draw ourselves, our hearts back to you. We trust in you, we throw ourselves completely upon you, Lord Jesus. We ask this all here holy and perfectly. Amen.