What we have this morning is an excellent example of faithfulness. An excellent example of faithfulness. We know that what the Bible is ultimately about is the story of a gracious God pursuing a sinful people for their redemption and for his glory. That pretty well explains. From cover to cover what Scripture tells us. So we need to be careful not to make the stories be ultimately about humans. With that in mind, I can't help but spend a Sunday focusing on what God can do to a person and in a person and with a person. Frankly, I find Daniel amazing. He's one of the best examples in Scripture of a life lived in faithfulness to God. Well, I'm sure he had faults. For some reason, God did not see fit to have any of them mentioned in his story. That is highly unusual. We're going to look this morning at an example of faithfulness worthy of following. Then next week we'll consider the rest of the story, Lord willing. This is a story for all of us. But you young people, this is especially a story for you. We all wake up with the day ahead of us. The future is just some idea. What we wake up to is life here and now. If you will live your life here and now, like Daniel did, you'll turn out to be a person of character in the future, like Daniel did. It's true for us older folks as well. We can't undo wasted time in our lives, but we can recommit our lives on this day to devote ourselves to the most faithful life that we can live from here on. And hopefully, if we reach Daniel's age, we'll have some of his same qualities. I want to say this again because I don't know how to make the point strong enough What we do today matters. What we do today matters a lot. Not just adults, but also young people. Because what we choose today largely determines who we will be tomorrow If we choose to be wishy-washy, we will grow to be wishy-washy. If we're uncommitted to obedience and the hard things today, We'll not obey in the hard things tomorrow, more than likely. If we choose to do the right things in obedience to God today, we're more likely to be the person who obeys him tomorrow. Daniel did not get to where he was in this story overnight. When he was a teenager, he determined to trust God and obey him. He was exemplary in that. He was taken from his home. Now imagine you guys being taken from your home, and he was made to live away from his family. He could have easily just done what everybody else was doing. His mom and dad sure couldn't have stopped him But he didn't. He had it in his heart to follow God no matter what, and that started at a young age. No matter who was watching. And that's how he ended up being who he was for our story today. Now Daniel was probably say sixteen when his story starts in Daniel. We we really need to consider this Daniel has been working for the good of the Babylonian civil government for at least sixty years now. Every time I look at his civil government employee, I keep thinking of that. history that you had. Imagine that. Sixty years of pouring his life and energy and creativity and knowledge into making Babylon a better run country. Now is that spiritual? Well, it's faithful. It's the thing that God gave them to do. That was his spiritual work for that day, is to do his job well. And keep in mind, he was doing much of this. from a higher level. Like Daniel did have an advantage. He started as an executive. Not like Kevin here. He was he was certainly a big shot for much of his life. But still, it's work. It was still work similar to ours. Then by the time Belsar comes to power, it looks like Daniel was out of the limelight He was either sidelined or he could no longer stomach working for the likes of an inscrupulous person like Belshazzar. So he's in retirement. I can relate to that But in our text this morning, Darius Samete is appointed king. Or it it could be Darius, and I'm going to probably say it both ways, so forgive me for that. But Anyway, uh Darius Samed is appointed king. And it's clear that Daniel comes out of retirement to work for this new company, this new empire Now, often when a corporation buys another corporation, they look for those who who Who are in the purchase corporation who know the lay of the land. You know, they understand the business They want someone who understands what's going on day-to-day. But they hope it to be a person who does not have a whole lot of loyalty to the prior management. It has to be a person who's not going to undermine the new owner because they resent the takeover. It has to be a person who's objective and full of integrity. And it has to be someone who will pour excellence into the efforts for their new employer. Well, somehow Darius picked 120 leaders or administrators. He needed them. And when he recognized that Daniel was highly qualified for upper management He was chosen as one of the three to administrate the administrators. Nobody was more qualified than Daniel. Think of all the years of experience he had. Now, why do you think that would be? Why would he be picked for that? How do you think this new king would make that kind of choice looking out after the best interests of his government? Do you think he would just draw names out of a hat? Of course not. The point I'm trying to make is that Daniel was probably chosen because for 60 years he was getting up every morning and applying himself to excellence at his job. Along with being supernaturally gifted, he applied himself at becoming the most effective administrator that he could be. Daniel 6. 3 says, then this Daniel became distinguished above all the other high officials and satraps because he gave excellent PowerPoint presentation. He flattered their eyes. He knew the right people. He owned a 60-year on-the-job placard No, Scripture tells us why Darius wanted to promote him, and it was probably the same reason he picked them to begin with. An excellent spirit was in him. And the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom. This is the first point about Daniel that we do well to copy. Daniel had an excellent spirit, a spirit of excellence. Now, do you think that just happened to him? He woke up one day with a spirit of excellence, an excellent spirit Do you think that was Zappa on him? I don't believe that. I believe that what this describes is the person with exceptional performance, always, every day, unrelenting, getting up, doing his best. When Daniel and the two other guys went about doing their jobs, Daniel did his job better. That's what we're finding. He had a better spirit in him. He was more into doing his job the way his job needed done than the other two guys were. We're not told that Daniel was considered for promotion because of some discernible mystical knowledge. He was considered because he was an exceptional person. A person of excellence, and he had a superior spirit. That might be another way of saying excellent. You and I are becoming something by the choices that we make each day. We are becoming something. We are practicing what we will become tomorrow today. Daniel was practicing excellence, and by the time he was 80, excellence had become a well-ingrained trait of his When people gave Daniel work to do, they knew what kind of work it would be. Today we will all make mundane choices. Tomorrow we will make mundane choices And they'll seem unimportant at the time, but they're more important than what they look like. As we repeat behaviors, we solidify them. We reinforce our behavior. As Brad 's often said, practice makes permanent. As Christians, we are to do whatever our hands find to do with all of our hearts as unto the Lord. That's kind of our workday. That is how God tells us to approach our workday. God's will for our lives is to do the next task with excellence as an act of worship. Now granted we get to choose sometimes what tasks those are, and we have to choose by the highest priorities and all that kind of thing. But as we do that, we become a more excellent worker and a more excellent worshiper. And as we do things like that, 20 years from now, we will find that we have a much better character. than we have now, and we will have a much greater capacity to handle greater workloads under greater stress than we do now. We'll have an increased capacity to be useful And usually that difference will be noticed by others. And if and when they do notice, we can give glory to God for the work that He has done in our lives, because remember, it's Him who wills us. He he wills and uh works in us to do his will. He works before we do Do you feel like the work you have to do tomorrow is unimportant and insignificant? It's a stepping stone. It's a stepping stone to developing the character that God wants you to have. Just ask Daniel. One day we'll get to. We would do well this week to treat all of what we do thoughtfully. We would do well to ask, if Jesus was asking me to do this for him, how would I do it? I'm actually looking not looking forward in the sense that I can't wait to do it. But what what I have in front of me is tomorrow cleaning toilets. So If Jesus needed this done, how would I do it? That's how we're supposed to live. It would be interesting what we learn if we think through that. Then, next, the second trait to emulate with Daniel is this. We see it in verse 4. But they could find no ground for complaint or any fault because he was faithful. And no error or fault was found in him. Daniel was blameless. That's what these words mean. Daniel was blameless. Have you ever seen the hearings when potential Supreme Court justices are being considered? And if there are any skeletons in that closet closet of any kind, these men are women, they are going to be exposed. In fact, ones that don't even exist are going to be exposed too frequently. Well, that is similar to the situation that Daniel is in His enemies were looking for any reason that would belittle Daniel's credibility for his job. They were on his tail. And think about this carefully. They looked and they looked and they looked, and you can you can rest assured, if it was there, they would have found it. They were motivated. But they couldn't find anything Anything. Blamelessness is an attainable state of being in Scripture Blamelessness is an attainable state of being in Scripture. Perfection is not. Sinlessness is not. But blamelessness is. Psalms fifteen one and two says, O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart. It's interesting they speak truth in their heart. We need a lot of truth in our heart. But anyway, he who walks blamelessly. There are lots of scriptures that call us to be blameless. 1 Timothy 3 10 says a person can be a deacon if they're tested first and prove themselves blameless. Blameless basically means a charge of a sinful lifestyle will not stick. They might be accused of it, but the charge cannot be proven. It will not stick. Daniel was blameless. Not perfect, but blameless. Let's ask ourselves this morning: if our lives were to be scrutinized, if our family members and friends were to be questioned under oath, If all of the cameras that we have shown up on across the world were to be viewed, if our computer records were to be searched, would we be disqualified for Christian leadership? Would it show up that we are not blameless? Would we fare as well as Daniel did? If we know that we would not, What changes can we make today so that no charges would stick tomorrow? And if we know that there would be no charges that would stick, praise God. That's a Daniel kind of lifestyle. It's what we ascribe to. It's not always what we hear. Daniel's faithfulness was truly remarkable. He was who he said he was when everyone was looking. He was who he said he was when no one was looking. And the truest revelation of who we are usually comes when no one is looking. Wouldn't it be great to know that even if the best private investigator was hired to investigate us? That we would be confident there is pe that there is nothing to hide because there is nothing to find We should live with that in mind, starting today. That's the kind of life Daniel lived. Also, his work record was impeccable. There evidently were no cut corners. There were no instances of him exploiting his workplace. There were no lies or misconduct. He accepted no bribes, which was common in that culture. There was no laziness where he allowed important work to be delayed. That's the kind of thing they were looking for. And that's the kind of thing they couldn't find. What a frustrating job it must be when you're looking for dirt on a dirtless person. That's what they were doing. Okay, the third trait we see is in verse 5. Then these men said, We shall not find any ground for complaint against this Daniel, unless we find it in connection with the law of his God. Wow. Daniel's faith, number three, Daniel's faith in God was lived out publicly. Daniel's faith in God was lived out publicly. Daniel must have had such a solid reputation of being a devote follower of God. He had the reputation that he would be loyal to God no matter what. These guys knew that. They knew he only had one weakness, and it was his greatest strength. Those enemies of Daniel had to know that Daniel could have simply chosen to worship God privately and he would have been fine. You know, he wasn't allowed to pray for 30 days. Well, he wasn't allowed to get caught. Praying for 30 days is what it came down to. But they were banking that he would not do such a thing because he had never done that before. Daniel prayed in front of a window facing Jerusalem. That's what Daniel did three times a day, every day. Daniel was the kind of guy that was going to stand for God publicly, and they hoped to make that his downfall. What have we trained people to expect from us? Do they expect that we'll stand up for Christ in any situation where Christ is being maligned? Do they expect us to stand strong to our convictions and to our worship of God no matter what it might cost us? Daniel's enemies were banking on this with Daniel. And then verse 10: when Daniel knew that the document had been signed, he went to his house, where he had windows in his upper chamber open toward Jerusalem. He got down on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he had done previously. There are a couple of points here Number four is that Daniel maintained the attitude of being a stranger in a strange place. Daniel maintained the attitude of being a stranger in a strange place. The phrase toward Jerusalem tells us a lot. Daniel, even in his 80s, Now remember, he had been removed for over 70 years from his home. Even in his 80s, he never lost sight of his true identity. He knew he was not from Babylon, and his destination was not Babylon. He was only passing through. His window opened toward Jerusalem, and he intentionally prayed in that direction. This wasn't a coincidence. No doubt Daniel was obeying what he had read in Scripture. This is what Solomon said in his prayer when he dedicated his temple. 1 Kings 8, 46 through 50 says, If they sin against you, for there's no one who does not sin, and you are angry with them, that is, God is angry with them, and give them to an enemy. so that they are carried away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near. Yet if they turn their heart in the land in which they have been carried captive, and repent and bleed with you in the land of their captors, saying, We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly. If they repent with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies, which happened to be where Daniel was, Who carried them captive and prayed to you toward their land. And pray to you toward their land. Daniel must have read that. And that's exactly what he did. Three times a day. He prayed toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen, the house that I've built for your name, and then hear in heaven, your dwelling place, their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause, and forgive their people who have sinned against you and all their transgressions that they have committed against you, and grant them compassion. in the sight of those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them. Daniel was always a Judean That was his true identity. He did not want to be in Babylon, no matter what the perks were. His heart was in his home. He was an Old Testament example of how we should be living. Colossians 3. 1 through 4 says, if then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is Seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on the earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. That is where our home is. That's where our window ought to open to when we pray. Daniel was living like this. He always kept in touch with his true identity. He was primarily a Jew from Jerusalem. He was never a Babylonian from Babylon. His primary identity was determined by his relationship with God, nothing else. Verse 5, Daniel was committed to daily spiritual disciplines. If ever there was a person in the Bible who could say, I am simply too busy to pray three times a day, Daniel would be it. Daniel was the guy. Look how important his position was. Look at the important positions he held. Daniel's time was surely very, very important. But look what he makes time for. What we make time for is usually a very important indicator of where our hearts are. Daniel prays three times a day, not because suddenly there's a law against it and he's trying to make a point. No, he's just doing what he always did. I prayed three times a day yesterday. I'm going to pray three times again today. And if I make it to tomorrow, you're going to find me three times a day at that window. What do you think would change in our lives if we were to systematically pray three times a day? I don't intend this as some kind of legalism, but how often do we pray? And is it enough? Do we keep current with God? And his was probably a very systematic prayer. Like he he probably closed and closed his door and and uh And had a lot of things that he was praying for. We know some of his prayers from what he goes on to say. But even the constant contact with God, praying ceaselessly, always communicating with him, how how well are we doing at that? Is it enough? Do we keep current with God? Is really the question. And then verse our point six, Daniel was fa thankful. Daniel was thankful. He prayed and gives thanks, it says. Gave thanks. It's impossible to understand the Christian life properly and not have it break out into Thanksgiving from time to time. If you understand it, if you grasp the magnitude of God's grace toward you and his choosing you and all the ways that he looks after you, our hearts cannot help break out into Thanksgiving We see this in the writings of Paul. Philippians 4, 4 through 7 says, rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I'll say rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Don't be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, Let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. We can obviously spend another sermon just on the topic of thanksgiving. That is one of the most frequently given commands in all of Scripture. Give thanks. Because no one has more reasons to give thanks than someone who has been saved by grace. And another point from verse 10, point seven, Daniel would not compromise his worship of God. Daniel would not compromise his worship of God. Now Daniel was a smart guy. We're sure of that. He instantly understood the implications of the king's decree. And I am sure he knew where it came from. Maybe King Darius didn't know what was happening But Daniel, Daniel would have known. He's been around political settings long enough. He knew what was coming. He knew his enemies were behind it. But look what he does. Think about what you would do in that situation. Does he run to the king to complain about how unfair the whole thing is? Does he beg the king for his lot Does he choose to pray in his closet for a month? Now, if he was in the New Testament, he could have quoted Jesus and done that. But he does not. Think about it. It was only 30 days. 30 days. What what big deal would that be? Have there ever been 30 days that a decree like this wouldn't hurt you at all? Because you wouldn't have had a prayer during the prayer time during that whole 30 days. I know that would be true for me. Daniel had lots of options. He could have chosen here, but Daniel had zero compromise in his soul. He had no bend where it came to the worship of his God. So he prays on this day like he would pray on any day. As far as Daniel was concerned, nothing significant had changed. Now it's going to cost him his life, but nothing significant had changed. Remarkable. What an example to follow It's astounding what he did. He chose no earthly alternatives to alleviate his problem. He looked to no earthly solutions. He went directly to God and to God alone with his problem. And I'm not saying that's always what you do with every problem, because that's not true. But that's what he did with this problem. He knows what will happen. Daniel was good at reading the literal writing on the wall. Surely he had no trouble reading the figurative writing on the wall. He knew where this was going. Verse 21, then Daniel said to the king, this is after his night in the Hotel Lion , then Daniel said to the king, O king, live forever My God sent his angel and shut the lion's mouth, and they have not harmed me, because I was found blameless. There we are again, before him, and also before you, O king, I have done no harm. Then the king was exceedingly glad, I bet he was glad, and commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den. So Daniel was taken out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, because He had trusted in his God. He had trusted in his God Here's the eighth trait, Daniel trusted in his God. It's interesting the contrast between the King's Knight and Daniel's night. in the text. The reformed expository commentary says it is. What a stark contrast this provides King Darius had at his disposal every pleasure that the ancient world had to offer, yet he could not enjoy any of them. While Daniel had nothing except the presence of his God with him in his trials, and yet he enjoyed a peaceful night's rest. This shows us the true peace does not come from the possessions that we accumulate, but from the presence and favor of God in our lives. What was meant to be a terrifying and deadly trial for Daniel with the lions instead became a strengthening encounter with the angel. God was with him and preserved him safely through the ordeal. Now, the trust in God often does not change our life's circumstance. And here it did. There's no equation there. There's no formula. It does not always change our life circumstances, but it always changes how we experience them It drastically alters our experience of them. We had talked earlier about Daniel's faith causing him to live a blameless life. Daniel knew that God did not need to use the lion's den to teach him a lesson about something he was doing wrong. Daniel was confident that he was not being thrown into the lion's den for any of his bad behavior. So if this lion's den was not intended for God's purpose of harming Daniel, it would make sense that the mouth of the lions would be closed. I think that's why Daniel says the lions did not harm me. Because I was found blameless before him, and also before you, O king, I have done no harm. Basically, there was no reason for me to be punished by those those lines. I was not thrown in there for punishment I didn't do anything wrong. That's how faith thinks. That's not to say that God always delivers us out of those trials. Lots of people die every day for making a stand for Christ. But Daniel was saved because it served God's purposes to save him. He was living in trust in God, and he knew that God was not punishing him. Now, for this week, I think we could pick any of these points to apply. First, Daniel had an excellent spirit, or a spirit of excellence. Second, Daniel was blameless. Third, Daniel's faith in God was lived out publicly. Fourth, Daniel maintained the attitude of being a stranger in a strange land. Fifth, Daniel was committed to daily spiritual disciplines. Sixth, Daniel was thankful Seventh, Daniel would not compromise his worship of God. And eighth, Daniel trusted in his God. What changes need made in our lives? To look more like Daniel. Where are the weaknesses we should focus on this week to honor our God more? Let's close in prayer. Lord, again, we thank you for this amazing