Then they compelled a certain man, Simon a Cyrenian. the father of Alexander and Rufus, as he was coming out of the country and passing by, to bear his cross. Normally a prisoner condemned to a crucifixion would be required to carry their own cross, at least the cross being. It would weigh between thirty and forty pounds normally. Christ had probably carried a lots of heavy lumber in his day as a carpenter, so that wouldn't have been unusual for him. But we must remember what Christ has already been through. He's been scorched. Remember, that would have ripped his flesh from his back and sides to the place where his internal organs would have been exposed. He would have lost a lot of blood and from this, uh from the crown of thorns even, from the head wounds that that would have created He had also been beaten, and on top of that, Christ had probably taken on the sins of all his saints for all time in the garden the evening before. So if ever there was a man who was suffering, it was Christ. He was suffering physically, emotionally, socially, and spiritually. And it was at a level that we will never experience. We are not capable of experiencing it because we don't have the qualities that he had. So as he was carrying his cross, it became evident that he simply was not physically able to carry that cross. And they had to get this crucifixion on the road, so the Romans compelled someone else to do it. Have you ever felt like uh a happening in your life was untimely Have you ever been just going along and something that appeared to be just time and chance happened to you? Maybe your car broke down. Maybe you hit a deer. Maybe someone was just plain mean to you. Or maybe they did you a wonderful kindness. Stuff happens all the time. But we do well not to jump to the wrong conclusions. Some of the most unfortunate things that happen to us often turn out to be good things. This quote that I'm going to go through is from Facebook, so it has to be true. It's it's about a bunch of people that did not die when the Twin Towers collapsed on 9-11. The head of a company survived 9-11 because his son started kindergarten Another man was alive because it was his turn to bring donuts. One woman was late because her alarm clock didn't go off on time. Another was late because of being stuck on the New Jersey Turnpike because of an auto accident and his life was spared. One missed his bus. One spilled food on her clothes and had to take time to change One's car wouldn't start. One went back to answer the telephone. One had a child that dawdled and didn't get ready as soon as he could hatch. He could have. One couldn't get a taxi. One that really struck the author of this was the man who put on a new pair of shoes that morning. Before he got to the towers, he developed a blister on his foot. He stopped at a drugstore to buy a band-aid, and that's why he's alive today. Now, and this is still in the article, now when I am stuck in traffic, miss an elevator, turn back to answer a ringing telephone All the little things that annoy me, I think to myself, this is exactly where I'm meant to be at this very moment. Now I don't know who this person was, but they were on to something. We as Christians are given some wonderful promises. We can know that God is working out everything that happens in our lives for our good. Even those things that appear to be time and chance. Even those things that we cannot imagine good coming out of. I can easily think of some things I thought were awful at the time. Had God asked me, can I do this? I would have said no Don't do that. They were awful at the time, but now I thank God that they happened. We probably all have things like that. Well, in our text, we find Simon a Cyrenian in one of those moments. Do we really think that this guy was prepared for what was going to happen to him this day? Here he is in a thronging crowd, probably walking along as fast as he can to do what he has to do on his to-do list. Maybe he's going out to purchase a lamb to slaughter. Maybe he is purchasing some of the supplies needed for Passover, because that was a busy time. He probably has his mind set on his life and all the things that he has to do that day, just like us. He's probably just like us on most days. And then this happens. He got picked out of the crowd, it seems, at random, to carry someone's electric chair. That would be our modern-day equivalent This is how he would have felt if uh how we would have felt if we were in his shoes He was asked in this day of celebration, this day of family closeness, this party day, to carry an instrument of some stranger's death He was just passing by. He was just minding his own business. And then this happened. Talk about out of the blue. This is it. He had to feel like, why me? You know, there's a million people here. Why me? I don't need this today. This is gonna mess up my schedule. I hope they still have the supplies when I get where I'm going. If he'd had a b a watch, he had been he would have been looking at it at this point, calculating how he can get everything done. It was a massive interruption And we find out it was probably the greatest blessing in his life. It was more important than anything that he had scheduled to do on that day. And he had no idea. This was the interruption of sovereignty of God in a human's life. Talk about being chosen. This man was chosen. Now why do I say all of this? The Roman guards had the right to compel people of the land to do certain things, and this was one of them. This man could not say no. It's not like uh he could bow out So when this says he was compelled, he was really compelled. It isn't the kind of thing where we experience, we feel compelled, because the person sort of expects us to do something, so we feel compelled, yeah, we probably ought to do it. No, these guys had weapons, and they could use them if they wanted to on anyone who would resist their command. So he was compelled. Now, this is what gets interesting. His name is Simon, and he's a Cyrenian. Cyrene was a port city in modern-day Libya. It's on the North Africa coast. There were a lot of Jewish people who lived there. And it was a trade center. So this was probably a Jewish person who had made a long trip to come back to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. But think about this. Why would Mark identify Simon as the father of Alexander and Rufus? Why would we do it? If we were describing a person, why would we do this? We would use usually only do it for one of two reasons. The first would be that these children are famous, and most people would know about those people. But the second is more likely. The people who he was writing to know Alexander and Rufus. Mark was writing to the church in Rome. Most likely, these men were either part of that church or well known to that church. Look at Romans 16. 13. Romans 16. 13. That is also a book written to the church in Rome. And in that it says, greet Rufus. Chosen in the Lord and his mother and mine. Now we don't know how popular a name Rufus was. But uh we don't know how many there were. And we can't know for sure, but the evidence seems pretty strong to me. Rufus Simon's son and Simon's wife probably both came to Christ and were in the Church of Rome. And it's likely that they came to Christ as a result of this run-in that Simon had with these Roman soldiers. This unlikely event probably led to the salvation of this man and his family. It's interesting when we read how unbelievers evaluate God. I get really tired of it. I imagine sometimes you do too. If anything bad or painful happens, it's just more proof to them that there is no God, or if there is a God, God is not good. But look at this event. It was certainly a profoundly painful interruption in this man's daily grind. It was the kind of interruption that no one would welcome It's like the interruption that Mark and Angie experienced when they drove up to an auto accident where someone had just died. That kind of thing affects you. You know, it pierces your life immediately, and you didn't want it, but you can't get rid of it. It at least puts a damper on your day, but usually it it's a damper on your life. Used in our text today, it appears to have directed this man to look to Christ. It caused him to redirect his attention. It caused him to think about things he may not have noticed had this not happened to him. He met Christ on the way to Christ's death. And that eventually brought Simon and his family eternal life. Don't be quick to evaluate God by the events that happen in your life. It's too soon. It's too soon. We don't have the perspective yet to evaluate. These things might be painful. They might feel devastating. But the story isn't over yet. We don't know what God is accomplishing. I read a book that profoundly affected me. It's called A Severe Mercy. And it's told by Sheldon Van Auken. I read it a long time ago, but. It stuck with me enough I can even remember parts of it. So that that tells you something. The book tells of a man who deeply loved his wife. In fact, he had idealized this relationship to where he essentially worshipped the relationship he had with his wife. But his wife at some point had a run-in with evil in New York City that left her desperate for spiritual answers. It triggered something in her, and she had to know God. She escaped the evil men without incident, but her view of the world was shaken from that point on. She was driven to spiritual answers As a result, both Sheldon and his wife began communications with C. S. Lewis. And then Sheldon's wife died of a disease, I think it was cancer, and he was devastated. The point of the book is that C. S. Lewis pointed out to Sheldon that what God had done in Sheldon's life was very likely a severe mercy. A severe mercy. He had drawn Sheldon out of a world that would have distracted him from eternity. And had drawn him into a desperate need for heavenly solace. The harm he suffered saved his soul. This is often what God is up to in our lives. He's weaning us from love of this world, and that doesn't always come easy. That doesn't always set well with us. But God will do it if we're his children. It doesn't look good, it doesn't feel good, it doesn't sell as being good, but it is for our good. It does good. It's very hard to trust God when He shocks us out of our day-to-day routine and presents a problem that we can neither avoid nor understand. But trust we must if we are to grow from the experience. Here's a quote from that book, Severe Mercy. It says, that death So full of suffering for us both. Suffering that still overwhelmed my life was yet a severe mercy. A mercy as severe as death A severity as merciful as love. That's what Sheldon Van Alpha said. Now, as Christ was walking to his crucifixion, Luke tells us this, Luke 27. Luke 23, 27 through 31. And it says, And a great multitude of the people followed him, and women who also mourned and lamented him. But just Jesus turning to them said, Daughters of Jerusalem. Don't weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For indeed the days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, wounds that never bore, and breasts which never nursed. Then they will say to the mountains, fall on us and to the hills cover us. For if they do these things in the green wood, what will be done in the dry? What Christ does here is amazing. When you're suffering, who do you think of? When you're suffering, who do you think of most? Doesn't your world suddenly wrap itself around you? Isn't your primary preoccupation with you and your pain? And some of that can't be avoided. But look at Christ. Christ thinks of the people who are following him They may think it's Christ who has done something evil here. It's him who is cursed, as he'll soon be hanging on a tree. Obviously, Christ must have done something horrible. But Christ turns to those very people and he redirects their attention. He looks at them and he warns them. He warns them of the suffering for them that is coming. It will be so bad, your children will suffer so severely that you will wish you never had them. As that would save you both you and your children from the suffering that you are going to go through. History tells us that that is exactly what happened in 70 AD. When Jerusalem was cut off by the Roman army, the suffering was unlike most things experienced in human history. Even the historians said that about the event. It was awful, just like Christ said it would be. His followers likely followed Christ's instructions because Christ told them to get out of the city before this happens. But most of the people he addressed on the street probably would not have escaped it So it's not Christ they should be mourning because Christ's death was serving a necessary purpose. It wasn't a sign of Christ's sin that he was dying. It was a sign of our sin that Christ was dying. But the generation who Christ was addressing here would die as a result of the judgment of God upon them. And that's what he's warning them of. And then when these people say that the mountains fall on us, like it says in our text, this is probably not intended for a sudden death. It's probably more intended for protection. If you were in Jerusalem when the Romans invaded, all you would have wanted was a safe place to hide. You would have been desperate for a cave to crawl in. That's probably what they're asking for. And then verse 31, for if they do these things in the green wood, what will be done in the dry? That one's a little puzzling. Most of the commentators don't know exactly what to do with that. I don't understand Greek that well, but in the sentence, the word they may have kind of been added as an a uh as a uh interpretation rather than a translation. So what they're trying to make sense of the sentence in the best way they can think of adds the word they into it. It could be he instead of they. Anyone who has a wood stove knows that dry wood burns much easier and hotter than green wood. When I buy my wood for Mark, I always want dry wood. And that's generally what I get. Now, that's what this is referring to. What Christ may have been saying is that if this is the judgment of God to an innocent son on behalf of the sins of the people, If that's what this judgment is about, just imagine what God will do to those who will not receive that forgiveness that Christ died to give. Just imagine what will happen to the people who reject Christ when they have a chance to receive him. In this case, Christ would be the wetwood, and the unrepentant would be the drywood. I think that is most likely what he's talking about, but it's difficult to know for sure. Then verse 22. And they brought him to the place Golgotha, which is translated place of the skull. Then they gave him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but he did not take it. The word for skull in the Latin is calva. Calvare, locus, calvare locus means place of the skull. That's where we get our word Calvary from. It's where Christ died. This area probably looked like a skull somehow. Archaeologists tend to believe that they know where the place is. And it's likely that the Church of the Holy Sepulchre is actually at that location. A few places that are historically accurate probably. Once Christ arrived at his execution spot, someone offered him wine with myrrh. This was very likely a drink that was known to dead in pain. I doubt any of us here would have refused that cup. You think about the agony he's in, I'd have said, give me drugs, you know, give give me something that will help take this pain away. But for Christ, for whatever reason, he wanted to keep his mind sharp and he was willing to experience the most severe pain for us without the medication. Then verse 24, and when they crucified him, they divided his garments, casting lots for them to determine what every man should take. This is from MacArthur's commentary. He says, apparently originating in Persia, crucifixion was later used by the Romans as a brutal means of inflicting death on its victims while also deterring other would-be criminals. It is estimated That by the time of Christ, Rome had crucified some 30,000 people in Israel alone After the fall of Jerusalem in A. D. 70, so many Jewish rebels were killed by crucifixion that the Romans ran out of lumber to make crosses. Notice here what Mark doesn't say. Mark doesn't go into excruciating details of Christ's death. What took place physically is vividly described by Davis in his book, Crucifixion of Jesus. And I'm going to quote, it's a lengthy quote. But it tells us about how the crucifixion process was normally carried out. Simon is ordered to the place to place the patibulum on the ground. That's the side piece. And Jesus is quickly thrown backwards with his shoulders against the wood. The legionnaire feels for the depression at the front of the wrist. He drives a heavy square wrought iron nail through the wrist and deep into the wood. Quickly he moves to the other side and repeats the action, being careful not to pull the arms too tightly, but to allow some flexion and movement. The patibulum is then lifted in place at the top of the stripes. That's the vertical beam. The left foot is pressed backward against the right foot, and with both feet extended, toes down, a nail is driven through the arch of each. leaving the knees moderately flexed. The victim is now crucified. As he slowly stacks down with more weight on the nails and the wrists, Excruciating fiery pain shoots along the fingers and up the arms to explode in the brain. The nails in the wrists were putting pressure on the median nerves. As he pushes himself upward to avoid this stretching torment, he places his full weight on the nail through his feet. Again, there is a searing agony of the nail tearing through the nerves between the metatarsal bones of the feet. At this point, another phenomena occurs. As the arms fatigue, great waves of cramps sweep over the muscles, knotting them in deep, relentless, throbbing pain With these tramps comes the inability to push himself upward. Air can be drawn into the lungs, but cannot be exhaled. Jesus fights to raise up himself To raise himself in order to get even one small breath. Finally, carbon dioxide builds up in the lungs and in the bloodstream, and the cramps partially subside. Spasmodically, he is able to push himself upward to exhale and bring in the life-giving oxygen. Hours of this limitless pain, cycles of twisting, joint rendering, cramps, intermittent tent, partial asphyxiation. searing pain as tissue is torn from his lacerated back as he moves up and down against the rough timber. Then another agony begins A deep, crushing pain deep in the chest as the pericardium slowly fills with serum and begins to compress the heart. It's now almost over. The loss of tissue fluids has reached the critical level. The compressed heart is struggling to pump heavy, thick, sluggish blood into the tissues The tortured lungs are making a frantic effort to gasp in small gulps of air. The body of Jesus is now in extremis, and he can feel the chill of death creeping through his tissues His mission of atonement has been completed. Finally, he can allow his body to die. We have all of that in the description. And all of that Mark describes with the words, and they crucified him. And they crucified him. And then they divided his garments, casting lots for them to determine what every man should take. Evidently traditional Jewish apparel included an inner garment, an outer garment, or tunic, a belt, sandals, and a headpiece. That was kind of what they wore. John John 's text goes into greater detail on the garment distribution. John 19, 23 and 24, it says, Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Christ, took his garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part and also the tunic. Now the tunic was without steam woven from the top in one piece. They said, therefore, among themselves, let's not tear it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. That the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, They divided my garments among them, and my clothing they cast lots. Therefore the soldiers did these things. This tunic, evidently, was a valuable garment. It was likely given to Christ by a wealthy follower, or maybe Jesus had saved up his carpentry money early on in his life to buy it. But the soldiers didn't want to tear it because it would lose its value, so they said, let's let's throw lots for this Verse 25, now it was the third hour, and they crucified him, and the inscription of his accusation was written above the king of the Jews. The third hour would be 9 o'clock in the morning. Now it's possible that this is perfectly accurate. There's another possibility that may have been a misprint in one of the copies. But whatever the case, it says 9 in the morning. I'm not sure how they could have gotten done everything that had to happen from 6 o'clock that morning to 9 o'clock. But maybe it did. And they say if it was a mistake in the copying of one of the earlier texts, it would have been a very easy mistake to make because of the nature of uh of their numbers. But uh and remember our belief is that not that every copy of the Bible has no errors. We believe that the original contains no errors So either way, Christ was crucified. Christ was crucified. Then verse 26. And the inscription of his accusation was written above. the king of the Jews. Above the head of every crucified criminal would be a board that listed his crimes. As we look at other Gospels, we find that the full text was, this is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. It was written in Aramaic, Hebrew, and Greek. John 19, 19 through 22 tells us this. Now Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Then many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was hidden, or it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. Therefore the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but write, he said, I am the King of the Jews. And Pilate answered, What I've written. I've written. It's ironic that it's Pilate who stated the spiritual truth of Christ most clearly. You see the irony in that? Pilate was as wicked as they come. Pilate was an evil, godless man. It was the Jewish leadership that wanted the truth removed. God will receive glory. We need to always keep that in mind. Our sovereign God will always receive glory. Where he wants it, when he wants it, and how he wants it. Even if it takes rocks to cry out in praise, they're gonna. God will not be deprived of glory. Men may try to silence the truth. Sometimes it appears they're being effective, but it cannot be silenced. God's truth will prevail. Jesus died with a sign advertising the truth going into town that day. He had a sign that proclaimed who he truly was, and it was put there by a wicked Roman politician. Pilate's motives for doing this weren't good at all. They were awful. He was trying to punish the Jewish leaders, trying to make fun of them. Paybacks can be nasty. But even through Pilate's evil motives, God got that sign hung over Jesus' head proclaiming his true identity for anybody walking by in three languages There's no one that would have passed it if they knew how to read that didn't read that sign. Don't ever get the idea God can't get a job done He can get his truth proclaimed any way he wants it, anywhere he wants it, anytime he wants it. We have the glorious opportunity to be part of that process. But never get the idea that without you the job won't get done. He'll find a way. But if he'll do it through us What more important thing do we have to do with our time? What more important project could we be on than that project? We would just miss the opportunity to glorify the Lord if we if we took the attitude that, well, he'll do it, so I don't need to worry about it. It's the whole wrong perspective. What are our lives for? If we have the opportunity to tell somebody how they can be right with God through Jesus Christ, I can't think of anything better to do. Well, we started this morning with the application that life's interruptions often serve an eternal purpose in our lives. We're wise to greet them, trusting our Father that He knows what is best for us and is acting accordingly. What unexpected thing happened in your life that you are fighting against? Consider that there's much that we don't understand. Consider how God might be using this in your life. It might very much change the attitude with which you deal with that interruption or that nuisance. God is at work in our lives, even through the incidentals. We need to trust him. Second, we also see in Christ our perfect example in suffering. Even though he's headed toward his crucifixion, he puts his attention on those around him who need to hear the truth and he proclaims it. Are you suffering this morning? Are there those around you who need ministered to? We do well to follow Christ's example and do what we can for those people that he is surrounded with. Even in the midst of our pain. And then one more application. Pilate was the one who identified Christ for who he was better than all the Jewish experts combined. And Pilate did it for selfish motives, but the sign was perfectly accurate. The Messiah died with a sign telling all that he was the Messiah. And God will be praised and his truth will be proclaimed. Consider this week how fortunate we are to be given the job of proclaiming to those around us who Christ is. We don't need to fear that God can't get the job done, but we should be in communication with God about how we How we can help him get that job done better. How we can be part of that job that he is doing in our world.