Um I am uh facing this sermon with a little intrepidation. Uh I broke down in tears in the middle of it, and that was in the preparation of it. Which is frightening to me. Um, so anyway, um uh I'm hoping that we get through it well. Um also I kind of sent Brad on a goose chase there because the the text that he read and I had him read is is our marked text. But the time we're going to be spending this morning is actually in some peripheral texts. I prepared the sermon at the time, same time a bunch of you were dedicating your day to working on the church, the new church building. And I thought about you and felt an ambivalence, wishing I could be there helping, and knowing that this is the role that God has given me, and I have limited time, so I had better do it well. But I really appreciate what you folks are doing often when I can't be there We need to remember that we're reading about Jesus' final week prior to his crucifixion. Let's take a quick look at Jesus' schedule for the week. Saturday, Jesus arrives at Bethany and Beth Page and stays the night. Sunday, Jesus attends the party that was thrown by Simon the leper The crowd learns of Christ's presence and they show up to see both Christ and Lazarus. Monday, the so-called triumphal entry. Tuesday, Christ cast the vendors out of the temple, and actually one of the things we're going to deal with, one of the texts, is from that day. that we're going to deal with today. Wednesday is where the rest of today's text and the text in Mark comes from. And then Thursday, the disciples prepare for the Passover meal and partake of it with Christ. Friday Christ is crucified. Before we go to our Mark text, we'll take a little side route, like I said, to see what else is in our context. In fact, we'll use the rest of this time to preach through that and prepare for our text next week. So first we'll see, we'll look at another parable that Matthew tells us about. It was spoken at the same time as our parable in Mark. So when you read Mark, you've got to understand that Jesus also said this. And as we get the flavor for what's being said, we're going to have a better understanding of what that crowd must have experienced. This too was given in the context of Jesus defending his authority. Remember, last week the Pharisees came in and said, by what? authority are you doing all these wonderful, ter terrific, uh tremendous, awesome things? By what authority are you doing those? And Jesus defends his authority basically by shutting them up. Well now he's he's given some insight to the crowd and and he's kind of given it back to the Pharisees. Matthew 22. Matthew 22, 1 through 14. Verse 1. And Jesus answered and spoke to them again by parables and said, The kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who arranged a marriage for his son, and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding, and they were not willing to come. Take note that Jesus is telling his listeners that these parables are specifically about the kingdom of God. So they know right off the bat that's the key. They've got the key to unlock this story. So uh now a a marriage back then was a very, very big deal. Uh the father of the groom uh I should say the the wedding back then was a very, very big deal. Um Uh the marriage I suspect was too, but whatever. The father of the groom would hold an elaborate party for days on end in celebration of the union of his son and his wife. This is something that everyone in the town would look forward to. Everyone that they knew would look forward to. There was little about an event like this that you would not like. But when our text tells us that this party was given by a king, that moves it to a whole different level. Now it's the event of all events. It's the kind of thing that only happens maybe once in a person's life, that you would get an invitation for a king's son 's wedding. The invitation itself would be a tremendous honor. No one would ever think of missing such an event. In fact, they would give their right arm to even receive the invitation. Our story leads us to believe that there were many invited to this event ahead of time. They knew what it was, and they knew where it was. But they may not have known when it was. So the servants went out to tell everyone when it was. It's now. It's now. Come on. And what was their response to this wonderful offer? What was the crowd's response, the invitees' response to this wonderful offer? Nah, no thanks. I'm busy. Now, at this point the crowd listening to Jesus would have received it completely different than we do. They would have been flabbergasted They would have been that that can't happen. You know, that's impossible. Nobody would do that. They couldn't imagine such a response to the king's invitation For several reasons. First, it was a great honor to be invited. Second, it was the party of all parties. And third, it would be a tremendous insult to the father to reject the invitation. So at this point the crowd would have powerfully been involved in this story. Verse 4. Again , He sent out other servants saying, tell those who are invited, basically go back to those same people that you went to first, who said, nah, busy. Go back to them and say, See, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and fatted cattle are killed, and all things are ready. The time is now. Come to the wedding. He didn't say the time is now, but that's what uh would have been conveyed. The crowd would now have gotten a point that we don't get from the story. After having been insulted by the invitees, after they've slapped the king in the face. There is no king that would have given a second chance. The king in this story is doing something that's unthinkable. He is extending mercy and grace. to his invitees. He is going way farther than even a common man would do, even an unimportant man would do. He is ignoring the insult and offering even a greater appeal for why people should come. He's essentially emphasizing one, what's in it for the people to come. He tells them, you know, I've all this food is prepared, and two, the price that he has gone to prepare for the feast for them. They understood this was a huge investment. He's basically saying the party is ready for you. And I've gone out of my way to make it ready. So come Verse 5, but they made light of it and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his business. Look at this. They're invited to the party of all parties. The special of all special. And how do they respond? They make light of it. They act as if it's nothing special, or maybe nothing at all. And what do they choose instead of it? This is important. What do they choose instead of it? Normal day-to-day drudgery. Normal day-to-day existence. Rather than party with the king, they would prefer to merely survive by themselves They dishonor the message. But that isn't bad enough. In verse 6, and the rest seized his servants, treated them spitefully, and killed them. Not only is it bad enough to dishonor the message, look what they're doing to the messengers. How'd you like that job? They seize them, treat them with dishonor, and kill them. And what what were the messengers guilty of? What horrible thing were the messengers doing? Inviting people to a party That's all. They were powerfully conveying the king's wishes that these people attend. That's all. Verse 7, but when the king heard about it, he was furious. And he sent out his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. The crowd would have expected the king to do this. This is not a surprise. They're probably thinking, well, he should have done that the first time. They only would have thought he would have done it sooner. They would have understood the king's right to do such a thing after his people had dishonored him so and intentionally and directly. The king's anger at this point was it was appropriate, and his retribution was just. So ends the story of those who have missed out on the greatest of great opportunities. But the story doesn't end there. It's important that these Jewish people are told what is going to happen to this kingdom going forward. Verse 8. Then he, the king, said to his servants, The wedding's ready, but those who were invited were not worthy. Therefore, go into the highways and as many as you find. Invite to the wedding. So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all whom they found, both good and bad. And the wedding hall was filled with guests. It's hard at this point to stick to the stick to the storyline. It's hard at this point not to break out singing hallelujah. Here is the point in the story Where the gospel comes to us. Us poor, dejected, outside the camp, uninvited, riff-raff. Here comes our invitation. It mattered so little that we were slow to be invited. It matters not at all that we were not worthy of the grace, of the honor. It doesn't matter that we were not in any way qualified to come. It doesn't matter that we bring no honor or worth with us. It doesn't matter that we had no morality with which to approve ourselves. Are we getting this? The only reason we were invited to the party Is that God wanted to share the glory of his son? God wanted to share the glory of his son with someone. And the most impressive people weren't available. And the reason that nothing else matters is because of this. The magnitude of the party. the magnitude of the party. I knew that would happen. You see, every one of us pathetic believers, every single one of us is invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And then that party is gonna go on for eternity. We so often have to get off our high horses We so often have to bring our lives into perspective. There is nothing to envy about the wicked. We just sang about that. But at the same time, we are not morally superior to the wicked The biggest difference between us and them is that God wanted someone at his party. And the truth is, maybe he's calling them two. When we look at each other, we're looking at people who share one thing in common. God chose us to fill a seat he wanted filled. So the same thing that makes us special makes each other special. It's we were chosen. We must remember that when we want to draw distinct distinctions to make ourselves somehow superior. to another fellow beggar. It's insane. But don't we still do it? We might as well redirect our perspective this morning to what the king says. He wanted people to say yes to his party. And he went to the dregs and we said yes. That's the truth of it. The wedding hall is gonna be full of guests If you're here this morning and you don't have a relationship with Christ, if you've never received and accepted the invitation of this gospel, you can do so this morning. You too are invited to the party. You can come to Christ by believing that what he did on the cross, he did to pay for the penalty of your sin. And you can receive him just as you would a king as the king of your life. If that's something you want, just let me or someone else you know here know and we'll tell you more. Don't reject this invitation to this wonderful party. It's the best thing that can ever happen in your life. Verse 11. But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw a man there who did not have on a wedding garment. So he said to him, Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless And the king said to the servants, Bind him hand in foot, take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen. What we have here is one who was invited and said no. But now he's trying to enter on his own merit at his own invitation. He's not arranged it with the king. He's not here made a simple mistake. This was not a simple mistake that you would have made. This guy knew what he was doing and he knew that it was wrong. Because he sought the honor of the king through a method other than being chosen by the king. He is showing as much dishonor to the king as those who refuse to come. The wedding hall is full of guests, but there will be no impostors allowed at this party. There won't be any of the old crowd who said no that are going to be able to sneak in some other way. There won't be anyone there of their own merit. There won't be any there who are entering through any other garment than the white robe of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's the essence of the story. I think Jesus is referring here to the Jewish Judaizers, the ones who would come into the church after Christ's resurrection, trying to mix Judaism with Christianity. They wanted to mix meritorious work with grace. And Christ shows in the party story what they really are and what's going to happen to them. As we look at the whole story, we see this. All who heard the appeal of the king to come to the party were the called. But the chosen are those who have received the robe of Christ and entered in. So many are called, but few are chosen. If you respond to the invitation in the appropriate manner, there are so many points to make from this story, but the thing that stands out so starkly is the opportunity. This marriage feast in the parable is really talking about entry into heaven, entry into God's kingdom. It's an amazing invitation. It is astoundingly glorious. It is the most lofty invitation that a human can receive. And look what the world does with it. Look look out on the web, you know? Look at some of the responses when somebody posts something about uh about Being right with God and all of the negativity that comes after it. The world makes fun of this tremendous invitation. Yeah, Jesus right, uh-huh. Grow up is essentially a lot of what the message is now today in our society. You know, you're depending on a crutch, you know, you need to grow up and forget about that. They make fun of it. They are sarcastically skeptical of Christ and his message and his followers In some places in the globe, they kill the ones who preach this gospel, who give this invitation. They kill the ones who offer this invitation to come. Yet it's the greatest opportunity that this world will ever experience. It's the greatest gift that they will ever be offered. And what do they pick instead? Something great, something grand, something glorious? No. Day-to-day drudgery. Life without meaning, life without hope, the opportunity to live and die without hope, that's what the world chooses. Is that you this morning? Is that the life you're facing? Will you not respond to the invitation from God to his party? Then in context, the listeners would have understood that those who were invited to this party were the Jewish people. So the listeners would have understood this. They would have understood that they were the ones who were given the invitations that rejected them. They were the legitimate invitees. They would have gotten that point. The servants they mocked and killed would have been the prophets. They all knew the rich history of how they treated the prophets. They always loved the prophets, but not until they were dead for a hundred years. Living profits are pesky things. They'll tell you that you need to change, and worse yet, they will tell you exactly how you should change, and specifically what is wrong with you. It's far easier to love dead prophets. Now, Marx written this story like a current action movie, and it moves from one scene to the next very rapidly Matthew took his time and gave more insight into it. Now we're going to skip on to John. John, on the other hand, focused most of his writing about the final days of Christ. And in that, John reveals much greater detail. I think John's writing will help us a lot to understand what both Jesus and the crowd and the disciples may have been thinking and experiencing. So we'll just read the whole thing. This happened in what would have been yesterday in our context. John 12, 20 through 50. And uh we'll cover it quickly. John 20, uh 12, 20 to 50. Now there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the feast, and then they came to Philip, who was from Beth of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip came and told Andrew, and Andrew in turn uh Andrew and Philip told Jesus. But Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Most assuredly I say to you that unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone But if it dies, it produces much grain. So this is all being said in the context, slightly before the context we're in. It's very clear that Jesus understood exactly where he stands. He knows he's about to die. And it's likely that these Greeks were wanting to get in on Jesus' ride to power. that they they likely had bought into what Jews expected Christ to do. That uh that would make what Christ says in response in this context um m it makes more sense. He starts by saying what will happen to himself, to Christ. And Jesus says the hour has come. He's essentially saying, this is going to happen, and it's going to happen now. I'm going to die. And he continues, He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, let him follow me, and where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, him my father will honor. This would address the Greeks who wanted to meet Christ as well as everybody else. What the followers do after his death will display what they really are. The true followers will follow Christ after Christ's death, and quite possibly to their own death Verse 27, now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Here we see the humanity of Jesus. He feels the distress of his current situation. He's about to take upon himself the sins of the world. Can you imagine? Think of your own sins that are painful to even think about. To think about them as seeing yourself as you were doing things that disgrace both God and yourself. We all have them. And Christ was about to take upon himself the load of that from you and me and every person who will ever come to him. Of course, the human impulse would be to avoid that pain. That is sane. That's sanity. That's logical. But Christ could not take that path because that path was God's will for him. It was his reason for his visit in the planet in his humanity's form. In the middle of this, a voice from heaven says, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again Therefore the people who stood by and heard it said that it had thundered, and others said an angel has spoken to him. I'm really surprised that Mark skipped this in his gospel. I mean Mark usually hit these things. We read this and uh we have a tendency to think very little of it, but this just in itself, if you had been there, would be one of the most amazing events that ever happened in your life. These people would have had solid reason to believe that they were in the presence of God. Verse 30, Jesus answered and said, This voice didn't come because of me, but for your sake. Now is the judgment of this world. Now the ruler will be cast out. I, if and I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all peoples to myself. This he said, signifying by what death he would die Jesus is telling these people, probably many of the same ones he addresses in our text this morning, that God himself is verifying to that crowd the legitimacy of Jesus Christ. By whom authority do you speak? Well you just heard it. That's essentially what what's going on. Then Jesus goes on to talk about the how and why of all the upcoming events How? By Christ being crucified. These people understood what that meant. Why? To overpower the devil's sin hold on people and to draw people to God through himself. Verse 34. The people answered him, We've heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? The people ask what appears to be an honest, relevant question. How can Messiah die if his kingdom reigns forever? Then Jesus said to them, A little while longer the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. He who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of the light. These things Jesus spoke and departed and was hidden from them. Jesus is essentially appealing to these people. Believe. While you have me with you, believe. While you have seen what I have done. Believe while you still have a chance. Believe. And if you don't believe now, you'll never believe. This should be said to anyone here this morning as well. Believe while you have the chance. Pursue Christ while your mind is thinking about him, because darkness always encroaches upon the people who do not know God. Verse 37 , But although he had done so many signs before them, they did not believe in him. And the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled which he spoke. Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore they could not believe, because Isaiah said again, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with their eyes, lest they should understand with their hearts. So that I should heal them. These things Isaiah said when he saw his glory and spoke of him. These people Christ was calling out to for the most part. were not going to believe. Most of them were, like in the story, they received the invitation very clearly. And they were not going to respond. He appealed to them passionately to believe while they could, but they would not. We don't know the spiritual realities that we walk in. We don't know how God 's calling is arranged. But we do know that now is the time to respond. Today is the day of salvation. Don't end up like the people in the story. We need to respond now. Whether that's on him calling to uh calling to us for us to sign up for the party to uh to invite him in or to respond to his call on our lives. To do that thing that we know that we must do. Respond now. Respond before your heart is hardened and darkness overtakes you I'm reading this passage again, like I said earlier, because it's important to our text in Mark. This is the state of much of the crowd. They're preparing their paths for what to do when they are disappointed with Christ. And that is not a good preparation. Verse 42, nevertheless, even among the rulers, many believed in him. That's what we were talking about in Sunday school. But because of the Pharisees, they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue. Why? For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God Look at this. These people knew in their heads that Christ was the Messiah. That's what this is telling us. They reached the right intellectual decision about Christ. They had the right doctrine. They knew that Jesus was Lord. They knew they should do what Christ said, but they wouldn't. And why? Because they were afraid to lose what they loved the most. They were confronted with the most glorious opportunity to follow Christ. He's right there. They know who he is, but they won't commit for fear for what they would lose. Yet everything they had was sure to be lost anyway. In their case, in AD 70, it would all be gone. And if if it hadn't been for that, death was the sure end that would rip all of that they love from their hand. Why do you love that keeps you from following Jesus? What do we love that keeps us from obeying Christ? What holds you back from following Him and acknowledging Him? What other love is in your way? We do well to remember Jim Elliott's words here. He is no fool to give up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. It appears to me that what Jesus cries out next is directed to the unbelief of the crowd. He is imploring them to believe for the advantages of believing And to avoid the judgment of disbelieving. Verse 44, then Jesus cried out and said, He who believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And he who sees me, sees him who sent me. I have come as light into the world, and whoever believes in me should not abide in darkness. And if anyone hears my words and does not believe, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. He who rejects me and does not receive my words as that which judges him, the word that I have spoken will judge him in the last day For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me gave me a command what I should say and what I should speak. And I know that his command is everlasting life. Therefore, whatever I speak, just as the Father has told me, So I speak. This is Christ's ministry to the crowd. He pulls out all the stops. He holds no punches, and he lays the truth straight out. And this is their chance. This is their chance to respond. Now, as we go to our text next Sunday, we'll have a much fuller understanding, I think. We're prepared for Christ to tell us about a vineyard with some very evil tenants. In closing, I think we need to ask ourselves, do we see our faith like Christ described it? Do we see our faith like Christ described it? Do we see that we are the most fortunate of all people in this whole galaxy to be invited and included? In this wonderful party. While this was a parable, there actually will be a marriage party of the Lamb. It'll be a real party on the best day ever. And it will be the best party ever. And it will be the best place that we have ever been. Do we see ourselves as blessed beyond belief? To be invited. Well, that's the truth of it. Let's close in prayer. Lord, what we see this morning in your word is amazing love. We see who we are in the story. And it's just more than we could hope. We thank you that it's like you to love the unlovely. Because we qualify We thank you that you extend grace to those who deserve it the least because we qualify And we come to you knowing that it's all of you and it's all for you. And we are so privileged to be included in glorifying your son. We thank you for the invitation, and we ask that you would help us this week to honor you the way that you should be, in light of the wonderful opportunity. That you have provided for us to be with you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.