Well, I uh I pledged last week to preach on a text that is easy to understand. But we will find difficulty all our lives in applying it. And I think I uh I will deliver on that promise. Whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. Now let's just take a minute to set the context that we're in. We're speaking about the bigger context of judging. That's been the main topic of the Sermon on the Mount here in Matthew 7. And we looked at the kind of judging we should do. and the kind of judging we should not do. We looked at avoiding God's discipline by seeing through the lens of the gospel. And after we've made sure that we are seeing through the lens of the gospel, viewing everyone else through the lens of the gospel, then we're ready to do some helpful Splinter removing. Well, we can't do that splinter removing until we're seeing people through grace, through the eyes of grace. But in the process, as well as overcoming worry and all the other hard things that Jesus has spoken of. We're going to experience our overwhelming need. We need help. We are not good people. Everything Jesus is asking us seems impossible. When we're squeezed, this isn't the stuff that normally comes out of us, this stuff that Jesus is commanding. We need supernatural changes that we cannot accomplish by mere human effort or willpower. So, what should we do when we as we're trying to obey Christ, as we're reading this, as we're realizing our identity in Christ, as we're going through all this? What does it lead us to? We ask, we seek, we knock. Like our lives depend on it. Because they do. Our spiritual lives absolutely depend upon the resources that we must claim for ourselves in Christ. And we don't stop until we get what we need. And while God will provide lots of resources during our journey that we need as we go, it's not until we reach our destination that we can finally stop asking and seeking and knocking because we have it all. We have it all in Christ, in his presence. So that'll be a wonderful day. But in the meantime, we must discipline our minds to believe that this amazing but benevolent God Desires to give us good things. He's a good father. He's just like that. Now, sometimes those good things come in wrappings that we find hard to understand. And sometimes bad things come intended for good use, but this loving God, no matter what happens, intends only good For us. It would not have happened in our life if it could not be used for the good of his people. Now we reach verse 12, and it says, therefore. And now a kid's Sunday school question. When you find the therefore, what do you look for? And the answer to that is what is there for? What's it referring back to is the question. What's the therefore, therefore? In this case, I don't know for sure. But I think it looks back to at least verse 1 in chapter 1. So this is a summary, a conclusion of at least chapter 7. But it may go all the way back to the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. And I I tend to think that that guess is more likely because from here forward Christ's focus changes. It's like he moves into his summary So he's uh summarizing up to this point, and then he's concluding after this. His topic changes to the danger of falseness. That's what we'll be looking at next week. Another kid's Sunday school question. What is the greatest command in the Bible? What is the greatest command in the Bible And it's love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And what's the second greatest command? Love your neighbor as yourself. So you see here, Jesus has taken what he said before in the Sermon on the Mount, that he's getting to this point, and he's aptly telling us. how we go about doing all this stuff that he's been talking about, putting in a different framework for us or a broader framework. He's telling us where it all fits. And he's telling us that refusing to judge wrongly, while we looked at that specifically, Refusing to judge wrongly and choosing to judge through the eyes of the gospel really means loving that other person the way we want to be loved. It's that simple to understand, and it is so terribly difficult to do. I learned an interesting fact in this study, and it was contained in John MacArthur's commentary. I had not known this before. He says every other form of this basic principle had been given in purely negative terms and is found in the literature of almost every major religion and philosophical system The Jewish rabbi Hilel said, What is hateful to yourself, do not do to someone else. The book of Tobit in the Apocrypha teaches, what thou thyself hatest to no man do. The Jewish scholars in Alexandria who translated the Septuagint advised in a certain piece of correspondence As you wish that no evil befall you, be but to be a partaker of all good things, so you should act on the same principle toward your subjects and offenders Confucius taught, what you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others. An ancient Greek king named Nicocles Wrote, do not do to others the things which make you angry when you experience them at the hands of other people The Greek philosopher Epictetus said, What you avoid suffering yourself do not afflict on others The Stoics promoted the principle, what you do not want to be done to you, do not do to anyone else. And if you're listening carefully, you're seeing in every case the emphasis is negative. The principle is an important part of right human relations, but it falls short, far short of God's perfect standard. You see the difference in these other religions and how they state things? It's sort of the same principle, but it's not. It doesn't go far enough Human philosophy says don't harm anyone else. I've heard somebody explain that our rights uh and American citizens, like I have a right to swing my arm until until it hits your nose and then I no longer have that right. It's it's talking more about that kind of thing. Don't do any harm Why? Well, not you know living by this kind of thing, it will enable us to all get along and not kill each other on planet Earth. So, you know, that's a good thing. It's ultimately self-serving to do no harm to others But that is not what Jesus is commanding. He's telling us that we should initiate actions toward others that we long for others to initiate to us. Whatever you want to decide men to do to you, whatever you want men to do to you, you do You initiate, you think through it, and decide it to do also to them. That's essentially what's being said here. No wonder we need to ask and seek and not. I think a problem reduces to this, incidentally. When Lily gets hungry, how much does she concern herself with the convenience of Monica? How much does she think about how distracting to others it might be if she were to begin to cry loudly? It really is in here Naturally, she is too little to consider those things, but it displays the heart of the problem that we were born with. Nearly everything that we experience, every moment of our lives, is considered first for its effect on one person. The most important person to me, and it's me A picture isn't a good picture if I don't look good in, or if if I'm not at least presentable. It's a little difficult. Probably requires photoshopping to look good at this point. But a schedule for a meeting is not a good schedule if it creates a major sacrifice for me. When people are doling out credit for a good job, it's not as good as it could be if my name isn't mentioned Try to think of anything that does not first hit that sieve in your thinking. As you experience your day, as you experience an event, as you experience everything We start by thinking of ourselves and how it reflects on me, how it affects me, and then we move on. That's not to say that we don't go farther. But that is naturally where we start. Our continual struggle is a spiritual struggle. We, by our old nature, want to take God's place in our life It's built in. It's our default. It's what we go to if if we don't protect ourselves. We are tempted at each step to evaluate or elevate self. In each circumstance, we think about how something could benefit us or how it could harm us. We see that stuff without ever having to try. We love ourselves. It is just how we are. Jesus always assumed that. The scripture always assumes that. Now, when we look at our brothers and are trying to discern things about them, our flesh is likely to kick in. We're tempted to find some way where we gain some benefit by their failure. I don't know if you've ever noticed that. Sometimes you feel good about other people's failure We want to see others as being different than ourselves. We want to use a different standard toward others so that they don't have a right to be treated the way that they want to be treated. No, we want to see them as inferior in some way, as being unimportant in some way. That's exactly what Jesus was talking about when he was talking about judging. Having a system of seeing other people in a way through a sieve, through a way of thinking that is different. Now, Jesus already told us that we need to be judging others the way that we want to be judged. Okay, that's what he went through. We should want to see them through the same standard as we see ourselves through. We should want the same grace extended to them as we want extended to ourselves. Now he extends that principle here in the last. In the last sentence, in what he's saying, he says that this does not just apply to not doing wrong judging of another person. He gives us this principle to apply to All of our interactions with human beings. All of them. How in the world can we get there from here? How can we get there from where we are? How can we get there from being the people that we know that we are? You see what I mean? If we think that we don't need to ask and seek and knock, we're crazy. When we look at our inner thoughts carefully, we're left with a huge obstacle to overcome, and it's our selfishness. Our self-orientedness, our self-worship. So what do we do? Well, the truth is, if we start with ourselves, it is impossible. For us to overcome this obstacle. It cannot be done in flesh. Flesh is not going to provide a fleshly answer for the spiritual problem. And fortunately for us, the Bible does not start with us We mentioned this earlier in Matthew 22, 34 through 40. But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. And then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him, and saying, Teacher, Which is the greatest commandment in the law? And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind And this is the first and greatest commandment, and the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all of the law and the prophets. This is so much like our discussion about judging. Everything starts with what with God and what God does. Everything has to orient there. It has to start there. It has to find its source there. Our judging starts with that, and our loving starts with that. When we start with God, all of us are schooled enough in theology to know what happens to our view of self. When the holiness of God And the justice of God, and the omniscience of God, and the grace of God, when we look at those things, he gets so much more glorious. And there is something in us, like most of the prophets in the Old Testament, who encounter God, where we find ourselves wanting to find a place to hide. In the wonder and glory of God is frightening. Our unloveliness and our ugliness suddenly becomes more pronounced in the face of perfection The presence of God and the reality of God humbles us. And we know that if we're to have any chance at all, we have to throw ourselves completely upon God's mercy. His holiness is glorious, and his grace draws us to a greater appreciation of God. He who sins much loves much. And the more we know ourselves, the more we know we ought to be loving a whole lot. Because we certainly have been loved much. And we certainly have sinned much. So we start with God. We start with God when we judge properly. We start with God when we love properly. As that process is happening, we're prepared for another process. And I use the word process deliberately. Just as we act and seek, ask and seek and knock continually, So we are to be growing in love for God and love for people continually. This is a process. So as we come to grips with who we are before God and we love Him, for not giving us what we what we do deserve, and then giving us what we could never possibly deserve. We become ready to extend that grace to others. And we know we are doing it from a position that we did not provide for ourselves. The position that we are given that we can extend this grace from is by grace. We were given the grace by God that puts us in this platform that now we can extend this grace to people. Now we're ready to see people just like we see ourselves. And we're seeing them accurately for the first time. We're seeing them from a perspective of loving God. We're seeing them with the good eye, remember, that Jesus talked about. Full of the revelation of God. We love others the way we love ourselves. Now let's stop here for a second. Scripture gives us lots of commands in the New Testament, does it not, for ways that we are to treat each other I mean, scripture is just full of instruction of how we are supposed to carry out this love, how we are supposed to carry out our lives and our treatment of each other. For instance, we're not supposed to murder each other, that's fairly obvious, or lie to each other, or defraud each other, or slander each other, or gossip. about each other. And we also know when we see a need, we're supposed to meet it. You know, we're told all these things. So if someone needs money, we should give it. If they need help, we should provide it as much as it is as we are able to So maybe we run all of our actions across all the scripture that we know. So we're thinking about loving a person, and we run them run everything through scripture, and we ask, well, am I commanded to do this thing specifically? Am I forbidden to do this thing specifically? And we determine that we're not violating a known command, we're not disobeying a principle that we've learned. Well, that's good as far as it goes. It's much better than not caring about obeying what God says. That's a good sieve to run everything through. And all those commandments fit under the category, the general heading of loving our brother as ourselves. Those commands are firmly under that category, so that's that's a good thing to think through. But think about what Jesus is saying here Think about you for a moment, as I think about me. Do we like unkind things said about us that don't need to be said, even if they're absolutely true Do we want our failures broadcast in a way that's not necessary and is not appearing to accomplish any good Do we want people to stop bringing stuff to our attention that we need to hear just because we've been resistant sometimes to what we need to hear? Do we want people to give up on us because we've responded unfairly at times? The problem with life is that there is not a big book big enough to cover every eventuality of life, every circumstance that we might come into. There are circumstances that are not specifically addressed in Scripture. And there are lots of them. So what do we do? How can we handle those? How can we walk in the Lord? How can we walk in obedience to God in all these circumstances that we don't have a direct word from God's word about? Are we limited to simply a strict application of those things that are written, but we can get off the hook if the situation we're in isn't specifically addressed? That's how the Pharisees live, but that is not what Jesus said. What Jesus is saying here is You don't have a rule for everything because you don't need a rule for everything. This love principle is the blanket principle that all others fit under Regarding our treatment of each other. To some degree, you know you. You are a you specialist Oh, we might have blinding spots that we don't see ourselves obvious to everybody else. But for the most part, we know us. And you're surely sensitive to what you like and what you do not like. We're all pretty good at that. And you know what treatment you're pleased to receive and what treatment you don't like receiving. If you're unsure what to do, just do this. Take yourself. Put yourself as best you can in that other person's position and then that do that thing that you would want someone to do to you Naturally, again, this has to all be in submission to all known scripture. And it has has to prioritize a human's spiritual need first. All that has to be in place Now this doesn't mean this this does not in any way guaranteed that we're going to get everything right as we go about doing this. In fact, it's almost guaranteed that we won't But it sure is a lot better than trying to separate love and truth. So that as long as something is true, it should be said, and it doesn't it doesn't matter who it is said to or when it is said. You know, it it takes his principle and it applies us to how we want to be treated And we can't make accommodations toward others based on our sinful desires. For instance, I can't say, well, I'd like people to overlook my sin, so I'm going to overlook their sin. You see what I mean? There are a lot of caveats. There are a lot of things that you need to think through. But have you ever been dealt with in a way that was far kinder or more gracious than you would have dealt with someone else? for doing the same thing. I can think of a couple of instances in my life when that happened. And You really appreciate that. Even though the person had the right to take you to the woodshed for what you did, and everything they said would have been true, they did it. Because they know you got the point. They were satisfying knowing that you were aware of the error, you viewed it as your sin and would not repeat it, best as you were able. Like I said, I've had that happen to me, and it was convicting because it shows me that my love. Doesn't go far enough. That kind of grace is how I like to be treated Have you ever gone to a person confessing your sin, and the person here in your confession was more concerned about their sinful attitude and our selfish attitude than the sin you were confessing to them? Isn't that not how we like to be treated? You see the point I'm making, and maybe the illustrations aren't perfect for making it, but we've we've got to do more than just go by the New Testament specific commandment for how to treat each other. We can't do less than that, but we've got to go further. Everything also has to be run through the what would I want. Consideration. The what would I want? Consideration. Keeping in mind the spiritual priority. What would I want? When I when I say all this, I know where it can go. We can start ignoring truth and start calling that love like the world does You know, you put up with everything and never say anything, and that's loving. We can start suppressing things and allowing them to grow and grow until they blow up. thinking we're being loving, end up with hostility instead of love. I'm not trying to say this is the simplest consideration in the world But I am saying that Jesus gave the command with the complete expectation that it was able to be applied and that his people would apply it. So, how does it work in the day-to-day? How does it work in the day-to-day? In the real day-to-day? Carla does something that I don't want her to do. We'll just use that as an illustration. Does that ever happen between spouses in your home? I'm I'm surely not. Now I ask the question, if I had done something she did not want me to do , How would I like her to deal with me? Think about it. Make sure it fits with biblical principles Consider it, and then do it. You see what happens immediately? First, it distracts John from John First, it distracts you from all the other sinful alternatives the king's self wants to use. Like, if you love me, you would do this for me. Or if you love me, you would not do this. Or I'm gonna take my ball and go home. Or sulking. We all have our favorites, or taking the offense so seriously. It distracts us to take a different line of thinking now. And it causes us to approach the problem in the most constructive way that we can think about it, that we can approach it with. We're submitting this circumstance and this interaction to the rule of Christ. We don't think of it that way. We think of all these human act or interactions as I have to respond this way. Or however it is that we think. Or I don't know what to respond. Or, you know , you know, this doesn't have anything to do with the Bible. But it does. Now we're no longer reacting, but we are acting. We are stopping and thinking about the Lordship of Christ. We are stopping and submitting to the Lordship of Christ in this interaction. And there may still be heat And the interaction may not go well. We're dealing with humans, we are humans. And you might still have room to learn how to love better. Almost definitely, you're going to have room for learning more. But if we are really practicing this We will find what it takes is a whole lot of time and work. Just that fact would probably do a lot of good in relationships Our default reactions and responses are usually not the things that get us out of relational problems. They're usually the things that get us into relational problems. Would we like a long lecture if we'd done something wrong and we understood that we had done it wrong? Well, if don't if you don't, don't give one. Well, we like to be told everything else that we've ever done wrong that was similar. Well, if we don't, don't mention it. Will we like a chance to make our wrong right? Well, if so, provide it. Would we want our failure to be held as proof that we're an utter failure of some kind? If not, don't use it that way. Would we want it used as proof that we're a certain kind of person? You know, our failure at this place proves that we're a certain kind of person over here If not, don't say it. It's so simple , but it's so hard to do because it requires so much self-control And submission to King Jesus. This is really, really hard to do. Because I want to say those things, you know Others have encroached upon the kingdom of King John, and I want them to know what a big deal that is. But King Jesus has other plans and other strategies. He knows when I stand for my kingdom, I'm going to drive people away from myself and him. If in any way you don't see that this has implications for changes needed in every relationship that you are in. You are either a much more spiritual person than I am, or I am not communicating this effectively. It's that big of a deal. What Jesus commands here is that we take up his cross daily. That is essentially what's going to have to happen. We're going to die on this hill. Self is gonna die to follow King Jesus in this way of relating. I can almost guarantee that our relationships with other believers and maybe unbelievers would immediately begin to improve. If we are not currently obeying Christ in this way and if we began to obey Christ here. And a lot of what we're talking about too is not on or off. I think all of us are have learned to love people better today than we did a year ago, two years ago, five years ago. So it's not like an all-or-nothing. But to the degree that we apply what Jesus is saying here, we will see changes in our relationships. We will see changes in our lives. Old destructive and reactive patterns would begin to fade. Obstacles that we have not been able to remove might begin to disappear. I'm surely failing to communicate just how life-changing this principle is. Oh, and it's powerless. It's absolutely powerless if we hold it as a mantra, but we don't do it. Self has to lose a hold in our lives to obey Jesus here. We can't respond relationally our way, which does not represent Christ, and Christ's way, which does, at the same time. And naturally, this covers more than responding to each other's failures. As we pray for each other, we can ask: if I were in their situation, what would I want? And put ourselves in a and my guess is we do that. But to the degree, you know What would I want? And then I either ask God to do that thing that we would want, or do it yourself if you have the it in your power to do it The results in greater thoughtfulness toward each other are this it would result in greater thoughtfulness toward each other because we're working at it. This won't just happen to us. We have to make ourselves think this. Flesh won't do it. We're taking that extra step to say, if that were me If that were me. Now that that kind of seems anti-spiritual, doesn't it? I mean, we talk about flesh and self and all that, and generally it's not viewed as a very good thing. But here Jesus is saying, well, take that effort. Think about you, and now pour that on to somebody else. We think it's anti-spiritual, but it's not, because that's exactly what Christ commanded. This is a glorious spiritual exercise that all of us are qualified to do because all of us know ourselves. Maybe we should put a note on the fridge this week that simply says, with spiritual needs a priority, If that were me. The spiritual needs a priority. If that were me. I'm going to make one more stab at this. Suppose we were to take this command by Christ ultra seriously. Suppose we were to actually apply it every day in every situation. Let me ask you, who would not want to be married to a person like that? If every day and everything they're asking, if I were him or her, what would I want? And then do it. Who would run from that relationship? And I'm not saying that there aren't people, because there are, but who would not find that relationship satisfying and upbuilding? Now granted, we expect too much of every relationship and find its faults, even when there are no serious ones to find. I think I mean if we can find problems with God, if we have problems in God's enacting properly toward us, obviously we could figure it out project that on other people But uh who would complain about being married to a person who is always asking, if I were him or her, what would I want? And then do it. Would that not be a small piece in heaven? A body of believers who are continually running this through the sieve of their mind? Now when I propose this, what is the first thing you think of? I don't know if this is the first thing you think of, but it first thing that comes to my mind is it I can't be like that because they won't be like that. I can't be that way because they're not going to be that way. I have a history and I've learned some lessons the hard way, and that this isn't going to work. That's just going to make me more vulnerable. That may be the biggest reason for why we won't apply it as we should. But this is exactly what Christian relationships should be if they're obedient to Christ. And what is not to like when both people make a fervent attempt at doing this, as flawed as it might be. As I consider this, as scary as it is, it's kind of exciting. If you the kind of person who likes a challenge, Well, here's a huge one. Here's a big one. Love the people you come in contact with the way that Jesus does. Love the people that you come in contact with the way that Jesus tells you to do it. What would a relationship be like if my primary concern was not me but you? What would it be like if my primary question was, what do you need? What do you want? Now, granted, we must consider in all of this not just what a person desires, but what is best for them. But even still How would this change our marriages? How would this change our church relationships, our body relating? We normally scan our environments for what's in it for us. We've talked about that before. Can you imagine what it would it would be like if we uh scanned our environments for what others need? We walk into an environment asking, what do these people need? What can I do for them today? Can you imagine if our first question was, how can I meet the needs of those people in this room today? Nothing of self, nothing of flesh. That's similar to what Christ is calling us to. This is the command. See a person, ask what good can I do to them? That's what he's saying. Can you see a difference in how you do things now? Can you see what a change that might make for the good in every relationship? And again, there are people that are not going to respond well. There always are. But no matter what I say , I don't think I can make the proper impact of this truth. That's been a frustrating thing from the the first day I started studying this. Of all the sermons I have preached, I fear I have failed most at presenting the importance and life-changing significance of this single command. Please go home and meditate on it. Contemplate it. Think about it. Do you need help with relationships? Here's the truth. Here's what Christ says that changes everything. This is how we look like Christ in our relationships. Will we do it? Will we do it? Now let's finish up the verse. Verse 12. Therefore, whatever you want men to do, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. For this is the law and the prophets. I want to just finish with that. Don't we sometimes see the Bible as a bunch of restrictive rules that keep us from doing that which we would prefer to do and make us do stuff we don't want to do? It's like Bodhi says, if you can't say amen, stay out. There's no sense denying that our flesh has the tendency to respond badly anytime we're told what to do. But that's not the heart of the law of God. The heart of the law of God is that it directs us to have a peaceful relationship with God and to live in the most God-glorifying manner in life. And that ultimately is the very best thing that can happen to a human being. God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. Remember, our brother Piper says that a lot. God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. And ultimately, what is best for us is to be satisfied in Him. What do you think when you're around a brother or sister who loves the way Jesus told us we're supposed to love? Do you not feel like you're experiencing a little bit of heaven? God 's law is to give this life as much heaven on earth as it ever is going to get in terms of uh our attitudes, our actions toward each other, that sort of thing. It's a wonderful thing. It introduces the will of a loving God to a humanity who has lost the ability to even perceive what is good or bad. It shows us what is noble and honorable and what is deplorable and ugly. The word of God shows us that. It tells us the truth about God and about life. Jesus said not a jot or a tittle would be removed from the law. He backed it because of its goodness. David over and over talks about how the law gives him life. The law is just beautiful to him. It's wonderful. It's life itself. And the summary of what all of it is about is found in just two wonderful life-transforming commands. Love God, love people. Sign to God. Let's close the prayer Lord