This is our second week on this text. We've seen the travesty of the whole process in Christ's so-called trial. It was a miscarriage of justice from the second the process started. Even if we were simple men on the street at the time, if we knew what was happening, we would know that the person on trial was being treated unfairly, even if we knew nothing about Jesus at the time. You and I are rightly offended because Jesus is our superhero of all time, so we're indignant with how Jesus, who was so morally superior to these people was treated by this mob of thugs. But even those who didn't know who he was would have had they would have had to have been indignant with this power-hungry group of people taking the law into their own hands. We'll continue this morning looking at the last part of the text. So we'll start with verse 61. And in verse 61 we see that Jesus kept silent That's the fulfillment of the prophecy in Isaiah 53. 7 that says, he was oppressed, 53, yeah, 53. 7. He was oppressed and he was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth. He was led as a lamb to slaughter, and as a sheep before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. Now Jesus did not remain silent during the whole trial, as we'll see, but in this instant, when the leadership was throwing accusations and questions at him, he kept perfectly silent. Peter gives us a little more insight. In 1 Peter 2, 21 through 24, it says this, for to this you were called. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps, who committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth. who when he was reviled did not revile in return, when he suffered, he did not threaten, but committed himself to him who judges righteously. Who himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, having died the sins, might live for righteousness, by whose stripes you were healed. How hard it must have been to keep silent. Christ had the ability to say the wisest things in the hardest situations. We've seen that over and over again in his life. He may have even been able to get out of this mess just by talking. He was that very, very good at it and spotting the weaknesses in a in a the people coming against him The leaders had given Christ a lot of ammunition to use in a severe rebuke that he could have returned, or possibly something else he could have said. They'd given him a lot of crucial material. But he holds his tongue. He says nothing. In Christ's example, he was actually holding his tongue, knowing that doing so would get him out of trouble Or get him in trouble. I'm sorry. Uh he was holding his tongue knowing that holding his tongue would get him in trouble. He could have maybe gotten out of it by speaking. That's not so true of us most of the time. How often holding our tongue would keep us out of trouble. Yeah, we may see things that appear to be very true and you usually about somebody else. But the question comes down to does it really need said? Does all truth need revealed? Often if we just consider the the other person's best interest a little bit longer, we would realize there's a lot of truth that doesn't need to be said. And it certainly doesn't need to be said in the instance that we notice it. Jesus here shows great restraint with his tongue. He determines that nothing should be said, so nothing is said. That's a very, very good example to follow. He was asked if he was the son of the blessed. Son of the blessed. That's profound. These religious leaders were so religious That they held the name of God so sacred and they would not allow it past their lips. Oh, they were so very, very careful with this religious conformity. Even in this trial, they display their extreme religiosity. All the while they're trying to wipe the Son of God off the face of the earth. The Word of God The Good Shepherd, the Redeemer, the very expression of God's character, they are trying to kill. They are trying to eliminate We need to be very careful not to confuse religious expression with true spirituality Religious expression might involve not touching and not tasting and not handling, like Colossians says, but true spirituality is an all-out war with our sin nature. Religion would have these hypocrites being very careful in what word they use for God. Spirituality would have had them lying prostrate on the floor asking the Son of the Blessed to forgive them for their pride and arrogance and greed. We can't tell spirituality in us or and others by the number of rules that they may have We can tell true spirituality best when what God wants conflicts with what we feel we must have, and we choose what God wants. We see spirituality best when what God wants conflicts with what we feel we must have. And we choose what God wants. That's the core of spirituality. That's the kind of power that true spirituality exerts. These guys know nothing of true spirituality. They're as religious as religious can be, but they don't know a thing about true spirituality. Now, when Christ finally speaks, this is what he says. In verse 62, Jesus said, I am, and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. The first thing to note here is that Christ did not hesitate to proclaim that he truly was the Messiah. He is the Son of God that was to come. Now we saw during his ministry that he avoided that proclamation during much of his ministry. And there are two reasons that come to mind for that. The first is that he did not want to be associated with people's wrong expectations about what the Messiah would do and be. He didn't want people to think he was going to do a political takeover of the Roman government. People would mistakenly think that they were helping Christ's cause when they were actually hindering it, much like Peter was known to do. They'd have thought they were helping his cause by building up momentum politically and all those sorts of things, by holding rallies and trying to get people excited about this new coming Messiah who's gonna whoop the Romans That it Christ didn't want that. And the second reason is that Christ would have had his ministry interrupted by the religious leaders sooner if he was openly proclaiming that he was the Messiah. They would have gathered witnesses that would testify that he said that he was the Messiah, and that would have been enough in the leaders' minds to kill him right then. So Christ had been slow to make open proclamations of his Messiahhood. There are some so-called Bible scholars. Who used Christ's hesitancy to proclaim himself the Messiah to try to prove that he really never intended to claim that he was the Messiah, the Son of God. But this text is very difficult for them to explain. Here is a time when Christ could have easily said, No, I am not the Son of God. And it would have gotten him immediately off the hook. Christ had no self-serving motive, no self-serving reason at all to proclaim his lordship in this trial. But he did it anyway. Why? Because he is Lord. Jesus is Lord, and it's time to die to accomplish the Messiah's mission. What Christ said is a combination of two Old Testament passages. The first is from Daniel. Daniel 7, 13 and 14, where he says, I was watching in the night visions. And behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. That's where that portion comes from. One like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. Then to him was given dominion and glory and the kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away. And his kingdom, the one which shall not be destroyed. And then Psalms 110, verse 1 says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand. Till I make your enemies your footstool. So that's the other quote. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The leaders who heard this would have understood where Christ's statement was coming from. They would have been familiar with the context. It would have been words like John 3. 16 is to us. We know where they come from. The Daniel passage was understood to be messianic. So they understood by what Christ was saying, what Christ was getting at Now it's interesting that Jesus immediately replaces the title that the Pharisees had used to describe him. They said, Son of the Blessed One. And Jesus replaced it with Son of Man. Both would have been understood as being messianic. I suspected it had to do with what they were going to accuse Christoph. They were going to accuse him of blasphemy. Blasphemy is ascribing to man what is God's. It's a defiant irreverence of God. It's a good definition of blasphemy, a defiant irreverence of God. But look at the phrase describing the Messiah. It's son of man. That's the phrase Christ used, Son of man. He is a man, he is God's man, he is God in the flesh. That's the very thing that these guys could not and would not accept. But Christ points to the scripture that refers to God that way, and I think he did that intentionally. Maybe Christ was intending them to see the point that they most needed to reconsider in their theology. Scripture refers to Christ exactly as Christ referred to himself. A man, a God-man , a God in flesh. And it goes on, and you will see the Son of Man, that's the Daniel passage, sitting at the right hand of the power, that's the Psalms passage, and coming with the clouds of heaven, the Daniel passage. Now keep in mind that these leaders would have known the context these quotes were coming from. The Son of Man coming in the clouds is going to be given absolute authority in the future kingdom of God that will be a global kingdom. This guy is gonna rule the world, and he will rule it forever. Jesus, by using the quote he used, was saying clearly that he was going to be the one that was going to be absolutely ruling all people forever. That's what they would have understood. And then the Psalms passage refers to God making Christ's enemies a footstool for Christ to rest his feet on. The passage is essentially saying that God personally will subdue all of Christ's enemies. They will be absolutely under the power of the Son of Man. These leaders should have been scared out of their minds at this point. The way Jesus worded this, he was telling these rulers that it is they who will be standing in a court, and it will be Christ who is the judge of their eternity. It is Christ who will have authority to do to his enemies anything he desires. His enemies will be absolutely powerless under this rule. This should have caused a shudder to go up the spines of these enemies of Christ right now. Their hair should have been standing on end when they heard this. The fear of the Lord could have been the beginning of wisdom for them But it wasn't at all. Instead of being afraid, what Christ said made them angry Who does this Galilean think he is? We're the powers that be. We're God's men. Christ should be bowing to us. We will never, ever bow to him. That's evidently what they thought. Because what Christ said did not even give them pause in what they were going to do next. They didn't adapt to what Christ said. They didn't adjust to it or even take it in. And we think them utter fools. We know better. We know that those people were foolish. They should have received what Christ said. But what about us? Do we honestly believe in our heart of hearts that Jesus Christ will one day arrive in the clouds? Do we honestly think that one day Christ will judge the earth? Do we believe that he will separate the sheep and the goats? And that for an eternity he will reward those who believed in him and punish those who rebelled against him? And of course, before we answer that question, we have to ask another question: how could a person tell if they believe that or not? And the answer is that those who really believe that truth are going to live radically different lives as a result of believing that truth. If we believe in this eternal global reign of Christ, we will act like Christ truly does have the authority to tell us what to do. And we'll submit to him because we know two things. We will face him in judgment, and he will reward us for faithfulness. If we really believe in this coming kingdom, we'll be storing up treasure there will invest in our best interests. And our best interests, if we really believe this, is for an eternity. To the degree that we do that, to the degree that we are obedient, and to the degree that we look to the next life for our reward, we can see that we believe what Christ said about who He is. Also, we'll live to please Christ rather than pleasing ourselves. When Christ forbids something, we'll avoid it. When he commands something, we'll do it. Why? Because he is Lord and we trust him. Obeying him is worth our while if he says, if who he says he is, he really is. Disobeying him is dangerous and foolish because he is real and the future is certain. That's what happens when you believe something It's an interesting image Christ creates in this passage. Christ is stated as both sided and coming at the same time. I'm not sure how that's going to work out. But the idea you get is that this is not something Christ is struggling to do. He sits while his father works. His rule is not in question in any way. There is absolute power behind the rule of Jesus Christ. It's an absolute certainty. And even though these leaders were not afraid, they one day will be. Oh, they will be. Anyone who mocks God will be afraid one day. When we see the people on TV or on the internet mocking God , We should be stricken with the realization that these people will one day be very, very afraid in front of the one that they have mocked. They have spoken in authoritative tones in their criticism or even their idea of God, and they will from their knees be forced to admit that it truly is Jesus Christ who is Lord and King of the universe. And all of the pride and arrogance of their so-called knowledge will be proven what it is in that admission of Christ's Lordship. That is the world that is coming. It's not just doctrine. It's not just belief. It is a future reality whether we believe it or not. We would all do very well to prepare for this certain future date, and we do well to warn others to prepare as well. And we should always remember that God is never on trial by his mockers. It is the mockers who are always on trial before God. God is never on trial by those who mock. It is those who mock who are on trial by God. No matter how might how it might look right now, that is the reality. Mark 14, 63 and 64. Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further need do we need of witnesses? You've heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him to be deserving of death. The only time the high priest was allowed to tear his clothes was for blasphemy And just like the careful attention to the word chosen to describe God, where they said blessed one, now we have great religiosity. over the outrage for the reputation of God. What a show of religion while killing the Son of God. We can't let this lesson escape. Don't ever let religion fool you. It's often fueled by the devil. No matter how robustly sincere it may look, no matter how many rules that they succumb to or submit to. Here are men who are condemning Christ for blasphemy, and they are all guilty of the greatest blasphemy a man can commit. They're denying the Son of God. And then these leaders go on to condemn Christ. And they're doing it based on Christ's confession. The only question they fail to deal with. Is Christ guilty of blasphemy? Is Christ guilty of blasphemy? That should have been a very serious question. But since the leaders were in charge of a godless religion, they saw themselves as pretty much being the head people, there can be no possibility in their minds that God showing up Is going to happen in any form in a man or otherwise. Had these guys checked out the claims of Christ against Scripture, they would have found out that Christ was not guilty of blasphemy. He was, however, guilty of interrupting the cash flow in the Annis family business of ripping off worshippers. And that is more than likely the main reason Annis wanted him dead. Christ was threatening the leader's power and their money. A lot of people find themselves dead over those sorts of issues. Evidently, no one in this lot stood up for Christ. They should have, even if over nothing more than protocol, they should have stood up for Christ, but they did not. The other thing to note here is that normally when a vote was taken, it was taken in a very precise way. When they were pulling in a verdict off of the court. It was taken in a very precise way. The votes started with the youngest and went to the oldest, and they were gone through person by person, one at a time. We don't see any of those rules on this night. This is the courtroom of the devil, and they're going by his rules. Don't think about it, just do it. That's how he works Verse 65. Then some began to spit on him and to blindfold him and to beat him and to say, Prophesy. And then in Matthew, who is the one who struck you? And the officers struck him with the palms of their hands. Look at what comes out of these men. Here they are, supposedly representing God and the justice of God. And how do they act? Like the devil himself. It is a sad thing that those institutions claiming to be churches have often housed leadership of the same kind. It's what religion produces. These men began walking up to Christ and spitting in his face. Let me ask you, can you imagine a more dangerous activity that can be done on this earth than spitting in Christ's face? I would rather be cleaning up a radiation spill. Here are the guys claiming to rule for God, spitting in the face of God. There may not be a greater insult to a person than spitting in their face. It conveys contempt that goes off the charts. We have an interesting example of it in the Old Testament. The context is a man whose brother has died, and the man is not willing to marry his brother's wife. It's in Deuteronomy 25, 8 through 10. And it says, Then the elders of his city shall call him, that's the brother who wouldn't marry the other brother's wife, and speak to him. But if he stands firm and says, I do not want to take her, then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of the elders Remove his sandal from his foot, spit in his face, and answer and say, So shall it be done to the man who will not build up his brother's house And his name shall be called in Israel, the house of him who had his sandal removed. That's a bit odd in our culture. The house of him who had his sandal removed. Depending uh upon the wife, that insult of being spit on once might be a small price to pay. It just seemed that way to me. But nonetheless, this would have been a very sincere insult, or very severe insult. The insult itself was intended to be great enough incentive to take on a life commitment to this woman. So that's, I mean, that gives you an idea of how severe an insult that is. So we know that the leaders in our text knew what they were doing when they spit in Christ's face. They were intentionally showing contempt. to Christ. But they're doing far more than that. Now they play a wicked game with Christ. They cover his eyes, and now they make a mockery of what Christ has just said. He said that he will essentially judge the whole earth, including his present audience. And now they make fun of the very idea of it. They cover Christ's eyes and they slug them. And then they mockingly tell him to judge. He's to prophesy who was doing this evil brutality. What these mockers did not know is that Christ knew every one of them. And if they did not repent before they died, they will stand in front of this judge. But he's not going to mock them. He's going to cast them into hell. And given that there appear to be varying degrees of punishment, I would not want to be in their shoes. How would you want to be in front of Christ as one who mocked his godhood? Then, as the Sanhedrin tired of this game, they turned Christ over to the officers. To the temple police. And what do they do to this innocent man? And the officers struck him with the palms of their hands. Think about this. None of this was necessary. None of it was prescribed. In fact, it was probably forbidden. But that doesn't matter. It's like what happens on city streets when the lights go out Opportunity for evil usually results in displays of evil. It isn't very complicated. These guys are simply showing what they are. They just are having opportunity. They were given an opportunity to sin, and sin is what they do. They have probably been wanting to do this to somebody for a while. Now they have their chance. And nobody's going to get on trouble this night for beating Christ around. Evidently they keep their hands open as they slap Christ You can almost hear the smacks as humanity gets their licks into God. They show what they think of their Creator. This is a perfect picture of what us in our flesh truly think of the one God, the one true God. Smack. Smack. Smack. Carla brought up the other day how our kids didn't really know how to take the world when they finally made their way into it. A lot of the unbelievers seemed to be very kind, and you might even call them loving. They were friendly. They didn't seem all that sinister. And that evaluation is correct on much of their behavior. I mean, you can't say it's not true. There are very nice acting people in our world Very nice people. Some are more moral than many Christians. But at the heart of who they are, they'll turn out to be either for God or against him. And their capacity to do evil things is mostly limited by their opportunities or their incentives. These temple beliefs may have been good family men But in this environment where evil was encouraged, these men have done things they never maybe thought they would do. The thing we need to remember is we can never trust the goodness. Of unregenerate human beings. We can be thankful that they do so many helpful things, but we must never be fooled about the spiritual condition of their souls. There are always opportunities for us to minister the truth and love of Christ to, certainly. But in the end, Christ did not come for the righteous. He only called sinners to repent. And that is the state of everyone if they will just admit it. In closing, one easy application is one that we've referred to earlier. Do we really believe and live As if we will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Think about the application of that. What do we live for? Here and now or then? What difference does that belief in in who Christ is and what the future will be, what difference does that really make in our lives? And what difference should it make? What difference is there between us and the rest of the world other than attending this meeting on Sunday mornings? We should have answers to that question. We should be able to look at parts of our lives and say, that's different. I would not do that if I was not a believer. If I did not believe that Christ was coming again, I would not do that. We should be able to point to areas that would be used as evidence if a court were trying to convict us of being Christians. How we use our money, how we use our time, how we use our relationships. What does it reflect about our belief in God? I think that would be a good thing to consider in light of our text this week. What we have just read is probably the darkest night in human history. It's the greatest miscarriage of justice in human history. It's the worst display of religious leadership in human history. All of these things are true. I don't think they could be argued against. But what did God use all this for? The greatest miscarriage of justice in history, the darkest night in history, the worst display of religious leadership in history. What did God use this for? God used this night to prepare for the brightest light in human history. The greatest goodness in human history and the most profound display of grace in human history and the primary source of hope. In human history. It's Friday, but Sunday's coming.