Do your job. Do your job. That's the theme this week. This week we'll focus mostly on the main characters in our story. Next week, we'll focus more on the situation from God's perspective and the things that we learned from that. Do you want to seem like a pretty smart and informed person for a short period of time? Then be critical of the Bible There was a guy in 1850, Ferdinand Hitzig, who declared that Belshazzar was clearly a figment of the writer's imagination. For a while, Ferdinand looked pretty smart because Belshazzar's name did not show up in any of the known ancient documents up to that point. until it did. In eighteen fifty four, J. G. Taylor found some inscribed cylinders. They were from the time when Nebuchadnezzar from five fifty five to five thirty nine BC. In an article in Biblical Archaeology Review in May of 1985, there was an explanation of what probably happened based on all the evidence that was found. Nebonidas was Belshazzar's father, but the father was and who was the king was out fighting battles and vacationing in distant lands and not doing a real good job at home, nor did he want to do a really good job at home. So the father abdicated his authority to his son Abdicated might not be the right word, but he assigned it to his son. So now his son is acting as king. So Belshazzar was the acting king of Babylon. But since his father was still alive, the assumption was that his father could come home and take his kingdom back at will. That fits everything with the arc what the archaeologists Found. And now Ferdinand doesn't look too smart. So as we see this morning, Nabonidus was not a very good king, and neither was his son. We'll see that Belshazzar offered Daniel to be made third in power. I don't know if you noticed that, but why third? Why not second? Because probably Belshazzar was himself second. Nabonidas was first , and like I said, Ferdinand eventually had egg on his face, but for a while he looked pretty smart Most mockers of Jesus in the Bible appeal to certain crowds as the voice of reason. But we just need to give it time, and the mockers will be found to be eternal fools. Believe the Bible. Its authenticity outlasts all of its critics. Okay, so verse one King Belshazzar made a great feast for a thousand of his lords and drank wine in front of the thousand. Now, think about Nebuchadnezzar a little bit from our last couple of weeks. Nebuchadnezzar played a large part in building an empire. He was a courageous man who had made military conquests. He was ambitious in his actions and he built amazing structures. He was a competent man and he ran his empire effectively. Nebuchadnezzar was a man who poured himself into his work. I'm guessing there wasn't a lazy bone in that man's body. He was an achiever. All you have to do is look at all the buildings that he had built and all he oversaw and all the growth that happened during his reign. His Achilles heel was pride, but God addressed that sufficiently in time. While Nebuchadnezzar could make an empire, all his offspring could do was make a party. There was something to learn here. Each generation has to learn the value of hard work. Work ethic is not genetic, it's learned behavior. It doesn't pay to pamper our children or grandchildren. They've got to learn some of the hard lessons that life will teach them if given half a chance. At work, I had a pet peeve. It always bothered me greatly when I had a boss that would not put in the work it took to maintain and improve the business that they worked for. I mean, they were collecting a paycheck I had a few bosses who did the least amount possible. And they were glad to spend the corporate dollar on themselves, but they wouldn't spend the effort that it took to leave the company better than they found it. They really didn't care at all about the jobs that they were being paid to do. Well, I think Belshazzar was one of these people. Belshazzar probably knew that the enemy was at the gates. Now they were big gates, well, grant that, huge walls that ran for miles and miles and were terribly thick and terribly tall and terribly wide. But he assumed that all was good. While he should have been carrying out his duties for the good of those he served as a leader, he was busy throwing a party. The enemies are at the gates, and he's throwing a party. Any plans for his pleasure should have been canceled due to the threat at the walls. But no, the party was the priority Selfish pleasure was more important than his duty. And not only that, he pulled a thousand of the people who should have been on call in this time of danger. He calls them into this important meeting, a party. A drinking party. That is really the peak of hedonism. Belshazzar had no conception of what his duty to serve and lead his kingdom really was. It was it did not appeal to him. It did not call to him He didn't show signs of feeling that weight of responsibility at all. So the picture we get is that he first tested the wine. Now all eyes were on him as he did this remarkable feat of leadership. He tested the wine. How the people of the kingdom must have swelled with pride as they watched their king testing the wine. Obviously, that's sarcasm. Now, it looks like the people invited to the party may have shared the same values. They were all there and they all seemed to be enthusiastically involved So the king tested the wine, tasted the wine, and there's no way of knowing how much he tasted. It's interesting that Adam Clark, who's been dead for a long time, says that when the wine got fully in the wit went fully out. I like that. So, verse two Belshazzar, when he tasted the wine, commanded that the vessels of gold and of silver silver that Nebuchadnezzar his father had taken out of the temple in Jerusalem be brought in, that the kings and his lords, his wives and his concubines might drink from them. Okay, this is the problem. We see later that Daniel knew that Belshazzar knew some of that history. He would have known who this most high God was. He was around at that time. He would have known that his grandfather had some unsettling experiences. Until he knew that the Jewish God was the true God. Lots of that stuff would have been written down. This did not happen in a vacuum. Surely Belshazzar would have been educated in this. And Belshazzar knew where the temple vessels were taken from. Belshazzar's grandfather may have had an excuse for his arrogance. He truly had done some amazing things in his life. You can understand Nebuchadnezzar being a little bit proud. But Belshazzar was simply an ignorant, unachieving fool. He didn't have he didn't he didn't even have any of the accomplishments that would fool him into thinking that he's great. It's like, what have you done with your life? Belshazzar, well, I throw good parties. You know, that's that's pretty bad when that's that's your accomplishment. He's he appears to have been an entitled brat, and he took the plunder that his grandfather had done the business to get. Alright, his grandfather had won. Although we know the part that God played in it, but Nebuchadnezzar had at least done the effort to achieve this victory. Nebuchadnezzar was there when it was taken. And Belshazzar shows no respect for just exactly what this splendor meant, even though he had lots of information about what the God of Israel was like. Now, I don't know where the commentators get this from, but most describe this party as being very promiscuous in nature. I I never did discern any of the words that give that away, but several were in agreement on that. I I don't know. So they may not have been only violating the sacredness of these vessels. They were essentially violating the sacredness of their own vessels. They were doing it in a context of sins that hit God's top ten sin lists in just about anywhere you look in Scripture. So it's not a good part. Verse 3. Then they brought in the golden vessels that have been taken out of the temple. And uh The king and his lords and his wives and his concubines drank from them, and they drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone. Keep in mind, these people probably knew what they were doing. They were mocking God intentionally and willfully and corporately. Odds are they thought it was funny. They were taking the vessels of the Most High God and making toasts to Bel and Marduk and whoever. Ha ha ha. What fun These people really should have read their history books more seriously. Verse 5. Immediately the finger of a human hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the wall of the king's palace opposite the lampstand. And the king saw the hand as it wrote. Now, really, what did they think would happen? What happens when you taunt the God who has a hundred percent track record of defending his glory? I think I'd have picked on one of the other gods myself. You know, picked on one of the ones that couldn't do anything every time they were called. But no, they have to pick on the one true God. And what happens when you play with a God who has shown over history to exert absolute power over the events of men? The most appropriate response to these people was, what were you thinking? What were you thinking? Or did their pride blind them to the sovereign control of God? Now imagine this. Imagine being in your living room one evening and a hand shows up and the pointer finger starts scraping letters in your wall. One thing's for sure, this was not an invited guest. And the king is watching. He's got the king's full attention. Verse 6, I love this. Then the king's color changed, and his thoughts alarmed him, and his limbs gave way, and his knees knocked together What a huge contrast this is between King Nebuchadnezzar and this spoiled Sissy. Stuff troubled King Nebuchadnezzar. You know, stuff troubled him. But at least he showed composure in the light of that stuff. It was as if Belshazzar never experienced danger before. He fell apart, he turned white, he freaked out, he lost control of his body functions, and he was completely out of control. This man was not fit to lead a Boy Scout troop, nonetheless a country Now, some commentary suggests the wording used would lead you to believe he peed his pants. I don't understand how they reached that conclusion, but watching his response, it seems highly plausible He was not ready for this kind of thing. This is the big leagues, and he's he's used to just playing king. Verse 7. The king called loudly to bring out the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers, the losing team always. And the king declared to the wise men of Babylon Whoever reads his writings, this writing, and shows me its interpretation, shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold around his neck, and he shall be the third ruler in the kingdom. From what I see, I don't think the king had the smallest sense of composure. He resorts to yelling. When you're the king of a country like this, you don't need to yell. You simply say the word and it happens. I think the king was losing it. So he brought in Daniel's department. Remember the wise men department that Daniel used to be the head of. Now Here was a man who was sorely missed when he was retired. I think not like me. He left an unfilable hole. So the king tells them all the benefits that they will gain by interpreting the the handwriting. And it's it's no small thing. And I'm sure if any one of them could have pulled this off, they would have. If any of these wise men from all the other departments w could have been they But they couldn't. And we'll see that even if they understood the symbols, the symbols would have made no sense to them. It would be uh literally, it would be like saying something like, should should fifty gerbils. You know, they're just three words, and they don't make any sense. The words themselves make sense, but the meaning of how they fit together doesn't make any sense at all. So no matter what the reward, they're not going to risk their necks by giving the wrong interpretation. Now had they only known that they'd only had the bluff for a couple of hours, maybe some of them would have guessed, because the king's going to be dead by the end of the night. But they couldn't interpret the thing, so they didn't know. Verse 8. Then all the king's wise men came in, but they could not read the writing or make known to the king the interpretation. Then King Belshazzar was greatly alarmed, and his color changed, and his lords were perplexed. Okay, King Belshazzar is not much of a ruler or much of a man. He's used to being bailed out of difficult circumstances. And it's clear that he lived a life of ease, being given privileges that he was not, that he had not earned by hard work. He inherited these privileges. He did not earn them. He was not he was not built up for the capacity of this kind of difficulty. It's almost like he's ready to throw a fist. That's the wording that you get, because no one can bail him out of his problem. It's difficult to know if his color changed to brighter red or brighter white, but no matter what, the wise men division Daniel's previous department, as well as the rest of the king's staff, were not going to fare well in this encounter, and they could sense such a thing. No matter how much they may have despised the king, he was still the king. So they were perplexed. And they're probably wondering, how's this going to affect me? What's going to happen next? The one thing everyone had in common is they had no idea what to do. That they had that shared opinion of. But there was one person in the kingdom who knew what to do. Verse 10: the queen, because of the words of the king and his lords. came into the banqueting hall, and the queen declared, O king, live forever. Let not your thoughts alarm you or your color change. Never underestimate the value of an older woman's advice. It's not always good, but it's often good. This was probably not Belshazzar's wife. It was probably his mother or his grandmother. She somehow got wind of what was going on. And she was probably aware of the ineptness of Belshazzar to handle a difficult situation. So she figures she better do something. And she has a very good idea what to do Look at what she says to the king. Now, do you think anyone would have said these words to King Nebuchadnezzar? I seriously doubt a person would have lasted another day if they did. He starts, O king live forever. That was common enough. That's pretty much how you address a king. You always start the sentence with, I'd sort of like your reign to continue. because I want my life to continue. But then then he says, let not your thoughts alarm you. Now that may have been acceptable. That would have been, yeah, I have an alarming thought and And King Nebuchadnezzar had similar ideas. He had alarming thoughts. He may have recognized his need to settle his mind. But the next phrase would be one that might be your last. Let not your color change. Let not your color change. That'd be something only a mother could get away with. It'd be similar to stop getting so bent out of shape, Belsazar. Quit acting like a baby I think this woman knew what a real king looked like, what a real king was made of, and Belshazzar was not it. You can almost hear her talking to him in a belittling voice, saying, Now calm down. Here's what you should do. It'll be okay. Act like a king for goodness sake. Verse eleven. There's a man in your kingdom in whom the Spirit of the Holy Gods, in whom is the Spirit of the Holy Gods. In the days of your father, light and understanding and wisdom like the wisdom of God's were found in him. And King Belshazzar, or King Nebuchadnezzar, your father, your father's King Nebuchadnezzar, your father, your father the king, made him chief of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and astrologers. Look at how that's worded. Here's what you need to do, Belshazzar. Find Daniel. Now Daniel appeared to believe that Belshazzar actually already knew the story of Daniel and King Nebuchadnezzar. And the king's insanity. So this should not have come to any news as Belshazzar. He knew this stuff. But this is what happens when someone thinks they're superior to their studies. They learn little. And when they need to know what they should know, they don't know. Here's another evidence that Belshazzar may have been a spoiled brat. And the Queen continues, Daniel was a guy who had the spirit of the gods. Daniel actually communicated with the gods. That's what they're saying. And he knows stuff like the gods do. He knows stuff that only the gods would know. He's not like any other guy. He knows stuff that he has no way of knowing. But then watch carefully what the Queen says here, or more important, how she says it. She says, King Nebuchadnezzar, your father. Now she emphasized it twice, and King Nebuchadnezzar. Your father, your father the king. Okay, at this point, wouldn't you think that Belshazzar knows exactly who she's talking about? You know, I think he would have. But listen closely to the next thing she says. Your father the king. So she says, King Nebuchadnezzar, like, yeah, you know who he is. Your father, oh, your father the king. I think that was a rub. I think she's rubbing in the fact that he was a real king. He was a real man. He was a real leader. He's nothing like you, Belshazzar. It's not like you just being there in form. A mother can get away with that kind of thing. Few else might be able to. But she goes on, King Nebuchadnezzar made him chief of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and astrologers. Belshazzar would have known that. At least he should have known that. But he was probably weak on the facts. So his mother made sure he knew all the pertinent facts. Daniel was the prior head of the wise man department. We've gone over this and over this. He was the chief God. That would have been a very big deal in Babylon. He would have been a big, big shot The fact that Daniel is still alive lets us know that it was not in the distant history that all these stories played out. These were very big events in the history of Babylon, and they weren't that long ago. So they're not far from being current events. Verse 12, because an excellent spirit, knowledge, and understanding to interpret dreams, explain riddles, and solve problems were found in this Daniel. whom the king named Belphagazar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will show the interpretation. Okay, then in verse 12 we're told why Daniel got such a high position. Daniel had an excellent spirit, knowledge, and understanding. He was a smart guy. He was an understanding guy. He was a perceptive guy He was remarkable. You know, I think probably we've met some people who are remarkable that way, that they're just extremely, they just catch on to what's really happening around them. And uh and especially in spiritual circles, they have they understand what God is doing. Well, Daniel had these things. And they were quite- he was qualified for three things. Interpreting dreams, explaining riddles, and solving problems. Daniel should have been the go-to guy. He's the expert of the kingdom. You know, you should have been the go-to guy first. But my guess is uh Daniel got very tired of the nonsense that was happening under these incompetent kings. He shows very little patience or compassion in his responses to King Belshazzar. He is not dealing with him like he dealt with his grandfather, Nebuchadnezzar. But Belshazzar needs Daniel right now to explain a riddle. What do the words on the wall mean? Verse 13, then Daniel was brought in before the king. The king answered and said to Daniel, You are that Daniel, one of the exiles of Judah, whom the king my father brought from Judah. Think about that response. Think about how he addressed Daniel, who he knew was a great man in the kingdom and had done remarkable things. What is the most demeaning thing the king could say about Daniel? What's the most demeaning thing that the king could say to Daniel? This is the Daniel who served Babylon in an exemplary fashion. He was a trusted advisor of a real king in Babylon. He was promoted to top status, not because of who he was, but because of the services he provided. He was worthy of great respect, respect that a real king would have probably given him But this king was trying to belittle him. He was trying to put him in his place. He was trying to show Daniel his superiority over Daniel. This little runt of a king could only feel important by putting other people better than himself down. This king was clearly too stupid to know what kind of man Daniel was. He couldn't even understand him, couldn't even speak his language. By now, Daniel was probably somewhere between 80 and 95 years old. He could have cared less what Belshazzar thought of him, or could do to him, or could do for him. He did not care. Daniel was in the superior position here. But the king was so full of himself and was so self-indulgent that he had no comprehension of what a man of dignity would look like. He had nothing in his mind to compute to it. So he tries to put on a power play. So Belsazar demeans Daniel. I hear you're one of the slaves brought here because your puny country was conquered. Like that's gonna make Daniel uneasy. This king was a fool, and he did not learn from history. He did not consider what Daniel's God did to a real king. He was just a fool prattling on, acting powerful. But he was like a little child in the presence of this real man of God, this real man of dignity and stature. We need to understand that there was no sincerity in King Belsar. Everything was a game, an act And up to this point, he had been able to get away with that nonsense because he had power. But not today. Not today. He goes on, verse 14. I've heard I've heard of you , I've heard of you, Daniel, that the Spirit of God is in you, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are found in you. Belhazar acts like he's really not convinced of this, as if he's pushing a button in Daniel, and Daniel in his pride will feel the need to prove himself I've heard you're impressive, but well the verdict's still out yet. It's up to you to prove yourself today. Here's your opportunity, Daniel. Verse 15. Now the wise men, the enchanters, they've been brought in before me to read this writing and make known its interpretation. But they couldn't show the interpretation of the matter. But I've heard that you can give interpretations and solve problems. The rest of the experts they couldn't deliver. I've heard you can. I don't really believe it, but that's what I heard So he goes on. Now, if you can read the writing and make known to me its interpretation, you'll be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around your neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom. Now, if you can, Daniel, if you can really do this, can you see how this is oozing with an air of superiority by the king? Can you see how offensive and disrespectful this would have been to a man like Daniel? This king, he's an utter fool. He has no idea whatsoever what makes Daniel tick. Even how he seeks to bribe him to perform his offensive. Really, if he had done his homework, what could he give Daniel that Daniel didn't already have? But Belshazzar wasn't big on homework, or probably work of any kind, so he couldn't possibly know how a man like Daniel ticked. Yeah, it might be sensitive. I don't know. But as I was always studying this material, I was getting kind of worked up. And I had to ask myself, why is that? You know, why why does that bother me so much about Belshazzar. And the more I thought about it, the more I concluded that I have a great disregard for lazy leaders. I had a few bosses who were lazy and they just didn't love up to their promises. They made all kinds of promises, they never kept them They never performed the work that had to be done in order for the their even their people under them to succeed. Um any uh they They wouldn't fulfill any kind of promise that required hard work and self-control. I don't know if any of you have experienced that kind of a situation. But they weren't willing to do the hard work of understanding their environment. They didn't build anything, and when hard work was called for, they were unavailable. Now, those who know me best know I'm not in love with work. And I have a tendency to want to be lazy. But I understand that I've got to fulfill my responsibilities, my obligations, no matter how I might feel about them. I can't bail out on them no matter how I feel. Because when I bail out, someone else always always has to pay a price for my escape. That's how life is. If I don't do what is in front of me Someone else will have to do it. And no matter how I'm tempted to think about it, that failure of doing that thing falls on me. And that is patently unfair of me. Well, that's what bothers me so much about King Belshazzar. He was the ultimate of a bad boss. He was the ultimate of a bad authority. He could play in a party, but he couldn't play in a defense to protect a city full of people. He couldn't lead a defense against the enemy at his gate. He didn't do his homework because his homework was work. He expected everything to come easy to him. So when hard things came, he was not prepared. He bailed out. And when a hard thing arose in his responsibilities, he was completely unprepared to deal with it. He was unprepared because he never allowed himself to stick to the hard work earlier in life He took the easy route. Now you may find better applications for this passage, but here's one. We need to do our jobs. Apart, you know, not like Bel Cesar. We need to do our jobs. We can't be like this king hoping to make up for substance with style. He wanted to be something without the process of it of becoming a something. He wanted to be something without becoming something. We can't allow ourselves to place our preferences over our responsibilities. We can't run to those things we like or prefer or feel we need when we have responsibilities to carry out for the good that those God has placed in our care. The people we serve are a higher priority than our pleasure or our convenience. So the question arises: are we actively protecting those under our care, or are we taking the easy way out? Are we doing the easy thing? I think that question would be a good one for us to consider this week. And on the flip side of that, and I haven't made much mention of this, but when we like Daniel Have done our jobs well over a lifetime. We can walk into any situation with the dignity that an obedient life offers And speak truth to situations because we have stuck through the learning process and the becoming process so that we become that skilled person. It's the people who have faithfully done their jobs that will often be called upon when there's a great need to provide solutions. Now it's true that God chose Daniel and empowered Daniel to do some great things, and God gave him supernatural knowledge. So in that, you know, we're not likely to be the same. But it's also true that Daniel was a principled man who woke up and obeyed God day after day after day, no matter what, no matter who was looking. We're going to see that in next chapter when when he get hears a decree that anybody praying to another God is going to die, and it says he went right back, opened the windows, prayed to God like he did every day, three times a day So we get the idea what what kind of guy Daniel was. He was consistent and persistent. Daniel was a man who did his job. and obeyed his God, and in the end he was the one needed by a king who spent a lifetime of doing neither. This week maybe we should rejoice at the jobs God has given us. Because those jobs are his plan for us, at least right now, to make us what he wants us to be. He is building up capacities in us that will be useful to others over our lifetimes. That's not to say you can't get another job if you want one, but It is a benefit of the life and the work that God has put in front of us, that He is building us into the people He wants us to be, and this is part of the process, and that's a good thing. When we run from those responsibilities, we limit our growth to help others. When we face them head-on, we increase our usefulness for God's kingdom and for the good of those under our care. Hopefully that gives us something to focus on this week. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for this rich story. We thank you for such a good example and a