There's uh there's so much going on around this text this morning. I'm gonna mostly preach from the text, but I think it's really important. that we have a a good understanding of the rest of the story, the rest of the picture. So we're going to have nine people read the combination of all the parallel texts. And again, this is from One Perfect Life uh from John MacArthur. It's all scripture, but it's compiled in such a way that you get all the gospels into one story. And uh don't worry if you know who you are if you're going to be reading, so you don't you don't have to look around it is it me. So this will give the full picture of what's happening that coincides with the passage that Brad read this morning. So let's begin with Angie. The governor was accustomed to release them to the home to be one prisoner, whomever they requested. And at that time they had a notorious prisoner, a robber named Barabbas. So with Shane and with his fellow rebels, they had committed murder and a certain rebellion made in the city. Therefore, when they had gathered together the multitude Crying aloud began to ask him to do just as he had always done for them. So Pilate answered them saying, You have a custom that I should release someone to you At the Passover. Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas or Jesus who is called Christ? Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews? For he knew that the King He free to hand him over because of envy. While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife said to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that judgment. Just man, for I have suffered many things today, and the dream because of him. Then Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests, the rulers, and the people Said to them, You have brought this man to me as one who , misleads the people, and indeed, having a family kin in your presence, I have found no No, neither did Mary. For I sent you back to him and indeed nothing Deserving of death has been done by. I will therefore chaptize him and release him, for it was necessary for him to release once again But the chief priests and the elders stirred up the crowd so that they should ask for Riley and Michael James. And the governor asked and said to them, which other two do you want me to read to And they all cried out at once, saying, Oh name with this man and release release to us a rabbit Not this not this man but Barabbas. Pilate therefore wishing release Jesus answered and called out to them again. Mean what what then do you want me to do with Jesus? You call Christ, whom you call the kingdom of Jesus, but they all shall be and cried out again, saying to him, let him be crucified. Crucify him. Crucify him. Then he said to them, the third son , Why why what ha what why what evil has to be done? I have found no reason for that in him. I will therefore trust So then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him, and the soldiers twisted a crown filler. And put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe. Then they said, Hail, King of the Jews, and they struck him with their hand Pilate then went out again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing him out to you, that you may know that I find no fault in him. Then Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the And Pilate said to them, Behold the man. Therefore, when the chief priests and officers saw him, they were insistent, cried out all the more, demanding with loud voices, saying, Crucify him. Crucify him. Pilate said to them, You take him and crucify him, for I find no fault with him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die. Because he has made himself the Son of God. Therefore, when Pilate heard that saying, he was the more afraid and went again to the prayed for him and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answers. Then Pilate said to him, Are you not speaking to me? Do you not know that I have power to crucify you and power to release you? Jesus answered, You can have no power at all against me unless it has been given you from above. Therefore, the one who delivered me to you has the greater sin. From then on, Pilate sought to release them, but the Jews cried out, saying, If you let this man go, you are not Caesar's friend. Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar. Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus out and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the pavement, but in Hebrew, the Batha. Now it was the preparation there And he said to the Jews, Behold your king, but they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Shall I crucify your king? Chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar, and the voices of these men and of the chief priests prevailed. When Pilate saw that he could not prevail And all the people of Answer And said, His blood be on us and on our children. So Pilate, wanting to gratify the crowd, gave sentence that it should be as they requested. And he released to them Barabbas. The one they requested who for rebellion and murder had been thrown into prison. When Paula had urged Jesus to deliver him to them to be reciprocal Of the government took Jesus and led him away into the hall of the Corium, and they called together the whole garrison around him. And they threw him into the spot of road. And they planted him with purple. And when they had fixed the crown , they put it on his head, and on him in his right hand, and hail. The king and they bowed him for him and lost him and worshipped him, and they fell on him until to me and struck him in the hair. And when they had offered They took the purple robe off him, put his own clothes on him, and led him away to crucify. And he, bearing his cross, went out. Now as they came out, they found a man Irene, Simon by name, the father of Alexander and Rubus, who was coming from the country and passing by, and on him they laid the cross that he might bear it after Jesus. And a great multitude of people followed him, and women who also mourned and lamented him. But Jesus, turning to them, said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourself. and for your children. For indeed the days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the bearings, wounds that never bore, and breasts that never nurse. Then they will begin to say to the mountain, Fall on us. For if they do these things in the green wood, what will be done in the dry? There were also two others, criminals, led with him to be put to death. And when they had come to a place called the place of the skull, which in Hebrew is called Algatha, they gave him sour wine mingled with gall to drink. But when he had tasted Mark was uh very brief, as we can see, in what he said about Christ in his trial during this particular period. The other gospel writers filled us in with a whole lot of detail. I'll refer to it a little bit, but mostly sticking to the text. Now, remember where we are in Jesus' trial. We started with Annas, and then Dekaiphus, and then the Sanhedrin. Then we went to Pilate Pilate sent Christ to Herod. Herod sent Christ back to Pilate, and here we are. Now, Pilate's in a pickle He's a political man looking for a political escape. He's not a principled man. Doing the right thing is never really the top priority to Pilate. I think it was Samuel Clemens who said that you'll never go wrong by doing the right thing. Carla quotes that quite differently, but this is the real quote. And that's how a principled person thinks. That's not how pilot thought. Pilot thought that the best path is the one that most benefits pilot. And right off the bat, we have a wonderful application point. Do you have choices this morning that present a dilemma to you? If if you do, do the right thing. It'll cost you. But you can avoid that cost by choosing a different path. Well learn from pilot here. Do the right thing even if it hurts. If not, you'll find yourself making decisions whose repercussions are worse than you may have imagined. That's the the story of Pilate. And that's the application I believe we made last week as well. One that's impossible to walk away from in the life of Pilate. Now, Pilate may have been without principles, but he was clever. He's looking for an easy way out and a way that will not require him to make a stand. I've seen people in that same dilemma in the workforce over and over again. with Brad and I and the talks we've had, I'm sure he's seen the same thing. A manager has an employee who won't do their job. They've taken this correct steps to inform the the employee of what they are doing wrong and how to do it right. But the employee keeps behaving badly. I can't tell you how many times I have watched managers Trying to get around firing that person. They'll do anything they can to not have to fire that person Rather than doing the hard thing and the right thing for the business, the right thing for all the coworkers, and even the right thing for the for the employee that's misbehaving, they try to accomplish their ends by clever instead of by right. Having principles makes things easier and harder. It makes them simpler. You can do the right thing simply because it's right And you don't have to rely so much on being clever. It costs, often it costs a lot right away, and usually costs less in the long run, not always. So rather than Pilate saying, I will not punish this innocent man, I'm going to let him go, Pilate tries clever. Mark 15, 6 through 20. Now at the feast he was accustomed to releasing one prisoner to them, whoever they requested. And there was one named Barabbas, who was chained with his fellow rebels. That they had committed murder in the rebellion. Then the multitude crying aloud began to ask him to do just as he ought always done for them. So they're yelling out to Pilate already, hey, let somebody lose But Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? For he knew that the king of the Jews had handed that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy But the chief priest stirred up the crowd so that he would rather release Barabbas to them. So, Pilate would show some goodwill at Passover Since he had arrived in Jerusalem, evidently he had made it his practice to release a prisoner at the people's request. at Passover. And this is surely, as far as we can tell from history, a pilot thing. This is not what his predecessors did. And that's predecessors. Is that the one that comes before or after? Well, the one that comes before and the ones that came after didn't do it. Only Pilate did it as far as we could tell. Now Pilate understood the motivation of the rulers, of the religious rulers. These rulers were envious of Christ, and Pilate knew it. Christ had authority that the spiritual leaders or the religious leaders didn't have. He had wisdom that the religious leaders didn't have. He had the approval of the people, at least he appeared to, that the religious leaders didn't have. He had spiritual power and wisdom that they didn't have, and they hated him because they wanted what Christ had. They envied what Christ had and what they didn't have. Envy is a despicable sin. Proverbs 27, 4 says, Wrath is cruel and anger a torrent, but who is able to stand before envy? Proverbs 14, 30 says, a sound heart is life to the body, but envy is rottenness to the bones. Envy is in many of the lists of sins in the New Testament. I mean, there's a bunch of those lists, and you won't find envy lacking from many of them. Envy is in the middle of the divisions of the Corinthian church. 1 Corinthians 3:3 says, For you are still you are still carnal, you are still fleshly. For where there are envy, Strife and divisions among you, are you not carnal and behaving like mere men? Aren't you looking just like the world? Isn't that what drives the world? Well, that's what's driving you. That's the essence of it. Love we find in 1 Corinthians 13 does not envy. Love can be grateful for a person having what we would like to have. Titus 3. 3, for we ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, letting envy motivate us, run our lives. causing us to do things. Hateful and and hating one another. And then James 3, 14 through 16 says, but if you have bitter envy, And self-seeking in your hearts. Don't boast and lie against the truth. This wisdom does not descend from above, but is earthly, sensual, demonic. Envy is demonic. For where envy and self-seeking exist, confusion and every evil thing are there. Who is there in your life this morning that you find yourself disliking, maybe disdaining? Because they have something that you would like to have. Maybe they have more money than you. Maybe they're prettier or more handsome than you. With some of us that wouldn't be hard. Maybe they have more status than you. Maybe they're in the inner circles that you would like to be in. Maybe they have more spiritual power or wisdom than you. Maybe they're able to get away with wicked things that you can't. Maybe they do less and get more praise than you do. Envy can slip in and ruin our relationships and ministries without us even being aware of what's going on. We think we're being reasonable. The first thing that we need to do in this process is identify envy. Think about any relationships where you might be distant from a person. Ask yourself the question, is it because of envy? Is it because I envy them If so, we need to call it what it is, and where it's harmed relationships, we need to confess it. We need to bring it out in the open and get rid of it. Don't believe that you can allow envy to thrive without it causing harm. It will cause harm both to you and And when possible, to those that you envy. Envy is like that. Envy is the human motivation that sent Christ to the cross. Keep that in mind when you're tempted to envy somebody. These religious leaders envied Jesus. That's what drove them. Now, Pilate has an idea. He knows he has Barabbas locked up. Barabbas means son of the Father. The word Barabbas means son of the Father. This is not a mistake. This is very intentional in Scripture. There is great irony here. Baravas is a notorious sinner who represents the human race that his father has brought him into. He's a sinner who is born of a sinner. That name could be given to any man. We were all born sons of the Father. In fact, Barabbas represents us all. We were all born sons of our human fathers. We all trace our lineage to Adam. If we were to put ourselves into this story as one of the characters, Baravas is our guy. We are him The people were going to get to choose between the sinful son of the fallen human race, Barabbas, and the sinless son of the Heavenly Father, Christ. By birth, we have nothing in common with the second man, but we have everything in common with the first one. We are the condemned criminal. We are the one with nothing to commend ourselves with. We are the ones with the only hope, with only one hope. We need someone not guilty of our crime to take our place. We are Barabbas. This is the powerful picture that God saw fit to place in our text to display his wondrous grace. Christ is the only chance for Barabbas to be set free from the just penalty of his crimes. There's something interesting to consider here. Why was Christ's cross ready in a moment's notice? They didn't have to wait for a cross to be prepared, to be made ready. It was already there. It's probably because it was prepared for Barabbas. That makes his this interaction even more profound. Christ died on the very cross that was probably prepared for Barabbas. Again, who are we in the story? We're Barabbas. That cross was really ours. But Christ died on it anyway. Now, when Pilate hears that the people are remembering that they get to pick a prisoner to set free. Because that they're the ones saying it. He's probably thinking, this is working out pretty well. Good. Good. Now Who is the pick that they will most not want? Who has the best chance of rejection from this crowd? I got just the guy. You know, you can almost see Pilot thinking through all this stuff. I know who it is. Ha! Finally, a way out of this mess. Barabbas. Baravas was trouble. He was the kind of guy that would do things that would put everybody around him in jeopardy. He was a murderer and an insurrectionist. And while the Jewish people may have liked the idea of freedom from Roman rule, they also knew that a failed attempt would result in innocent people getting killed, or worse yet, crucified. Barabbas would have represented danger to any Jewish person who just wanted to live out his life in peace. Barabbas would not have been a person that the Jewish man on the street would have been for. He would not have won the hearts of the Jewish crowd. He would not have been their hero. Pilate had a really good feel for that. He wasn't stupid. He was evil, but he wasn't stupid. He was clever. He knew what he was doing. Pilate was offering a choice between someone that the Jewish people would definitely not want out on the streets. and someone that they seemed to love just a few days earlier. But Pilate had failed to understand the power of darkness. This, coupled with the fickleness of people, took him by surprise. Pilate knew that the crowds seemed to love Jesus while the leaders seemed to hate him. The leaders were driven by envy of Christ's appeal to the masses. The leaders were even afraid of Christ's appeal. To the masses. We've seen that all through his ministry. The masses had enthusiastically welcomed Jesus into Jerusalem as the Messiah just a few days ago. No doubt pilot knew that. So it was natural for pilot to think that pilot could play on that. But that assumes that people's sentiments can be relied upon But just as we see in Peter's case, they cannot be. We see the same thing in our country. Our elections are showing the insanity and fickleness of the populace. People can be swayed by the most flimsy of promises and the deep appeal of their fears. What they do sometimes makes no rational sense, but they do it anyway. People who have no spiritual anchor, people who have no spiritual conviction, will always drift with the tide of human opinion. While the religious leaders had no spiritual authority here, they were, after all, very politically minded. They know what works with flesh. They're experts at motivating through the flesh. They're the master manipulators. They're better at what they do than Pilate thought they were. So what did they do? They spread lies. They press the flesh and play on people's base motives. When Pilate said, Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? He was probably betting on the people to pick Jesus over the Jewish leaders they had presently. He probably thought Christ's popularity would win the day here. It was a slam on the on the Jewish leadership. He bet on the idea that the populace would show their disdain for their leadership at this opportunity because they did disdain their leadership. And they'd and they would like the idea that Pilate was sticking it to the Jewish leadership by the statement that he made. Here's the king of the Jews. And that he's expecting the populace to say, yeah, anything but what we've got. When Pilate referred to the Christ as the king of the Jews, he was intending to make the leaders sting by it. And he was appealing to the rebellious kids, essentially Pilate probably thought he had this cat in the back, but he had met his match in this bunch of unprincipled political manipulators. Verse 11, but the chief priest stirred up the crowd so that he should release rather release Barabbas to them Now , just a quick thing I was I was thinking of this morning. An example not to follow is that crowd. The crowd that is so easily manipulated that that can be stirred into action based on their flesh and based on their strong emotion and everything like that We have got to be very careful that we always come back to our default position of asking, what does God say? Even when we're stirred up by the things around us, we've got to always find ourselves back to What does God say and how does that relate to my current situation and what's the right thing to do here? And to to kind of weed through all of our emotional content. Back to the basis of what Scripture says. Don't be like the crowd. Okay, then uh now what Matthew tells us here is pretty amazing. Pilate gets a message from his wife. And the messages essentially have nothing to do with that righteous man. For last night I suffered greatly in a dream because of him. Now, why did God do this? It's very clear that God inflicted this dream upon Pilate's wife. But why? It obviously did no good for Pilate. He did what he was destined to do and what he chose to do. This message did nothing to change his mind. But it did do two things. First, it was another testimony to Pilate that he should do the right thing. It was one more evidence that keeps him on the hook. He can't get off the hook by saying he didn't know. Here's another evidence. Maybe he wouldn't listen to his conscience, but maybe he would listen to his wife It's difficult to know how many men have done the right thing, not so much from fear of their own consciences, but in deference to their wives, usually with the thought of either gaining pleasure or avoiding pain. The second thing is it provides it provides is another evidence that Christ was completely innocent of all the charges, and Pilate should have known better. And ladies, this application does not prove that men should always listen to their wives. Job's wife advised Job that he should curse God and die. So uh man, our our advice is not always, our our wise advice is not always from on high, but we do well to pay attention to it. Whatever the case, pilot to his downfall and probable regret blows off his wife's advice. I wonder how many times this became an uh I told you so in the future of this marriage. You talk about uh uh uh uh a life uh changing uh career changing, uh soul changing uh event. Uh this I told you so was gonna gonna have a lot of a lot of mileage Back to our text. Verse 11. But the chief priest stirred up the crowd so that he should rather release Barabbas to them. Now, how did they do it? How did the chief priests manipulate the people? We don't know. But we can safely guess that they appealed to that which worked, and they would have been pretty expert at using that which worked. Maybe they threaten the people with cutting them off from worshiping at the temple. Maybe they press the issue of what a perceived king would cause Rome to do to the populace. You want to keep your lives, you would do better to vote against this guy. Maybe they told them that they were all sure to die from a Roman sword if they allowed Christ to escape. Maybe they appealed to the pride of these Jews, implying that Christ was an inferior person to lead such a proud people. We don't know how they did it, but we can for sure know that they appealed to the flesh of the populace. And the populace's flesh responded as expected. Verse 12, Pilate answered and said to them again, What then do you want me to do with him whom you call the king of the Jews? So they cried out again, crucify him. And then Pilate said to them, Why, what evil has he done? But they cried out all the more. Crucify him. Now, Pilate was responsible for justice. Justice was Pilate's job. He was not supposed to take a survey at this point The fact that he is asking this bloodthirsty crowd what their preferences are already show that Pilate was not fit for his position. I love the Westerns, you know, the Western movies, where the sheriff is going to carry out justice no matter what the people of the town want. And the lynch mob always shows up. Armed to the teeth, outside the jail, and the lawmen always go out and face them down. That's what should have happened here. But instead we have in this situation John Wayne looking at the lynch mob asking just exactly how you'd like this guy killed. That's essentially what it comes down to. Pilate is now acting like he's powerless. But that's a lie. But don't we use the same lie? We do wicked things and we act like we are powerless. No, we might be gutless, we might be spineless, we might be faithless, we might even be saviorless, but we are not powerless. Now the crowd yells, crucify him. Pilate is as free to ignore their requests as he was to ignore his wife's request. Or as he was to ignore the innocence of Christ, he's going to ignore some things. He could have ignored the crowd. But now he pretends that he must do what they say. And what he does next is just pure foolishness. He appeals for reason at a lynch mob. Immediately what comes to mind is the adult that tries to reason with a two-year-old throwing a tantrum. There's a place for reason, but this isn't the place. Pilate, like the parents of the two-year-old, are play-acting the part of a victim. They aren't victims, but they're pretending to be. The very fact that the crowd was not willing to answer the question, why, what evil has he done, should have been enough to end that conversation. We're not going to have a conversation based on reason. We're not going to continue to talk. He should have walked into the room Christ was in and said, let him go. But Pilate was gutless and Pilate was self-seeking. The Jewish leadership knew Pilate. They knew they had him over a barrel. One more letter to Rome, and Pilate would be sent packing. Pilate had handed them the power over him by his indiscretions. And they already knew Pilate was for sale, so they're cashing in. Pilate made an appeal to the people, and Matthew tells us what they said. This is amazing. Angie's pointed out this a couple of times in Sunday school. And all the people said. His blood shall be on us and our children. The people, not the leadership, but the people, said His blood will be on us and our children. Blame us, they're saying. In fact, any penalty that there might be, we'll take it and our kids will take it. Can you imagine bringing your children to account for some obvious sin that you are committing? Yet that's exactly what they're doing. It's bad enough that these adults are responsible. But in their evil and arrogance, they bring their children into account for this hideous sin. I know it isn't popular to even consider, but is it possible that's what the Holocaust ended up being all about? Really, what nationality has suffered more atrocities than the Jews? Maybe there's a group that has, a people group that has suffered more, but I don't know of one. Over the years, lots of people have tried to cast the guilt over Christ's crucifixion onto the Romans. But that is not what Christ said. Christ said that the one who delivered me to you, the Jews, has the greater sin. Jesus clearly held his own people to the guilt of delivering him to his death. Now that doesn't free us, that doesn't give us some kind of carte blanche excuse to do wickedness. Everyone who's ever been saved by Christ was the reason that Christ had to die. So we can't play some arrogant superior card and and think that we can treat some Jewish person badly as a result of this. That that's completely out of out of the scope. But we've got to see here, it was the Jewish populace who delivered Christ to his Roman crucifiers without reason. One application from this text is similar to last week's application, I think. We can never afford to compromise. If there's a right thing and we can see that it is a right thing, we must do it. If there's a wrong thing and we know it to be a wrong thing, we must refuse it. If we compromise, it will lead to someone's harm, either our own or someone else's. We cannot allow the cost of doing the right thing to deter us from doing the right thing. Consider that there is always a cost for doing the wrong thing as well. We can't blame our cowardice on some kind of victimhood. God doesn't seem to pity people when they make the right choice and it costs them. Nor does he seem to pity those who make a wrong choice to avoid that cost. Christ told his disciples that they needed to consider the cost up front. He never apologizes for the cost. You will never find an apology for the cost of following Christ. He never tried to mediate the cost. Why? Because Christ promises that whatever we go through Will be worth it. He has made it worth it. The reward we will gain is always worth more than the sacrifice that we will make. Christ said in Matthew 5, 11 and 12, Blessed are you when they revile you and persecute you and say all kinds of evil things against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, he says, when they're doing these horrible things to you. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Doing the right thing often costs you dearly. As an elder or a father or a mother or as a child, doing the right thing often costs you. As an employee or employer or a co-worker, doing the right thing will often cost you. As a friend or an enemy. Doing the right thing will often cost you. As a minister of Christ or someone wanting to come to Christ, know that the right thing will often cost you But Christ says that even though it may cost you, the reward is worth it. Great is your reward in eternity, in relation to the small price you may be asked to pay now. And ultimately Christ said, if you love me, you'll obey me. You'll do the right thing. All right, let's move into the communion.