Alright. Well, we ended in Mark with Pilate saying, I find no fault in this man. That's also in this Luke text in verse 4. Here Luke tells us all about the Herod involvement. Mark is silent about that. That's why we read Luke this morning and kind of threw that one at Brad on the last minute. It's a pretty big text. Anyway, it looks like Herod got the idea to push Christ off on Herod. Or I'm sorry, Pilate got the idea to push Christ off on Herod from the religious leaders. In verse 5, they said that Jesus began at Galilee. We can almost see the light bulb turn on over Pilate's head at that point. Oh He's a Galilean. Oh. He's one of Herod's citizens. This should be Herod's problem. That'll get me out of the middle of this mess. Then verse 6. When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked if the man were a Galilean. And as soon as he knew that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time. Now, Axe gives us some insight here as to why this had to happen, why he had to go see Herod. Uh Tom read Psalms 2 actually uh this morning. I that was Psalms 2, wasn't it? Yeah. And uh in it it says in verses 2 through 4, the kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall hold them in derision. And then, as the folks in Acts pray, they let us in on a secret. Psalms 2 was fulfilled by both Herod and Pilate, according to Acts. Both of them were intended to be involved, and therefore they were. In Acts 4, 24 through 28, we see this prayer that reveals this truth. It says, so when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord. These are the the apostles are the disciples of Christ. And uh they say, Lord, you are God who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth of your servant David have said, Why did the nations rage and the people plot vain things? That's from Psalms 2. The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered against together against the Lord and against his Christ For truly against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel. were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. So God had destined for both Herod and Pilate to pronounce Christ's innocence And to take counsel against him. God's ways are beyond figuring. While events in our lives at times may look like they're completely out of control, they aren't. Okay, what do we know about Herod Antipas? We've talked about this man before. Herod was the son of Herod. Herod Antipas was the son of Herod the Great. And he was born in 20 BC. He was the Tetrarch over Galilee and Perea. When he came to power, he built several cities. And this was no small feat, and it was a great help to the economy in the regions that he ruled over, and it he helped put them on the map literally. Now, Herod was originally married to the daughter of Arethas IV. Her name is not known. But Arita Spore was a Nabitan king. This alliance would have cemented relationships or relations between these two areas. And that seemed to be going all well and good until Herod Antipas visits his brother Philip and he falls in love with Philip's wife. Herodias, Philip's wife, who was actually the cousin of both Philip and Herod, Herodias didn't seem to be in that relationship for love, evidently. Herod offered more power, and that appealed to Herodias. So she agreed to marry Herod, but only if he would dump his first wife. So Herod did just that, which ultimately led to problems with the kingdom that Aretas oversaw, which would naturally happen. It also led to problems with John the Baptist John condemned the marriage since Herod married his brother's wife while his brother was still living, and that was a taboo in the law. That was forbidden. And Herod pretended to be Jewish, so John kept calling him on it. As long as he was going to declare himself Jewish, he was going to know what John knew about God's law. Eventually Herod arrested John to silence Herodias, probably, and then Herodias manipulated Herod into a situation using her promiscuous daughter to force Herod's hand into killing John the Baptist. It's complicated. There are only a few other references to Herod Antipas in scripture. Mark 14, 1 tells us that Herod thought Christ was John the Baptist reincarnated And then in Luke 13, 31, it tells us that the people warned Christ to get out of Herod's jurisdiction because Herod wanted to kill Christ. Now we're going to look at this text. This is interesting. In Luke 13, 31 through 33, it says, On that very day some Pharisees came saying to Christ, Get out and depart from here, for Herod wants to kill you. And Christ said to them, Go tell that fox Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must journey today, tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet should perish outside of Jerusalem. I wonder if that message was ever delivered. If it was, it might explain why Herod vented his anger so uh so um furiously on Christ in our text this morning. Now, a fox is an animal that is weak, but cunningly deceptive, deceitful. That's essentially what people hearing this would have understood when Jesus called Herod a fox. Jesus' response to Herod is basically saying that Jesus is not going to be bluffed by death threats. That's how Herod would receive this. Herod was not going to kill Christ. It was too risky, and Christ was going to do what he had to do without concern about what Herod would do. The Lion of Judah was not going to submit to the fox of Galilee. That was the message he was basically sending. Now the last reference of Herod is in today's text. A little more history. After Christ died and rose again in AD thirty six, Aretas Remember that was the ex-father-in-law of Herod attacked Galilee and overcame Herod's army. Remember that Erethus was the father of Herod's first wife. Tiberius gave orders to the procurator of Syria, that's Pilate's law. To go help Herod. But Tiberius died, so the procurator of Syria waited to see what would happen. So he didn't follow the order, he was waiting to see what the next guy in line would say. Caligula, who was the next emperor, gave Antipas 's brother, Agrippa, the title of king for some of the areas in the Middle East. So Caligula comes into power, he he uh he takes Agrippa and he says, You're king now, and he sends him to a a certain section of the Middle East. Agrippa, it should be noted, was a friend of Caligula. That was proof that he had no virtue whatsoever. Naturally, when Herodias heard that brother Agrippa had got a kingdom, he was made king. She urged her husband to go to Rome and get that same title. She wanted to be married to a king But while Antipas was in Rome, Agrippa sent someone to bring accusations against Antipas. So Antipas goes to Rome, he meets opposition at Rome because Uh Agrippa has basically undermined his efforts. As a result, um he was banished to France Herodian was not also banished, but maybe because she didn't have a better card to play at the time, she went along with her husband. It certainly didn't seem to have anything to do with love or loyalty. Agrippa was, by the way, the one in Acts that accepted worship and died with worms. Remember, he showed up in a shiny jacket, the sun comes up, everybody worships him, and he's dead in a week. So, that's Herod. He's a man that's led by his luck. He's also a man with no principles He seems to have been a competent administrator, but his choices to follow his lusps doomed his career. Jesus clearly did not think much of Herod, and he showed him very little respect. Herod had killed Jesus' friend and cousin, John the Baptist. So Herod was going to get very little satisfaction in any conversation that he had with Christ. Christ said much more to Pilate. Christ gave Pilate much more opportunity than he gave to Herod. Herod had had his opportunity when he had one of God's favorites in his prison and used to talk to him from time to time. Herod had spent that opportunity and was not going to get another one. Be very careful what you do with your spiritual opportunities. They don't always come again. Then verse 8. Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceedingly glad, for he had desired for a long time to see him. Because he had heard many things about him, and he hoped to see some miracle done by him. Remember, this is Fox Herod. And this is what he is saying. He was looking forward to this. This is what happens when spirituality is a novelty. This is what happens when curiosity meets spirituality. Look at the reason Herod was glad. Herod wanted entertainment. He wanted to be impressed. He wanted a good show. Notice what there isn't here that he was hoping for. There's nothing about truth. Herod did not want to hear Jesus preach. He did not want answers about the dilemmas in Herod's life. Herod didn't want to hear how he could be right with God and live forever. He wanted a sideshow What comes to mind here is the same thing that happens when people claiming to be ministers come into a town with healing ministries and all manner of spiritual extremes. People come to see the show. They want to see God at work. They don't come to have their hearts broken with their own sin. They don't come to hear the truth that will set them free from the their prison of sin. They want to be entertained. They want their flesh to be healed or improved. There's something in flesh that always wants flesh catered to. Natural wants natural. Our flesh wants to demote God's work to a spiritual equivalent of a three-ring circus. And there are plenty of shysters who are glad to provide such a show. But true spirituality will never cater to those demands. We see here that Herod probably knew much more about Christ than Pilate did. Herod could probably have pronounced Christ guiltless much easier than Pilate. Because Herod would have known more about what Christ was doing and about what Christ was preaching. But Herod was not going to use anything he knew for Christ's benefit. He was just hoping for a good show. And he probably figured that since Christ was now in a tough spot and under Herod's control. Jesus would be able to be coerced into performing for him. And Herod was wrong. One more thing we see here is that a person glad to see Christ is not always a person who longs to know Christ. Interest in Christ is not always a sign of spiritual openness. Verse 9, then Herod questioned him with many words, but Christ answered him nothing. If you're Herod, you're not used to being treated this way. You are the big shot. Christ is the little shot. The little shots are supposed to cater to the big shots Well that's not working out so well. Christ isn't taking the bait. Christ shows no need for the help of Herod. And Christ would have had little respect for Herod, because, like I said before, Herod had killed Christ's friend and co-worker, a man whose greatness would never be understood by a lustful man like Herod. So Herod could ask all the questions he likes. He will get no satisfaction from Christ. Herod thought he had power. But he had not been prepared for being in the presence of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Christ was silent. Herod thought that Christ was on trial before Herod. Really, Herod was on trial before Christ. Herod is showing effort here. He's asking lots of questions. He's expending energy in this effort. But Christ has given him no satisfaction whatsoever. He can't be moved to say a word. And really, why would Christ say anything? In this position, why would he say anything? It would make no difference to this godless human being who has already shown what he thinks of true spirituality. He kills it when he can. So why say anything? Verse 10, and the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him. These religious leaders were following Christ like a school of sharks. They desperately want Christ dead. They didn't care if it was Pilate or Herod who killed them, as long as somebody did. Neither Herod nor Pilate were fond of these religious rulers. They both would have had these guys pegged. They knew that these religious leaders were not worthy of respect. The religious leaders dealt in the word of politics just like Herod and Pilate did. They were simply smaller fish. These religious leaders had no spiritual power. They had lost that long ago. They now relied on political power, just like Herod and Pilate did. And as such, they were a travesty. So the only effect the religious rulers had on Herod and Pilate was political power. If they could push that right button, that's the only power they had. Both Herod and Pilate would be evaluating the capacity of those rulers to do them harm. If they thought that they could harm them, they would move, they would do what uh the religious leaders wanted them to. If they didn't think they were gonna suffer any harm. They weren't going to. They would they would uh bow out. So Herod evidently was not threatened and could easily pass this back to Pilate Verse 11. Then Herod with his men of war treated Christ with contempt and mocked him, arraying him in a gorgeous robe and sent him back to Pilate. Herod was used to having people power over people. Herod was used to having power over people. He, like Pilate, was used to having his own way. But Jesus couldn't be pushed around, and this probably made Herod very angry. So Herod stoops to his real level. There's nothing noble in this action. He begins acting like the thugs that he surrounds himself with. He treats Christ with contempt The word is interesting. The word means to set at naught. Contempt. To set at naught. It means to value with the lowest possible rating. To view as being utterly worthless. That's what they did to Christ. They, as the prophecy says, esteemed him not. They treated the most valuable human being to have ever lived as the least valuable human being. And they mocked Christ. They jeered him. They derided him. And they did this simply because they could. They showed what they were by what they did. Now Herod's intending to send Christ back to Pilate, so he adds his own flair. They place on Christ a gorgeous robe, it says. A gorgeous robe. This would have been a robe that someone who was running for the Roman Senate would wear. I mean this is this is big money. It would be clothing that only the rich would wear. It would have been like putting Charles Manson in a Brooks brother suit. It would be a mockery, an absolute mockery. That was the intention of it. The clothing would be incongruous with the battered human being inside of it. So Herod sends Jesus back to Pilate. The fact that Herod sent Christ back shows that even Herod did not think Christ had done anything worthy of death. Herod actually did have jurisdiction over his citizens. Had Jesus been guilty of something worthy of death, Herod could have executed him. But Christ was not, and Herod sent him back, saying so. Verse 12, that very day Pilate and Herod became friends with each other, for previously they had been at enmity with each other. For whatever reason, Pilate and Herod had not been friends up to this point, and it could be a result of something that Pilate did that we read of in Luke 13, 1 through 2. It says that there were present at that season some who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answered and said to them, Do you suppose that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans? Because they suffered such things. So you remember uh people came to Christ and he brought they brought him this test question to understand what what's going on in Christ's response. Well what they brought him was that Pilate had killed a bunch of Galileans at the temple. So evidently Pilate had put to death some of Herod's citizens. In the temple at Jerusalem. You can see the power struggle right off the bat. No one knows why for sure, but whatever the case, things like this would not endear these two leaders. Pilate killing Herod's people. But now Pilate had deferred to Herod, and Herod had may have been appeased and flattered because he was considered in this trial, he was considered as a active part that Pilate was trusting Herod's wisdom. That may have been how Herod perceived it. And they probably had a common enemies in both Christ at this point and the people trying to put Christ to death. Christ because he's an obstacle to them and the people trying to put Christ to death because they always had an enmity there. So these guys they realized they had a lot in common And so they began to work together. Remember, this was not the only strange bedfellows created by enmity with Christ. We've also seen the Sadducees and the Pharisees working hand in hand, and that would have never happened before Christ. This is another odd couple with both groups hating each other before this time. The statement is true. Nothing brings people together like a common enemy. And Christ seemed to be that common enemy. Verse 13, then Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people, said to them, You have brought this man to me as one who misleads the people, and indeed having examined him in your presence, I have found no fault in this man concerning those things of which you accuse him of. No, and neither did Herod For I sent you back to him, and indeed nothing deserving of death has been done by him. Now Pilate is trying to reason with the unreasonable He's trying to negotiate with terrorists. He is more than anything else trying to get himself off the hook He doesn't want these leaders to have any reason to report pilot to his boss, because that'd be that that'd be his last stroke, and he knows it. So he gives them the facts I haven't found Christ guilty of any charges worthy of death. Herod hasn't found Christ guilty of any charges worthy of death. Basically, Christ has not done anything worthy of death. He's not done the things you're accusing him of. So Herod's talking. And at this point, that should have been the end of all discussion. If Pilate cared about justice. If he were doing his job as Rome told him to do it, Pilate would have allowed Christ to walk free at this point. The fact that he continues to have a conversation is just more proof of his weakness. He is proving by speaking that he is open to be manipulated by these religious rulers. Verse 16, I will therefore chastise him and release him. For it was necessary for him to release one to them at the feast. The emphasis in this statement is the word release. The chastising would have been a light punishment, the equivalent in child rearing to a spanking. Pilate was going to teach Christ a lesson, but he wasn't going to do anything more than that. And then Pilate would release him, since that is what justice demanded. And he was going to make Christ a choice for the one released that year, because he had to release somebody. That was the tradition that he had set. It's a bit silly to make Christ a choice since Christ was already innocent. It's not like he was setting a guilty person free, but um that's what he intended to do. Well, I don't want to go any farther in this text as it's now starting to overlap with our Mark text that we're going to hit on next week. What we saw this morning is that Herod and Pilate were birds of a feather. Neither of them was concerned with justice. Neither of them had qualifications for a good civil authority. Neither were worthy of any kind of trust. Neither of them minded spending a human being in the quest of their own selfish ambition. Both of them were afraid of the crowds. Both were power-hungry cowards. Both of them had spiritual interests, but no spiritual conviction. Both of them were for sale. And at the end of the day, they found that they really did have a lot in common. And so much so that they struck up a friendship. For an application for us this morning, let's consider this. Pilate and Herod were both able to discern the same truth. They were both able to look at the facts and see that Jesus was innocent of any Roman crimes worthy of death. They both had all that they needed. They had all the information that they needed to do the right thing. They did not fail because of ignorance. They didn't fail because it was too difficult to figure out. They failed because they did not want to pay the personal cost it would cost them to do the right thing. It isn't that they couldn't figure out what the right thing was. They knew it. They just wouldn't do it. Here is an example for us to avoid. We often have choices like this in front of us. There are two paths in front of us. And we know which one is right and which one is wrong. We know which one expresses our loyalty and obedience to Christ, and which one expresses our disbelief and disobedience to Christ. And we can only pick one. The right one might be really hard. In fact, choosing the right path may seem to cost us those things we value so very much. We might feel like we're losing everything that matters to us. In Pilate's case, I'm sure that's how he would have felt. We might tremble at the thought of choosing the right path. It may threaten a relationship that we value. It may disrupt a peaceful life with our spouse or children. It could threaten our financial future. It might deprive us of a crutch that we can't imagine facing life without. The right paths often come with some very expensive price tags. Pilot is looking that cost right in the face. And sometimes we have to do the same thing. What hard right path are you looking at this morning? Where would it be exceedingly hard and costly in your life for you to do the right thing? What are you going to do? Before you decide, look at Pilate. He made the wrong choice. And his name is associated with cowardly failure for all time. Have you ever met a kid named Pilate? Our wrong choices always lead in that direction. Our sin will disgrace us and our Lord. We will always live to regret the wrong path. The things we keep or the things we gain by a faithless choice will never be worth the things we lose. You know, we're really slow to learn that, at least I am. But it's so true. The things that we keep or the things that we gain by a faithless choice will never be worth the things we lose. And if we're believers, we will just need to revisit that decision that we made in the future to repent of it. What hard right path do you have in front of you? Take it. Do the right thing no matter what it costs you. Don't be like pilot