We've just studied John 10, where Jesus told us what he is like as our good shepherd. And I hope we were deeply comforted by the truths that Christ laid out for us. I'm sure that the religious leaders weren't so uh comforted. They were the contrast to the true shepherding that Christ provides. As I thought about Jesus' words in John 10, I felt compelled to focus on the Good Shepherd for another week, and it looks now like it might be two or three more. I thought that it's one thing to learn the qualities of the good shepherd as contrasting against the hirelings and the robbers and the thieves and the wolves. But what about living? How are we to live, benefiting from this knowledge of how good our shepherd is? What's that mean to me today? How should we think? How will this affect the decisions that we make and the conclusions that we draw? What difference does us having the best shepherd ever shepherded make for me today? In real life. I was led to the 23rd Psalm for the answer. And here's David describing what his life is like as a sheep of the Good Shepherd. And I hope we'll gain great comfort and guidance this morning as we look at the 23rd Psalm. And it begins: The Lord is my shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. How did David know? How did David know the good shepherd, Christ, was his shepherd? How could he say that so personally? How did David know that he wasn't following a hireling or a false shepherd? We learned in John that not every sheep in the fold belongs to the Good Shepherd. Not every human being has the Lord as their good shepherd. The Good Shepherd called only his sheep out of the fold. Those left in the fold were not his sheep. They couldn't call the good shepherd their sh the good shepherd their shepherd. So how did David know? Well, I think context is everything in a Bible study, and Psalms 23 comes immediately after Psalms 22. Let's take a quick look at portions of it. Psalms 22 is a prophecy about Jesus Christ. It prophesies how Christ would be mocked. It even predicts the general taunts that says he trusts in the Lord, let the Lord deliver him The bulls of Mashan, their Jewish leadership, surrounded Christ like roaring lions, he says, and Christ says, I am poured out like water, all of my bones are out of joint And he gives more of the symptoms of being on the cross. And this is this is where the prediction is made that Christ's garments would have lots cast for them I mean it's amazingly it's amazing what if you're ever talking to somebody, but how do you know the scripture is true? Well, here's one example The prophecy was completely fulfilled in Jesus Christ. But that's just just an internal proof of it. But anyway, Psalms twenty two goes on to tell us, in verse twenty six, that the afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you for kingship, the Belongs to the Lord and he rules over the nations. Okay, so David prophesied this Messiah. David trusted in this future Messiah, even though this Savior had not yet been born. David could say the Lord is my shepherd, because he could also say that the Lord is his sacrifice. The Messiah's sacrificial gift of himself for his flock was received by faith by David. He could say with assurance, The Lord is my shepherd. Can you say that? Are you saved by the work of this sacrificial lamb? Do you trust in Christ's sacrifice to cover the great sin debt created by your life? Are you trusting only in Christ for your salvation? If so, you too can say, The Lord is my shepherd. Okay, so David says confidently what every believer in Christ can confidently say, the Lord Jehovah is my shepherd. What does that mean to us? I'm borrowing heavily from Charles Spurgeon's outline this morning. He was an amazing preacher. He would take one verse and come out with sermons that are longer than I preach. And they're also meaningful. If you ever have a chance to listen to uh or read a Charles Virgin uh uh sermon, they're well worth it. Having Christ as our shepherd guarantees us certain privileges. First, the shepherd guides his flock. The shepherd guides his flock. Think about this. The shepherd goes before the sheep. Do we realize what that means? It's the shepherd who needs to plan the past. It's the shepherd who needs to keep track of the seasons and the weather The sheep don't need to know where the green pastures are. The sheep don't need to know the distance to the next watering hole David knew all about this. He was talking from experience. It was David who had this job for the sheep that he took care of So he's talking from experience. He knew the weight of this responsibility. All of the sheep depended on for their lives. He would calculate what was best for the sheep. He would think through the distances between the water holes. He would be planning for August when it was April. Now think about your own life. How did you get where you are? How did you get where you are? How did you find yourself in the good positions that you have? How did you come to Christ? How did you find yourself with the blessings you have, even if they're in the midst of difficulties? How did you get here? Did you chart the course? Did you calculate and figure things out? Did you arrange the events of your life? For the most part, no. You didn't determine where you would be born or where you would live. You didn't bring the right people into your life at just the right time. You didn't provide the rescues that we've all experienced from past that would have taken us horrible places. No, we have a good shepherd. We have a good shepherd. And he has arranged our pastures and our watering holes well before we were even born. We could not have possibly picked a path that was as good for us as the one that our good shepherd has chosen, trials and all. We wouldn't have picked it if left on our own. Think about the small things that could have been different, that would have changed our whole course in life. Maybe a person we wanted for a spouse, but they weren't interested. Maybe a job we wanted but we didn't get. Maybe a relationship that we sort of fell into. There could have been tiny things that could have happened that would have led to our ruin. All along the way. But they didn't. When we look back, we see that any good in our lives is due to the fact that the Lord is our shepherd. How blessed we are to have a shepherd who is charting the course of our lives. Now, this is true of the past, but what of the future? Does our shepherd only work past tense? Must we now chart our course from here on? Of course not. Oh that we would remember as we make our tentative plans for the future. Oh that we would remember that we don't need a pen to make our plans. A pencil will be just fine We're following a good shepherd. Our efforts at determining where he is leading us are good. They're necessary, but they are not certain. Only He is certain of His ways, of our plan, of His plans for us. We say, if our shepherd wills, I'll go here and do this or do that, like it says in James. We watch our suffered. We listen to what he says in his word. We look at the situations that he has placed us in. We consult the godly friends that he has placed around us. We carefully examine the desires he's placed in us to see if they are fruit of the Spirit or fruit of the flesh. And then we do what we want to do after all of that is submitted to our shepherd. That's how Christians make plans. What job we take, what commitments we add, what habits we choose, what life decisions we make. Down to what shows we watch and how we use our precious minutes. We follow the shepherd. Do you have any opportunities in front of you that you are hesitant to bring to your shepherd's notice? Beware of that attitude. It's telling you something about your plan. You may be trying to go ahead of the shepherd. You may be trying to have things your way, and it won't work out well. The shepherd knows his job. You don't We do well to find our contentment in following Him and enjoying the green pastures that He provides So our shepherd guides his flock. Secondly, our shepherd provides for his flock The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the still waters. As we read this 23rd Psalm, we need to be careful. We want our expectations of our shepherd to be great. But we don't want them to be wrongly placed. Nothing is more disappointing than wrongly placed expectations. I kiddingly say that the secret to happiness during this life is to keep your expectations low. And there's some truth to that. It's not completely true. This psalm has to apply In our current situation. And for me, in my case, currently it means having material goods, having family and friends, and in relatively good health But this psalm also must apply to the man in prison camp who is greatly suffering and suffering the lack of food and shelter and love of others. We can't interpret this psalm to mean that our shepherd is going to lead us into beds of rose petals with lives of ease. We've got to interpret this to mean that the sheep of God are not left wanting. They will not continue without their needs being met. That's how we should understand this. We need to be careful about how we think about this. This is not saying that his sheep will have every desire fulfilled the moment that we have it. This is not promising instant gratification. It is promising safe provision. The point is that the shepherd is always more aware of what the sheep need than what the sheep are. Sheep tend to have their passions inflamed by the next thing they see. The shepherd, on the other hand, will take them to the best pasture, even if they have to walk through some that's less desirable. The shepherd is always more able to provide the sheep with what they actually need than what the sheep are Self sufficiency to a sheep is no sufficiency. So when David said, I shall not want We might best paraphrase that phrase to say that as a believer in Christ, a believer in Christ will never find himself long apart from that which he needs. A believer in Christ will not find himself long apart from that which he needs. Philippians 4. 10 says, I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have received, revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. Not that I'm speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low and how to be how to abound. In any and every circumstance I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Paul had also learned to trust his good shepherd. He learned how to adjust his thoughts about what he needed to the provision that Christ was granting. And we see this in Peter. Second Peter one three said, His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. In other words, everything that we need pertaining to life and godliness through the knowledge of him. who called us to his own glory and excellence. When we read that we have a shepherd and we will not want , We should rejoice that we are promised a sure thing. That is a promise, is a sure thing. Our shepherd is aware. Our shepherd is competent. To help. Our shepherd is powerful to help. And as we have needs, he will meet them. We're not competent to tell him how to best meet those needs. He is perfectly wise in how he will respond to us, but respond he will. Now let's take a second and ask, would those around you, based on what you say and do Say that your firm expectation is that you trust that your shepherd will take care of you now and going forward. Would people around you say of you? That person has good shepherd That person completely trusts their shepherd. If they were with you on the day that you received the bad news, if they talked to you about uncertainties in the future Are those around you more confident in your shepherd based upon how confident you are? Those people around us Do we encourage them to be faithful because of how faithful we are, how much we trust good to come out of our shepherd? Is your trust in the shepherd contagious? It can be. Do you view this Christ this way? Do you expect from Christ that He'll meet your need whatever need might come into your life? Do we really think that? We're called to this kind of trust in our shepherd. We can say with confidence to those around us, I shall not want, because the Lord is my shepherd. And if you fear of being in want, you need to come to my shepherd. Do you feel in your soul this morning that you have a need that must be met? Trust your shepherd and keep an eye open for his provision He will either teach you how to overcome the thing that feels like a need, or he will graciously meet it. Submit yourselves to the Lord shepherding. It's always in time. Spurgeon said, The wicked always want, but the righteous never. A sinner's heart is far from satisfaction, but a gracious spirit dwells in the palace of content. I think we do well to think about our needs on two different levels. We have physical needs and we have spiritual needs. Both are important to our shepherd, but our spiritual needs are greater. They are more important. Christ knows that his care of us in eternity will make up for all of our physical discomforts on earth He gets to care for us for eternity. He will take care of those desires forever. So it's more important that we end up there with him. that it is that we have every creature comfort here on earth that we would like. Sometimes it's our lack of reliable food, clothing, and shelter that drives us to the greatest love and dependence upon that shepherd. Like Paul, we learn to overcome when we are most deprived. We learn it when we need to learn it. Of those things that are most vital to us thriving spiritually, we are never in want. That's a wonderful thing. Our shepherd is forever providing for us, forever meeting our needs. Sometimes it's through the means of earthly shepherds. In our world, there's no shortage of wonderful feeders of the block. Even if some local shepherds are more gifted at meeting other kinds of needs, which I've met pastors like that, than at preaching, we have rich pastors. In our world of gifted presenters of truth, man, you can't there's never been a time in history that you can hear and see so many good preachers. I've heard much lately of people saying that they're not fed at various churches. And maybe it's it's due to your kindness, but I've not heard that in our ranks. I'm saying, well maybe you're just hiding it. You can tell me. I I mean I can take it, but but anyway, uh others complain about pastors who are not delivering the goods. They're not presenting the gospel in all of its riches. They're not delivering the depth of nurture that comes from digging deep into the gospel message. And that's something that those pastors and churches have to correct. It's the job of shepherds to feed and water. If the preacher will not delve into the depths and do his duty, if he becomes more concerned about filling seats than filling souls, he should be replaced. If not, the flock's going to stray and get sickly and starve. Some will scatter to find a better shepherd. Others will waste away. And that can happen in even once thriving churches. The church in Ephesus was amazing at one point. It didn't exist a century later. But sometimes it's not the problem with the shepherds. Sometimes it's the problem with the sheep. Sometimes they're looking to the pastor instead of the master. That was a spurgeon quote. Only he could do that. Even when the shepherd takes us to green pastures, it's us that's got to do the chewing. A pastor can't be to you what only the master can. We as sheep have to feed on what he provides us through the means that he provides us No one can apply the word to your day to your day-to-day life but you. No one can apply the word of God to your day-to-day life But you. No leader can do that for you. That's your work. We may rightly complain if there's nothing in a sermon to apply. If there's no explor exploration being done of the riches of the storehouse of God's Word. But we have no grounds to complain when we refuse to take the effort to apply that which the Master sends us. through his under-shepherds. You might want to keep that in mind when you hear people complain about their shepherds, it might not be the problem with the shepherds We'll greatly miss our friends Vodie Baccom and John MacArthur and R. C. Spro, and we might think that we will never again enjoy such riches. But the spring that they spoke from is still richly flowing And it's that spring that satisfies our thirst. It's the water that quenches our thirst, not the one who brings the water So, first, our shepherd guides his flock, second, our shepherd provides for his flock, and thirdly, our shepherd protects his flock. He protects his flock. I find that I sometimes get lulled to sleep in my somewhat comfortable surroundings. Sometimes literally. And and I forget the great power and intentions. of our enemy. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him. Firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world The temptations that you and I face on a daily basis are not harmless. They come to us with evil intent. Even now, sitting in these seats, our minds can be tempted to be somewhere off in our imaginations We might even now be tempted to envy somebody else or to be angry at a brother or sister. Even here, we're not free from the flaming darts of the devil in our minds. The temptations that come to us are full of hateful intent. The devil could not be more happy if he could destroy your peace, your witness. Your confidence, your influence, your conscience, your hope, and your fellowship with Christ. Nothing would make him happier. And that's what choosing sin always does. He's always whispering, did God really say that? Do you think he really has your best intent in mind? Does God not know how happy this thing would make you if you could just have it? Won't this thing give you what you mostly long for, even though God forbids it? That's a wolf. That's a lion. He wants that loosed in your mind and your soul so it can go from end to end, wreaking havoc. Let's j jump a little bit ahead in our text in verse four. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me. David shares with us how he faces the enemies of his soul, with the greatest enemy being death. David doesn't give us the expectation of a life without danger. He doesn't lead us to believe that all the paths of the sheep are sunshine and lollipops. Some of the places the sheep have to go are frightening. These life situations, apart from a present shepherd, would be deadly to the sheep. They would have us curled up in a corner waiting to die. But we have our protector with us. This verse is so full of comfort. Notice David says, though I walk through this valley. David is keeping the same pace with the shepherd as he would on a beautiful spring day, walking through wonderful pastures. He is walking with The shepherd. There is no need to run. There is no panic. The surroundings are scary, but the shepherd is calm. That's where the sheep take their clue from. It's much like Peter in the storm. He could walk on the water when he kept his eyes on the Savior. When he looked at the storm, he lost his nerve. You and I are free in Christ to walk through these valleys of scary circumstances. And notice this valley. You and I will have times when the light seems blocked out. We just can't see it. It looks so dismal. We can't see the good in it. It appears to be darkness and darkness and darkness. Our imaginations are even blocked from seeing any positive thing that might result from this current circumstance. No one likes those dark times. No one likes them. If you were to believe what your eyes are telling you, you would lose all hope. Your perceptions would communicate to you impending doom. Actually the valleys were often places where the predators would lurk, because they knew that sheep had to go through the valleys. They were easy hunting places. They were places of death for sheep without a good shepherd. But we look to the shepherd. We take our clues from our shepherd. We look to the precious promises of the Lord. That is his voice to us in the valley. His promises are his voice. To us in the valley. That is the light we cannot see in our circumstances. They are found in God's promises. Now, this is the valley of the shadow of death. Notice that. It's the shadow of death. Have you ever been scared when you saw a shadow of something? Was it the shadow that you were afraid of? No, it's not the shadow. We're afraid of the substance behind the shadow. We're afraid of what's making the shadow When you and I face death, if we have time to think about it, we'll probably be tempted to fear. You know, it's the end of something that we know well, and we're going into something that we've never experienced before. So Yeah, there's some intrepidation about that. We knew life on this earth, we're used to it. Life is not scary to us as much as the unknown is. But death is uh death is something new We 've never been there before. Well, this valley is the shadow of death. In this case, to a believer, the shadow is actually more scary. than the actual substance. Paul says this in 1 Corinthians 15, he says, when the perishable puts on the imperishable and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that's written, Death is swallowed up in victory. Oh death, where's your victory? Oh death, where's your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us a victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. The shadow of death is the scary part. In the Christian's life. Death itself is the victory. Death is our deliverance. Death is where the perfect provisions of the Good Shepherd are most enjoyed. Death is the worst thing our enemies can threaten us with. Most of the world is afraid of this, and they'll do almost anything to hold on to their lives. Where we are different. A person who truly has faith in Christ can look at death and say, bring it on. Bring it on. You're bringing on my reward. From my Savior. You're doing me a favor. I regret that it may be bringing pain to my loved ones, but it's no threat to me. Yes, the shadow of death is scary, but I have promises of the shepherd that soothe me When I look upon the shepherd's face in the midst of his ultimate threat, I see a calm, smiling face looking back at me from my shepherd. We continue. I will fear no evil, for you are with me, your rod and your staff they comfort me. The reason we need not fear is never because of confidence in ourselves. The reason we need not fear is never because of our confidence in ourselves. We must never think I'm such a strong sheep, I never need to be afraid. I mean, that's just stupid. If you ever watch sheep. You think that's the dumbest thing in the world. Or I'm such a good Christian, I can stand up to the wolves and the robbers. No. All of that is beyond us. It's beyond our abilities. If you want to overcome fear, you mustn't study your strengths. You must study your Savior's strengths. If you can find a weakness in your Savior You can begin to worry. If you can find if you find him to have an area where he is not knowledgeable or where he is weak or where he is lazy or where he is selfish, yeah, we have a good reason to Worry then. If you have a case where you're the one sheep in his whole flock that he does not love, yeah, you k you could worry then. But we know that's not the case He is the one and only premier good ultimate shepherd. He has no claws. So we need not fear any evil. And look at the reasoning. Why? You are with me. You are with me. That is an overriding, always present fact. Christ is right here, right now, with every believer. Through his spirit. He is right here. We know that he dwells in us through the Holy Spirit. He is here. We never need to ask him to hurry to come to us. Because we need him right now, he is always here. Always. That is the rock solid foundation of our remedy for fear. How can something harmful for your soul happen to you if you are following your shepherd and your shepherd is right here? That's the idea We see the shepherd's tools, the rod and the staff, and we've seen him use them. We've seen how deadly he is with that rod. We've seen him use it on our enemies. They didn't recover from those blows. You know, that's the imagery here. We're comforted by the shepherd's fierceness and the way he wields that club. He is formidable. And we have felt the staff, sometimes in positive senses, sometimes not in so much. We don't always like the constraints that that staff brought us, but we know the shepherd loves us We are being watched and guided by the shepherd for our own good. We have seen the shepherd's tenderness I've talked before about practical atheism, and practical atheism acts as if there is no shepherd. It reacts to life circumstances as if there is no shepherd. The pastures and the waters, well, they've got to be planned by us, they've got to be discovered by us, they've got to be controlled by us. Because there is no shepherd. We must come up with strategies to thwart the attacks of the thieves and the robbers and the predators. We find ourselves confronting the dangers even before they happen because we have to plan for them. We worry and we fear. Why? Deep down in our heart of hearts, we don't really believe we have a good shepherd that deeply, deeply loves us. We may have a religion that says we have a shepherd. We sing songs about having a good shepherd. We write good letters about having a wonderful shepherd. But in our heart of hearts we fear he's a myth. Well, we would never say that. We won't even get to the bottom of the thinking. But when we watch how we react, we're left with the understanding, you know what? I'm not so sure that I have faith in this shepherd at all. Search your heart today. What holds you back from trusting your shepherd today? What more could he possibly do for you that he has not done To prove that one, he has a deep abiding love for you, and two, he can handle whatever comes. Well what a wonder it is this morning that this shepherd before the beginning of time knew your name. He came into our Gentile sheepfold and he called our names. The only thing we really did was exist, and we didn't even do that by our own choice. We didn't love our shepherd. We were just chewing on whatever grass we could get a hold of. And the shepherd chose us and caused us to hear his voice above all others. He called us to go with him through this life and into the next. And so we can say. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Let's pray. Oh Lord, the greatest symphony could not do justice to the music in these words.