So far, these are the ways that the religious leaders were critical of Christ in chapter eight. They said his testimony was not true in 813. They weren't actually calling him a liar, but they were accusing him of not going through their hoops to verify himself. Verse 8 or chapter 822, they thought Jesus was going to kill himself. 834, they recoiled at the idea of them being slaves to anyone. They were telling Christ he didn't know what he was talking about. 839, they're telling Christ that they're as good off as Abraham is, and that Christ was wrong about them again. 841, then they insult Christ's person by making insinuations that Christ was born out of wedlock. And that brings us to our text. Now they call Jesus a Samaritan and say that he has a demon. In verse 54, they directly challenge his claim to grant eternal life. In 57, they make fun of the idea of Jesus seeing Abraham. And in 58, Jesus makes the claim that he knows will end the conversation and set them off. He says. I am. In essence, I am God. That made the leadership angry enough to kill Christ, proving that Christ was right about them all along. This is what it's come to between Christ, who is the rightful king of the Jewish people, and those that God had allowed to take care of his people until Christ arrived. It's just like the parable that Jesus told that predicted this in Matthew 21, 33 through 46. Here another parable, Jesus said. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard, and he put a fence around it, and he dug a wine press in it, and he built a tower, and he so basically he got all ready Did all the work, put in all the investment, and went into another he leased it to tenants and went into another country. When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit Uh and a little bit later, and again he sent other servants more than the first. And they did the same thing. Finally, he sent his son to them, saying, Well, they'll respect my son. But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, This is the heir, come let us kill him and have his inheritance. And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants? And they said to him, he'll put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their seasons. And Jesus said to them, Have you never read the scriptures? The stone that the builders rejected has become this cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore, I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. When the chief priests and Pharisees heard this parable They perceived that he was speaking about them. And they were right. And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds because they held him to be a prophet. But this story is exactly what is. Going on here. These leaders should have met with Christ. They should have met with Christ with their Old Testament scrolls rolled out and heard him and said, Show us from scripture how this is all true. They should have been convinced over time that Christ was both the prophet and the Messiah. They should have humbly asked Christ questions and sincerely listened to him. They should have laid down any claims to the ruin the Jewish people. They should have laid those down at Christ's feet. They should have been, this should have been the event they were looking for. The rightful ruler, the rightful king, the rightful owner had returned. It's something like the attitudes we should have toward the ruling interest of our own bodies. We invite Christ as the ruler of our lives when we come to Christ. He owns us. He bought us with the price. So our job is to invite his absolute directing of all of our efforts. We need to step off of the throne as the ruling party of our life and allow Christ to direct our paths. Maybe when we put it in that light, we might see why they may have had they've been a little resistant to his authority because we find ourselves Having it be a little difficult for us at times, don't we, to surrender the rule of our thrones, the rule of our hearts, the rule of our vineyards to him. I think if we want to understand walking in the Spirit, I believe it's just that. It's inviting Christ's Spirit through his word to lead us And saying yes at every point. We've said this a lot of times, and I living in the spirit is not it's not complicated. It's difficult, but it's not complicated. It's not hard to understand. It's just difficult to bow our knee to Christ that easily and that often. So we'll look at our text knowing that this is the context. Christ is talking to people who should have looked for Christ's coming and been the most excited to see him. But in reality they hate Christ and they w they'll kill him when they as soon as they get the chance. Now this is where John MacArthur helps so much. He's good at spotting patterns. He's he's remarkable actually. And this is the pattern he saw. It three times. The hostile crowd would blasphem, Christ would present the truth, Christ would issue a gracious invitation. Verse 48. The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? The crowd blasphemes Christ. The crowd accuses Christ of having a character that he is absolutely not guilty of. In preparing this sermon, I asked AI for personal insults that were hurled at Charlie Kirk as he carried out his ministry. And these were some of them. You are living in a fantasy world of your own creation. You should be ashamed of your father. Your father peddles lies. Would you still be a white supremac if you were in a more diverse work field? You're a racist and a white supremacist. You're xenophobic, homophobic, and transphobic Most people I share the gospel with don't respond this way. And it's mostly because I don't spend much time around those kinds of openly hostile crowds. But if we share the gospel with lots of people, we'll find that some are openly hostile to what we are saying. I know some of you have experienced some of that. I've experienced it a few times Well, what we'll receive in these crowds is similar treatment to what Christ received, similar treatment to what Charlie Kirk received. So how should we handle that? How should we handle that? What should we do? We're about to see how. So we should take notes here. How do we handle witnessing to a hostile crowd? The crowd blasphems Christ. Now, why would they have called Jesus the Samaritan? It might have to do with Jesus just casting doubt upon the legitimacy of the leadership's spiritual legacy. Jesus was saying something similar to, I know Abraham, and you know Abraham. Well, the Samaritans kind of treated the Judeans the same way. The Samaritans cast a bad light on the legitimacy of the Judeans' worship and they made a temple of their own. They're saying, we know true worship and you're not true worshiping. So calling Christ a Samaritan may have been a slur inferring that Christ was selling out the true Jews This was a tremendous insult to Jesus in their minds. It was probably the worst thing they could think of on a moment's notice. Eventually, the Samaritans mixed with other races to the point that they were all half-breeds in the Jewish mind. That's how the Jews saw the Samaritans. They were sellouts. They had abandoned their God. Then they added the bit about having a demon. One wasn't enough for them. They had to go for two. This isn't new. We saw this in Mark. 3. 22, we saw it in John 7. 20. These leaders were saying that it must be a demon that is driving Christ to say all these things that they viewed as being insane. Because they frequently associated insane activity with demon possession. That's what demons often do in a person's life. It's amazing the Heavenly Father did not rob them of their breath at that very second. But God still had a job for the Pharisees to do in his time. Verse 49, Jesus answered, I don't have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I don't seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. The fact that Jesus responds at all to these folks to me is truly remarkable. They certainly didn't deserve a response. He could have walked away and been completely justified in doing so. But Christ tells the truth. And he doesn't soften it for their sake. In fact, he tells some very convicting truth in the clearest way possible He doesn't soften it at all. If anything, he strips it of anything that could be misunderstood. He's saying, nope, no demon. In fact, it's the opposite of a demon. I am led and directed and controlled and influenced by my father. No demon would ever live in such a way as I live to honor God the Father. Now I am serving the Father and you are dishonoring me. Who has the demon here? That's the reasoning. Who has the demon here? And he goes on, My life isn't about me, like yours is, mine isn't. I think these leaders would have seen that Jesus is making a contrast between himself And a demon and these leaders. I'm not living for myself. I'm not looking to gain whatever advantages I can gain for myself in this life like you are But different than you guys, God the Father is seeking my glory. And he is The final, perfectly accurate, eternal judge who will sort this dispute out that you have with me, and it's going to be in my favor. Then Jesus does something we might not expect. He offers a gracious opportunity. He says, Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. Here comes another truly truly. You know, we've we've learned by now. The truly truly is the drum roll. He's going to give another mind-blowing statement to these folks. And what is it? If anyone keeps my word. Now, what is the word that Jesus said is the primary thing a man must do? Okay, we start at the most important of the commands, and it's to believe. This has to come first, John three sixteen, whoever believes in Christ will have eternal life John 11, 25 and 26, Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me Shall never die. Do you believe this? And then John 6, 29, Jesus answered them, This is the work of God. That you believe in Him whom He has sent. So when Jesus says, keep my word in this passage, he's not saying that anyone who tries to do everything I say is going to somehow earn salvation. Salvation. You know, we know that's wrong. That is not it at all. What he's saying is that salvation is only found through Christ and his words. If a person is found keeping Christ's words, beginning with the words that tell us that we must believe in Christ for salvation, if anyone is doing that They're displaying something that only happens to those that God has saved. So if anyone keeps Christ's word, that person will never see death. See death. See death. Now what does that mean? They'll never see death. Because the scripture clearly says that if the Lord doesn't return in our lifetimes, we will die. Jesus himself said in 640, For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Jesus isn't saying that those who believe in Christ will not physically die. He's not saying that. So what does Christ mean when Christ says see death? Let's think about this. Does anyone actually experience death? To see death, one must be consciously aware of death. How can that be when death is actually the end of our consciousness? This must be referring to something that happens after death. Most Christians believe that when people die, they go into an intermediate state. That's the most common belief. Believers' souls go to heaven Absent with the body present with the Lord. And this wouldn't mostly most easily be referred to as life So we we're living, we die, we don't experience death, the next thing we experience is life. So in their experience, they go from life to life. They would experience only life. They believe unbelievers' souls go to hell and they await final judgment, and those folks would be tasting death They would die. The next thing they see is eternal death. Is is what's described as judgment, as the second death. Now others believe that death is death of the soul and the body, and that all will awaken at the final judgment. And frankly for myself, I can't determine which is true. At this point people are sent , you know, at the once they die, they have essentially uh rested, uh and then They come back to awareness. Once they come back to awareness, they're sent to heaven or hell. And believers only experience again life. They die, the next thing they see, life. They're aware before death, they lose awareness, they gain awareness, and they experience life. Unbelievers actually consciously see and experience this death, the punishment for their sins They die, you know, they they're aware, they die, they're no longer aware, the next thing they're aware of, death. This second death does not remove their consciousness. So ultimately I think this death must refer to the idea that a Christian will not ever experience the second death spoken of in Revelation. That's what I believe. So death would be more in terms of condemnation and eternal punishment. To see death is to see this condemnation. A believer won't see that. A believer will never see that. And what a glorious thing that we never will. Believers will not experience that place of torment, of eternal punishment. Now think about this a bit. How can a person experience death if the death being spoken of is non-existence of life? To see death as Christ describes it requires a conscious awareness. Now, naturally, these leaders take Jesus' words in the most literal, the most preposterous way they can take them. You ever have anybody listening to you and they're they're twisting everything that you say and they're they're not hearing what you're very clearly saying but But taking every effort to twist what you're saying so that makes it preposterous. They take them as if Jesus is saying a person who keeps Christ's words is never going to physically die. That's the one thing we're sure he does not mean. And the leaders are sure that that's what he does mean. What we have here is a failure to communicate. But this is the part I didn't did not see. What Jesus said here was an opportunity for those who are hostile to him. I did not see that when I was studying. Christ is holding out a way for them. He is telling them, if you will believe in me, you can live forever. You can avoid punishment. That too is how we should respond to a hostile challenger. You too can be saved. You too can believe. No matter how harsh they are with us, we should extend to them the graceful call to salvation. That's what Jesus did here. And what do you see next? The pattern again. More blasphemy. Started with blasphemy, now they're right back to it. The Jews said to him, Now we know you have a demon. Abraham died as did the prophets, yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he'll never taste death. While Jesus said see death, the leaders said taste death, and I think the words are pretty much synonyms. So there really wasn't a problem there. It didn't make much difference as far as I can tell. So the leaders have their accusation affirmed. They're accusing Jesus of making a claim that's so absurd only an insanity brought on by a demon could explain it. You must have a demon, they say. Just like we thought. Everyone dies. Abraham died. The prophets died. Are you saying that you'll stop that? Right. Verse 53. Are you greater than our father Abraham who died and the prophets who died? Who do you make yourself out to be? Wow, can you imagine what it will be like for these guys in the final judgment who have said this? To Jesus Christ, to his face personally, you met the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, and you said, What? It's popular in our culture to say that bad guys are really just misunderstood. They probably had a bad childhood or whatever. You know, the society around them has affected them in bad ways, a poor victim. But God has a different standard than that. And it's all based on what a person did with Jesus Christ. These leaders are blowing it. They are arrogant and selfish, and they show that everything that comes out of their mouths they're trying to take Christ to school. They're pretending to use reason. They have the gall to ask Christ who he thinks he is. The reverse question was the appropriate one. The right question would have been Jesus looking at them and saying, Who do you make yourselves out to be? Have you ever been in a state where you criticize God for the pain that he allowed in your life? It's the same sort of thing. Instead of evaluating Christ, we should be praising and thanking God for what He is doing for us, even in the midst of our suffering, which is exceedingly difficult. Otherwise, we're putting ourselves into the position of evaluating God. It's easy to do. When something horrible happens to us, it's easy to take it personally. And and say why me? Which at the end of the day doesn't help us. Job is our object lesson there Here again, Jesus tells the truth. He doesn't sugarcoat it. It's just the truth. Verse 54, Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It's my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God, but you have not known him. I know him. Here's Jesus talking to a crowd that are full of themselves. They glorify themselves all day long. That's how they live. They thank God they're better than other people that they serve. Who they call accursed. They love the praise of men. And Jesus lays out clearly in other passages all this about them. That's the kind of people they are. They're self-glorifying. And Jesus tells him again, I'm not at all like you. If I were like you, it wouldn't matter at all. Everything I'm saying wouldn't matter at all. I'd just be another human living a selfish human life, but I am not like that. I'm here to serve my father's interests because I do. It is he who will make much of me It is he who will see that I am glorified. It is he who will draw people to me for salvation. The Pharisees ask, what do you make of yourself? And Jesus is saying, Nothing. God makes it of me. Now you say, yeah. Jesus is saying to him, now you say, yeah, we're we're part of that club. We're the God servers. That's the God we identify as being our God. But your life proves that yours is a false claim. That's basically it. Your biggest problem, you do not know God. That is what Jesus is telling them. And Jesus would know this because Jesus did know his father. Have you ever had a close friend and you y that and you met one of that friend's acquaintances And by the way they talked, you knew that that person didn't really know your friend at all. They were just going by appearances. That's what's going on here. He goes on to say if I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. There are people who think that they should never be offensive in telling the truth to others. And as a general rule, I try not to be more offensive than I need to be. And I think that's a good rule to go by. But Jesus was holding no punches here. He is cr calling this crew liars. Liars. To their face without apology. He is calling them liars, blatantly outright calling them out. You're a liar to say that you know God. Well, you might think you do, but you don't. And if I said that I don't know the God the Father, I would be lying, just like you are, and when you say that you do know the Father. That is offensive. It's difficult to imagine saying anything more offensive to them. Wow. Truth matters. And there are times, especially when dealing with hostile and untruthful people, that we need to be forceful. Many of those who minister on city streets or college campuses are forced into telling a forced forceful truth Charlie Kirk was a good example of that. I mean, he got hammered over and over again for being so offensive. He had to be, because the truth needed to come out. That's the only chance that the hostile person has of coming to Christ. And then those listening get to see the contrast. And without that truth being laid out, those listening would never hear the contrast. They wouldn't see it. The lies that they believe have to be exposed. The hostility in their hearts toward God has to be revealed for what it is. The doctor has to diagnose the disease before he can treat it. And the diagnosis might be harsh, but it's the only chance to receive the life-saving treatment that these folks needed. Jesus had said that if someone keeps his word, he will not see death. Now Jesus says that Jesus himself keeps his Father's word. Jesus isn't asking you and I to do anything that he hasn't done. He was tempted in all manner of things, just like we are. He knows how it feels when we do not want to do what God says because it is so hard. He knows how that feels. But Jesus kept his Father's word perfectly. He is our example to follow, and he is nothing like his audience here. Verse 56, your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. Now, we don't know exactly what Jesus is referring to here. I really like Warren Wearsby's comments on this. He says, how did Abraham see our Lord's day? That is, his life and ministry on earth. How did how did um Abraham see Jesus' day And he goes on to say the same way he saw the future city by faith, and we find that in Hebrews. God did not give Abraham some special vision of our Lord's life and ministry. But he gave him the spiritual perception to see these future events. Certainly Abraham saw the birth of the Messiah in the miraculous birth of his own son. When we look at the stories of Abraham, we can't help but notice the similarities between what happened with Abraham and then what was fulfilled in Christ. He goes on, he certainly saw Calvary when he offered Isaac to God. In the priestly ministry of Melchizedek, Abraham could see the heavenly priesthood of the Lord. In the marriage of Isaac, Abraham could see a picture of the marriage of the lamb. Really, when you think about God providing the ram in the place of Isaac, when Abraham's arm was ready to slay Isaac, Up and ready to go. That's about as clear a picture of what Christ was going to do as was ever seen up to then And the ram that was provided, the sacrifice that was provided in his place Now we we don't really know, but the issue that the religious leaders had with Christ did not appear to be with the idea that Abraham understood what was going to happen in the Messianic age. The problem they had with Jesus was that Jesus said, My day. Jesus is saying Abraham was glad to see what I, Jesus Christ, would be doing in my lifetime on planet earth. I am that important. Abraham would be glad to see the Lamb of God sacrificed in the place of every believer in every land and every time. Yeah, Abraham would have loved that idea. Abraham would have been right there behind it. This again was a gracious invitation for the hostile crowd to join Christ. Abraham saw what I was all about, and he was thrilled, is what Jesus is saying. You claim to be of Abraham? You too can be thrilled. You can follow his lead. You can be like Abraham. And what do we see next? More blasphemy. A hostile response. This is the third round. It's what set them off. Verse 57. So the Jews said to him, You're not fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Here they go again. The Jewish leaders misinterpret what Jesus said in order to make it look absurd. If Jesus has said that in my lifetime on earth I've seen Abraham They could have dismissed it. That's that's bogus. That can't be. And that certainly is their goal, but Christ did not say anything like that. Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He rejoiced to see what was coming. He saw it prophetically somehow. Men, they are dense. And then Jesus takes the hostile crowd back to the truth. Jesus said to them again, truly, truly, here's the third invitation. Truly, truly, I say to you. Before Abraham was, I am. He knows these statements are absolutely true, and he knows that they're going to enrage his enemies. Before Abraham was I am. Christ is saying a number of things. First, he has seen Abraham. While he didn't see Abraham after being born in the flesh, Christ pre-existed. So Abraham Christ saw Abraham. Second, Christ was around prior to Abraham. Christ clearly existed prior to showing up in a body as a baby. He had said this multiple times earlier. This isn't a new teaching for Christ. And third, Christ said, I am. Not only did Christ exist , Christ existed as God. Now there are lots of so-called scholars that say Jesus never claimed to be God I'm not sure what they do with this text. I don't know how in the world they cling to that position. What we read next shows that these Pharisees knew exactly how to interpret what Jesus said. They got this one right. Their hostile response reaches the full extent. They're no longer even capable of hearing more words from Christ. Murder is the only thing they can think about. Silence the truth. Silence the message Silence this. 59. They picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Stoning was what Jewish people did to those who were claiming to be God and they were not God. Blasphemy called for stoning in the law. And it was one of the things that most enraged the Jewish person because of their so-called love for God. Yeah, they knew that Jesus was claiming to be God. There's no way to avoid that And Jesus never said anything to Deniah. Jesus was making it brutally clear to them. Then look what happened. Jesus hid himself and escaped. Why? Why do you hide? Why do you escape? When we can avoid the hostile actions of a hostile crowd without denying Christ, we're free to do so. We're told in scripture that you know if you're prophets are if you're persecuted one place, it's okay, go somewhere else. It's all right. We don't owe it to them to allow them to harm us. And also it was not yet Christ's time to die If Christ had been stoned instead of crucified, the prophecies wouldn't have been fulfilled. He had to be crucified. So how did he escape? We don't know. Now this is the question here, the theoretical question. Was Jesus in danger? If you ask the religious leaders he was If you ask the crowd, he was. If you ask the disciples, he was. But if you ask God, He wasn't. It all depends on who you ask. There are only two ways of experiencing peace in the world of sin and chaos that we live in. We can ignore reality. And that strategy has some real problems. But we can trust God in our reality. There's no other strategy that's going to work. God is good and God is strong. God makes promises and he cannot lie. God controls the details and only uses them for our good. When push comes to shove, we are Christians counting upon God to do what God has promised, or we are practical atheists at the whim of the environment around us. There's only those two options. When Jesus was supposed to walk away, he walked away. When it was time for his crucifixion, he He was crucified. And there's not power in heaven or earth that would have changed anything about God's execution of God's plan. And that is the reality that a Christian lives in. Let's pray. Lord, please help us to follow your lead in ministering the hostile Quran.