So make sure you get a paper to the right and one on the left. Where do you want to do one on the left? I just want to look through some goals for today. Actually a schedule real quick for today as well. So the schedule today, actually I have a paper. Yeah, we're gonna a framework uh for evangelism. And then we're going to be doing some proof exercises. So I hope you became willing and ready to talk. Because you're not going to be talking to me, you're going to be talking to one another and to well you will talk a little bit. But we will we're going to we're going to actually practice a lot. And if you haven't downloaded the app, don't feel bad. If you don't have to use the apps, it's it's okay with uh we're we're gonna go old school as well. Uh so some goals for today is going to look at framework. for future sharing opportunities. Some of you are looking at these signs and thinking, so I need to buy these signs. Would you follow my whatever I'll get to these signs? No. We don't we're not doing any of that. These are just a tool for using So don't feel intimidated, because it can be intimidating when we got signs. But we're going to a fair that they do. They have goats, they have sheep, they have all sorts of things. So this is going to fit in very well. But the other thing we're going to do is run two tools, and then we're going to uh sub through frames. So you can go ahead and turn to your first page working on the right end. Today I want us to look though not as in a tool. I think sometimes evictions and tools actually go stout because they focus too much on a tool. So I when I grew up uh we had a we had a vineyard, a vineyard, not like we were uh huge vineyard, but we had a uh a mine that had grapes on it. It was a very, very uh not well constructed grape line But the purpose of they call those things a trellis. The purpose of a trellis is to allow grapes to grow up. And I remember all the time the trellis used to have, it used to just fall often. So we had it was not all built. And we always have to go like hold it up. Because if we don't hold it up, Greeks actually begin to sort of fail. And when Jesus says, Come and abide in me and you will bear much fruit. Part of discipleship, part of being the Christianity. It's learning to share your faith. So part of today is giving you a framework, not just for the fair, not just for some specific season, but actually for your whole life hopefully, for how to evangelize. What is a good framework for events? So the same way Trellis holds up with mine, I don't help give us a framework that counts to shares. So if you're thinking, if you're with me at some point, you're like, man, I don't know what anything you talk about. You just ramble on about some framework. It's okay if you don't get the framework perfectly. The best way to get a framework is like 90, you just do it. You just have to do it in order to get well, to do what else was an angle. So I like that quote though at the top of the page by Douglas. I'm not going to read it off unless I would do it all Evangelism is a natural overflow of Christianity. Every Christian should be able to talk about what the Lord has done for him or her and what he means for him or her. But evangelism is also a discipline in that we must discipline ourselves to get into situations where evangelism can occur. That is, we must not just wait for opportunities to happen. And I talk to Christians all the time on the campus that students will come to me and they'll say something like, well Daniel, I don't evangelize. I don't cease to go out like evangelize, because that's weird. I just wait for the spirits to move me. My problem with that is we don't do that with any other spiritual discipline in the Christian life. I don't ever say, okay, well, spirit, lead me to read my Bible. I would never read my Bible. Spirit, lead me to pray. I never pray. We would never release sin. Spirit, lead me not to walk in sin. I would sin all the time. In the same way, I want us to see that evangelism is not just something we we do individually, this is actually something we do separately. And I love that we're part of the network of church. We're not all in the same church today. We have churches all over Garrett County, even Al Maine County, that hopefully will one day be able to come together and say, we're going to do missions at a place people gather so that we can grow ourselves as disciples in vertical church. But at the same time be able to not only share is individuals, but also share politically. So there is a framework you can see on the first page. But I want to do something. I'm not going to go through this enough. I'm not going to read. There's going to be a lot of points where there's a lot of content. I'm not just going to say just read it. Because you all are adults and you know how to read. So the content is here, but what I want to do is I want to give you some important definitions so you're not just playing for your thing. The first one is what kind of evangelism are we going to be talking about today? So I've divided it into two categories, warm evangelism and cold evangelism. You can look at the definition and you can just listen to me talking about it. So warm evangelism is simply like a relationship that you already have with someone else, that you do evangelism with. I will tell you if you're coming today for just warm evangelism, you'll be very disappointed. Probably. But what we're going to be looking at today is sharing the gospel with people you've never met before. Because I'm convinced actually that the more you share with people you've never met before, the better you will get at sharing with people you do know. So does that make sense? So we're talking today specifically about cold handle. But there's problems with cold handulism and form of vandalism. And it's this. Turn your next page. Think about a beehive that would be sitting outside here maybe at Burmane. We're gonna be talking about bees a lot today. So I'm gonna every time you hear me go. It's my cheesy way to remind you that there's things called bees that poison evangelistic efforts. So the first B we're gonna talk about here comes. It's coming in the window. Ah it got me. I'm stunned. What do I do? What's the first being? Because this is what you often have hear. You hear many Christians say these things. Be a friend maker. That's what you need to do. We need to go to the parents just be friends with everybody. And then one day they'll come to know Jesus. But the last person, here's the problem with that. Number one is whether they're not what they're doing. Here's the problem with that. Jesus never did it like that. The harvest has never been more white. This is on your page. But oftentimes there are barriers to sharing the goodness. And these these things actually keep Christians from sharing the gospel for years. They can actually poison missions. We just came back from Michigan. Where we were with groups that you saw these beast things everywhere. People literally living with these beast things and no answer there to fix it. So they're going around being friendmakers everywhere, but not sharing the gospel with them. So here's the problem, here's what we think. Delay sharing the gospel until a solid friendship has been the gospel. And people, we we saw this all the time. We were with so many Christians. And there were some that would do this, there were some that weren't doing this, but they would wait. They'd have to feel like they had to build this friendship before they shared the gospel. There's the antidote. But we're in COVID worlds, so it's your beast antidote. Share the gospel thoroughly in every relationship, even the warm relationships that you have. Okay, so if you read your Bible, you were going to look at John 4. So go ahead and pull that up. I'm not going to be expositive in this passage, I want to use it more of a framework to see how did Jesus do again for the time. And I want to look first at some assumptions we make that need to be addressed before we talk about sharing. Before I do that, I just want to share two or three people. So when you think about sharing, I like playing games sometimes called Good Worse. terrible, most awful thing that could happen. So if you're sitting here, you're thinking like, if evangelists, if the event affair goes well, what would that look like for us? Anybody want to share what would that look like where you'd felt like it would fill well? I like talking backwards. People would engage with their activities be spiritually interested and open. Yeah. People be open for sure. That's good. How about the horse? What have what allow you with that? I don't want to hear that. I don't want to hear that. It would be closed off. What's another one? How about the most terrible of it possibly ever go? Let's just get those out. It's okay. Because we're all thinking about it. Like, what if I start trying to this person like, I don't know, get no fist fight. That'd be mine. What am I gonna do? Like if I just I don't know. What if somebody else is turning out? So then or just being in the crowd shouting, somebody shouts now, this guy's a fool. Yeah, this guy's a fool. This guy's a bigot, look at this guy. I like the words we talk about We all get arrested and go to jail. Okay, there we go. Anybody? You're a regular, I'm gonna call my lawyer. Yeah. Those are all factors. Okay, now that we've got the worst possible situations out, as we're sending it across. Let's look at John 4. Does someone want to go ahead and start and read, starting with verse 1, uh, first four, what's on your page? Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing were disciples from John, although Jesus himself did not baptize. only his disciples, he left Judea and parted again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to the town of Samaria called Ziphar , near the field that Jacob had given to So Jacob Well was there, so he was um weary as he was from his journey of sitting inside the well because about That's good. That's good. So let's look at down verse four when it says, and he has a pass through Samaritan. I want us to note something, and I again I know that thinking about going to the fair is going to feel very abnormal for us, probably. And if it feels normal for you, come talk to me afterwards, because it's probably something not Like it's not like it probably is not gonna feel normal for us. Because this never feels normal doing this on the campus. Because this always feels like, why are we even doing this? Didn't want to listen to us maybe sometimes. And I want you to see something. The first thing. There's one assumption in sharing. The first one though is before we get to the divine product, is it actually a bidding price? Jesus, it says it in verse 4, he said, hit it, and he had to pass Hughes of Aeropists. The thing was that he didn't have to pass through Samaritan The text does not directly come out to say it, but there's an underlying assumption that this sharing, there's going to come a moment that you, when we're sharing, this feels very burdenless. But why am I doing this? Why I have to do this. And I just wanted you to know something, that there may be something else going on at play here. It could be the fact that if you're not hiding as clearly in Christ as what it hopes to be, or what what God hopes to be. Because in John 15 it says Jesus says, I am the true line, and my Father is the bindester. Every branch of me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit he creates. So this may feel worse at some of the moments, but I want you to know that evangelism is meant to be the overall Christian. It's not meant to be this thing that we have to go do. so burdensome, yeah, why do I have to go share at the finger? This ought to be for me kids to go share at the finger. We don't have to do anything. As Christians, we are saved by grace through faith in Christ. We don't have to do anything. We get to And if it ever becomes a point where you're like, dang I have to do this, maybe maybe then I can check that by the price. I wish we could talk for eleven today, but we don't have time, so I'm just gonna I want to look then below that after the line appointment. So don't have to read actually versus five per seven. Some of them may actually do that. So we came to the city of Samaria Soccer, which is a parcel around that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. And Jacob's well was there, so Jesus from his journey was sitting with us on the well, give us about the sixth hour. There came a moment of Samaritan to draw water. Jesus said , give me a break. Great. Let's speak with Resident Evil. Jesus didn't have to pass through Samaria. We already talked about that a little bit. But you know what he didn't have to do even more? He didn't have to talk about that woman. Actually, actually, he not only didn't have to at some level, he knew he needed to because the father was directing him in that way. And in the same way we're going to compare. In some ways we don't have to go share, but we get to go share. Let's not forget that. Jews and Americans though, as we know, most of us should know, we're not supposed to interact with one. So what Jesus was doing here goes against every evangelistic book you ever read. He was doing the thing in his culture that was in the naughty man. Men and women they'll talk. Not only men and women they'll talk, also Jews and Samaritan will talk. But Jesus thought him. He thought that it was a divine appointment. It was an appointment that he could have said, this is what it would sound like we would have saw most of our Christian life. Jesus would have she would jump to the well and Jesus would have said, nice to meet you. Like, oh, you make one or two? Alright, have a nice day. We would maybe add on that, God bless. And we think that's enough. He doesn't just say, gee, gee, I hope someday somebody will come and share the gospel with you. Maybe. He says, no, but he sees this as a divine appointment. that God has brought him to this well to see for a moment that here's a woman who feeds me. And we need to see, there's an assumption in sharing, that every time we get an opportunity, I was just walking to the park the other day. This is not even a joke. Literally yesterday. And there was a guy that I used to work with that I could have, in that moment, we were playing tennis with a friend. And in that moment I could have taken, I could have just been like, I'm just gonna keep playing tennis. I don't even give a pocket. And then go in and talk to him, come to find out that his life is completely unracted. In that moment, we don't recognize divine appointments when they come, we completely miss them. We were in Michigan, like I said, two weeks ago, and there were so many instances That we could have just walked around parks and been like, we have a beautiful day. Here we are. Lord, you're so good. Amen. And we walk right past people who don't know Jesus. Now I'm not trying to say we need to, in every moment, every person we ever pass, ever, we need to sit and start preaching that. I'm not saying that. But we need to get in our mind that we need to speak things out. Rather than just we're happy to do this. Go ahead and next page. Here it comes. Here it comes. Up gapling. Obviously we live in the United States. A lot of this, a lot of the DCP analysis, I love it so much. It came from a book called Any Bree. Anyone, anywhere, anytime, bring Muslims to Christ. I really like it because they see this multiple in their culture. Now obviously we're not sharing the Muslims, we're sharing the United States of America. We're the worst thing that we get to someone scouting at us. We're saying , whatever, biggest The same mentality though can actually sting us. Here's the biggest thing. The same mentality can be true to those living in the United States. We become so consumed with being viewed as judgmental that we never actually share with it. So let's go to the beast thing. What's the beast saying? The beast thing is bad things may happen. We may be called judgmental. So I must be really careful with this thing. Right? That's the beast thing. Answer those. Realistically understand guidelines set in place by the fair in this context. Count the cost, and share the gospel freely. God is sovereign over all things. That was written in a book that was for Muslims, that they would say in places that are closed countries, that literally if they would get caught sharing the gospel, they would be removed from. So I was reminded very quickly, very much so, that if we we in America have all this freedom, we have this whole big bubble of freedom, we celebrate it every July, where we get all my freedoms Got a big bag of freedom over here. And what we do is we waste them. So I'm just urging you, friends. Don't wait. We can't waste this Okay, so those are assignments. Okay. There's only one guideline that we have to provide by as far as affair is concerned. And they've never told me this. This is the one that I've used for to baby company station for over twenty years. As long as we don't impede traffic coming back and forth. So it's kind of a very vague line, but you know, don't go all over the place, but in our area, as long as we don't need to be traffic. So there's not even there's not any restrictions that have to pair at some level beyond what I can just say. So if we can we can we can sit we can go to fair and we'll say, ah we'll we'll just wait for somebody to come up and talk to us. I just want to argue like that let's not have that many topics. So it was against cultural expectations we see the background work. It was against cultural expectations and norms of Jesus' day. But that is doctrine and shared. Now we get to steps one. This is the first step. And so for some of you this may be like, wow, this is very elementary. But it's not. It's really not. Here's why. I'll I'll share with people so often and they'll they'll be like I've been a Christian for a million years. It's like great that's really cool. We'll be like let's go share the gospel and they'll just start preaching the gospel. It's like, what's that person's name? Like just get to know them. Who are they? Where are they from? Get connected. This stuff can be so easily available, but it can be so easily accomplished with, hi my name Daniel. How are you doing? Where are you from? So I'm giving us not just a framework, but I want to also give us transitions. For some of us that are good relations, that's not an excuse not to share. So I want to give us some transitions. Even if you're not good relational , got your pinnacle corner because here's a transition for you. If you can memorize these transitions, I'm telling you, you can have conversations. Do you mind taking a survey with us? And at the fair, there are so many things happening. This is why we use these bands. In places that are high traffic, in places that it's normal to do so, you might take a survey once. What it does for people is it actually it almost takes all this pressure that they feel, and we're actually coming and we're talking about the thing. So I want to do something. Eric is my, he is my person we're going to have a conversation with. We're going to call him unbelieving Eric. He's not actually unbelieving Eric. But I just want to practically and just show you. This is kind of silly because at some level he's a friend that I already know him. But I'm going to just start and say Eric's walking up. How's it going, sir? Good, I mean good. Uh what brings you to the bear tonight? I'm just walking around with crazy rides. Cool, cool, cool. No, no. Sweet. And I will tell you, that seems very movie-like thing, but that's not real. But I promise you, if you start and just say, hi, my name's Daniel, what's your name? We're just here taking surveys today. We're trying to get people's perspectives on the role speech. We just think it over and over and every And people will nine times out of ten will say, yeah, okay, sure, why not? You come to the pair. But I mean, you do it's either this is all the case. So I mean some level eight Why not? But I want you to do something. If maybe you don't like that phrase , I want you to take a minute and answer the question how long are they quite this person in your conversation? Do you have you have a pen with you? Go ahead. If you don't like that transition, that's fine. I'm not using this rigidness, but you need to have something. So if you don't use mine, that's okay. Use something. I don't care what you use. But an importantly clarifying question for this though, so if you use that transition, or if you don't, we need to be asking what kind of people are we looking for? What kind of people? Are we looking for the person that is obstinate of us and we really want to share with them? So we really push it in. He says no, I don't want to talk, but let me follow him around the pair. Obviously, a pilot happens. But there's something that the dictionaries call this is from the I and V, uh Persons of Peace. We're just gonna read that first person. Uh off to the person is peace. We'll have friends or relatives who are open to the gospel and welcoming to followers of Jesus. Hear that. That's the two words I love to highlight. Opening, open, and welcoming. And you can look down this stuff a little bit. We can often recognize the person of peace. There's several things that listen. Six things. They welcome you, they receive you, they're open to you and your friendship. And they're open to what you have to say about Jesus. And you can read the rest of them. So if you want more clarifying questions, they're pretty easy to find because they're the people, number one, that don't um They're not the ones who call you figures. They walk away. They're not those people. They're the people who actually I've heard putting that they lean in. They want to hear more. somehow. Now they might tell you immediately how it's going to do a lot of choosings. That's not what we're looking for. We're looking for someone who's just open to some sort of conversational interaction. So we have to give that away. But here it comes again. Here comes a bee. B really smart. I don't know a lot of theology. I don't know a lot of culture. I don't know where people are at. So I don't want to share. Some Christian workers are taught to master the culture and religion before they share the gospel. This can be called a barrier of giftedness If you don't understand , this is a thought process. If you don't understand every viewpoint from every other region, you should never share the gospel with them. Think about that unbelieving error. Here comes Unbelieving Eric up 2D. I don't maybe know where he's at, but I don't care because my remote. We don't nobody knows those things. So here's the biggest thing. I must understand every culture, every religion, become an expert before sharing the gospel. Antidotes, let's get to the beach thing antidotes. The gospel is relevant in every context. Learn all you can in your community while we share the gospel. So now we're getting into step two, coming up terms in phase. Step two, it's a gosh. So someone 's gonna want to read verses 7, John 4, 7 through 10. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, give me a drink. For his disciples had gone into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me? a woman of Samaria, for Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you lithium water. That's great. So we see what we see happening here is we see that the woman she recognizes what Jesus is doing. And it's interesting to me that Jesus gets to a God conversation with literally A cup of water. He says, ma'am, give me a drink. From that, most of us, most evangelistic folks would be like, whoa, whoa, whoa, you don't have a relationship, you don't know anything about this woman. But what he says is he says, he takes this simple thing and he says, let me tell you about real living water. Let me take it as a spiritual reality. So how do we do that then with these parts? So here we're back to Unbelieving Eric. Eric has entered in. He wants to take the server back. Great. Nice to meet you. And as I'm sitting there talking to Eric, I don't just say, well now I've got you roped in, let's go through this. What I would say to Eric is I would say Eric. So where are you from? Yeah, I'm gonna answer those questions. But I want to I want to talk to Eric. I want to interact with Eric. I want to know who's Aaron. What what about Eric? So as we're sitting here talking to him, we want to be able to do this. So here's the transition. Eric, do you mind sharing your perspective with us? So as we can cost, I just want to walk through this very slowly. So this is the tool we're going to be using. I don't want it to be muddy. the framework. So don't get this mixed up. This is the tool, and it can it can be placed in. Any good tool gets placed in here of step two. So step any you can use any tool. There are so many tools for individualism, it's ridiculous. Use any of them. I don't care which one you use. If you come with your own, you can call up the bridge, you can use the bridge, you can use the free circles, you can come with anything. But we're going to cover this tool today. So the first question I've asked there, now I'm literally into the tool. So the first question I've asked is, if you're like me, it's simple. I like simple things. Good news. To help you understand this perspective, we have all the questions you need to ask at the bottom of the thing. I love it. The questions, the answers are right there for us. So I would not walk into Eric and say, Eric, so share a little bit of your perspective. Which one of these would you choose most accurately to represent your view of the nature of passion? As you decide, I want you to recognize what we're doing here, the whole way across this school. We're literally just looking at the biblical worldview. So we're starting with the nature of God, we're moving to the nature of humanity, we're moving this to the meaning and purpose of life, and all the way across it. And that's all we're doing. We're not doing something super special. We're just we're letting them, they're like coat hangers, that they can hang their jackets of things they've probably never thought about before. So Eric, which one would you would you say? I say pantheism. Pantheism? Okay. Here's this. So I could just be like, all right, he's a pantheist. So you believe everything that pantheists ever believe. And it's like, nope, nope. Eric, how do you come to believe that? You know, um I just look around and I see the prints and see the V4 times. This is got like flashback things and everything like that. Can I keep passages and what is our feeling of elements? That does. Yeah. Can you speak a little louder to this? Yes, I can. The next question you could ask, again, back to people who like to look at the questions. So I asked them, how did you come to you then? How does that affect your day-to-day life? Well I just treat everything as it's got and I love it. I treat it with respect. And you know uh At this moment, it just so we're clear at any moment along these this tool , you can dive as deep as you'd like to go, as well as they're willing to go. But most of the time, that's not the point, because they only have, we need to remember as we were in school, we only have about five to ten minutes with people who are very generous with you. Why don't you want to sit here and see through a hate dial and business? Obviously because he has a plot battle for very long. Like, this is probably one of the first times he ever thought about it. And that's what I find the majority of people personally. I was just trying to get a key one because you may not see that each six things are described as a picture. Like it's written out there. Yes. If someone wouldn't necessarily get their opinions because they're reading all the different things. Exactly. Yes, that's very good. Very incredible. Because the definition is right underneath. So you'll hear people say, I hear this one a lot too. What am I supposed? That's the most thing. I'm like, oh that's great. We have a we have a category for that. So even no matter where they stand with it , we will say, I don't care what you believe, tell me your perspective on this. Because in order for us to speak the gospel, needs to be speaking. things. We need to know where do they put this thing. Now I'm gonna pause. So at this point normally I will say Eric. Do you mind if I share your final perspective? I'm gonna pause and we're just gonna go back to the framework just so we can see it. Fool we know. So here's the other thing. Oh, we hear another B coming in. Oh God. Be really incarnational. What that means, incarnational, if you don't know what that means. It means come and be a part of a community. be here. I have to live in Garrett County for 35 years in order for me to understand Eric 's perspective. Remember he's from Allegheny County. Now I have to move to Allegheny County to understand Eric. So B saying it is the incarnational life becomes the goal, and the sharing of the gospel becomes secondary. That's the beast thing. So sharing off the secondary to make sure I understand you first. But here's the answer. Let's give the answer. Witness broadly, inside and outside your community, to find persons of peace. to train them to reach their own point costs, which is their home, and communities that they cost. So I want to go on and look at step three. Before you do something , notice something too about block the world. Jesus doesn't just come and give this woman an infrared doubt. He doesn't just come and say, Woman, here's the theological truth about God most high. Obviously he doesn't understand it. Obviously. And he even points out how she's wrong. But he doesn't just come and he just randomly gives her information enough, which is what we often do sometimes in share. What he does is he has something really weird for today. He has a conversation. It's so strange. And you do this with people, the thing you will be, people will thank you for, if nothing else, is you're actually talking to them. You're not talking at them. You're not just shouting into the double script flyer of social media. You're not just shouting at them. You're actually just talking to them They will be if nothing else happy that they were able to share their own perspective. Even if they reject the gospel, they will be like, man, no one ever talks to me like this. Why? Because we live in a culture that's string with one another. That's fire. So, step sorry, that's just an aside. Sorry. So step three, give the losses. So we're going to read first and now we jump down a little bit in the narrative. Jesus does give her a theological thumb at some point. But he gives it to what she can answer. To her answer, she says, Jesus, we worship on this mountain, you worship on that mountain. He corrects her. He says, That's wrong, that's incorrect. But then he goes on and he says this. In verse 60, he transitions. Listen to this, someone already. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. The woman answered him, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You are the wife saying, I have no husband. where you have had five husbands and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true. So you can obviously tell that Jesus did not follow again the modern evangelism. He literally goes straight to the triangular for this one. He goes straight from the heart. Not really chapter, but he just goes straight to the heart of the issue. And he sees that here's the woman who's living in sin. Claiming she's a Christian. Claiming the love she's a follower of God. She's a follower of God. And here's what he said, here's what he says. Now for granted, he's the son of God. We're not. He's omniscient. He knows all things. He knows. He may be even talking for longer. We don't know. The whole narrative. But here's the thing we can do. We can listen really well. This is the trick. Oftentimes I find with people when they share, they want to do a lot of talking and not a lot of listening. But the trick of this tool, and honestly I think the trick of good manual, is learning to the first listen. Listen to what they're actually telling you, and you blow it away. That guy the other day I was talking to you We're no tennis. Start talking to him. And you know what? As I listened, it wasn't even on listen. It was just, hey man, tell us how it's like one. He opened it up and told me about the divorce he's going through. He'd just tell me about the answer that he had Guys, I didn't say a word to that. I didn't even have to say a word because he just told me. And we just listened. I want to be careful though when I say this about this. Because people will tell you things that you were not ready to hear So if we just listen. So transition for this. What do you mean by that? How do you complete that? I already asked that questionnaire. But how we would do is that after we would I would share with them the nature of the conference, we would just move for each of these. We move for each profession. And what we would do is we would share, we would let him share, and then we would ask, can I share? And I think I've only ever been told twice in doing these that I don't want to hear resective. So when you ask someone, most of the time they're going to listen to what you're saying. But I think that quote from a proof staff member is really helpful. She says this, she says be curious about people. Spiritual conversations are often about being interested. And other people enough to ask questions. Most questions of general interest are only about two to four questions away from the spiritual questions. People like to talk about themselves. Ask why people do things like think certain ways. None of that is about sharing. We haven't even gotten through the content. We're just about listening. Because here's the thing, the gospel needs nature with energy of closing. The gospel met me in a place because it's different than it met you. Was it is you sin? Absolutely. But is it different? Jesus doesn't talk to this woman the same way he talks to the men to Nicodemus just before this We see in John chapter 3 he talks to the many things much differently than he talks to the women. So we need to do the same thing. We need to be able to listen, to hear where we're actually at, so we can actually speak. Alright, next page. Here it comes again. God games. Another singer confuses good Christian behavior with sharing the gospel. Preach the gospel if necessary to use words. Friends, I hear this so often. And every other than maybe my blood oil , it's like saying Feed the hungry and if necessary use food. It's like, I'm not saying listen, I don't say that's the feed. I say it as a strategy that we actually think we can do that. The beast thing is live a godly life. And on splitting a godly life is as good as sharing God That's like I've heard somebody say was that which is more important in a manual? Living a godly life or sharing the gospel. And that's like saying which plane, which wave or plane is more important, the right wave or the left wave? You take one wing off, she's going there. And in the same way, if we try to detach godly living from evangelistic zeal or even speaking the gospel, we are making better. We are making a large distraction with the gospel survival coming. Here's the antidote. Live a godly life while joyfully sharing the gospel with anyone, anywhere, anytime. And this tool, again, is not for any time. Okay, just so we're clear. Because it will feel like I'm saying that we should do that. Okay, so you're saying anybody who listens. So what am I listening for? This is this is where we need this is where we need training. This is where I've found training needs to be happening, more than anything. So I'm going to give you two important definitions, and they're very long, and I'm not going to breed them all, but I'm just going to give you generalizations for them. They're called shadows and they're called sunbees. Shadows are the things in life that remind us that judgment is coming. It's almost as if they give an example on the definition, that it's like a it's like a sheet that's being filled with water. That the drip that's hanging over each individual and the drippings come, they'll hit us And oftentimes there'll be examples of like a lot of what we have to do with the loss of a job, of the global pandemic. Like we're all kind of living in some level underbeats a judgment, a judgment scene in some level. So that's some best shadows. Sunbeams are the things that are the glaciers, the common graces. that people will speak, or the people 's experience, that all people space. They could be the joy of having kids or grandkids, the joy of a job that maybe fulfilling them. If our goal, it's very simple, is to listen to people, what shadows are they experienced, what sunbeams are they listening to. So I'm going to ask Eric. We're going to get to human human nature. So Eric, this one is where you usually find the shadows and something to sell over there. Eric , what do you think about after I've shared up nature for the doctor have done? Which one do you believe is most true about human nature? And then Eric thinks about that for a second, maybe have a question. And Eric thinks about that. What I'm listening for is not just, because here's what will happen. This is where oftentimes we'll be like, man, I don't know how to speak to that. What if they give me something very, very general? Because oftentimes people will hear us and they'll be like, yeah, life's win really well, my shots went pretty well, like, or they'll say like, man, yeah, I'm kind of fearful of this pandemic or whatever. How do we speak about that? This is this is a good one for where we can get to that. We're even getting purpose. We can speak into those things. So give it a give it one. Let's see if there's an example that we can do. So I'm gonna say it's they're pretty neutral. Pretty useful? Okay, how they're gonna do that. Well I you know I think it well they're generally good, but there's some bad news out there. So how do you let them? Um, you know, just things happen to me in history history , right? Yeah, like what? Yeah, hither? Yeah, that was pretty bad. Yep. Okay, yeah. Sorry, jumping in that topic. We are really weird as humans. We do this thing where we think we're not as bad as Schitler. And if I'm if I've heard one person today, I've heard so many people like this. This exact one neutral. We're not as bad as Hitler, but we're not as good as Mother Teresa. Like we know, like we're not that good, but we're not that bad. Can we just put ourselves a few notches right between the two? Our job as evangelists is helping them to see that we are broken, that we actually are broken. What I would normally ask Eric, especially because we are guys. Have you ever worked with children? Uh but I usually do ask for that. Because very quickly we can see they are broken. And I didn't teach them any of those. So again, I'm not gonna continue this conversation right there. I'm not gonna explain one mutation yet. I'm gonna do that here in a second. So the transition we can ask is Sorry, transition forward is then you might as well share what we believe. So as we listen there, as we see, as we get to God, as we get through lostness, and listening to where this actually happened. We can then sort of speak into the specifics of where it 's at. But I blow my time and time and time and time and time again that as you ask people, they will tell you exactly what they need. Just like this woman at the well. What if Jesus Put his finger on. He puts his finger on the fact that she is seeking something that would never be fulfilled in these others. He doesn't come to her and say, Jesus is the Lamb of God that will sell the slaves the sins of the world. He says, you will never find this desire fulfilled at these myths. Isn't that interesting? Isn't that interesting that he looks at the shadow of her life, all these good verses, and says, you are looking for fulfillment, you will never find it. And that's that. And you know what that woman actually knew that. And most people, as you talk to that, they'll say, yeah, I know that. And then you know those sort of students? They'll start to tell you how good of a person they are. Then they'll start to defend how good of a person they are and how righteous they are. That's interesting. And now we can speak the gospel into those things. But we need to listen to where we're at in order to hear how we can speak the gospel into those things. Okay, let's jump to the next one. So this is the gospel. Who wants to read uh and again let's get down to John verse 25? The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I am I who speak to you indeed. Isn't it interesting? Again, we don't do the same thing for some Jesus did. We don't say that. We don't say I am doing speaking to you. I'm he. But the gospel is good to Jesus Christ. So often when I hear people share for the first time When I listen to them here, it sounds as if they're saying that it's bad news. Because they talk about the judgment, they talk about this, and they talk about that, and it never they never really get to the good news part. They never get to the fact that actually God has given you forgiveness of sin. Like God has accepted you. You receive this today. It's good news, Christ. So we need to know that this good news, that Jesus is the Messiah. Revelation calls it the spirit of prophecy. If you want to learn to be a prophet, go do this. Go share the testimony of Jesus with you. And do it with joy. The joy is that God has received us because we're with Christ and God. So that's the four movements. And again There probably should be a whole lecture on the gospel. , This is a huge assumption that I'm making, that everyone in this room knows the gospel and knows how to share the gospel. But I would really encourage maybe you're like, yeah, I don't really know what I would share with someone Good news, we're about to practice that here in humans. And I want you to not just share the gospel with another partner if you don't know. So I'm going to make it switch up. We have to pick someone who can come with us. We have to pick somebody we've never met before in this room. Maybe that's not It's hard to do the hard to do. Know everybody, whatever. Find people you've got you know the least. And we're gonna actually share the gospel with one another. And what we're gonna do is actually we have it's it's one thing is to share the gospel if you have ten minutes. It's another thing to share the gospel in a minute. What we're going to do is we're going to find one another and learn to share the gospel. And then you're going to hear critique from the other person. So we here's the thing. I can stand up here and say, God has sent his son Jesus and he has slain, he's been slain with a slain lamb who sins the world, and I can use all these things. And God is holy and he's all these other things. And friends, that's so religiousy or Christianese, that's the word I like to use, that it doesn't make a look of sense to someone who doesn't even know what sin is So we need to learn to share the gospel in such a manner, not obviously some of the one you have to do biblical words, but that actually meets them where they're at. And that's different. That's a hard thing to do. So I'm not going to go over this. This is just the four movements of the gospel. God, man, Christ response. God has made us, and here's the beauty of it. You can do it right from this. I can stand there with someone and show them from this that in the beginning God has made you. And here's the problem. He was perfect. He was perfect. This was him in the beginning. And he made humanity. The problem is that we broke it. Since our sin has broken, this is what it means to be broken. Is that all of our sin, all of our sin. It doesn't just make things more bad than good, as which most religious people believe, but actually that he , we are broken important. And he's something that's called perfect or holy. And here's the problem, is one day he's coming to judge this. He's coming to judge all of this. But the good news of the gospel is this, is that Jesus sent his son He was there in the beginning when he created us. And then he came and he lived the perfect life for us. He was always going to be used. He was always obedient to God. He lived for God every moment. And actually he has God on the cross because of broken humanity. And he has made a way for broken humanity to be made progress by his sacrifice. So if you trust in him today, he will give this perfect righteousness. It's called righteousness, perfect perfection to us. That's the hope of the gospel. So you see, very quickly, we can from these things use very tangible ideas that aren't religious jargon, but actually meet people where they're at. That fucking way too much, way more than I want it to. So step five. We need to be on step five. Get your decision. Okay, now everyone in the room has to say that. It's probably like What are we gonna do? Is he gonna go easy believism on us? Or what's he gonna do? I am very much so against the easy believism. But at the same time, I am very much for making someone see the gospel lays bare on their To the point that Jesus is who he says that he is, and he demands all. He demands all follow me. So if someone is sitting there talking, Eric's talking to me today, and we get to the end of this, and he hears for the first time that Jesus is Savior, he's like, man, I've never heard that before. And I can be like, okay, well have a nice day. Jesus isn't going to be said that he is, and judgment is coming on all those who don't believe. Have a nice day. Some sheep said, am I? We have to tell him, Eric, this is coming to you, right? I love you too much. This is why I'm here. I want you to know that he got on the cross for you. If you will receive it. And if I don't, they can ask you the question very simply in transition states. Do you believe what I've told you if you truly share the possibility? And there's been times, there was a fun specific instance, I wasn't even in the airport, I wish I was an airport. There was a girl on our campus that um at Crossburg that they shared the gospel for using particular solar and the other tool. But they shared it over and one of my friends Eric was sitting there and not not Eric, but She in that moment received Christ. And literally he said, if I wouldn't have asked her if he wants to receive this, she wouldn't. And she said even later, like if I if they wouldn't have asked me that thing, I would We just continued on with all these questions I had. And she's been a part of our Bible study ever since. Here's the thing about decision. We have to be able to link a decision with follow-up. So I think some of the scared is for us in the word in this room, for me at least, is actually when people say yes. Because we don't know what to do with it. It's like, oh crap, now they're a Christian. What now? Now the work has started. And here's the problem, if we if we detract or we pull away follow-up from decisions, what we end up doing is we end up making spiritual spiritual babies at some level and just leaving them into the worker room. Okay, well, go in peace. Have a nice day. No. This is where we this is and I'm I'm hoping to be able to explain this more at some point. point of how we're doing follow-up, that after every conversation we have with somebody, that we would actually be able to get their number, or find out where they're from, or be able to, and this is why we have the iPads hopefully, that we able to keep the data collection. together. So every conversation we have, we'll be able to, the person who's done the training, will be able to say, this is the person I talked to, this is their number, they want to be reached out to. Or maybe they don't. And that's okay. But we need to be able to put together the decision and the follow-up. Daniel, we'll also have literature and Bibles there too that Yeah. Yep, that's great. And you'll know. This is not going to be like an abstract thing. If they want to know Jesus more, they will very much just tell you. All right, last piece thing. Here comes it. Um And this is the one that prior was convicted from motion. Actually we mistransition, but I will explain that one more. Okay Lazy people aren't likely to leave medicate, but neighbor are strictly busy people unless they set aside time to share the time. I find that a lot of churches, as I interact with a lot of churches, they're more concerned about pulling other Christians from other churches rather than bringing new people into their church. I think if we could begin to focus on not just doing ministry things, and actually begin to focus on people who don't know Jesus yet, I think we would start seeing our churches fill with the people who don't get them. So here's the big thing. Doing good things trapped up the main thing, which is amazing. Here's the exit. Replace less important activities with practicing and training up. Because here's the thing, this training is not just for you. This training is for the person that you want to make sure. This person is for the This training is not just for the person you will one day train. This training is for the person that you will one day train, who will one day train, who will maybe one day leave someone depressed. As you hear this training today, and as you see this framework, this isn't meant to just be like, okay, they don't want the advanced school framework. Sweet, thumbs up. Great, you're trained. Now that the opportunity is you need to train something else. This is what discipleship is. Here's what a lot of churches do. Let me give you an example. It's a lift what a lot of churches do. They say, picture with me, if you will, a girl, and I've used this example before. scenes in the picture a girl that would be lost in New Jersey State Park. Okay? So picture her. She's her parents are frantic. She's lost. And us as the church, we're like, okay, okay, we're gonna rally a group, we're gonna go down to the ceremony, we're gonna find this girl. And you you pull up to to see if we can help in any way. You get there through Germany State Park and there's the church. You see all the group of people there. And what they've done is they've just set up signs at the corner of the camp. And they say like, hey, come to come come back, Mary, we want you to come back. And they're over there tossing cornhole or screw. One guy's got the barbecue fired up. They're down there looking for Mary. And the German estate car she's lost. She's desperately lost. It's getting closer to nighttime, nightfall. People don't make it usually past nightfall. What do we oftentimes do as the church? What we oftentimes do is we just we're out there chilling with cornhole. Token will. Don't worry, we got some signs set up. Maybe Mary will hear us shouting. Every once in a while what we do is we go, we shout out, hey Mary! You out there? Not that, I don't know, I guess I'm gonna go home. I don't know. Friends, weird. There's a desperate mission. And the desperate mission is all those who don't believe in Christ, he will one day perish. I don't mean this to be to like the old upon you. I I I mean this to say, do we really believe that there is a holy God who will one day come and judge sin because we are broken? And I don't I don't say it to be like, yeah, shh Just here's the word guilt for you. I say it to say there really are people who are lost. And as we talk to them, they don't even know they're lost. They don't even know that there's this huge judgment cloud that's coming for them. So friends, as we think about sharing, as we think about connecting, how do we do it with religion with fervor, with a fervor that is, sweet little Mary is lost, and we need to go tell her about it So our job is to be faithful. Our job is not to manipulate people. Our job is to be faithful. That's all we can do. So you can see in the next page, I clearly laid out the steps. So if you're confused or you're not really sure You can clearly follow those steps hopefully, and we'll be able to get to a gospel conversation. So what I'm going to do now is I want you all to lead me, Unbeliever Daniel, through one of these conversations. And you can pick a you can pick someone to go through it, maybe. But I want us to be able to do this. I want us to be able to you talk some people and be able to and what we'll do probably is we'll switch off the people. We won't prepare them all. But I want us to just see how well we can do this. And if we know the answer to each things. Because we we we can't just we want to make sure that we know this tool thoroughly. We're going to use a tool, we need to know it well. So Or how about how about you want to be keeping unbeliever error? Yeah, yes. Let's go back to the first conversation. That's actually probably easier. So what would you all say we believe? And this is kind of hard to read, this is why I don't want you guys to have the app So you can see the definitions maybe. So going back to this first question that Eric asked, Eric answered pantheism. pantheism, which says this, everything and everyone is God. Plants, animals, humans, and the whole universe is God. So what would we say to Eric? Okay, we said to Eric, Eric, do you mind if we share what we believe to you? So what do we do? I'm gonna be I'm gonna be very quiet. It gets super awkward. No, I don't like awkward time. I realize Or my list. Do you say that? Absolutely. So we're gonna pretend like we just started a conversation with Eric. Eric came up, he's talked to us, he wants to take a survey, he wants to give us his worldview, he's starting to say that he's a pantheist, which means that he believes everything is God. But now we are going to share with him what we believe So what could we believe from this list? We're monotheistic. Monotheistic, there is one God. There's only one monotheism God. That's great. There is one God who is independent of the universe and yet able to interact with it. So we have a shared Eric Eric. This is what Christians. Not only do we listen to us, but we share what we believe in. We believe in a post -modern world for capital people. So people will want to tell you, this is what I believe, and then they'll try to push it off on you. Let's just do believe. I want to say, no no no. And I don't I'm not meaning by that, but we just want to say Actually, Eric, this is what Christians for 2,000 years have believed. I'm not giving you my point of view. I'm giving you what Christian knows what the what the Church of Jesus Christ is believing. Now everybody said that the name of Mormon's. We're not Mormon, but this is what Jesus ' followers believe. So we would share that we have one God. There's only one. That's great. Okay, let's get on to QBN. So he said neutral. Yeah, go ahead. So when you share what you believe can you give them the definition of monophysic? Yeah so they would be standing here hopefully right after with me. Uh and uh basically he would be standing right here and he would be reading them right off So hopefully uh and I would want to explain it the best that I could. Someone want to give the best definition they could from that. Like you said, monotheism, Mark, would you like to defend where you see that description So this is why the app has helped you at some level. If you need help with knowing why we believe this, I'm gonna say Mark can do it on Quiz. Okay, so they pick one if you touch one of the is when they open up something. So if the app does two things for you, the app lets you do this with someone else but it also gives you personal training on why we think one of these descriptions. And it gives you description behind it. So that's why I really want it some level in it. Part of the homework from this will actually be that you each of us will have to share three people in our lives So whether even if somebody close to you, it doesn't matter who they are, some of them, three different people, because I want us to know the flow of this, and I want us to know the answers for why we believe this. Does that make sense? Yeah, but the answers we know are there. Like the answers that Christians can say are there. I mean, well I'd say 45 is one one example. I am the board and there is no other Um if you read it, Isaiah 45, 18. Yes says the Lord who created the heavens, he is God. Who formed the earth and made it, he established it He has not created something. He wanted it to be inhabited. I am the Lord and there is no other. Yeah, that's great. That's just the book Men wrote that down. You can't believe that. Sure. And then that's great. Let's do this. That's really good. What do you say to that guy? What do you say to that guy? Maybe maybe you don't know, and that's okay. As we walk through this, if if those kind of questions come to your mind, please just yell them out. We will work through all the garbage shows. I want to hear them because this is this is really hard. So and I will say it to you. friend we'll get some spiritual truth. That's what I was saying. If he said that to me, I'd say, we're gonna talk about it. Can you just wait? Can you just go with what I'm saying? That's what I was saying in that note That's a great question. You want to affirm them, especially if they bring up a great question point that you're not against you let's just be clear. I think it's fun to wait for justice. We're not I'm not against wave Or he would be asking that question. I don't want his team. I want him to know the truth. So I want to firm this again. That's a great question. We're going to get to it. Now he might be like, well how do I want to know it now? And I'd be like, okay, let's go ahead and so we'll get there. Great question. Because they're gonna do that over and over again. And here's the other thing I want us to be clear about. As we talk to unbelievably error, what we're going to see is unbelievable error probably has no consistency in what he's saying. So you're sitting up here like talking to him and he's like, ah, can't be able to. Then he'll get over here to Jesus and be like, ah, he's created the Savior. You're like, what? You're not gonna get like many points like that. If you get to those points, that's part of why we do this. So that we can say, hey, who said hand games there? Not Jesus creator and savior. You'll probably like, nah, thought of that before. That 's boom. This is the point, folks. That's why we did it. Okay. Thank you, Mark. There. Because what you're trying to get to is What's your source of truth? Yes. Where's your source of authority coming from? So whenever you get to that, you don't appear the scriptures, you know, are the only source of authority. Never ask the question. So what are you Boom. Boom shack like that. I love it. I love it. No, that's great. Thank you. Absolutely. That's okay. What is what is the piece then? So you make it sound like you're supposed to Take one at a time. Is it better if you think to let them get their whole viewpoint out, go out through each of the cards, and then go back or do it and we're one Do it one at a time. You can do it that way if you know they have 20 minutes. But I just found those people you not the majority not the majority, plus 20% you'll get to like cheers that'll be like man I gotta meet a guy I gotta think I gotta go and they're serious like they're not trying to just get away from you They just have things to do with it. So at some level, I would say yes, but I would rather get this far with me explaining the Christian view. And then then get the whole way through and not be able to share anything about the users. So you could always hand them like script restrictions or whatever to finish it out We're gonna get there. We're gonna get there. Source of spirit and fruit before we'll we'll get to that question. So but you bring a good point up. As you share like a bully monitor They don't want the rebuttal and say, well what about this? And you don't want to knock what they're saying down, but what you want to do is say Google address it. Unless they bring up something like this and say, well, what about the Trinity? This is what Muslims exist. What about the Trinity? The Trinity spaces, few believe in one God. We can hardly get past this with Muslims. Because then you have such a hard time with monotheism. Like that we don't believe monotheism. So then I was trying to show them on first. So we never did this with them, but so you're you're probably not gonna talk to me muscles. What you're probably gonna talk to the majority of the time is a lot of novel pressure So they'll probably tell you monotheism. Very rarely do I have people say something other than monopheism. They might go, the most common one that I see probably They'll do this. You'll look at them and they'll say, so which one do you believe? And they'll say, well, my Sunday school user would be this, but I really want to send an agnostic. That's what they'll say. They'll even say they'll even call it a some extra answer. So they'll say my some extra answer is this, but then they'll really actually believe I constantly. So I really spent some time studying agnosticism only because it says, here it says, it's not known if God exists, it's not possible to know if God exists, or it doesn't matter if God exists. So you really want to unplug like what does that mean for you? Because here's the problem. Most agnostics and most ACs I talk to, they are for purposes of speed. And I'm not leaning that in that message is sad. It truly is sad. When we say that God is monotheistic , what we believe is that in Genesis 1, he has given up here something. He's given us purpose. And I mean if you try to distract Genesis 1 from the story of how we got here, they have to know the purpose. So I would ask them something like, I know they have no purpose, right? Okay, so I would say, so what's your purpose in mind? You know that. So you don't need to say, well, I assume your purpose is nothing. You don't need to do that. Ask them, what is your purpose? And their answer will be very self-centered. So then when they come over here and they're like, yeah, I like to live for others. It's like, well that's funny, you said over there that your purpose is in life is to live for yourself. Oh, crap. Yeah, you're right. I didn't say that too that way. Because I never thought about it first. Like, just remember that. That's just an aside. This is the normal answer we see. Sometimes we get black idea, so we'll start the idea of that. That's been a little rebuttal to it. He here is the Christian viewpoint. Okay, what about human nature? He said neutral. He said neutral. This is the most common answer. By and large, by far, everyone believes neutral. So which one would we set as Christians? Broken? Okay, so why not more bad than good things? And this is what we would do. People are born with a strong desire and ability to be selfish and do bad things. So let me read that again. So why not more bad than doing? Because that's a very common answer too. Some people say, well, more bad than doing. People are born with a strong desire and ability to be selfish and do bad things. Why not that? Maybe because it would allow room for someone to uh resist those desires and be other person. That's great. So do good works, like like do more good things, like and tip it the other way. Yep. And absolutely it's workspace. You both forget this. That's good. So it's not all badly good because then it becomes work-based. And you notice every one of the things up here, other than Romans , is worse-based. So perfect, work-based. All they're all work-based. But what we would say is we would say which one? Broken. Broken broken? Okay. Who said broken? Well, I was actually just thinking our definition in in a discussion with somebody, our definition of bad and good is going to vary. Exactly. That's great. So the broken would be a balanced and and it is what it is. It's broken. Adam and E, you know, it started with them. It broke. the relationship with God by disobeying. Yeah. And so that is definitely the best one that's not going to give you It's a rabbit trail of other stuff, I believe. Besides it being true. Yep. That's great. So you guys are back that up? Completely quizzing you, so don't feel anxious. Anybody else want to help them? We'll deal with Genesis. Genesis? Thanks for getting this. Beautiful. Okay. At that point though, I want to be clear also this. I want to really make sure Adam explained what six there that he's understanding the question. I'm not just gonna be like, all right, we're broken, Genesis 3, we ate the apple, boom, next. I want to be like, do you understand what that means? Like what do you what do you think about that? What do you think about the fact that we're broken? And then they would usually say, this is usually the moment, or uh the interim lawyer, people begin to come out. They will begin to say, well, I used to work with a board. I used to have this conversation. I don't know, like things that you be like, like I had a guy one time, there was a guy in in Michigan that literally threatened to spend. That he wasn't broken and the Quran's not broken because there was a woman who gave a dog water and shoe And that was a good thing. So therefore we're not broken. That's what we're trying to do. I'm not trying to say this. You will hear some ridiculous things And that's okay. You don't need to be like, stupid. Like, be gracious. You can be gracious with us. Because the thing is God's gracious with us. And we're we are just as wicked and have just as silly and ridiculous of ideas. And so that changes our heart. There's no hope for this anymore. On some level that we need to come back to We're broken, here's how. Let's make sure we can explain. We've also had where we explain what sin is the point because broken does not necessarily mean you know they understand that we are you know we've been all this and it's very short story that yes so I think if at that point you can bring in when we when we talk about being broken is Because we are all sinners. We bring in the Romans passage to Boston. And then explain that that doesn't mean you don't do good things, doesn't mean you don't do bad things. But what you say is whoever have sinned. And most people will say, Wait, I have sinned occasionally, you know, live or cheat it or something. You know, and these images see that yeah, because of that little break, you know, that's that's close in and that's what breaks. Yep. That's great. you find the answer to the first question and the progression in which they answer each card. How much do you find yourself trying to adjust to it? And I guess the example I'm getting It's like he's saying anti so he is a wrong and won't be for God, which when you step to the next part of human nature And they don't understand sin because they don't understand God. So you you try to say, well, they think that there's more sad than good or more good than bad because the dog and water and shoot will take relative to that. what we see in humans. Okay, that sounds like a nice thing, but they're not comparing it to the standard by which we know it's invalidists. And yep, so you you try that as always. But you don't have to do the don't really Yes, I point them back. I try to tie these together like put the shoe, shoe length. Because if you don't want to, because this one is the I found that the nature of God is becoming like we can just put it in here as some weird esoteric things and I really try to as much as I possibly can ground it in Okay, Christians believe this, but we believe now God is holy, God's perfect. That's the problem. Now do you see the problem? At least how we're going to deceive the problem at some level. Does that make sense? The most we can't. I very I I don't if you're looking for consistency in what they believe, stop looking for them. But It you would live literally you wouldn't even get past the second card if you're slowing for consistency. So call that one can, but You will say this is not a good thing. Yeah, it's not a debate. That's the point. Yeah, it's not a good faith. You just want them to see the differences between what they're saying and the Christian. And honestly, a lot of times they will really try to give a a really walty Christian view. That's why it's really harsh upon some people. Like if they're a nominal Christian, they'll say, yeah, like again, some of these things are going to be broken, but I think we're more neutral. So you really want to start a lot of line at some more good things. Exactly. Yeah. Yep, that's another one, for sure. One of the ways uh John Piper points that out. He uses Romans 323, but he be translated. We're all sinned and we haven't glorified God as we should. That's our greatest sin. We have to recognize But it's you know this will really work here. And if they're an atheist and they are a star team kids or whatever. That's a whole different topic than in human nature. Okay, so you know what you 're spot, okay let's talk about human nature then. You know, and go from there because they wouldn't necessarily have to believe on kids Absolutely. But it is good to connect them if you can. And it's definitely again it depends on how much so you have to be prepared and and see too how much time do I have with this person. They're sitting there watching, they're like, I gotta go at this time. Don't don't fiddle with things that are like And honestly, I would keep going back to you. Walk the step of the Spirit. If God is correcting you or saying like move on, move on then. Don't believe it. Don't be the dead words. But you shouldn't do that for all day. Alright, the other experience of the business was also very a lot of the first day of years and the last several years they could station the events survey with the deadline. You'll get a complete range from people that will give you I I found that most people will at least give two notes But it may go to this it'll give you all the way up. You just have to follow up spirits. Yep, for sure. All right, let's move on because here you can see how quickly This turns into all the discussion, but we're not going to get time together. I rather have time for us together to practice. Eric. I'm not gonna be in person in life. Uh and now I would use I would pick three, but because it's mine, I'll just pick two. Okay. I you know I'd say for sure the live for others. you know, to help others. So how do you go? Um like why do you choose the liquor? I just feel like being in a you know, like I said, a useful position to just, you know, pick it up, people around us that help them out, maybe they'll be more good. And how everybody loves each other. And I can also say love and peace. Love and peace. You know, everybody which we need doesn't think that we just keep loving everybody to be a better person. So how can we do that? Well, if you want somebody He is truly, you are truly towing the line of what the majority of people say. And here you want, they'll throw another one out, sorry. Um live or still they'll literally say, I live for others, but then they'll say, well I gotta take care of this stuff. I gotta learn from myself. Like that's like a natural law of humanity. You know me, I gotta take care of myself. Like you can't take care of your stuff, you can't take care of us. That's what they'll say, and that's what the market. There we go. So okay, so what would we say to carry this? Actually another question I would ask you as well is how well do you feel like your living system? I want to work for others. Well I'm not at work, you know. I try to I give them charities and you know this thing. I mean all right, I can do it at the end. That's good. Thanks, Eric. Well what were we saying, Eric? Who wants to speak up? Yellow. I don't voice I'll voice with her first. And some of the options we were in to overcome ascendance, to live for others, there is none, live for self, be after life, live for God, love and peace. So you draw um so you draw normally add to three? I try to add to three. Yep. Which one is more fulfilling, area Uh living for others, I would say is that great. Yeah, sure. Yeah. I love being love. Oh, you need love. Anyway , what were we telling? Live for God. Let's forgot. Yeah, Jesus said that these case that we might have wise, we might have super school. And really when I'm going to live for God, we're for God and we keep it all the other ones. That's great. That's great. Alright, we need to move on. That's good. Thank you. What else did we say to that video? Anything else? We were sort of rebuttals that you may really make. Oh. if they say good for others, you can say, Well, we don't have to live for others because we can do things for others. We can't love one another just like you love life, love and peace. It just has to be for the real reason for the right reason. The bottom line has to be for living for God and then living for God we do. these things. That's great. Thank you. So you can tie in the enhancer. Yes, absolutely. And it really points back to if you really want to do full out picture. What you can do is put a point set there and say, live for others. But I thought you said everything's God over here. How does that end up? So you're saying that like what's the end? What's the end goal in eternity? What do we get? So begin to go questions, begin to goals in what you say. And not to do it immediately, but you can just say, man, I'm really curious, and you say that, what about this? That's that that's the way we listen, but ask the question. We ask you questions, ask questions we listen. We play over things. So okay, next question. Source of spiritual truth. Eric, where do you find your source of spiritual truth? I think you can only pick one But every single time people always want to come with it. And the truth they try to always put is self-discovery and some that's making it happen. And it's truthfully relative. That's great. Truth is relative and self-discovery. Let me read self-discoveries. Reliance on one's own feelings, intuitions, desires, or experiences to discover truth. And truth is relative. There are no absolute truths, truth is subjective, therefore what what is true for one person is not necessarily true for another. Welcome to 2021. And this is the following apartment. And I would be I will be honest with the amount of Christians that I've met that expect to tell this one is disgusting. So right, true. Self-discovery thing. So how can we do that? Well I just I just knew what feels good and I feel good on the inside, so that's how I gauge it. So I think it's the UD exploring is very good. Um I'm pretty anxious Yeah. So um like I said, it it doesn't feel good, I don't know if you can do it, but okay, it's like that's just not good. Yeah, don't go for your health. Just so you know when people say things are ridiculous, which if you do this long enough you'll hear it, it's like normal, they'll say ridiculous things. So the question I always wonder is what do I say ridiculous things And so you can always say that inter ridiculous things? Interesting. Very interesting. And you can say it's a crazy person. That's very interesting. And sometimes they say ridiculous things. Exactly. Yeah, you never want to say this is ridiculous because at some level like they're just giving the perspective to do. Okay, so what would we say to Aaron? What is the source of spirit for us? Okay, just second writing. Okay. And what else will we say? Let's call it Mark out. I won't put it in the spot. By the way, I almost at Rosper 's attempt to move this one. Not because I'm here to because people will sit here and argue with me for so long on things that they think they know about the Bible, that is ridiculous. So I will I'm telling you. It's it yeah, well it is ridiculous at certain points. It is ridiculous at certain points. At certain points I've had to literally copy the last thing you are not telling the truth, then that's that's a lie. Like I don't know that that's a lie. So this is the moment where I I'm just telling you they'll be like, you know what the Greek said when it says at this point? No, what does the Greek say? And then they'll be like, oh I'm I'm not sure you 're like, okay, great. So uh just so I just warned you with this one not not to sit Spursion used to say we don't we don't defend the Bible. We open up the Bible and under the Bible defensive itself. So do not feel like we have to defend the Bible. We do not defend the Bible. The Bible advice itself. And oftentimes people will get very annoyed at that one, and that's okay. Let me at least. Because every other one of these things rests upon themselves. They are the archivator of truth, which goes right back to, usually, agnosticism. It's ironic, the same people usually say that are their own God. And that's what I do in front of them tell me that there's never self-discovery. I would literally try to tell her, try to gently tell them, brother, I think what you are doing is you are making your own, you are your own child. And so your determination is true, and then it's very shaky very shaky. Is that I guess go ahead. Doesn't hire an evidence still with safety brain? You you could say that, so let me read it to you. That's a good you bring up a good point. Because some of these some would say reason and they would say the the the Bible is logical. That's what they would say. But listen to what it says only believing what you can see with your own eyes or hear with your own ears. So we do have hard evidence. What you're saying is we do have hard evidence. But I don't you just really want to say this is saying only what we can see. We would say no we believe by faith. By faith in some of God we believe. So I was seeing that on the lion The Bible speaks for itself and understands itself. Absolutely. And you can you can tell them that and say, here's the thing, the Bible has hard evidence. The Bible has reason. The Bible has oppositions. The Bible has spiritual encounters. But the Bible is the source of spiritual truth. Does that make sense? So it has elements, but each one of these things, like reason is the use of region and minding to discover spiritual truth and the answers to light studious questions. So it's only using reason why And what we would say is these other things that can help us understand the Bible, but they're not the source. So we have to have a source, something concrete that is. This is gut word. So just just make it guide. Cookie at that point I just say you don't spend a lot of time if you don't have a lot of time to say. Um listen, I we can I can give out if we have time. I'd love to talk to you about how the vibe was a reliable sort of in critical events that's been done like but Can we go back to that? Yes, Tom, I'd love to go with that to you first. Absolutely. But you know, you bring up a great point that in any moment that you feel like this is becoming belaborous or is heading in that direction, you can do exactly that. I would love to talk to you more about that. What's your number? I would love to connect with you more. Here's the beauty of follow up in this county. We have churches all over this county. We're not trying to fight for people, we're not trying to this is a kingdom activity. So we want to be able to, maybe you connect with somebody that lives in Allegheny County, maybe. But here's the thing, we have churches in Alligator County Let's get them connected to a church that they want to know more about the Bible. So even if you personally, as an individual, can't connect with them, you can say, well, some of the world. We would love to have you connected to someone You bring up a great point. Thank you very much. Seriously. Is that anytime when it becomes the labors, just say, let's talk to work about this? Let's do that. So good. Well thank you. I think then uh I can wean asked the question about where you gave example of uh the files written by just you would say um also got reasons. Well you've reached the point in the conversation where it's like a wall for us if they were to say, well, I just don't believe that. What I guess what I struggle with a lot of times is like you know you just feel like you're making round you can't at some level drive in and say so what do you do when you just When you're presenting things and they just thought I'd have okay with your point And then you say he was the first president of the United States. And I would say, well, do you know him personally or do you have a deal? Well no that's you know that's just I'll say we'll be at some kind of air wrong. This is why this is why I'm I'm just saying this. This usually is the second point. If I ever leave this out, it's because genuinely I will spend 25 minutes dating or talking to somebody. about. And they will just continually try they will talk about documentaries that they've read. They'll talk about 50 million things that their Uncle George told them. Just things that it gets to a point where you have to say, I would love to talk more about this. Please let's talk more about this. But I think you're wrong. And I think you can solve wise. I can show you hard evidence to show you that it's not thanks to hard evidence, not as in source, but to say we do that major script. We do that. So you can get there are evidences. In the five-minute conversation, it's just never fruitful, ever. I'm not saying you shouldn't do it, not saying there isn't heaven 's, but it's just not a word podcast. We're running out of time. Eric, you have that Jesus. What do you say about that? Uh these are all great questions by the way, but I really wanted to have the opportunity to share one of them. Cool. So a very great spiritual leader. Jesus was not God, but a teacher or a prophet who communicated ideas that agreed with other religions or philosophies, also known as the Islam beliefs. So how do you think with that? Well, I mean, the things he said are so nice, you know. There are little tones, just the one weird ones, that I will laugh in moments like that. And I try not to try not to laugh because they will say what what you just said. I've heard also, Jesus never talked about hell. I don't want people to be talking about hell. What are you talking about? So again, I don't like recognizing that. I want to hear it now. Okay, sorry. You said you talked about this thing. Yeah, I mean about your name there's yourself. Don't don't judge. So that's what you like to wild. Well I could I mean I was the rest of the you know No religiones. Okay, do you think it's the world to spiritual leader? Yeah, okay, I have to. So what what impact do you feel like Jesus is a great spiritual leader as a person? Well, I mean in my like I would say he kinda does, but I it's just like one of those people you can look back on and say, hey, there was that guy. That's kinda like one of the dreams At this point, I would really want to ask. So let's address what what would we say up here as Christians? Our creator and maker. Okay, good. That doesn't let us away for analog. So why would we say that? Let me read creator and take it. Jesus is the eternal and holy God, together with the Father and the Holy Spirit, who mystery known as the Trinity, he lived a perfect life, died on the cross for our sins, and rose from the dead. So why would we say that? That sounds really dumb to say, like David, that's a very basic question. But when you're talking to someone who has no clue about that, we need to be able to defend the most simple truth. I think it was RC Scroll that said, I need to be able to explain to my grandmother the most complex the most complex things like paternity to people especially a way of achieving an understanding. And we need to do the exact same type of care. I would say the Jesus from the same mouth that I am the way that she might come down from the father trusted me and and point back to his question on the problem with him he said he was a great guy and a great teacher. Actually if he wasn't God then he was a liar and winning stick because He was a good teacher is because he claimed to be God. And if you don't believe you really was God, then that's you know, it was point back to he he said who he was and That's great. We have evangelism ground. That's great. Thank you, David. Okay. Anyway, that's really good. John Cruise. John Cruise. And I think you're going to get a lot of um, well can't we just tolerate everybody? Sure. And we're going to get a lot of that more of, you know, why does it have to be speaking See, this is beautiful. And this is why I continue to come back to you and they'll say, we'd like your respectively I said, correction. It's Christians for all time. Where you I let you give me your perspective. Let me give you mine. And then I would try to, in the best way I can, to explain how it's consistent. Look at how it's consistent. We say that God is monotheistic, and he's perfect. And then go back to the gospel from these pictures. Because here's the thing, we're not using religious yard. We're not using like Jesus is the slaughtered lamb or God in the city look like no. We want to say Jesus is this into his head. He says he educated from God. He was the one from God and that he has came to redeem broken humanities. So does that make sense how he wants to be able to tie all of this together? And that's why I made you download the app, or hope you can download the app, so that you can know very clearly the flaw of this. And even if you know someone very well, I just challenge you, if nothing else, practice this at least three times And just see, even people within their house. Let's walk through this. Let's find some wonky answers that we're going to hear. And let's walk through it. I want to address this in those point. People will always, almost always say, Jesus said, this is like the most universal answer for people who say, hey, do you know this? Well Jesus said like the golden rule. That's what I try to live my life on. Treat me well to others and you have to do to you. And then you want to point them to the passage to the literal next verse that says, For wide is the gate and narrow is the path that leads to righteousness, and few will be there to find them. I'm just telling you, I can't tell you the number of people who say, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I just follow the golden rules. And go back and read the Bible, friend. Like go back and do this. And at the end of this, if they even say like This is where I would ask it. Are people at least what I'm saying? So you don't see the transition, how would we move from this into a distinction? We move very quickly and very very Again, not subtly, but not manipulating what I would just simply ask Eric, Eric, do you believe what I'm saying to you? Not because you can tell he doesn't believe what I'm saying, because he's rebounding what I'm saying. Okay, so you don't really need to ask that person. But if Eric is just silent, just quietly listening, ask it. Eric, do you believe what I'm saying to you? And often people underwhet people were like Catholic, but like, praise God, amen. You claim to be a Christian. Let's get connected, let's follow up in some way. Doesn't be like, ah I gotta say, I got something I gotta do. And you know what? In the same way I would just encourage you. Friend, Jesus is either this or he's or he's not or he's none of these things. He's either this and he's demands you follow him or he's not. So please stop living a hypocritical lifestyle. Are you a part of a church somewhere? I mean you just say, yeah, I'm a part of a Unitarian Episcopal church or whatever. I don't know what they'll say. They'll just say something, or my grandma in the church. Just encourage them, could we follow up? Could we follow up or could we get you connected to one of our local churches? And again, we don't need to continue toting like we're badass. Honestly, I'm telling you, probably not to mention that you're a Baptist. Because the moment you mention your Baptist, they will say, we're once saved, always saved. They'll say some things that they heard their great Aunt Sally say about Baptists. You don't need to tell. The Western Baptist Association banner will not be on display. Yes. And and again, you can expand who were there with. We're at collaboration with churches in in Garrett County, but I'm telling you to know that you say Baptist, they'll think Westboro Baptist. Which were like, we're not them, but you're Baptists. It's like so rather than trying to explain that, I would just encourage you to continually come back to you. I'm a follower of Jesus. Because people will say, well, I know Christians in my life. Blah blah blah. If we were to go back to Michigan right now and talk to Muscles, I would never tell them I'm a Christian. Not because I'm not a Christian, not because I'm not proud to be a Christian. Because they have so many ideas of what it means to be a Christian that are so ridiculously crazy that are not true that you can say, I'm a follower of Jesus. The Christians were first called the way. We're followers of the way. That's what they were called. That's what we do. We're followers of the way. And that's what we need to have access. So you'll see it. Because at one point you're going to mention the yellow crisis, and that'll just be like shield up. Shield up on the top of the I just the guy I talked to the other day, he left the task force. This doesn't go more than two cases. He mentioned how his one pastor, who's a Methodist, stole all of his grandma's money and ran off with another one. That's his view of Christianity. So just because a claim somebody claiming was ripped off their message and their life does not mean that all Christianity is wrong. So I just continually come out and you will see all these things in the same. You'll see them continually come around, like it's ridiculous. And Sue, you'll make mistakes. Don't worry about it. God can cover all that. Amen. But we do our best to be fake and we share. That's all we do. So, okay, we are running out of time. So what do I want to do today? You will have a mixture at the Garrett County Fair, like we do not have at the Allegheny County Fair. You're gonna have a mixture of Garrett County and regional people, but you're also going to have an even helping of people of the turbulence from outside. So um Tourist no one. But it's tough. But we didn't really talk about this, but you know, the one thing is, you know, tell them. Get the contact information. I can assist you with finding charges to follow up no matter where you're from. Yep. So that's that's you need collaboration. People ask me oftentimes why we do collaboration? Why would we run the SPC? This is why. This is why. So we can collaborate. As Christians, we can come together on the same mission. and collaborate as friends and brothers to rest. Okay. Do you want to also mention about the Science sheet so that if people are interested, there's a Science sheet on podium there. There will be three, four hundred people doing it every night. There's only one sign up right now because we might have ways hard if you're done to make sure. Yes, and that's that's and you would sign up with your name and your phone number. So being number text you and reminds you of stuff that you And I don't think there's so much nothing monster, but that's what I'm responsible for. So I need to know the numbers before we get to Fair week so I can secure the passes. Yep. And it's free. Again, it's free to get into the fair. Yeah. No, no. It is not. It's free to use volunteers. I told you to do that. Okay, well we're gonna have to talk about that. It's just that I need to do that on the front end. I will be coming down here about eleven o'clock Saturday morning, the third. That's when I need to have the information. It's not the same as we full price score again, but it's pretty close to it Over the past history Dr. Wisconsin West Now, the association has paid for those passes and then given them to you. So they are pretty huge because you're coming to do a business. So we we just got enough because my plan is to have passes in and be able to get them to you with the rest of my Z Bruce or correct it to you so they have to do it. Perfect So please sign up. If you have filled out if you got an email from me, that means I have your information. So you can just email me back, or you can sign up. So the email me back or how they're and yes, your time and be in there three nights and I'll be there three nights, the evaluator around how you get stopped or everything trust me that will be fair. And I would I will I will add them to that once. If if you're like, man, I I've never shared before, I don't feel comfortable sharing. I'm going to do my best. to not have you share alone for the first time you ever share. We're going to have someone walk you through it, show you how to do it once, and then the next time you're going to walk next, but you're going to go through it and then you get feedback. So we're hoping to do as much trade as we can, but this I hope this is not enough. What we talked about today, I hope this has been a lot more of a framework and the nuts and bolts of available. But yes, please sign up and please let us know what days. Yes, the sign up is for the fair. And she has the number of days, so we're only doing one in the project. It's not even a Saturday. Okay, so Monday to Saturday, 6 to 10 p. m. And please just say for how long you can do it. So if you can only do it for two hours, cool, let us know. Like uh we shouldn't know. Okay, I want us to break off them now and I think it's basically fast. So on that page, on page number 17. Next to the line. It's about practicing together. So I want us to do one thing first. Start on number one, and it says take turns sharing the gospel with one another to find a partner. Take time sharing the gospel with one another and do it under a mist. So if you're listening, that means you're timing. And if you're not listening, that means you're scaring. The person who listened is going to give feedback. So, and then the feedback you're listening for, just anything concerning language that was hard to hear, was there anything hard to share? And if you can't do it under a minute, that's fine. Do it as quick as you can so that you can see, hey, this is how fungy growing. That's good. And then the next one is uh, we're not going to do numbers too, actually. We have done that one. And then part of your homework is to share with three people in your life. So they can be non-believers, they can be people in your household, it does not matter it's learning this process. So does that make sense to everybody? Yeah, my using the app. You can use the app, but I so let's just practice number one though. Try not to do it from the app the first time, because if you can do it without the app, you can do it without the app. The app is just building some level. So do it without the app right now. But then these three people you talked to, do it with the app. Does that make sense? So even if they know the gospel, I don't even care if they know the gospel. Tell it to menaces. Say it's part of my number. I have to do this. I have to. Like if Daniel is telling me I have to do this with three other people. I need to I don't care if your neighbors say some weird guy told me to share this with you. So here I am. Like do whatever you need to do. But like with the three people, I would say use the app. But right now, one time Or maybe more than once, but under minutes. Okay. And also I don't know who told them. At the fair, um the Basket Association has given us five uh iPads and those perspectives will be on there. You can just use the iPads. You don't have to have the band. Especially if it's a windy day we try one use those we'll have those on iPads then it'll slam up just like this and they just pick each one and we talk about each one as you go through it. Um also that we do have respective cards. I wouldn't suggest you can affair anymore, but typically you can lay out on a table, you know the first one, and then they pick a card and go So we have several different methods that we should do, not just the app on your phone. We will have the iPad and the questions before we break off? Let's do a batch and break two Maybe from myself. So let's go back for a break and then come back in and find a partner and then begin sharing. We will let's reconvene this way. Let's take ten minutes. So it's uh let's take five. Let's take five. And let's think about the last ten minutes of care we'll do. Can we do that? Let's do that. I'm gonna stop the video. I know.