Okay. Since the time that Mark told about choosing the twelve disciples in verse nineteen to the beginning of verse twenty, a whole lot of things have happened. Mark doesn't cover them because they weren't in scope of what he was trying to accomplish, but it's important for us to know so that we have it in context Jesus taught the Sermon on the Mount, for one thing, uh, in in this time period. So we can know very clearly what kind of preaching he was doing at this time. And it's really helpful to read that passage beginning in Matthew 5 to gain perspective on what the context is in our text. This preaching, the Sermon on the Mount, is one of the most powerful sermons ever preached. Christ covered how to live and how to think in just a few short chapters. He defied the existing experts by simply teaching the truth in a way that anyone could understand it and apply it. Then after the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus healed a centurion servant. Now, we often read that story without considering the implications A centurion was the representative of all of Rome's might. He was in charge of their of their uh soldiers. This man would have re represented what people like Simon the Zealot would hate. Just seeing the guy would probably it would be difficult for Simon the Zealot to uh to hold his peace. The centurion himself would be one of the least likely candidates for ministry by any religious big shot But Jesus did set his face in that man's direction. He was headed off to heal his servant. And then the centurion told Christ that Christ didn't have to do that. Uh the centurion was not worthy of that kind of attention He told Christ, just say the word and it'll be done. Remember, the centurion was the guy who understood authority. So Christ remarked on that man's amazing faith, and he healed the centurion's servant. Christ also made some remarks to the effect that a bunch of this kind of people are going to be making it into the kingdom of God, but a bunch of the Jews who expect to be there will not. So you can just imagine what the disciples at this point were absorbing from this encounter. The good guys and the bad guys are being redefined for them. And they've had a pretty steady diet of that, so it's probably nothing real unusual. Then we're told next in Luke 7 about Jesus raising a dead widowed son. And after this, we're told in Matthew 11 and Luke 7 about Jesus replying to John the Baptist. Remember that? John is clearly losing hope in jail in Christ being the Messiah. So he sends his messengers to ask Christ, Are you the coming one? Or do we look for another? Basically, are you the Messiah? Uh did I get this right? Was my old ministry pointing to you? Was that accurate? Well, Jesus was in the middle of healing people, and Jesus told the messengers to go back to John and tell them this the blind see and the lame walk. Lepers are cleansed, and the deaf here. The dead are raised, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. Blessed is he who does who is not offended because of me. This probably gave great comfort to John, even though John probably expected Christ to respond differently than he did. He would have had enough in what Christ told him to look into the Old Testament and realize that's exactly what was prophesied for the Messiah. Then Christ in Matthew 11 began to rebuke the cities that he did most of his miracles in. Okay, so this is all before our text this morning. He rebukes Khorazin and Beth Seda. And he basically told them that if Sodom had seen these works, Sodom would have repented from their sin. Essentially, Christ is telling Khorzin and Beth Seda that they are worse than the notoriously wicked city of Sodom. They would not have imagined such a thing. I mean who uh they they couldn't even perceive that they could be that wicked, but that's generally how we are when we're being wicked. But Christ said it was true. And then in Luke 7, we're told about a repentant woman who poured fragrant oil on Christ's feet and washed his feet with her tears. Simon, who was the religious big shot who had invited Christ to come over, thought to himself that Christ must not know what kind of woman this is. But the problem was really that Simon didn't know what kind of man he was. So Christ told a parable and he asked, who loves the most? The one forgiven of a little or the one forgiven of a lot? Who who loves the most? He asked this question to Simon, and Simon picked correctly. He said, Well, the one that's been forgiven the most. Then Christ emphasized just how beautiful these acts of love were that were done by this woman when Simon didn't even show the common courtesy of having Christ's feet washed when he came in the door And you can see the the uh huge difference between the love that the woman had and this um religious expert who really was holding Christ at his distance Now that's the context of today's text. So a lot a lot happened. Keep in mind that much of this would have been common gossip. You know, it would have been spread word uh uh mm, mouth to ear, you know, it it would have spread. So Christ's family would have been hearing bits and pieces of what was going on. Christ's family would have been hearing, you know, the the gossip Now, let's read another version of today's text from Matthew 12. It's a parallel text to the one that we we are looking at now. Matthew 12, 22 through 37. It adds a few things. Matthew 122, then one was brought to Christ who was demon possessed, blind and mute. And he healed him, so that the blind and mute man could both both spoke and saw. And the multitudes were amazed and said, Could this be the son of David? And when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow does not cast out demons except by Beelzebub, the ruler of demons. But Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand If Satan casts out Satan, he's divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by the Elzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges. But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, surely the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can one enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house? He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters abroad. Therefore I say to you: every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven, men. But the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven, man. Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, either in this age or in the age to come. Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or else make the tree bad and its fruit bad. For a tree is known by its fruit. Brood of vipers. How can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good things, and an evil man out of the evil treasure brings forth evil things. But I say to you that for every idle word men may speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Now, let's walk through this text using passages from both Matthew and Mark. First, we start with Mark's account where they went into a house. This is more commonly translated, they went home. They went home. So this is probably telling us that they went home to their home base in Capernaum. Jesus and his disciples went to their home base in In Capernaum. Caperna And the ministry that Christ was doing was bringing such a crowd that the disciples didn't even have time or opportunity to eat. That must have been very difficult and demanding for them. But there are times in our lives when the ministry in front of us is that important that that is the kind of approach that we've got to take. Then in verse 21, but when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold of him, for they said he is out of his mind. This is I don't know, it's almost funny. just how absurd it is, given that we know what we know about Christ. Now remember that the bigger context tells us that there's more going on than just Christ being very busy He's been taking on the established religion. He's been condemning whole towns for their unbelief. He's having harlots treat him inappropriately in in public. At least that's how it would be viewed So it would be easy to judge Christ at a distance and to judge him based on appearances. And that's what they're doing. It would it's it's always easy to do that, isn't it? Think about it. Oh, we so trust how things seem, Dodd. It's so easy to trust our seamers. If something strikes us as being terribly wrong, we assume we must be right to be so indignant, because look how we feel. After all, don't I feel strongly about this? This must be evil Doesn't this seem so wrong? Aren't there so many people who would agree with me about this particular thing? That's what's happening here They're sitting around the table, you know, talking about Jesus, and they're all getting worked up saying, Well, we gotta go fix this. He's all messed up. But look here. Look at what's really going on There's really only one question that needs answered here. When these people were sitting around wherever they were, that uh Christ's family Sitting around talking about this, there's only one question they really needed to answer. Are they right? Is their evaluation of the circumstances true? And in this case, no matter how strongly they felt, whatever they felt, no matter how much they thought their evaluation was true, no matter how much they thought that the Son of God needed their help and advice and intervention at this point. They were wrong. They were just wrong. It doesn't matter how they felt about it, doesn't matter how they thought about it. They were wrong It didn't matter if there were a million people who agreed with them at this point. It didn't matter if they all agreed on this point of action. Every one of them was wrong. Before we get caught up in our hasty evaluations that we so frequently and so easily do about any number of things, we need to ask one question. What does God say? What does God say? If you would have asked the Catholics in Martin Luther's day if what Martin Luther was doing to stand against the Roman government or the Roman church, if that was right. You know, him standing up against the Catholic Church and all of their stuff. A lot of people would have said, No, no, that's not right because they're the church. You know, you never stand up against the church, you never do anything like that Some would have said it in the strongest of terms. In fact they did, talking about the horrible things that should be done to Martin Luther. But Luther did not get his marching orders from the crowds or from public opinion polls In fact, he didn't care what anybody else thought. All he cared about was what God thought. There are many issues that Christians have pre-formed opinions about And most of the times, they've neither they've either never studied the issue or they've never really allowed themselves to believe that they might be wrong about the issue. So they studied the Bible in such a way to prove that the Bible says something, whether it says it or not. I don't know if you if you've ever gone into Scripture wanting somebody asks you a question about something you believe and you want to go into Scripture and the thing you're going into Scripture to do is to prove to them that you are right. Watch out. What you need to go to Scripture to find out is, are you right? What does God say We can't trust the urges and impulses we've got. We've got to submit it all to the to uh God and trust it It's likely that Christ's family heard a lot of truth about what Christ was doing. I mean what they heard was true. But they did not have the spiritual perspective to accurately interpret what they were doing, what Christ was doing. Had they been spending time with Christ during this period, had they been following him, had they been talking to Christ, they probably would have had a different opinion. But they weren't. We say this often, but it weren't saying again. In our ministry to one another, we often think we know what the problems are and what the answers are in other people's lives. But we often don't know as much as we think we do. And that's why it's always good to start our conversations with questions rather than commands. We'll save others a great deal of hurt and ourselves a great deal of embarrassment if we'll make that a habit as we're dealing with each other. Alright, verse 21. But then when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold of him, for they said he is out of his mind. So his own people here are most likely Christ's storage family, and they're his people. Now, what gave them the idea that they had rights to tell Christ what to do? I don't know, but that's often what happens in families. We're often more assuming and bossy than we need to be. We think we know more than what we really do. And just because we know each other well, we think we can replace God in their lives. Sometimes we need to learn our boundaries and stick to them. And sometimes it's a matter of politeness Certainly, Christ could have used help in the situation he was in, but the help was not going to come to him from his clan with this mindset. They would have done much better to show up and ask Christ how they could help. But they didn't, as we'll see further in Mark, uh next text. The words for lay hold of him are the same words we looked at before, I think, in Romans. These are the same words that would be used for somebody being arrested. So you don't get the idea. This isn't a an arm around the shoulder, let's go talk to our brother Christ or you know, my son Christ. It's let's grab his arms and legs and haul him out of this joint kind of kind of phrase. So it's a forceful thing. And then to say he's out of his mind, think about that. They are essenti essentially According to their expert and tested opinion, calling the creator of the universe out of his mind What pride and arrogance it would take to come up with such a conclusion. Or ignorance. But this happens all the time. There are people all over the world who have evaluated God in the same manner And to them it makes perfect sense. But from a higher perspective, it's difficult to imagine anything that would be dumber. And then we come to us. Do we think God is crazy? Do we look at what he's doing in our life situations and think that God could not possibly know what he is doing? When we say, but I cannot possibly obey God in this situation, aren't we essentially saying the same thing? God doesn't know what he's doing? God must be crazy Aren't we saying that God doesn't know what he is doing to put us in the spot this difficult? Maybe we shouldn't be so hard on Christ's family members. If we were there, we might have done the same thing. We still might. It's at this point that Matthew Matthew's text kicks in. A blind, mute, demon-possessed man was now brought to Christ. Christ healed the man, and now he had no demon and could speak and he could see. Naturally, the crowds were impressed. They asked, could this be the son of David? Could this be the Messiah? Is essentially what the question was. That is a very good perspective. That's a very good question. It deserves looking into the answer. But look at the eva other evaluation in this text. So you've got one from the crowd saying, Man, evidence looks good. Is this the son of God? Is this is this uh uh the son of David Then we find the scribes who came down from Jerusalem. Here come the guys from the headquarters. Alright, these are the company guys. They have an agenda. And it's not going to be interrupted by truth. So what's their evaluation? Instead of saying could this be the son of David, they say Christ has a devil. They're saying this fellow doesn't cast out demons from any good or legitimate or godly source. No, he couldn't do that. He isn't one of us. We haven't endorsed him. In fact, he doesn't even say anything good about us. So he can't be good. He must be bad. There's no exploration of the truth here. There's no consideration of the facts here. There is nothing but the logical extension of an assumption that will not be allowed to be challenged That is where the scribes were coming from. Basically they're saying Christ is wrong because he cannot possibly be right Scary thinking. So the scribes, the religious geniuses, are essentially saying Christ is casting out demons by asking the head of the demons to get rid of his influence in people's lives. That would be about as smart as explaining how Germany how Germany was defeated in World War II. It would be like saying that Germany was defeated by Patton convincing Hitler to kill all his soldiers Yeah, that happens all the time. You know, it's just stupid. It's a stupid evaluation. But the scribes were desperate. How else could they explain that Christ could do what they could not do? And how could they distract from the good things that Christ was doing that everybody was seeing and everybody was impressed with? The people could see what happened when Christ cast out the demons, and they knew it was a good thing. They knew it was all good. So Jesus knew these scribes' thoughts, and the other passages says Pharisees. And he was not about to allow their thoughts and what they might privately say to the crowd stand. So he called them to himself and said to them in the parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end. No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first finds the strongman, and then he will plunder his house. Christ calls out the scribes, and he'll show that their reasoning does not stand. They are not making sense. In fact, it isn't even reasoning. It's really propaganda. Christ says, how can Satan cast out Satan? We only need to think about it a little bit to see the truth that Christ is saying. I mean, it just makes sense. Any entity will not stand if half the people are trying to do something and the other half of the people are trying to undo that same thing. When we play our little Christmas football game, we have two teams. And each team has its own goal. Every member has the goal of helping their team score touchdowns. Now just imagine if half of one of the teams actually had the goal of helping the other team make touchdowns. How do you think that would go? Now sometimes if you're watching you might think that's really happening. But it really isn't The teams are united on their goals. If not, they'll fall apart. And they'll certainly never accomplish their goal. The same is true for the Devils team It cannot fight against itself and still accomplish the evil goals that the devil has for his kingdom. And the devil would never allow such a thing He's gonna accomplish or at least going he's and going to intend to accomplish whatever it is that he's got on his mind to do. He is a strong opponent He is putting on a strong charge, and he would never allow his efforts to be thwarted from within. There's only one way to beat the devil's intentions. It's by brute force. Brute force. Verse 27: No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he binds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house. Christ is explaining here That in order to intrude into the devil's house, his kingdom, and plunder his goods, basically his children There's only one way to do it. He has to bind the strong man. He must be stronger than the strong man and be able to immobilize the strong man. And then he can accomplish whatever he desires with the strongman's children. Or in this case is good. Christ is basically telling the scribes and everyone listening on, I can cast out demons. Not because I am a demon, because I'm stronger than the devil. That's why I can cast out demons. That's the truth. And anyone who knows anything Knows this is true. I think we would do well to think about that ourselves. Do we really believe that our Savior is stronger than any evil force that could attack us? Now I know we'll all get that right on a test question, but do we believe it? Do we believe he can, by sheer force, thwart any attempt of the devil? Well that's what Scripture tells us. Greater is He who is in us than He who is in the world. No matter what evil efforts or effects you're dealing with this morning. Christ is stronger than the source of any of those evils. We can rest our confidence in him in that Now let's move on to the next thing Christ says. It's really important to keep our context in mind. Christ is dealing with people who are ascribing his wonderful redeeming actions, his heavenly actions, To the devil. That's the situation. The scribes are saying Christ is with the demons, and that is how he is to be casting out demons. That's the definition of blasphemy. To blaspheme is to vilify, to speak impiously, to defame, rail on, revile, speak evil. When Christ ascribed godlike qualities to himself, the religious leaders said he was guilty of blasphemy because they assumed that he was not God. And if Christ calls himself God and is not God, that's blasphemy. Here the scribes blaspheme by ascribing demonic characteristics. To God. So it works both ways. Blasphemy is usually used when ascribing godlike or anti-godlike attributes To the wrong party. Calling the devil good, calling God bad. That sort of thing. Christ says Assuredly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they may utter. But he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness But it's subject to eternal condemnation because they said he has an unclean spirit. Then Matthew twelve thirty-one, uh the harmony there, uh The parallel passage. Therefore I say to you, every sin and blasphemy it will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven men Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, either in this age or in the age to come. This is often referred to as the unforgivable sin or the unpardonable sin. And I've spoken to several people who were very afraid that they had committed this sin. A sin that cannot be forgiven. In fact, I I think I probably at some point thought that I had committed that sin or was afraid that I may have. And without a doubt, there is such a sin. But let's look at it in context. The verb tense for blasphemy is airist It's aorist, active, and subjunctive. I don't know a lot about Greek. I don't know hardly anything about Greek. But what I've read is that normally aorist is a once and done type of verb. So this leads us to believe it's something that is a position that this person has entered into once and all for all time. Active means it was of their deciding, and subjunctive means it did not have to be so. Now, look at what is forgivable. Being wrong about Christ is forgivable. Judging him wrongly is forgivable. Look at what Paul did. You think about the things Paul must have said in his ministry, so-called, against Christ. And all the evil things that he did and his misjudging of most everything that was going on at that point We can see right off the bat that this is not about some mistake a person makes in a moment of time. This is not a oops, I said that and now I'm damned. It's not mumbling certain words and then having your faith sealed. It's not that. The example we have of those who are guilty of this sin are scribes. And these scribes knew full well that Christ was the Messiah. They knew he was. They've seen all the signs. They had all the evidence in front of them to know exactly what was going on here. John 11. 47. This is what they said themselves about Christ. John 11. 47. Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said, What shall we do? For this man works many signs. If we let him alone like this, everyone will believe him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and nation. And again in Acts four fifteen. But when they had commanded them to go out aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, saying, What shall we do to these men? For indeed that a notable miracle has been done through them is evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. These guys were masters of spin. But they knew what the truth was. Their work was how to overcome the truth. That's what they were investing themselves in. The religious leaders knew what Christ was doing and what power he was doing it through. They knew that They just didn't like it. So they would resort to anything to discredit Christ. Think about what it would take for you to do that. Think about what kind of heart you would have to have to do that. One would have to have made war on the Holy Spirit in one's heart in order to do this sort of thing. It would require a condition that says, I don't care who God is. I hate him and I will and will not respond to his call in my life. I don't care what he does. It's likely that the unpardonable sin is unpardonable solely because it places a person where he cannot avail upon the only means of salvation. If you cut off the Holy Spirit, you have no means of getting to Christ. You've cut off the only information source It is the Holy Spirit that brings truth to light in our lives, in our minds, in our hearts. To say that the Spirit of God, the Spirit That leads us to Christ, the spirit of truth is of the devil. To say that we have just cut ourselves out from the only means of having our sins forgiven. And this is no accident that a person performs. When a person does this, it's a statement of their entire life position, and it is not subject to change. People who have committed this sin will never sit around pining that maybe they've committed the pardonable unpardonable sin. They simply won't care. If you care about your sin , If you weren't forgiven of your sin, that's very good evidence that the Holy Spirit is working in your heart. He is calling you to repentance. And if you want to repent, it's only because God has made you ready to repent. It's only because God is working on your heart. It's of him. Don't concern yourself about a sin that some cannot be forgiven of. Call upon God who is calling you to himself and he is sure to forgive you Let's look at the first part of the verse again. Assuredly I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they may utter. And then he goes on to talk about the one that won't. Well, isn't that just glorious? If we're wanting our sins to be forgiven, this verse is for us. All sins will be forgiven the sons of men and whatever blasphemies they may utter. If you don't care about your sin, you might fall under the other category. In conclusion, there's a lot to learn from in this text. We learn about Christ's family. That's a bad example We learn about the scribes. That's a bad example. And we learn about Christ. Always the best example. I've been a Christian for 44 years. And I've talked to lots of believers in in that time in lots of circumstances. And one of the qualities that convinces me that they are believers is that the truth is more important than what they think. The truth is more important than what they perceive. The truth is even more important than what they like I've s seen people who call themselves believers go off on rages spouting stuff they either think is true or want to believe is true, but it isn't. And there's no chance of calmly talking about scriptures person to person to explain your situation. You won't be heard. It won't happen. That to me is the most frightening place to be. That's to place these scribes. That's the place that these scribes were in. They trusted their own perceptions, their own evaluations, and then they closed their minds to any other possibilities. We as believers can never allow that to happen to us. That attitude is what divides churches. It creates division and destruction. And it displays pride and arrogance We do well to ask in every situation, no matter how irritated we are or angry we are, the question is: what is true? What is true? What does God say? What is the truth? What is the truth about the situation? What is the truth about God? And what is the truth about me? And we'll often find that the lion's share of the problem resides in the last question, what's true about me? Let's close him for it. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for this text. We thank you for Your revelation of who you are and why you did what you did And the way that you undermined the ridiculous thinking of these desperate religious experts. We thank you that we can trust you to be stronger than the devil. We can trust you to overcome our enemy if we will simply submit to you and stay in you. And Lord, we we ask that you would help us to not jump to conclusions Or dig up wrong ideas that fit what we want, like we see in this passage by both Christ's family and And the religious the religious experts and help us to Face the truth and receive the truth from you. To see our lives as they really are, to see your word as it really is. And to evaluate accordingly, and to submit wholeheartedly to that truth, even when it makes us look bad , We ask for these things in Jesus' name. Amen.