What do you need right now in your life that Jesus does not have the power right now to give you? What do you need right now in your life that Jesus does not have the power right now to give you? We've read a story this morning. It's a bit of an odd story, but it has a very happy ending. The groom was saved from great embarrassment and possibly even financial fines. That wasn't something I was aware of. The once-in-a-lifetime celebration for this couple was not interrupted by the tragic lack of preparation. There was nothing to rob this couple of the joy in their celebration. And the disciples saw the glory of Christ and believed in Christ even more. I think the primary thing to understand in this story is that Christ shows that he has the power to meet any need. That a human might face. Christ has the power to meet any need that a human might face. He has no limits. Christ can do the impossible for those that he loves. Is there something in your life that you feel you've got to have this? You can't imagine facing life without this. Is there some aching need that you are experiencing this morning? The call from our survey this morning is to take that need to Jesus. Take that thing to Jesus. He'll give it to you if it's good for you. He will withhold it from you. If not having it, will you do you more good than having it? And you can trust that whatever he does or whatever he does not do, it is not because there is anything he cannot do. We see that this morning. He can do anything. So let's move into the story. On the third day, there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee. And the mother of Jesus was there, and Jesus was also invited to the wedding with his disciples. Okay, so Jesus and some of his disciples were there. At least Peter, Andrew, Philip, and Nathaniel And Mary, Jesus' mother, was there. Now, weddings in those days were quite different, and they were quite the event. They would go for seven or eight days. And the groom was responsible for the whole event. You can imagine that would be a reason for men back then marrying a little bit later. Because they had to earn a bunch of money before they could afford the ceremony. The groom would appoint somebody as their head waiter or master of ceremonies or administrator for this event, who ran the whole show. But all of it was funded by the groom. Not by the groom's parents, but by the groom himself. The fact that Mary was already present and involved, and Jesus joined them, probably means that Mary was involved in some serving capacity in this wedding. We find that she learns before even the head waiter learns or the groom learns that the the wine had run out. So Mary may have been serving or helping. Well, we have so many examples of competent women doing these kind of things, these kind of tasks in our church, that we don't have any trouble imagining what that may have looked like We can almost see Mary carrying a tray of dishes knee and cleaned and noticing, hey, there's a problem with the wine supply. And it's my experience that women notice far more of what goes on in their surroundings than men do. I suspect that's not just in my family. So anyway, verse 3, when the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to Jesus, They have no wine. They have no wine. Okay, so the wine ran out. Big deal. That's we might think that. Now the guests can drink water But that's not how these parties worked. I don't understand the dynamics, but in some cases the groom was contractually obligated to the father to supply wine for the whole party. I would assume the obligation was toward the bride's father. And if if only in our culture, fathers would place such a high value on giving their daughters commend. You can see built into this was just this guy had to meet some pretty heavy uh expectations before he was allowed to have this girl. So this was part of the deal. But that's for another scripture, another time. If the wine runs out, this newly married couple is going to have a severe rain on their parade for that day and for the days to come. If you want to ruin a perfect day, this would do it. If you want to ruin a marriage ceremony, this would do it. It would be an absolute humiliating event to the groom. And then by reflection on the bride for being given to this groom and for the father for having chosen this groom who can't who can't even show up with enough wine. So this would start off the marriage in a terrible light that would take years to outlive the effects of. So this pronouncement, they have no wine, that was a very, very serious matter. So Mary finds Jesus. Have you ever been informed of a problem that you had nothing to do with causing, but now you're supposed to fix it? Has your spouse or parent ever dropped a serious problem meaning fixing on you with no advanced notice? And it's something that that was in no way your fault, but you're expected to drop everything and do something about it When someone else's failure to plan becomes your emergency? Ever have that? Well, that's what's happening here. Mary comes to Jesus and tells Jesus, we've got a huge problem. These people we love, these people who were probably family of some sort. They have a problem. And I think it's implied that Mary is thinking to make it Jesus' problem. Now stop here. What do you think would be the proper Christian result or Christian response to this encounter, to this conversation What would Jesus do, we might ask? And we might be surprised. Verse 4, Jesus said to her, Woman? What does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. Now, first off, we have to look at this word woman. In our culture, if a young person calls his mother woman, most of it would re regard that most of us would regard that as being disrespectful. Sometimes it might be done in humor by an older child, but it certainly is not what it was in their culture, this word woman It was different. The word woman would have been a respectful response. Jesus used it again of his mother when he told John to take care of Mary. But the word lacked a close familial connection. It didn't carry with it family. It was not like the word mother. I think we find in the context what's really happening here and why Jesus' words were chosen as they were. So first, Jesus addresses Mary as something different than mother. Second, he says, What does this have to do with me? Now, fortunately, this is not the only place that this exact phrase is used. And this is kind of surprising. It's also used here. In Mark five six through eight. And it says, and when he, this is the demon-filled man, saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell before him, and crying out with a loud voice, he said, What have you to do with me? That's the first time. The phrase. What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not torment me. For he was saying to him, Come out of the man, you unclean spirit. So literally the phrase means, what is there between me and you? What is there between me and you? That's what the phrase means. It's also used, a similar phrase is used in 2 Samuel. 16, 9 and 10. And Amashai, the son of Zeriah, said to the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord? Let me go over and take off his head But the king said, What have I to do with you? There it is again. What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeriah? If he is cursing because the Lord has said to him, Curse David, who then shall say, Why have you done so? And there's a similar instance in first Kings seventeen, eighteen. In all these instances, there is a contrast in purpose. There's a contrast in purpose. One party is making decisions according to one method or direction, and another party is making decisions based on another method or direction. The life positions from both of the parties are different. The opinions are different. The point of view is opposing. The point is always, why should anything you do or say affect anything that I do or say? We are not in common here. So Mary is essentially, she's saying, Jesus, the groom needs wine right now, and this is an emergency, and you ought to do something about it. And Jesus is saying, why should this news have anything to do with what I do or say next? Then we get the third clue, and I think this one really helps us to understand where Jesus was coming from. He said, My hour has not yet come. My hour has not yet come. When Jesus talks about my hour, he's usually talking about his crucifixion the last hours of his life. Now what does that have to do with hearing about a groom who is short on wine? I think when we put all put it all together, this is what we get Jesus has officially begun his public ministry. That's very recent. Now he is on a timeline. And the future of every human being who will ever be saved is dependent upon Jesus hitting that timeline. Everything he says and everything he does is headed toward that event He will disciple who he will disciple based on that event. He will teach what he will teach and to whom he will teach it based on that event. Some truths he'll keep hidden until the proper time. Some miracles he will not do until the proper time. Jesus is now on a three and a half year timeline, and all the rules regarding his life have changed. When in the past Jesus would have tried to meet the request of his mother because she is his mother. Those days are over. He can no longer hold that as the highest priority. He's shifting his priorities. He can no longer allow any human being to alter his steps. He no longer has the freedom to honor his mother like any other Jewish man. Jesus is on a mission from God that supersedes everything else So he addresses her differently than he may have addressed her the day before weeks before. He no longer calls her mother, he now calls her woman. He also no longer allows her urgency to determine his urgency Jesus' way of calculating life is now on a very different plane than his mother's is. She is prioritizing family concerns. The family name, day-to-day affairs, the family life, and that's all good. That's all wonderful. There's nothing wrong with that. Jesus is concerned about portraying an exact representation of God the Father in what Jesus says and does from this day forward. That's a completely different mission We see in his life how Jesus prioritizes people as as he encounters them. It's part of displaying the character of his father. But that overriding direction and priority of reaching the cross is always in front of his mind. That is how he is organizing his life. It always trumps all the other priorities Healing a million people would never be as important as saving a billion of them. So Jesus is serving notice to his mother. A relationship is not what it used to be. It cannot be. What does your limited world view of family and friends have to do with the mission I have been given to save everyone that the Father has chosen? I think that's what's happening in this passage. And I think there's an application here While Scripture tells us in many places how we're to conduct our Christian lives in the context of families and church, there are times when the call of God supersedes the normal obligations. Luke 14, 26 says, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own wife, he cannot be my disciple. Many of the early missionaries in England and the United States faced this head on. People tried to convince these people to stay home. They tried to talk them into the path everyone else was taking. But these men had to approach, men and women had to approach their mission like Jesus They had to face it with the attitude of what is there in common between me and you in regard to this particular decision? And the answer came out to be nothing. They had to prioritize what they believed God had called them to do in a way that we're not comfortable with. All of us will face decisions like this if we're going to follow Christ's directions. Sometimes it might mean giving money that others don't think we should give. Sometimes it might mean taking on responsibilities that others don't think we should take on. And in the end, we have to be like Christ in this regard and obey God rather than men. Now it's wise, it's always wise to listen to trusted brothers when they give wise advice. The answer isn't always going. Learn to cherish that advice, but there may be times when we must say, even to those who love us the most, I have to do this thing. I'm sorry that that what that makes what you say seem irrelevant. That's not what I intend, but I have to carry out this mission. Now watch what Jesus' mother does next, or better yet, watch what Jesus' mother does not do. I think it's admirable. Verse 5, his mother said to the servants, do whatever he tells you. Do whatever he tells you. Now, it is easy to imagine different responses here. This is Mary's kid. Mary's just been informed that her advice to Jesus is pretty much irrelevant. She's been placed in a group with everyone else. You can just imagine her getting angry and telling Jesus about I wrapped you in diapers, I cleaned up your messes, and this is how you treat me? We could easily imagine her being hurt or offended and saying, Well, that's how you want to be. I'll take care of it myself. And walking off in a huff. Flesh could have come out here in a lot of ways. Based on how Mary responds, I think she chose not to allow herself either of those luxury sins. I think she may have been confused. She may have been hurt. I don't think she knew exactly how to process what Jesus said, but she might be used to that by now. But when she says, do whatever he tells you. Mary was chosen to trust Jesus even when she does not understand Jesus. Mary was choosing to trust Jesus, even when she doesn't understand Jesus. What a glorious beauty that is. What a wonderful heavenly attitude that is. Oh, what an example to follow that is. To trust Jesus when you don't understand Jesus Are you asking Christ to do something specific in your life? And he is delaying the response. To you or have you asked for specific things that you think if Jesus loved you, he would do this, and he doesn't Do you understand why he's not responding to you as you expected he would? Well, if you're in that boat, do what Mary did. Trust the results to Christ and leave it there. That's what she did. Verse 6. Now there were six. Stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water, and they filled them up to the brim Okay, so this is as full as you can make them. Now wine vessels were often earthenware, but purification containers were stoneware. The idea was probably that stoneware would not hold impurities, so they would be better. They'd be easier to keep ceremonial clean Now this is interesting. Each of these vessels would have held between 20 and 30 gallons. So this amounts to 120 gallons. It's interesting that these jars were for the Jewish purification rites. I don't think that's that insignificant. They were for carrying out the Old Testament purity laws. They would be filled with pure water and emptied of dirty water. And this would be done over and over and over again. Pure water in, dirty water out. And it would be the same because dirty keeps coming back Now that I'm doing some vacuuming in our house, that's not to say I'm doing enough vacuuming in our house, but I'm doing some, I am surprised at how quick the vacuum cleaner fills up Like I didn't know Carla emptied that. I mean theoretically it must be done, but but it's amazing how much dirt is just floating around in in the carpets and stuff. But dirt is persistent. Dirt is persistence. That is a thing you can count on. These vats were probably used for cleaning hands and feet and cleaning dishes. That's what they were there for. They served a useful function, but they did not provide anything that would enrich a person's life. It would just take away dirt. Now verse seven is very interesting to me. I didn't read any of the commentaries mentioned that we're never told if Jesus had If the jars had already been used. The text doesn't say. If they were, it would emphasize even more, I think, what Jesus can do even with dirty containers. We might make the application of the fact that our past are no deterrent to God using us in the future. But whatever the case, Jesus had the servants, and uh these weren't slaves, by the way. They may have been actually family members and friends helping to serve with the wedding guests. And Jesus had them fill the pots to the very top with water. The reason probably that they were filled cleared to the top is so there there would be no doubt about the miracle he was about to do He wanted those who were there to know that it was impossible that anything was added to that water This is water and nothing but water. The pots were just water. They had no wine in them. There was no possibility of there being wine in them. Now, imagine that you were a servant. You know the wine has run out, you see. And you were told by someone who seems to have been in charge of some things at least, Mary, to do what Jesus says. And Jesus says, fill the pots up with water. It doesn't take a genius to know that this is not going to be helpful. But for whatever reason, they did what Jesus said. And there's another application. It's always good to do what Jesus says, especially when you don't understand it. The results might be miraculous. But we say he said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. And again You can just hear them saying, okay, okay, I will. Uh, but I can't see how this is going to have a good effect. But to their credit, they do what they're told without reservation and without comment, evidently. Because nobody really knows outside of them what happened. Verse nine When the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine, and did not know where it came from, Though the servants who had drawn the water knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely Then the poor wine, but you've kept the good wine until now. Now the dynamics here are interesting The master clearly did not know that the groom was out of wine. But Mary did. We don't know if the groom did. I think there's something sweet about this. Some alarms never need to be raised. Some truths never need to be broadcasted or exposed. Sometimes taking them to Jesus is all that's necessary If Mary had raised the alarm and spread the panic, the outcome here would have been very different for the for the broom. All kinds of chaos would have broken out and panic and judgments would have been cast and the party would have been ruined. Mary knew this information. But she did not share this information. It was as true as true could be, but Mary did not make it known. And I think that serves as a good example, too. How good it would be if we take all things to Christ first. instead of setting off the alarms. We do well to hold off on causing alarm until it's really necessary. And sometimes it is. But it's so much better sharing the shortcomings of others only where they're really needed to be shared. And especially with the party responsible. Here, taking it to Jesus saved the day, and no one needed to know this groom's failures. Those are good days. Love covers a multitude of sin. So the master of the feast shows how impressed he is with the groom. He says You say the good stuff later in the party. Nobody does that. Now there are several points here as well, I think. First, Jesus does all things well. He's even a good winemaker. I wish we could test the wine. If you think about it, Jesus had to make something out of nothing in order to make this wine. One minute the wine did not exist. The next minute it did. And think about this: it showed up aged, fermented, and ready to serve. I would guess it would still have tasted like like wine, which not everybody likes. You know, I I realize not everyone has a taste for that, but I'd love to know what it was like Uh maybe at the marriage banquet in in heaven. We'll we'll get to get some. You know. Some leftover, you know, I don't know. But you talk about perfect wine, this was it. Second, the word for drunk in verse 9 is always used for intoxicated. So there's no sense dancing around the idea that the wine Jesus made was not fermented He clearly was. We do well not to try to make the Bible say what we want the Bible to say. We do better to just accept what it says and adapt accordingly Now, the point was not that people at this particular marriage feast were drunk or that they were going to get drunk The waiter was just pointing out the principle that the best taste a person will have on a glass of wine will be in the first glass and the first sip. The more he has after that, the less the taste will be memorable or even maybe noticeable. So if you're trying to make an impression, you make it on an empty palette, not to a blurry-headed, cheerful heart. Well happy happy ending to this marriage feast. The bride and the groom were honored and not embarrassed. The groom's failure turned into a notable success by bringing out the best wine, even when it would will not be the most appreciated. The servants and the disciples got to see a miracle up close and personal, and Mary would have had the satisfaction of seeing Jesus do what only Jesus could do Okay, then we need to ask, why after telling Mary that she no longer can expect that she can shape Jesus' actions and decisions anymore Why does he go ahead and make the wine? Well, verse 11 tells us, this is the first of his signs. Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. That is what drove Jesus to do this. Not the family emergency. But it was the opportunity for a miracle that would fit into the scheme of his redemption of Israel and humans. Mary could not have known how this miracle would fit into Jesus' timeline, but Jesus knew. Jesus didn't do this because his man mother asked him to. He did it because it fit into his plan and his timeline for crucifixion and glorification. Now, Jesus lets us know, or John lets us know that this is the first of the signs that Jesus did. So those extra biblical books like the Gospel of Thomas are proven untrue. He turned fine , rocks into herbs or something something strange. This was Jesus' first miracle according to John And John will show us six or seven more signs. Some scholars argue about how many there are, but this is the first. Now, there are two things to note here. Jesus manifested his glory. And the disciples believed in Christ. Jesus manifested his glory, and the disciples believed in Christ. Why did John write this gospel? We've had that from Brad's introduction all the way through. So that people would believe in Christ. So it makes perfect sense that John told about his miracle. In this gospel, in his gospel. Jesus made his glory known here. Not to many. Most people never knew it happened. He did that which only God can do. He made something out of nothing. Ex niolo. Just as he did at creation. Jesus revealed his godness here. He revealed his glory, that trait that is an attribute of God and only God. As a result, those Christ called were even more convinced that they were barking up the right tree, that they were following the right trail, that this Jesus really is the Son of God. He is the Messiah. He wasn't just another man. He was different in ways that were only possible if he were God. Now, Jesus would perform many miracles, and they all were an amazing display of God's power to those who saw them. But there was something else true about them. MacArthur says this. All of his miracles met specific needs That's the thing that is true of all of them. All of his miracles met specific needs, such as opening blind eyes or deaf ears, delivering those oppressed from demons Feeding hungry people or calming a threatening storm. This miracle met the genuine need of the family and their deaths and their guests, who otherwise faced a social catastrophe. We can be thankful that God pours out his power to take care of his children's needs still today. That's the kind of God we serve. And there's something else to notice about the purpose of this miracle. The prophets in the Old Testament painted the messianic age. As a time when wine would flow. We see it in Jeremiah thirty one, twelve, where it says They shall come and sing aloud on the height of Zion, the wine and the oil and over the young of the flock. It's just gonna be like a watered garden. They're saying that their wine will flow, it'll be a wonderful thing. And another reference in Amos nine thirty. Where it says the treader of the grapes, uh uh him who sows the seed, the mountains shall drip with sweet wine, and uh they shall plant vineyards and drink their wine. So there was a symbolism of So it's very likely that Jesus had this in mind as well As a miracle, but would also be a symbol of the age that he would one day usher in for his church. The people of the time would have associated wine with that sort of thing And now just to show that Jesus had not stubborn any relationships with his family, we see in verse twelve, after this he went down to Capernaum with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days. So he went through his home and hung out with his family. Now Jesus' family had a little bit of conflicted ideas about what Jesus ought to be doing, and his brothers were kind of vocal about it, and his mother got involved sometimes. So I doubt it was completely blissful for him. They still didn't get it, but but he went and he hung out. I think our wonderful application from this whole text would be trust Jesus. Trust Jesus. Even when you can't see how he will solve the problem, trust Jesus. Even if you can't see if he's gonna solve the problem. Trust Jesus. Let your requests be couched in trust. As you're praying, formulate your request in trust language. Let it be known from the start. Settle your soul that God, I will trust what you have for me. I am trusting you now. I know you have good. in store for me. This is what I want, and I want it real bad. And I don't see how how I can get along without it. These are all true to me right now. But I trust you. Even when you can't understand how the part you must play fits in, just trust him. Even when the doom you expect to face seems impossible to avoid, just trust him. You don't have a single problem that's more impossible than making wine where there is none. Trust Jesus. Let's pray. Lord I'll be taxing. We thank you for this example