When you read this story, don't you find yourself rooting for this blind man that can now see The whole story is so rich with drama that the man's story begins with him begging. He's the nobody. He has no opportunity any no opportunity to make anything out of his life in any kind of earthly way. He was sitting where he always sat and he was doing what he always did and then Jesus shows up. Jesus spits in the dirt until he has enough mud to cover the man's eyes, which is pretty gross in itself. And the man washes in the pool and suddenly his whole life changes. His whole life opens up. He can now work. He can now have a family. He can now worship in the temple. He can see. Now you would think that any friends he had, or even any compassionate neighbors, would share in his joy. You'd think that they throw him a party and rejoice at his good fortune You would think that they'd run to see if they could find Jesus for themselves and thank him and worship him. But alas, people often let us down. This man's neighbors take him to the power center of the religious leaders. Maybe they had good intentions, maybe not, we don't know. This man may have thought people would share his joy in being able to see. Wouldn't you think that? I mean, really, what kind of person wouldn't share in your joy when you have just experienced such a thing This is probably something the man can't shut up about. It's a thrill to this man's soul, his joy is probably intense. But he doesn't get anything that he's gonna like. He's not dealt he is not dealt with as a man, as a human. He is regarded as a pawn in the games that the spiritual leaders are playing. Now this man experiences firsthand what is passing his spiritual leadership. He runs into it, and it isn't pretty. And what a contrast it is. Jesus saw this man. Jesus loved this man. Jesus healed this man. Does the leadership follow anything of Jesus' model? Hardly. The leaders interrogate this man, the leaders insult this man, the leaders try to manipulate this man. What a contrast. Yet when we watch this man respond to the Jewish leadership, we're reminded of the common sense guy on the street. I think that's what appeals so much to this uh in this story. He d he doesn't Know everything. He doesn't pretend to know everything. He doesn't pretend to know what he doesn't know. But he knows what he knows. And he's man enough that no one is going to talk him out of what is obviously true. He's not going to back down. The big shots can throw their fancy theories at him. They can seek to shame him. They can talk over his head. They can treat him as if he knows nothing. And this man does not care. He might not know much, but he knows what he knows What we'll see this morning is the way spiritual blindness handles light. Let's look at verse 17, where the leaders continue their interrogation of the man. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him? Since he's opened your eyes, and the man said, He's a prophet. Now they're asking a different question. Now they're asking Okay, he did this to you. What do you make of him? What do you make of Jesus? Who do you think he is? How how are you adding this up? Maybe he thought, maybe the the man, the ex-blind man thought that this was a sincere question As if he thought that what he thought might might actually matter to them. Like they're asking his opinion. In reality, it was a trap. The ex-blind man said that Jesus is a prophet, and we've talked about this several times. The prophet figure is probably referring to that prophet prophesied in Deuteronomy. And again, this man did not know much, but he evidently had heard scriptures read, and he knew that this passage prophesied a prophet who would be capable of great things. So this is the man's best guess. The Pharisees asked him, who is the guy? Well, I guess he's a prophet. And since we know that the prophesied prophet And the Messiah are one and the same. We find that in Acts 3. 22 and 23 and Acts 7. 37. They're one and the same. So it was a very good guess. The man got it right. Now, if this had been an honest question like we might have in a conversation with somebody else, the response would have been a cordial one. They might have even said, Well, that's a nice opinion, but we have a different opinion of them. But that, I mean, it's interesting. I can see why you think that, but the leaders quickly reveal their hearts The leaders will do anything to disprove that Jesus did this miracle. So they try to get proof that this man was not born blind. In so doing, they're calling this man a liar. By this point, the man's getting an idea of how this is going to proceed. You can just imagine being the man and thinking, well, this is not going to turn out well Verse 18, the Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight and asked him, Is this your son who you say was born blind? Who you say was born blind, that's interesting. How does how then does he now see? Doesn't it sound like they're accusing the parents of lying here? It looks to me like they're saying, you say your son was born blind, but he can clearly see now? Really? How can that be? Come on now, tell me the truth. He really wasn't blind, was he? Like he was faking for twenty years along the side of the road that he couldn't see. And 'cause they're saying no one born blind gets healed. Everybody got that right in the story. No one who's born blind gets healed Unless God does it. Verse 20, his parents answered, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind They can't get out of that. I mean if if they're held into any kind of questioning, it's going to be clear that it's proven that their son was born blind. So they had to admit that. But uh verse twenty-one, but how he now sees we don't know. Nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He's of age. He'll speak for himself His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. And that's why the parents said He's of age, ask him. I mean, you can see these guys. They're trying to get out of this building as quickly as they possibly can. What we see here is not a great example of parents In fact, if you want a bad example of parenting, here's a good one. They admit that it's your son. They admit that he was born blind. They couldn't do anything else, but they clearly want to get out of here. They value what they stand to lose as more important than standing up for their own son. It would have been highly appropriate for these parents to reprimand these leaders for how they were treating their son, because he was getting terrible treatment. How the leaders are acting is a disgrace. The parents should have been saying the same things their son was saying. But they're looking for a way out where they wouldn't have to pay any price. John tells us very clearly that they were afraid of what the leaders would and could do to them. So they throw their son under the bus, knowing that he probably will not be allowed in the synagogue, but they would be, because they got themselves off the hook. When it says of age, this might be from the scripture in Numbers 1-3, where it says that men twenty years of age or older can go to war. It could be they were that's their idea of what is of age. But anyway, these parents aren't putting anything they value on the line. They're not taking any risks. They want life as it was. They'd probably be just as content if their son could never see, if seeing is going to put them in a hot seat like this Verse 24, so for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. Think about that. If they already know that Jesus is a sinner, why does it matter to them what this healed man thinks? They've already drawn their conclusion. Why are they having the conversations? If you truly know something, what does it matter if someone agrees with you or not? No, there's more to this story. They need this man to agree with them Because if he does not agree with them, Jesus' credibility is going to grow in leaps and bounds, and that is the last thing they want. They so they're trying to manipulate this man. Their goal is to ha have him browbeaten and inferior them like his parents were, so that he'll say what they want him to say, like his parents were doing. That's what they're after. And what comes next makes me want to stand up and cheer. Does it strike you that way? Verse 25. He answered, well, whether he's a sinner or not, I don't know. But one thing I do know, I was blind, and now I see. I was blind, and now I see. You may at times in your life have arguments with people who are more prepared for the argument than you are. They may pull up questions that you can't answer. In fact, they might pull them up quicker than you can even think to stumble over and answer. They they might have that on you. They might refer to things that you don't know anything about. They might ask questions about things that you have never thought about. If that ever happens, follow this man's example. Stick to the most basic thing that you know You can say like this healed man, I might not know much, but I know this. I once was lost, but now I'm found. I was doomed, but now I'm saved. I was once blind, but now I can see. Never leave your core knowledge, what you know for certain, when people challenge it with things that you don't know. This man had no status. He had little training. He had no power. This man Looks these powerful men in the eye, and he boldly stands for the little truth that he has. What an example to follow. This guy's a hero. By saying what he said, he was clearly telling them that they really don't know anything. They're just mad because Jesus is making them look bad. And he's catching on to that. They can't begin to do what Jesus can do. They couldn't begin to to heal a man born blind. So the only option they have is to silence the truth. Man, when that's the option that you find yourself in, you're in a bad spot. You are in the devil's realm And this man will not be silenced. He's never going to back down. Someone gave him sight. These men never gave him anything. So he'll be loyal to the one who gave him sight. That's the same attitude we should have toward the devil when he offers us sinful choices as if they're choice morsels. I once was blind, but now I see. I'll stick with Jesus. What a courageous man this healed man was. Verse twenty-six. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? This whole story reminds me of something I saw by Jeff Foxworthy. And it's not often I quote Jeff Foxworthy for anything spiritual. But Jeff starts his routine by saying that he received a text from a friend that said, Please pray for Tom, he was in a bad wreck. So he walks into the kitchen and he tells his wife, Hey, I just got a text that said, please pray for Tom, he was in a bad wreck. And his wife answers, Was he driving? He says, I don't know. I just got a text. It says, Please pray for Tom. He was in a bad rep. She asks, Were Carol and the kids in the car with him? He says, I don't know. I just got a text. Please pray for Tom. He was in a bad rest. She then asked, were there people in the other car hurt? He says, I I don't know. Just got a text saying, Please pray for Tom. He was in a bad rec and it keeps going. Here we see the religious leaders asking, What did he do to you? I don't know, he just put mud in my eyes and now I can see. You know that's that's the what's going on here? How did he heal you? I don't know, he just put mud in my eyes and now I can see. These leaders are not looking for the truth so they can believe the truth. They're looking for a legal loophole so they can downplay what Jesus did. They want distraction they can throw at the people to get the focus off of the miracle. That's what they're fishing for. They are hoping for something they can use and this guy is not helpful, so they get frustrated and this is how they they handle it. Well verse 27, he answered them, I've told you already, and you would not listen. This is where you can see what's starting to come out of this man. He says, Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? I don't believe this was a sincere question. This man was getting a belly full of his leaders. He saw through them. It would be hard not to. So now he's going on the offense. This whole meeting is a charade. There is nothing sincere happening here. There is nothing valuable happening here. It is a lynch mob Mark Hurd has a line in one of his songs, I think I've quoted it before, but it's a great one. You don't need to be conscientious at a masquerade. And this is clearly a masquerade. These men are pretending to be cre crusaders for truth, but really they're just power mongers. So the healer man sarcastically asks them if they want to be Christ's disciples too, knowing that it's gonna it's gonna tick them off. Is that why you're so curious? Well they both knew the question was intended as an insult to what was going on And this is how this is seen by how quickly and passionately these leaders respond in verse twenty-eight. And they reviled him, saying You are his disciples, but we are disciples of Moses. And we know that God has spoken of Moses, but as for this man, we don't even know where he comes from. Here we go again. Pulling up the pedigree. They're good at name-dropping, but they aren't much for emulating the ones they say they follow Jesus could say, I knew Moses, and you know Moses. I knew Abraham and you know Abraham and I know the devil and well now we have a match. You know, that's the essence of it. Then here we see it again. These leaders refuse to do their homework. They still don't know where Jesus is from. These guys ought to be fired for not doing their jobs, if nothing else. Our friend, the healed man, is not in the least intimidated by him. In fact, he keeps bringing light into this dark place. He is not impressed by their claims of superior spirituality. This man is impressed by real power. The kind that heals you , not constant boasting and posturing, like these religious leaders were big at. Verse 30, the man answered, Wow, this is an amazing thing. And you get to see you you can just see the man loosening up. He's getting more and more ready to deal with this nonsense. He said, That's an amazing thing to me. You don't know where he's from, but he opened my eyes. We know that God doesn't listen. Listen to the reasoning here. We know that God does not listen to sinners. That's true. But if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. That's true. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. That's true. If this man were not from God, he could be nothing. Perfect. Perfect logic. I'm pretty sure this sealed his fate with the religious big shots. Talk about straining a gnat and swallowing a camel. The Pharisees had that art mismastered And this here a man nails it. He is right on. The leaders are focused on what they don't know. When what they do know is screaming at them. This man can heal people born blind. Only God can do that. Everyone knows that. Everyone. And this healed man knows that that's true. His senses are bombarded with the results of a miracle that God did. That's the starting point for anyone who is intellectually serious. You start with the most blatant, indisputable fact Jesus healed a man born blind. What a bummer it must have been to finally be able to see, and what he gets to see are men who are spiritually blind and ignorant and abusive. But sometimes that's how life goes. But this man nails it. It's true that God does not listen to sinners. In fact, David, as a friend of God, says in Psalm 66, 18, If I had cherished iniquity in my Heart, the Lord would not have listened. When even a Christian commits himself to commit a sin. He might as well not bother praying in that state. If you are planning to commit a known sin And you are right now planning it, don't bother praying because that prayer is not going to be heard. God is not going to hear him when he's intentionally sinning or planning to sin The planning to sin is a sin just as much as the sin that you're planning. So he was right about that. God doesn't listen to the ungodly man. So But if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. This too is true. We as believers have been granted access to the throne of God with confidence in Hebrews. Let us then with confidence Draw near to the throne of grace to be heard by God that we may receive mercy and find grace in help of time of need. We know as believers, we are promised over and over again, we can come directly to God and God will listen to us. us when we come to him in faith. Because of Christ we have access to father to the Father through Christ. God does listen to the faithful. His doctrine is simple This man's doctrine is simple, but it's solid. If only God can do this thing, and God will answer a prayer from a faithful man, Jesus must be a faithful man. That is great thinking. Great thinking. Then the next thing the healed man says is to draw attention to just how miraculous this miracle really was. Verse 32. Never Since the world began, has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind? And it's that's true. There are people who were blind, but they were not born blind. If this man were not from God, he says he could do nothing. This is a big deal. I mean, we read this story, and and it's it's a wonderful story, and we catch a little bit of the wonder and the beauty of it. But we've read it, I mean, I've read it multiple times, and it's kind of like something is lost w uh as you gain familiarity with it. It's astounding what happened. No one has ever heard of such a thing. It should be celebrated. It should be lauded as an amazing work of God. There ought to be a party throne in that s in that square where it happened. This man is saying, come on now, this man could never do something like this if he were not from God. Anyone knows that You know it, and I know it, and everybody else knows it. And they said, you know, you raise a good point here. We better think about that. Give up our plans to kill Jesus. We know that's not true. No. They answered him, You were born in utter sin. Would you teach us? That's their response. Insults. Have you ever had an argument with someone who will not listen to something that's right in front of them? I mean you're pointing at a verse. Something that is so obvious that everyone but them sees it If so, I hope it isn't me that you think of when we think of that example, but you know, um it is so frustrating. I've had multiple discussions with people trying to reach a point of agreement. I mean that was my motive. I wanted to reach a point of agreement with this person so we could have fellowship. But that's clearly not what the other party wanted They just wanted to keep preaching to me about how wrong I am and wouldn't give any ground on any of the other ideas. That's what this man is experiencing here. Now they insult him That's all they have left to do because his reasoning and his theology were irrefutable. When you're dealing with somebody and you can lay out the truth in such a way that they can't refute it, if they're not going to go for the truth, they will go for the insult. Sometimes shouting and anger may happen when two people are sincerely frustrated and can't work out a conflict. That happens. Their communication might be ineffective and they're frustrated. So that you might have some of that. But insults. Insults are something different. Insults are a sign that one party no longer cares about the truth. That person will use any means, angelic or demonic, to silence the opponent and to have their own way. Insults are about power. They are not about truth. They are about winning. They are not about knowing. Now, Jesus had already dealt with the misconception that this man was born blind directly as a result of someone's sin. We started the passage with that. He said that there are other reasons that this could happen And you gotta figure them in. And in this instance, it was clearly so the glory of Christ would be revealed. That man had waited twenty plus years for Christ to fulfill the purpose that he was born for, which was to be healed by Jesus Christ. So they're wrong about this man's spiritual condition the when they said you were born in utter sin. They were well I mean any more than anyone else is born in utter sin. We all are but they were attributing you were born in sin. We have the evidence because you were born blind. So Definitely you're born in sin. And then they said, Would you teach us? Anyone looking on could have said, you know, he already has. If you were just paying attention, you would have just been schooled. But he's saying, Would you have the audacity to teach us great big, you know, impressive religious leaders And he they've been schooled by a man born blind who has never been in the temple. They should all resign right now. Of course, that's not what they do, but they should. And they cast him out. They should have cast themselves out. You know the advantage that this guy had that most people don't? He had nothing to lose. Uh Christopherson 's line is a good one. When you got nothing, you got nothing to lose. Well that's where this guy was. This yield man was never included in temple worship, so casting him out didn't make a whole lot of difference You couldn't take anything away from him that he held dear. The people who loved him would always love him, and the ones who didn't probably never would, and we'd do well to learn that lesson in our own lives. to really focus around the fact that, you know, God has put people around us that love us and depend on them and don't worry so much about what everybody else thinks. The fact that he had little to offer folks means that any friends that he had were probably true friends, good friends. They weren't the kind that were hanging on for morsels or whatever. They weren't fair weather friends. So the Pharisees had no power over this man, and that had to be frustrating because they were used to having power over people. Didn't have any over Jesus, didn't have any over this man. Verse thirty-five, Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And he answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Because I want to I added that in. Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. Here's the highlight of the story. This is the absolute climax of the story. The man started the story in physical and spiritual darkness. He ended the story with physical and spiritual sight. You and I, if you are in Christ, will one day be able to walk up to this man and tell him how cool his story was. We might laugh with him for the way he stood up to the big shots. Might ask him, how how are you feeling? What is it like? To do that. But notice that Jesus found this man. People were never a strategy to Jesus. They were people to love He met them individually and dealt with each one according to their specific needs. Jesus asked, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And this must have been a reference to the Messiah in Daniel, in the book of Daniel. And I I love this yellow man. Again, all we see is sincerity. He in essence says, I don't know that either. I don't know who that is. But show me, and I will. What an attitude. It's wonderful. Because he clearly believed that Jesus had spiritual authority. If a guy can heal you of blindness, he knows what he's talking about. And Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you To most of us, when we read you have seen him, we might might not think of much of that. I think Jesus used out those words for very purposefully He wasn't he hadn't been seeing anything for twenty years. So he's probably soaking in everything that he sees. And then Jesus says, You have seen me. Well the only reason that he has seen him is because Jesus healed his blindness. Yeah, I see him because he is him, is probably what the guy's thinking Which is pretty cool. Verse thirty eight, he said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. Here is the massive difference between this man and all the religious experts. This man was given faith. This man would stand for Christ no matter what. This man responded to Christ's call on his life. This man was saved. And what a f wonderful end to the story, at least the story we're told, about this man. But there's a little more. Jesus said, For judgment I came into the world that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. For judgment I came into the world. Now, this is one of those apparent contradictions where Jesus says one thing and he says another thing, and they look to contradict. We always need to take a good hard look at those things because there's always an answer to the apparent contradiction. A lot of times it's in the frame of reference that the thing is spoken But Jesus said in another place that God did not send him into the world to judge the world. And there's a few other statements like that as well. But once Christ came as the great light, as the perfect representation of the Father, what people did with Jesus Christ would determine their destiny. People's judgment about who Jesus is would ultimately result in their judgment By God. John MacArthur says, to reject Jesus' peace is to receive his punishment. To reject his grace is to receive his just justice. To reject his mercy is to receive his wrath. To reject his love is to receive his anger. To reject his forgiveness is to receive his judgment So what we do with Christ brings about judgment, even though Christ did not come to judge the world this time. Now evidently after kicking this heated man out, a few Pharisees were still hanging out with with the man, and that's why Christ says what he did in verse forty. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him. Are we also blind? Are we also blind? And the way this is phrased in the Greek, it expects a negative answer. Like they're quizzing Christ looking for Christ to back down a little bit, to humble himself a little bit, to uh apologize maybe. And uh they would expect Jesus to say, Oh no, I didn't attend intend to uh offend you, blah blah blah. But that is not at all what Jesus said. Jesus said to them, If you were blind you'd have no guilt, but now you say we see your guilt remains. Now we we need to understand these kind of statements in the context of all scripture. A man in an unsaved state is spiritually blind. So Jesus is speaking about the perspectives that these people had of themselves, not the actual reality of them. uh of their uh true ability to see. So we would interpret it like this. If you saw yourself as being blind Then you would have opportunity to deal with your blindness and request sight. That spiritual process would result in your coming to Christ and not being guilty, If you saw yourself that way. But because you have confidence in yourself that you do see, you'll never do anything to gain sight. You'll never humbly believe in Christ or call out to him for true sight. You will certainly face judgment Isn't that a wonderful story about the grace of Christ? I haven't made a whole lot of applications from this story, but I think the healed man serves as an excellent example for us as we follow Christ. This man knew very little about Christ. In fact, there's a lot of things he didn't know much about. He was very quick to admit that. I like that. But what little he knew, he spoke. He stood up for his healer and he would not back down. He was not afraid that the crowd had power and the crowd stood against him. He didn't care what they did to him. He simply stated what he knew about Christ and what he knew about Scripture, and he held on to it. We can all do that. We can all do that. We can all follow that man's example. By now most of us should know much about Christ But even when we get tongue-tied and our brain freezes and we we're kind of muddled in a conversation that we're in, we can always tell folks about what Christ did for us. And we need to be careful to avoid the Pharisees' example. They were making these decisions based on what they wanted and what seemed good to them. They weren't double checking it to see if it matched the Word of God. Many of the problems that we find ourselves in are a result of trusting our instincts. Of assuming that if I feel so strongly about this thing, I must be right. And we need to step back and ask, what does Scripture really say about this thing that I am dealing with right now? What does God say? What does God want? And submit everything to his scrutiny. If we'll consistently do that, we'll never end up making the mistakes That the Pharisees made. Let's pray. Lord, we think