Well, again, the other gospels cover this story about uh Mary and the wonderful gift that she And as usual, the other gospels give us some details that Mark leaves out. We need to look at Matthew 26, 6 through 13. And John eleven, fifty-five through I can't be right. Must be twelve twenty-one to get the full story. First, Mark is probably dropping back, as Mark is telling the story, he's dropping back in time to a previous period, back to the Sunday at the beginning of the week that he's got us up to Wednesday on. And uh he's telling us this story. This is when Christ first arrived at Bethany. You know, on his way into Jerusalem, he just arrived that night at Bethany. This would fit the other gospels telling of the story and the timeline that they put to it. They're at Simon's house. The text says they are at Simon the leper 's house But no one would meet for a meal at a leper's house. So this must be at a house of a leper who was healed And that makes a lot of sense, as anyone healed of leprosy would be feel very obliged to Christ for healing them. And since there was no cure for leprosy at the time, it would have had to have been Christ that healed him. That's probably what's happening here. This is probably Simon the ex-leper. He was probably healed by Jesus, and now he's expressing his appreciation in a way that he has available to him. Now, John gives us a great deal of detail that the other Gospels don't. In John, we find out more about who's in attendance at this meal. We find out that Lazarus, Mary, Mary, and Martha are there. Lazarus, Mary, and Martha. Now, naturally, Martha is serving the meal. She's doing the work of hospitality, but this time we don't hear anything about any complaints from Martha. Maybe Martha has finally come around to seeing that no one else is obligated to provide the service that she finds fulfillment in giving. Yay, Martha. Maybe she's no longer looking around to see if everyone else is giving the same thing that she is. Maybe she's learning to find satisfaction and fulfillment in the gift that God has given to her. Maybe she will never be in the spotlight. But at the end of the day, it will be because of her work that there will be platforms for ministry that would not have existed without her. Service is a wonderful gift. It's not often very applauded, but it is oh so very essential. Do you see things needing done in the family of believers or toward those who are outside of Christ? Can you do those things? Do you want to do those things? Are those things right to do? If the answer is yes, do them. But don't do them if you'll harbor a grudge toward those who choose to do something else in the body of Christ. Do them as unto the Lord, looking only to Him for your reward. That is how the gifts he gives us are supposed to function. That is how they function best. Martha ruined what she gave at the first meal that she served to Christ because she was looking at what Mary was doing. Here we see the name of Martha doing an essential task. She's mentioned in the Bible for all to see. And what does it say? Martha served. Could people sum up our lives by saying he served the Lord or she served the Lord? That's a very, very good thing. On Judgment Day, that will be the assessment given by Christ. He'll say, well done, my good and faithful servant. John also tells us that Lazarus was here. Lazarus is very hated by the religious elite. He was raised from the dead, and everybody knows it. The rulers would like to send him back to the dead, but they know that that would not be very politically received well, so they they can't do it. Now, as far as I know, Lazarus never did anything notable other than dying and then serving as a testimony to the power of God. Don't we all want to do the Mary kind of things? Mary was, she seems at least, to be a spotlight person. But it was Lazarus who was used as evidence that Christ was God. Lazarus was the evidence of the power of God through Christ. We all have a part to play. We all have different gifts. Maybe God's primary purpose for your life is to display his power in your life, in your weakness. Maybe he wanted you to have great weakness so he could display his great strength in your life. Maybe he just wants to use you as a display to the world of what he can do with dead flesh. But that requires that you apply the resurrection power of Christ to overcome those weaknesses. It requires saying no to flesh and yes to Christ. It requires leaving the deadness behind and walking in newness of life. But Mary, this morning, is our star player. We'll find out it was Mary who poured the oil on Christ in the book of John. Mark doesn't tell us that There is always a Mary or a Peter in the crowd. And thank God there'll be lots of them in eternity with us. It makes things a lot more entertaining. They're the people who always seem to be the center of attention. There's something remarkable about them that causes them to stand out. It's easy for people who are more reserved, who are less visible, to envy the Marys and the Peters We ascribe motives to them that they don't have. Our flesh lies to itself about the evil of all this. But at the end of the day, the quicker we accept that God has given us all different parts to play the more content we will be with the part that he has for us to play. There are some things we need to understand before we really get this passage. It says quite succinctly that a woman came having an alabaster flask of very costly oil of Spike nart, then she broke the flask and poured it on his head. It's kind of like an understatement. This alabaster flask It's a stink bug. I hope that's not like a sign. The the Alabaster flask was a flask mostly m most likely carved from stone in Egypt. The flask itself would have been extremely expensive. And it was carved in a way that would have a very small opening at one end. So if you poured the thing over, the contents wouldn't spill out quickly. It would kind of come out drop by drop. But it was essentially a stone bottle. And it contained pure nard. Nard was a spice that was grown in India, which is pretty far away from Israel. So it would have been imported at a great distance at a large price. And it was very fragrant fragrant. It would often be used to prepare a body for the grave. It would ward off the smell of rotting flesh for a little while. We find that it was worth 300 denarii. What this means is that it was worth a year's wages. A year's wages. That would be our equivalent maybe of $30,000. It would be the price of one of our very good brand new vehicles. We really need to understand the value before the we get the idea of the enormity of what of what Mary did. A new vehicle. She took that valuable commodity and then she took the valuable flask that it was in and she broke the top off. This would have even added to the expense of her gift. She probably broke it so she could pour it quicker. We find in the gospel records that she emptied it out on Jesus' head and his feet. I have a few things to quote this morning from Warren Wearsby, because I think he really captures the essence of what was done here. This is the first quote. He says, Only John identifies this woman as Mary, sister of Martha and Lazarus. She is found only three times in the Gospel, and in each instance, she's at the feet of Jesus. Good place to be. She sat at his feet and listened to his word in Luke 10, 38 through 42. She came to his feet in sorrow after the death of Lazarus, John 11, 28 through 32 And she worshipped at his feet when she anointed him with the ointment in John 12, verse 1. Mary was a deeply spiritual woman, Wirsby goes on. She found at his feet her blessing. She brought to his feet her burdens, and she gave at his feet her best. When we combine the gospel records, we learn that she anointed both his head and his feet and wiped his feet with her hair. A woman's hair is her glory, 1 Corinthians says She surrendered her glory to the Lord and worshipped him with the precious gift that she brought. It was an act of love and devotion that brought fragrance to the whole house End of quote. Don't you love this about Mary? She was truly a special woman. She shows her humanity in her responses to Christ. But we always find her coming back to Christ's feet. We notice she doesn't require any praise. She doesn't do this looking around. She's not looking for a lofty position like the disciples were. She isn't trying to be one of Jesus' cabinet members like the disciples were. She doesn't want an attention-getting position like the disciples did. She isn't even looking to be appreciated like her sister. She doesn't do anything That she sees as being of great value. She doesn't try to impress Christ with her service. She just does those things in worship that come to her heart to do. She takes that what she has and she devotes it to Christ. That's all she does. She loves him. That's all And she wants to be with him and hear from him whenever she can. There's only one thing that's needed, and somehow she knows exactly what that is. It's to be with Christ. Now here's an example to follow. Men and women would do well to follow it. The disciples would have done well to learn from Mary. Pretty soon they'll be arguing about who's the greatest again. But that thought doesn't seem to enter Mary's head. Not a concern in the world for that. She is simply enthralled with her master. She loves Christ and she wants to be with him and learn from him. Nothing more. His presence is what she wants. Oh, to be like Mary. Oh, to want only the fellowship of Christ, to sit at his feet and worship, to commune with him the hours we have. To pour upon him that which we have that is most valuable to us, to simply lay it at his feet due to our love for him. What do we do with that which is most valuable to us? Do we hoard it for ourselves? Do we protect it for ourselves? Do we hold it tightly and plan for how we'll use it for our pleasure or our security? Mary did none of that She had something that was worth a great deal. She may have amassed this treasure by being very frugal over a long period of time. It must have been something that held a great value for her. She would not have accumulated it the way that she'd had to if it wasn't. This kind of thing would not just fall into your hands. This was a very wealthy extravagance. It likely came to her by discipline and sacrifice And it was hers to do with as she saw fit. She could have done a lot of things with this that would have put her in a better, more secure position in life. But when the chance came to spend it in service to her master, she could not think of a better use for it. Now consider this. Practically, what did she accomplish? Really? How long would this wonderful smell last? A day, two, three, a week? What practical need would it meet? What would it end up doing? We really need to consider this. There is a degree that our service to God is really not intended to be practical. It's gotta be hard on you. This had to be a hard on a woman like Martha. But oddly enough, it was Mary who got the best press She loved Jesus. She wasn't practical. Her love was extravagant. It was almost thoughtless in its boundaries. Is this wise? Well, maybe it's not when it's human love. Love looking to be reciprocated. But when we're loving God, there's no price to pay that's really out of bounds. When we look at the price that God has paid for us, when we look at the price he paid, knowing he would get nothing similar in return, there's really nothing we can give to God. That would be inappropriate. That would be too much. That would be out of place. All of us here have built-up defenses Even to those who are closest to us, we know there are weaknesses in others that can cause us harm. But when we're talking about Christ, there is nothing of that kind with him. He only ever loves us. He takes care of us. He sacrificed for us. So we don't have to guard ourselves. We can take that which is of greatest value to us, to him. and will never be ripped off. It will never be seen as foolish. There's another quote from Warren Wearsby. Notice that every time Mary sought to do something for Jesus, she was misunderstood. Her sister Martha misunderstood her when Mary sat at Jesus' feet to hear him teach the word. Judas and the other disciples misunderstood her when she anointed Jesus Her friends and neighbors misunderstood her when she came out of the house to meet Jesus after Lazarus had been buried. When we give Jesus first place in our lives, We can expect to be misunderstood and criticized by those who claim to follow him. Principle we've probably all seen in our lives at some time. I don't know why this is, but it seems that those who are purest in their worship of God, who think those who think nothing of paying the greatest price, Are often maligned by those who pretend to be spiritual. I think it's because the best examples of Christians always make us look bad They're willing to give more than we are. They're reckless in their pursuit of God, in their service of God, in their worship of God. And they make our rules and principles designed to keep us comfortable. Look ridiculous and selfish. So we want to badmouth them. We want to make them look bad. We want to make them look stupid. We want to come up with a reason to contemn what they do We really, really need to watch out for this in us, in ourselves. It is bad. It is very, very bad. It is evil. Let's see it in action. Verse 4. But there were some who were indignant among themselves and said, why was this fragrant fragrance oil wasted? For it might have been sold for more than 300 denarian, given to the poor. And they criticized her sharply. We find from the other Gospels that it was Judas who first raised this criticism, and he probably whispered it to the other disciples, and then it grew. The mention of the poor here is natural because it was the custom for the Jews to give gifts to the poor on the evening of the Passover. So it would have been kind of in their mind, yeah, let's let's give something to the poor now. It's that time of year, let's give something to the poor. Well, I don't like this passage. I don't like it because I see the same tendencies in me. I suspect if we look closely, many of us do. We think practically. We evaluate the facts according to a standard that makes sense to us. We think like Martha. We think like Judas. And we think we're just being faithful and frugal and smart. How often have you found yourself finding fault in other people's acts of service toward Christ? How often have you voiced that criticism to others? And what effect has that criticism had on the opinions of those people we spoke to? To have toward those people who did the service. How often do we assume the worst motive in those who are doing the service? How often do we think we're being superior because we would do it differently? And inside we think we're being like Solomon, but in reality we're being like Judas. We're being critical of someone else's pure-hearted service to the Lord in many cases. And we're spreading that undermining and divisive influence if we're not careful. We serve the enemy of our Lord by criticizing someone's service to the Lord. That's how it works out. I remember clearly the last time we went over this passage in a different gospel. Someone had written an evangelistic letter to someone I knew, and the person who wrote it asked me about the effect that the letter had on that person. And I told the person who wrote that letter that I think that it would have been much better and much more effective had they delivered that message in person, had they said it to the person. Was I right? Maybe so. But what I did was throw a bucket of cold water on the service that had just been performed to the Lord. I didn't see that at the time. I saw it later. Was Judas correct that the needs of the poor could have been met with the proceeds of the sale of the perfume? He's absolutely right. Of course he could have. Yeah, that's a factually correct. But it completely misses the point. As believers, we need to foster other believers' acts of worship to the Lord. And we need to think long and hard before we criticize it or try to improve it. The correct thing for me to do would have been to be grateful for the attempt at ministry to a non-believer. The correct thing for the disciples to do would have been to put Judas in his place. And honored this amazing, extravagant gift that Mary gave to Christ. Notice that the disciples criticized her sharply The word used means violent displeasure. They were really angry. They were really raking her over the coals. They were belittling Mary forcefully. They were angry with her. That's how flesh ministers. That's how flesh ministers. It comes up with issues that come from our own perceptions or priorities or pet peeves. They're not from God. And then flesh enforces those legalisms harshly. How do you think Mary felt here? What an awful thing those disciples were doing. We've got to ask the question: who did they think they were? What authority did they think they had to do such a thing? Think of the effect that their so-called ministry would have had on Mary. What is she supposed to do? You know, can she wipe all that stuff up and put it back in the jar? Should she think that what she just did at a huge personal price to herself was just a huge mistake? That it held no value whatsoever? What a devastating so-called ministry this was by the so-called followers of Christ. We do well to never, ever follow their lead. Sometimes we do we do best just to shut up and watch. Really? How many times would we have done better just to shut up? We sometimes need to look at others' acts of service from a different perspective. Even our efforts to be helpful and informative can sometimes be destructive if we're not careful. Our perspectives are often flawed. We do well to talk to God before we start talking to others. Jesus would have given the disciples very different advice than they gave themselves We learn from John's gospel that Judas' motivation was less than sincere. He wanted those funds in the kiddies so he could steal them. Here's the last quote from Wearsby. Judas' life is a warning to those who pretend to serve Christ, but whose hearts are far from God. He is also a warning to those who waste their opportunities in their lives. Why this waste? asked Judas when he saw the expensive ointment poured out on Jesus. Yet Judas wasted his opportunities. He wasted his life. He wasted his soul. Jesus called him son of perdition, which literally means son of waste. It's ironic. In verse 6, but Jesus said, let her alone, why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me. The disciples criticized, but Jesus said, we do well to find out first what God says before we apply to people what we think is right. The disciples could have easily asked Christ what he thought before they entered this ministry from hell. Look at what Christ says to Mary's criticizers. Let her alone. Why do you trouble her? She's done a good work for me. Jesus immediately puts this thing in the proper perspective. He shows the disciples who is right and who is wrong. There are times in your life when this is all you have to rely upon. Your acts of worship and obedience to God may be a lot maligned, even maligned by people close to you. Your motives or wisdom might be brought into question. And it may take a while for the people of God to receive the correction that they need in their perspective. In fact, it might be after they die that this thing will be straightened out. But you can always rest in this confidence. God always protects his own. If you've done what you believe to be right for the right reason, God knows that. Even if no one else does, even if nobody else sees it right, even if no one else evaluates it properly. He does. And he will receive it properly even when no one else does. Now, how would you feel if you were one of the disciples here? Okay, they've just raked this woman over the coals for something that they think is very practically true and obvious to anybody. Well, I can't think of a greater rebuke to somebody's ministry. Christ says, let her alone. You see what he's saying? Your ministry is so bad, guys, that she'd be better off not to be ministered at all than to be ministered by you. Let her alone. Your ministry is just trouble. You're correcting her when what she's done is good and what you're doing is bad. If ever there was an example to avoid, this is one. Never do ministry that does more harm than good, that ministers discouragement for doing good, that finds fault in what God finds to be wonderful. Mary was doing what she felt was the right thing to do for the right reason. Jesus regarded it as such. True ministry has to learn to see people's actions through God's perspective. If you can't find God's perspective through God's word, it's best to remain silent until you can. Notice too that these disciples said that the precious ointment was wasted. It wasn't wasted. Look what else Christ says. For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you wish you may do them good, but me you do not always have. She has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint my body for burial Assuredly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will be told as a memorial to her. There have always been poor people, and there always will be. That's not something good. That's not saying, well, you know, make sure that stays. It just is. That's that's how it is. This is not an excuse to do nothing about it. We're told to look out for the needs of the poor frequently in Scripture, especially believers that are poor. So it doesn't get us off the hook, but it is a fact. There will always be poor people. Jesus' criticism is not because the disciples were too concerned for the poor. Knowing what we know of the disciples, the sudden concern for the poor was probably hypocritical. They put it on like a robe. But suppose they really had such a sincere concern for the poor, and they truly wanted to meet the needs that this money could meet. Christ's criticism would have remained the same. The problem here is the failure of the disciples to prioritize and to discern the value of worship. The value of worship. Our service to God is only as good as our worship of God. Our service to God is only as good as our worship of God. If an act of service does not stem from our worship of God, it has no value. Worship comes first. It is the connection that allows for everything else good in our lives. So you can't apply some formula that prioritizes acts of service over acts of worship. In fact, if you're going to prioritize, prioritize your worship of God over your acts of service to God. Make sure your relationship with God is right. Make sure he has the proper place in your life. Make sure he is on the throne. Make sure you live for his pleasure before you act for his pleasure. Nothing messes up a church like people who do stuff for God but are not worshiping God. Mary was pretty amazing. She usually got it right. She displays to us a person who worships Christ with all that she has and all that she is. In this case, she was driven by her worship of the person of Christ. to pour upon him the most lavish gift that she had. I doubt she knew she was preparing him for his death. In fact, I doubt she knew the significance of what she was doing at all. She may have. I I don't think so. She simply did it because it was the thing she most wanted to do And it was used to meet a need that I think she probably wasn't even aware of. That's often how the best ministry happens in our lives. When we do those things we feel compelled to do in our service to God. It's interesting that Jesus said, she has done what she could. There are a thousand things that Mary couldn't do. Maybe she couldn't do what Martha was doing. But this she could do. This is another example for us to follow. Don't worry about the things you can't do. Focus on the ones you can do. Because that's a service that God has for you to do. God has a purpose for making you the person that you are. He has granted you life situations for a specific purpose. They'll be different than every other believer's. Live for Christ where you are. You don't need to be like any other believer. Do what you can do And then verse 9. Assuredly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will be told as a memorial to her. That's the coolest thing. When Mary decided to minister in this way to Christ, she had no idea whatsoever that her record would be read by millions, maybe billions of people. It's astounding. She had no idea we would be reading it today and speaking of how good an example of worship and service she provided. It's not bad for $30,000. She only knew one thing. She wanted with all of her heart to express to Christ the value that he held in her life. She wanted to express his worth to her. That is worship. That's all she knew. And this was the way she decided that she could best display it. So she did it. She decided to do it, and she did it. And look what happened. The disciples did their ministry of flesh and criticized in this act of worship. I'm sure Mary was hurt and confused by that. But Christ turns it around. He does something for Mary. I don't think he did for anyone else. He includes what she did in the record of the gospel for an amazing purpose. This is the purpose Christ said he did this for. It will be told as a memorial to her. This must have been one of the most precious ministries ever done to Christ, certainly when he needed it the most. Christ never included anything as a memorial to anything that the disciples had ever done. Kinda interesting. But this thing, the disciples criticized, was going to be an example to all believers for all time of a woman who knew how to worship. I guess to sum it up, there's at least two solid applications, but I think we've probably found many already. First is we need to ask the question: how is our ministry similar to the disciples? The ministry of flesh that criticizes true acts of worship. Do you see yourself here? Do you see ways that you're critical of others' service and worship of the Lord? Do you question the wisdom or the motives of those doing those acts? It would be very good for us to consider what we're doing very carefully. If we don't, we may find that like the disciples, we do more harm than good. And God might be saying, leave them alone. Then the second is, how is our worship similar to Mary's? Giving all that we have gladly and joyfully to our Savior in an expression of appreciation for his worth to us. Mary was not intending to do a great thing. She was just being congruent with her life and with her heart. She did with her hands what her heart desired to do. What worth does Christ hold in your heart? What worth does Christ hold in your heart? How do you want to show it? Jesus here is encouraging us to worship him. He's pointing out for all to see the value in worshiping him. Mary did it with a bottle of perfume. Maybe we do it by dedicating time to read and pray. Maybe we do it by the work we do with our hands in his service. Maybe we do it by saying no to the temptations we very much want to say yes to. Our lives will never be wasted in our worship of our Lord. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this wonderful memorial. It will be exciting to meet Mary one day. We thank you that she shows us how it's done. We have 12 guys in school with you, and this woman gets it right every time we see her. We thank you, Lord, that that's what you produce in our hearts, and we ask that you would help us to learn from this lesson and worship you like she did. Help us to see your worth and to apply our hands and our lives and our minds and our hearts to displaying it, to showing you the gratitude. for your worth and for your kindness to us and for your grace and for your rich promises. And we ask that you would pierce our hearts when we start acting like the disciples, when we start doing more harm than good, when our ministry keeps other people from doing their ministry. Lord, we we know that we need your interaction, your Holy Spirit piercing us with our failures because we are so good at skirting around them in our hearts. We just ask that you would help us to avoid The failures and to emulate true worship, true hearted worship, true valuable worship. Help us to apply these this week and to make steps forward in our worship of you. In Jesus' name. Amen.