He's just talked to them about the problem of living in this world and the problem of evil. He's made it very clear to them that they're going to struggle to be in a they're going to be in a continuous and uh continual Tremendous struggle as long as they are in this world. And the struggle is because of the nature of the kingdoms. There's God's kingdom that God is building on the earth. God is bringing people to himself and growing them up in faith. And there is the kingdom of the devil that is always completely dedicated to destroying anything that God loves. The devil's got to get at God through people because he has no power to attack God directly. So we can expect that. And that's the nature of life in this world. And that truth isn't one of it. Now John loves these people he's writing to. He regards them as his little children, as we'll see in the next verse. And he's giving his parting words to them. Now, what will give his little children ammunition in their struggle against the flesh and the devil? How can we stand up against this world that is directed against God? How can he help his children to make it? What he points to, like so much of Scripture, is an orientation to who we are in Christ. Who we are in Christ. That is the ammunition. And remember, he is pointing to certainty. Certainty. He is pointing to what we know. We've never seen the word know used so often in a short book. I hope we're doing business with this. If we're to have joy in this life, we must focus our minds on that which we are certain about. And John tells us over and over what those things are. Let me ask a question here to illustrate what I mean Because I kind of think it's important before we leave this book that we really grapple with what I'm saying. What effect has meditating on what John says is certain? Had it in our lives? What effect has it had in our lives? Focusing on what John says or what any other scripture says The good things about the Christian life and what is served. How does that affect us? What do you feel when you meditate on 1 John 5, 13 through 15 that says, These things I have written to you who believe In the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God. Now this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. We learned about how he hears us in a very, very positive way. We know if that he hears us again, we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we have asked of him. And then 1 John 5, 18 and 20, 18 through 20 says, We know that whoever is born of God does not sin, but he who has been born of God keeps himself, and the wicked one does not touch him. We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies under this way of the wicked. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we may know him. who is true. And we are in him who is true. In his son Jesus Christ. This is the true God in eternal life. So how do we feel when we think about those certainties? How does it change your mood or your perspective? What happens to you when you think of the hundreds of wonderful statements about how God loves his people? How do you feel when you bring to mind his promises? God gave those things to us as fuel. For godly living. We live in a battleground, but we have God's word and God's presence with us So, how do we feel when we train our minds to come back to his truths over and over and over again? My point is that these truths, over time, considered over and over again, lead to joy. That is what John has been saying this whole test. They lead to joy. He wants us to be certain about them so we can have joy. Here and now and into eternity. That's what he says. How do you feel when you think about the things that we are certain about? Okay, let's contrast that. How do you feel when you fixate on what might happen? Or what could happen, or what we think will probably happen, or what you fear will happen How do you feel when you imagine the bad things that could happen to you or to your spouse or to your children or to your church or to your society? How do you feel when you allow the fears you hold to be regarded as certainties? It's like till the time you've done thinking of it, you're sure that bad thing is going to happen. How do you feel when you can't allow for anything good to come out of the circumstance that God has placed you in? Do you feel miserable? Do you feel dread? Do you feel fear? Do you feel anxious? Well, we probably should. All of our psychology our psychological equipment works properly When we don't orient our world according to trust in God, when our minds do not run with the truths that we are certain of, we are supposed to feel bad. That is how we are wired. It's logical that we would. We live in a battleground, not a luxury cruise. When we focus on uncertainty, our joy gets stolen. But we can be confident. There's nothing wrong with our feelings. There's nothing wrong with our psychological processes. In the state, in that state, it's not a mental illness. The parts are working correctly. It's our focus that is distorted. It's our obedience that is wrong. And that's good news because it means it gives us control over those processes. Now, guess what the Bible says the problem is, and the answer is, when we're in that particular state. The problem is unbelief, and the answer is belief. Certainty in the truths of who we are in Christ will bring joy. Belief in those truths is the condition of joy. Unbelief in the promises of God produces something other than joy. That's a general truth from God's word that we can depend upon. And I'm I'm serious about this. If anyone has another theory, or if I'm not reading Scripture right, I would sincerely like to see the support for it in Scripture. Now, we might sometimes have feelings that are not produced by our thinking. Yes, we know there are many conditions that produce feelings that have nothing to do with our thinking. Maybe there's been no unpleasant event that's triggered. We're not thinking about an unpleasant thing that caused our feelings. Everything is the same as the day before and it someday just happens to us. And that happens. We know that there are points in a brain that a tumor can press upon that will create very predictable emotional responses. There are hormones that can be placed in our bloodstream that can produce emotions that we didn't think our way into. They just happen to us. There are drugs that will change our emotions. Steroids, for example, will make people very agitated. Even a change in blood sugar levels can drastically change a person's mood. I think of our granddaughter Emma, whenever I say it. I've never seen anyone affected so much by sugar. So yes, there are surely all kinds of things that can affect our emotions devoid of thinking. But all those things happen to us in such a way that our thoughts are irrelevant. Before we believe we're having an abnormal emotional reaction, that we're victims of how we feel, we should ask some questions. What is coming out of my mouth? When I'm talking to people, what is coming out of my mouth? What is my mind thinking? What just happened in my life within the last say day or two? And is my emotional reaction connected to some life event? If what I am saying or what I am thinking about or how I am responding to a life situation is about some uncertainty in life Our problem is not related to something that is happening to us. Our problem is in what we're thinking, what we are believing, how we are processing our world. Most of the time, we are not a victim of our feelings. We are creating our feelings. Our unbelief, our failure to take our thoughts captive are at the heart of many of our emotional problems. Now, while sometimes we feel negative things out of the blue with no relationship to the reality we live in, there's another category of things that we feel that are negative and we see in Scripture. Sometimes we're supposed to feel negative things because we are experiencing a negative reality. That's healthy. And that negative reality was given to us for some purpose that we might or might not know at the time. In Ecclesiastes in 7, 2, 3, 4, it says, better to go to the house of mourning than go to the house of feasting. For that is the end of all men, and the living will take it to heart. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by a sad countenance the heart is made better The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. And then David says in Psalms 119, 71, It's good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. Jesus said, Blessed are those who mourn. He was talking about their spiritual condition at the time. Blessed are those who feel lousy. About their spiritual condition. We are not to understand that joy is the only thing a Christian should feel. We cannot have continual, unbridled happiness and live a true life in this world. Jesus was a man of sorrows. When we love people, we open ourselves to deeper when we lose them or when they hurt us. There are a thousand realities that we live in in this life that are going to cause us pain. And those feelings are not spiritual defeats. They're part of living on planet Earth. But hope sees past us. Hope sees past them. Hope does not allow their reality to supersede the greater reality. The foundation for the truths that bring joy exists in the presence of those things that cause us pain. We can believe God in those situations. Or we can act like God lied to us and shortchanged us somehow. And we do one or both of those consistently, constantly. We're deciding all the time. There are two general truths that I believe to be true most of the time. And it helps me to make sense of what I feel and what other people feel. They're not absolutes, but they're general, and they're this. If someone else were to think what I am thinking, they would feel like I feel. If someone else were to think what I think, they would feel like I feel. And if I think myself into an emotional distress, a correct change in thinking will correct how I feel over time. If a thought is responsible for how I feel, there's nothing wrong with me or how I feel. There's something wrong with how I choose to think. Now some people may be gifted with being more sensitive emotionally. And I say gifted because those who feel more extremes can empathize more with others. I think David was probably one of those guys. Oddly enough, I mean there's not half the people with the sword, but he had a a tender heart. When they share the comfort that they have been comforted with, they know what they're talking about. They're experts in those kind of things. And there are some thoughts that one person can think without any harm that another person cannot think without it doing them harm. And that only stands to reason. We're all built for different things. It's like kind of like uh person some people can have a drink and have it not bother them and another person can't have a single drink because it will it will go to bad places. The same is true of thoughts. And I say all of this because this is where we live. All of us experience all kinds of emotion, and we have to have some way of making sense of the whole thing. And that's our experience in life, is one of emotions. There's a lot more to it, but we experience light through our emotions, and they're wonderful things. Especially the ones that we particularly like. I sometimes feel impending doom for extreme dread or anxiety when facing some of the things that I have to do And it's easy to think that those feelings are telling me something true, or that I am a victim of those feelings, or that I need to do something that those feelings are leading me to do. But the problem is that all of our default conditions are flesh. And so so is yours. And flesh lies. Our feelings do not tell us the truth. Feelings are not adequate indicators of truth. Only God's Word tells us the truth. If I allow myself to shape my beliefs primarily by what I feel, if I believe about the world primarily from the basis of how I feel, I am in a very vulnerable state. I'm headed for a shipwreck. But if I primarily believe God and simply experience my feelings, I'm living as I'm supposed to. Now, are the feelings the problem? Should we flip out if we feel things that we believe we shouldn't feel? I guarantee you every single one of us here has felt some things that we've been very uncomfortable with feeling. No, there's a relationship between what we believe and what we feel, but it's not always immediate and it's not always direct. And sometimes there are exceptions. So what do we do when we fe what we feel is not congruent with what we believe in uh uh what our belief in God should create in us? What if our belief does not result in joy? Well, first we tell the truth about it. You just tell us like it is. We we tell the truth about it. Sometimes we're mourning a loss. Sometimes we're mourning our own sin. Sometimes we're feeling deeply for the situation of another. We see that in Scripture lots of times. Those things may often take front stage in our emotional state. And that's not unusual in Scripture. Again, David brought us into his emotional extremes in songs, and we can often relate to him. But what if there's really nothing like that? Or what if those things escalate and keep up keep uh absorbing us inordinately? Then we should look for anything we're believing or thinking about or fixating on that would create the things that we are feeling. We play detectives in our own minds. We follow back. What is it that I am thinking? If we find nothing, if we're if we're not talking about things or thinking about things that are focused on what might happen or what has happened. Then we can relax and focus on the certainties that John provides us with. And we can be confident that the feelings that we have will eventually line up with our beliefs. It may take time, but we don't have to fear our feelings. All we can do is change our thoughts. That's all we have control over. And our feelings will normally eventually align. And that is unless there is something strange going on in our bodies And then we might need the kind of professional help that can help with those things. But I think we should be very slow to believe what we feel is just happening to us or that we are a victim of our emotions. Most of the time, we are not the victims of our emotions, we are unknowingly creating them by our beliefs. Most of the time we think our way into an emotional state and we can believe our way out of it. But it requires faith, even when our feelings are telling us every other thing. We can have faith. A good question for those friends or family we trust would be, do you see anything about me that would be causing this emotional state? Often those who know us best can tell us what we might not be able to see ourselves. Okay, so let's look at our text again. Verse 20. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding. That we may know him who is true. Okay, here again, we're looking at a point of certainty, a point that is intended to talk us through. We know that the Son of God has given us an understanding We know this, there is no doubt, it has happened. That's what he's saying. These are the kinds of things that lead to joy. Now, how is it that any of us come to a real saving understanding? How do we come to a a real saving understanding? How is it that we know Christ? How is it we that we have come to God? Notice the wording here Did we arrive at this understanding? Did we work our brain cells, or as as Tyler, my co-worker says, our three brain cells until we reached an understanding, until we made a logical conclusion based on all the facts? That's not what it's saying. We may do that on any number of things, but that's not how we come to Christ. We were given an understanding. Notice it does not say we were given a message or that we were given the facts. No, it says we were given an understanding. So that we could know God through Christ. Okay, what do the other scriptures say about that? Well, first off, it's interesting to note that it's always things that faithful people knew and believed that caused them to do what they did. If you look at Hebrews 11, it's not hard to see that at all. We see each of the things that they did was by faith. What is faith? Faith is trust in the character of God to the place that you believe what he says and do what he tells you. It's understanding. And that understanding makes all the difference. What these people in Hebrews 11 all did was different, but why they did it was all the same. They understood something, they believed something, and that changed everything about them Now we see this in Jeremiah, where it says in Jeremiah 31 through 31-31 through 33, it says, Behold the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant which they broke, though I was husband to them, says the Lord. But this is the covenant that I'll make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write on their hearts, and I will be their God and they shall be my people. Here we see God promising to do something to his people. And what is it? He promises to make a supernatural change to his people. And he does not say that he will respond to their sincere change of heart. He says that he will change their hearts in a way that they could never accomplish. He'll make them want to obey him. They'll hear the law and they'll respond to it differently than a human outside of Christ. They'll want to hear from God. And when they hear it, they'll want to do it. And we know in our hearts that's a mirror. Because it sure doesn't come to us naturally or by flesh. That's not a change of mind a human can accomplish Then look at what Scripture says about our innate capacity to choose God or live for God. In Ephesians 4, 17 and 18 it says This I say therefore and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk, in the futility of their minds, having their understanding Darken, having their understanding to darken, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their hearts. Now what would happen if information were given to blind hearts? What if the gospel is presented to a blind heart? Well, what do blind people do with road signs? They might as well not exist because they can't see it. That kind of understanding cannot just come by ex explanation. It comes from a change of heart that God introduces in a person. In Acts 16, 14 we read, now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. She was a cellar of purple from the gate of Thytira who worshipped God. The Lord opened her heart. To heed the things spoken by Paul. Here's where evangelistic success comes from. It's not due to the excellent words of Paul. He could present the same message to a thousand people with no result. And knowing Paul, he probably did just that. He keep doing it. He wasn't going to quit. But here the Lord opened this woman's heart. And she could eat what Paul said. She could understand it. She could take it in. Now let's look at what Jesus said in Nicodemus. John 3. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. And this man came to Jesus by night and said, Rabbi, we know that you're a God, our teacher comes from God. For no one can do these things that you do unless God is with him. So he he said rationally I can add up that you must be from God. And Jesus answered and said to him, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, we cannot see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? And Jesus answered, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born of the water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Don't marvel that I said you must be born again The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but cannot tell where it comes from, where it goes. And so is everyone born in the spirit. Nicodemus answered and said to him, How can these things be? And Jesus answered and said to him, Are you the teacher of Israel and do not know these things? Basically pointing to what What Nicodemus does not know. Most assuredly I say to you, we speak what we know and testify what we have seen, and you do not receive our witness. Why don't they receive the witness? If if I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things? Basically, he has to be enabled to believe what it is that uh Jesus is telling him Nicodemus could not see the truth that Christ was telling him. And the problem is that Nicodemus had to be born again prior to his seeing the truth. He has to be regenerated. A person has to be born of the water and spirit prior to seeing, prior to entering the kingdom of God. I understand there are different ways of viewing that, and vowably so. But anyway, understanding is a miracle. It is not something a natural human is capable of. Not this kind of understanding, not salvation understanding. 1 Corinthians 2, 7 through 12 says, But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory. Which none of the rulers of this age knew, for had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of Lord. But as it is written, I have not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love us. But God has revealed them to us through his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. For what man knows the things of God except the Spirit of man which is in him, even so no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God. So basically, you can't know what God is telling you until God allows you to know it, until He works in you to hear it. That is exactly what 1 John is talking about. God reveals these truths through his spirit. It is a supernatural work he does in a person to reveal them. We receive this gift. So that we might know the great gifts we have been given by God. We don't aspire to them. They are given to us. We respond to them by receiving them. But we have to be enlightened to want them. We have to be changed to have a desire to receive them. Regeneration precedes faith. 1 John 2. 20 says, But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you know all things. 1 John 2. 27 says, But the anointing which you received from him abides in you And you don't need that anyone teach you, but as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true, and is not alive, and just as it has taught you, you will abide in him. That anointing. Comes from God. The anointing we receive from God is what gives us this inside information. This is not natural. This is supernatural We understand things, but we do not understand them naturally. We understand them supernaturally by the Holy Spirit. And this is something. We may not have a dramatic conversion in our history when we tell it or we remember it from our perspective. But everyone has a dramatic conversion from God's perspective. So we see the truth in John's quote. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true, in his Son, Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. Christ has given us an understanding so we can know God and know Christ. We can know him who is true. God and his son, Jesus Christ. And this son is not a son in that Christ is less than God. But he too is the true God, the eternal life. We must know this to overcome the evil one. We must know this to walk in an evil world yet remain true to our Savior. We must know not only the facts about Christ. Oh, we must know the facts, but we must know that he truly has come from heaven to earth and to do the ministry that he did do. But we must know more. We must know God, and we must know that we are in God because of Jesus Christ, his Son. This is truly remarkable. This is theology. But it's way more than theology. We who are in Christ are in a personal relationship with a fearful and wondrous God. Apart from Christ, we should be scared out of our minds to approach such a holy God. We should quiver in our boots with our imperfection and all our past track records. We should run to the hills knowing that our doom is certain. But instead, as children of God, we cry out Abba Father, we cry out, dear Dad, help. Fully expecting that our God loves us and will come to our rescue. And how can such a thing as that, how can such a thing so good as that be true? We are in Christ, and Christ is in the Bible. Christ made us stand. And that is what we must know. And we know it because Christ has changed us to the place that we understand. His Spirit has moved upon us and we know what He has done in us and to us. That is how we overcome the evil one. When we're faced with the world in our face, when we're faced with the wickedness of the world on the outside, When we're faced with the daily temptations of the world to do that sin that most easily besets us. And for each of us it's probably different. In the face of all that, we are to realize that which the Holy Spirit has taught us and made us understand. We are in Christ and we are in God. How absolutely amazing that is. Do you know it this morning? Do you know it? Do you know that you are in Christ? Do you know that you have tasted new birth in Christ? Have you had that miracle of life happen in you? When the temptation calls out to you that it's so hard for you to refuse, talk back to the devil. Tell him you are not his child. You are born of God. And as such, he had no claims to you. Tell him you know he's a liar. You know that what he is offering is counterfeit. It always is. It is not his. He did not make it. And you are in a close relationship with the God who made the good stuff. You won't accept the poison-laced offerings because he's the enemy of your Lord and he's the enemy of your soul, and you're on to him in his tricks. No, we have an understanding. And our understanding teaches us that we have Christ. And because we have Christ, we have a good relationship with God. And since we are different people from a different domain, the devil's appeals and recognizes only lies. And we no longer want to be lied to. God has provided us wonderful ammunition to face whatever it is that He is putting in our lives for us to face. He has given us all the foundational truths to give us hope, and having hope, we will have joy. He has given us the ammunition we need to stand against the devil and the world and our flesh. And we truly do have everything that we need for life and godliness. If something is stealing our joy It is time to take it back for the glory of God. , We know how. Lord, we thank you so much for your kindness to us, for your compassion toward us, for your long suffering, for how much we need your long suffering. And that you have stayed the course with your people. We thank you, Lord, for the conviction that you place in our hearts. We thank you for your word that helps us make sense Of the things that we experience every day, all day. That your word has not been just laid out as theology, but it's It's to help us where we really live. Thank you so much for that, Lord. Help us to apply your word in such a way That those around us see the glory of God, that they see the difference that our God, our loving God , you, the source of all good things, having the effect that you have in our lives when we really believe that what you say is true. Help us this week to be the kind of people who draw glory to you, who lift you high in our lives. And we pray all these things in Jesus' name.