You and I live in a world that's being shaped by forces that are outside of our control. There are political movements, there are spiritual trends, there are environmental pollutants, there are plans being laid behind closed doors that seek to do us harm. Now, why should we think that we are okay in the midst of all of this? How should we think as we see these things, as they unfold? When we wake up in the morning, we have to have a way of thinking that allows our circumstances not to rattle us. So what's our confidence of our future? Based on it. How do we know we'll be okay? How should we think? Well, this morning we get to watch Paul answer that question. He's just warned the Thessalonians about the greatest worldwide deception that will ever take place. He's told us that evil will be unrestrained. And this devil-powered Superman will take the stage and make war against God's people. And he'll be permitted to have his way to a large degree. Now, what Paul says next describes how these believers are to face this terrible challenge. We need to pay close attention to what Paul says here. And oddly enough, Paul's pep talk is going to come in the form of solid doctrine. Paul's encouragement is to give good theology That's encouraging. Why are the Thessalonians safe from the rebellion and the deception of the end time man of lawlessness? How should they think about this? Well, verse 13 says, But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved by the Lord. Because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. First note that Paul begins this section with the word but he just got done talking about the awful deception that will be placed on the world and all those who will be completely deceived to their own demise. It's bad news that just keeps getting worse and worse for the followers of this lawless one who don't love or believe the truth and love their pleasures of unrighteousness instead. So that's the setting that this but comes against. Then Paul says, but. But Paul now shifts to addressing the miracle people. The miracle people. He now shifts to talking about those who God will not allow to fall prey to these damning deceptions. He's going to talk about the great contrast of them to the world apart from Christ. The but in Scripture are just usually very encouraging. He will now talk about those in Christ. And he says, we ought always to give thanks to God for you. Have you ever noticed that Paul never thanks anyone for receiving Christ? He doesn't say, We thank you, Thessalonians, for responding to our gospel message. He doesn't thank them for saying yes to Jesus. No, Paul knows where the credit goes. And Paul knows there is an unlimited ought here. An unlimited ought. We give thanks to God for you. Why? Because if anyone is truly following Christ, it is God who gets the thanks for it. And they are truly following Christ. There's a little lesson here, I think. Always be careful of your oughts. Don't let unbiblical aughts drive you. Our self-created and society-induced thoughts can become a distraction in our lives, and they can be sources of unnecessary guilt, sources of unnecessary driving us. If we're not careful, things like I ought to mow my lawn, or I ought to plant some trees, or I ought to fish more. It can easily distract us from God's odds If we focus on God's ought, all the rest will take their proper place. In this case, Paul ought to give thanks to the Thessalonians, and we can hardly go wrong thanking God for each other. Now, why? Why? Brothers, beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved. This is Paul preparing these people for facing the worst of the worst that's coming at some some point in the future. This is what he focuses on. First, Paul focuses on their state of being. Paul focuses on their state of being. The Antichrist's people are those who are used and ultimately hated by the Antichrist. But Paul's people are the ones who are beloved of the Lord. Beloved of the Lord. It's pretty amazing when we stop to think about it once in a while, isn't it? If a person is in Christ, we could put a frame around that face and put a caption under that picture that says, beloved by the Lord. Beloved of the Lord. Think about that. Each of us, a framed picture, beloved of the Lord, and that's absolutely accurate. This is one of God's people. And it isn't like the eighth pick when you're picking a team for kickball. Uh I don't know if that happens anymore. It happened all the time when I was in in grade school and uh out for recess. Uh you know the y that you only pick that person because that was the best that was left. And you know that they're going to be a burden to the team, but they're not as bad as the other one that you could have picked. Now everyone God picks is as beloved as the next one Everyone that God picks is as beloved as the next pick. We can't be more loved by God We didn't earn it to get God's love, so we can't earn it to improve in it. We can improve our fellowship in Christ. We can increase our enjoyment of his love, but we cannot increase or improve his love. You are loved. You and I are loved right now as much as we will ever be. We are loved completely by God. Maybe another quick application is that we should pray that God will give us the power to really understand that, to really get it Like we uh we learned from Daniel Sisler as he went over Thessalonians and and also uh covered it as well, that we would have God's power to fully understand his love for us. And also, are you married to a believer? Do you realize that God has trusted one of his people that he selected from before the beginning of time to put with you? We do want to remember that. It's easy to lose that in our day-to-day perspective. I mean, we're waking up with a human being and just like a thousand times before, however many times. But it's a big deal that God entrusted us to each other. And he wants that person treated right. He loves them more and better than you do. Okay, so these people are beloved, but why ought to Paul pray for them? Because. Well, because why? Because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved. So Paul should thank God because God chose you to be saved as the first fruits. I like New King James translation here better. It says, because God from the beginning chose you for salvation. God from the beginning chose you for salvation. The translators here have a difficult time translating the word that was translated first for you. So different ancient manuscripts appear to have different Greek words if I understand it correctly. Anyway If it means from the beginning, like New King James says, it aligns perfectly with Ephesians 1, 3 through 5, where it says Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Christ Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will. So, why ought Paul give thanks? Because it was God who did the important choosing. It is God who did the causal choosing. God made it happen. What a tremendous source of encouragement this is for all of us as believers. Think about it. If you decided your way into the faith. If it all relied on your decider, what happens if you get really distraught? What happens if you cease to be able to think clearly? What if you were to undecide this? Paul is encouraging his brothers and sisters with the truth that their salvation is bigger than they are. It was decided prior to their existence. Do we really get that? You know, I was thinking about it as I was preparing, I was thinking, do I really get that? If you're a believer, God chose you before he created anything. He chose you before he created anything. You were chosen before Genesis 1:1. And this choice will carry on into eternity. How could we possibly be more secure than to realize that our ra our salvation be was because of an intention and a plan? on God's part, a God who knows all and can do all. Now it's important that we think right about this. We have not been saved from the beginning of the foundations of the world That had to happen in due time. We had to come to faith in Christ. That was to be a future event A decision on our part was certainly required. We had to decide for Christ. But Paul's good theology teaches us that we didn't cause that decision. We certainly made it, but we did not cause it. Now you might say, hey, I remember that decision. I remember making it. I remember surrendering surrendering my will to Christ I trusted what he did on the cross to save me. And yes, that's all true, and it has to be true. Salvation is expressed by a human being by having faith in Christ. But we've got to read the Bible to find out what was happening in heaven. We know what was happening in our heart. We've got to read the Bible to find out what was behind the curtain. We probably experienced our decision to follow Christ, much like every other decision that we've ever made. And we really did make the decision. It was the real you that made that real decision. But there's a difference in this decision. Scripture tells us that this one was impossible for us to make for ourselves. Because I was dead. I was dead to God. Something had to wake me from the dead before I could do anything. If you find yourself in a situation where you're afraid that you won't stand up to the end times test, remember this. Your power was not the force that caused you to come to Christ. God's was. Neither will your power sustain you through tribulation. God 's will. That's the beauty of good solid theology. It sustains us through very hard times. We can trust the author of our salvation. To be the perfecter of our salvation. Now that was the because Paul ought to praise God because it's God who elected these Thessalonian believers for salvation before time began. But how does God draw a person to salvation and what happens to that saved person? How does this all happen? Well, he doesn't leave us in the lurch for that. He goes on to say, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. Through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. Now, sanctification is a tricky word. It's a lot like salvation. It's used different ways in Scripture. Sanctification means to be set apart for a special use. To be set apart. In a believer, it's being set apart from sin, primarily. When we come to faith, Immediately, what Christ did on the cross is pronounced as counting for us. We are declared righteous in the righteousness of God. In the righteousness of Christ. We are free from immediately, we are free from all the penalty from our guilt. We are declared righteous, and that righteousness is imputed to us. It's imputed to us. We receive it due to what Christ did, not what we did. We didn't do anything, any of what we're getting credit for. He did it, and that's all called justification. Justification. Now in our salvation, we're also sanctified. So we're justified once and done, wonderful receiving imputed righteousness. Now at our At salvation, we're sanctified. We're set apart for a process. But sanctification is not a once-and-done event, like justification is. No, God changes our heart. He gives us a new life. He gives us a new heart. And now we have a heart for God and a heart that wrongs to honor God. So we're set apart to a path that will continue until we die of sanctification. That path is actually to take on the holy characteristics of Jesus Christ. Because we were granted a righteous position, a righteous status, justification We now begin to change our behavior to be more congruent with our position in Christ, and that's sanctification. We begin to live Righteously. We grow in our separation from sin in our lives and our growth in being like Christ. So could it be said that we were sanctified in the past tense? It's okay to say that. It's okay to say that you were once sanctified, that at some certain point of time you were set aside. for for this. Sure. I was sanctified by God on the day I came to Christ. But was the sanctification once and done like justification? And absolutely not That sanctification put me on the path of a continual sanctification, progressive sanctification, until God in His mercy glorifies me on the day of judgment. It is the Holy Spirit who begins this process and continues this process throughout our lives. Without the Holy Spirit, no believer would grow in sanctification. We are utterly reliant upon the Holy Spirit's work in our lives But that doesn't mean that we're left with nothing to do. No, our text continues, and belief in the truth. And belief in the truth. That's what we get to do. Now remember, us believing the truth is absolutely necessary to do, but it could not happen without the Holy Spirit of God. Even our sanctification, even our growth in the Christian life is a result of what God has done in justification. and is still doing in sanctification. But this is where we get to exercise our new nature. This is where we get to show off our new heart. We believe in truth. How does a Christian grow? We grow primarily by believing what God says is true. But how does that work? How will that help with my temper or my lust or my fear? Romans 12, 2 says, Don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. The scripture teaches us something very important to know. What we believe determines what we will do. What we believe determines what we will do. How are we transformed? How do we move in the direction of practicing righteousness? By being transformed by the renewal of what? Spirit? Perception? Circumstances? No. It happens in our minds. It happens in our thinker. In our believer. In John 17, 17, Jesus said, Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. That's where sanctification happens. That's how it happens. Truth is one of the primary tools that God uses in our sanctification. We are sanctified by truth. And it's not just by having it hit between our ears. Oh, if it were that easy. If sanctification were just simply a matter of hearing The Holy Spirit has to empower that truth to affect our lives, our thinking, our believing. And it's the belief in truth where God accomplishes the primary work of sanctification. I'm not arranged to get a ride home after church today. I didn't do that because I have a belief that my car will do that for me. My belief determined my actions. Now, this might not be a good example given the state of my cars, but just an example. If you believe that there is a God and that God is good. If you believe that he exists and he rewards those who follow him, you will move naturally in a direction of trusting and obeying him. That's how we are. That's how we're wired. That's what we do. Your life gravitates in the direction of your beliefs. If you think God is holding out on you, you'll ignore what He says and you'll do what you want to do. Your life gravitates in the direction of your beliefs. Humanists have an idealism that says that humans are the answer to all the world's problems. It's based in their philosophy. Now it's odd that they do not also note that humans are the cause of all the world's problems, or at least most of them. But anyway, some believe that we should all come together and fix our world with our bright ideas. If you believe something like that, you will face life completely differently than a Christian. And we have to be careful because that stuff oozes into us through Internet, through TV, through media, through uh relationships in the world, everywhere. A Christian believes that scripture tells us where human history on planet Earth is headed and it's a disaster. for all God fearers temporarily and for all God haters permanently. But Christ is coming back and our eternal reward will far outweigh any of the pain we experience. That is a Christian doctrine. That belief determines how we think about life and how we live it. So if I'm tempted to live in a state of fear, I have a choice. The choice is in what to believe. There's no sense trying to not feel something we feel. That doesn't work. Get to the heart of what do I believe? The choice is what I will think about. If I fixate on truth from God's Word, I will find that there are truths in Scripture that will help me overcome the temptation to fear or any any other temptation by that matter. by believing that truth. If I fixate on my fears, I will believe my fears over what God says in his word and will succumb to the temptation to live in fear. I think of of Peter's example when he gets outside the boat with Jesus. As long as he's looking at Jesus, he he's in pretty good shape. Takes his eyes off of Jesus and looks at the waves and he starts to go under. That's us. You know, every day. You and I are sanctified by God's truth as we decide to trust God and trust God's truth. Now, this I wish I wish that this was something that got zapped on us. And sometimes it is. I mean sometimes there are there is no explanation for a change that happens in our lives. It is just supernatural, it's immediate, and God does that wonderful work. And praise God that He does, but that is not normally, at least from what I have seen, that is not normally how God works sanctification in a believer's life. There are decisions that we must faithfully make And that takes work. It takes effort. But we're told that we have a helper in the process and that because we're given new hearts, we have the power to win. John 8, 31 and 32 says, Then Jesus said to those disciples, to those Jews who believed him, If you abide in my word , You are my disciples indeed, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. If you abide in my word, we can be free. I mean, that's the expectation here We have the opportunity of freedom from whatever oppression that we have from sin. We have the opportunity for freedom. And the freedom comes through abiding in Christ and abiding in his word. It is tightly tied with abiding in his word. Freedom comes in believing it. So Paul thanks God, because God did the choosing of the Thessalonians The Holy Spirit sanctified the Thessalonians to a path of growing in righteousness, and they grow in righteousness as they believe God's truth. That's what we've got so far. Now what? Verse 14, to this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. So that you may obtain the glory. of our Lord Jesus Christ. The word called here is talking about God's effectual call. I've gone out sometimes and tried to call turkeys. That is not an effectual call. They aren't likely to come to anything unless they want to see the bereaved. But uh when when uh When this is this is the kind of call where Jesus calls Lazarus. You know, he calls Lazarus and up he comes out of the impossible Dead situation that he was in. You and I are to call everyone with the gospel You and I are to proclaim to everybody that we know, hey, this is how you get right with God. But not everybody's going to come. But when God gives his effectual call It only affects some, but it affects them for eternity. Note too that the Thessalonians were saved by believing the simple gospel. You know, the more I think about it, and I suspect the more all of us think about it, it's sort of mirac well, it is it is miraculous. There's no other way around it This message doesn't seem like much of anything. I mean, it seems stupid to the world. God uses that to save people. It's a miracle that anyone ever comes to Christ through the gospel, and yet they do. Now, what's the end goal of God's call? So that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. He wants to share glory with us. Warren Wersby said that what begins with grace always leads to glory. Believers already have God's glory in us. John 17, 22 says, And the glory which you gave me I have given to them. Past ends. I have given to them that they may be one, just as we are one. Romans 8, 17 through 19 says, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. Believers are awaiting glorification. We are waiting for being changed from our world and body of corruption into a perfect incorruption that will be cure from the inside out. Let that come quick. Sin will no longer be our constant companion. We'll be made in many ways like Christ is. John Scott writes, There is nothing narrow-minded about the Apostle Paul. His horizons are bounded by nothing less than the eternities of the past and of the future. In the eternity of the past, God chose us to be saved. Then he called us in time. Causing us to hear the gospel, believe the truth, and be sanctified by the Spirit, with a view to our sharing Christ's glory in the eternity of the future. In a single sentence, the apostle's mind sweeps from the beginning to the glory. And that really is capturing the uh the text that we're in. We, just like the Thessalonians, can easily get caught up in the gloomy world forecast. We can begin imagining all the horrors that we and our loved ones could possibly face. But Paul draws us away from this focus. He is saying, you know where history for the Christian is going. Don't be distracted by the rocky path. The destination is glory. The destination we are traveling toward is the incomparably good. Compared to anything that we have experienced. Now we know that we can experience some pretty bad things. The good is better. That's what he's saying. No one who gets there, no one who gets to the glory, no one who gets to see Christ will ever say the price of admission was too high. It's that good. No matter what, it's that good. Verse 15, so then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter. Okay, since the payoff is so good and so certain, and since the path to get there won't be smooth or easy, you're going to need to stand firm. You're going to need to stand. Now, you and I have an advantage over many who need to stand firm in the battle. Usually in the world, one has to stand firm in order to win the battle. You know what I mean? Like there's the risk of losing. So you're standing firm and you're fighting hard because It's in question what's going to happen. A believer stands firm because the battle has already been won for us. That's beautiful. Richard Phillips says, we don't fight in order to win, but because in Christ we've already won. Really, the truth of the matter is there'd be no use fighting if the battle hadn't already been won, because we would lose. But it is in Christ that we succeed. Romans 8. 37 says, yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Richard Phillips says, our salvation is rooted in eternity past, but lived out in the power that comes from the Holy Spirit. That's the position that we are standing in. Christ has already won the war, but we have a duty in the process. We live by faith. How? He goes on to tell it. It's so useful. Hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter. Now we need to start out by pointing out that tradition is simply a passed down teaching. Tradition is a passed down teaching. We might think a tradition is bad We need to draw a distinction a distinction in our mind between traditions of man that Jesus was very against. Especially because you can't have a tradition of man and the and the truth of God run side by side. Tradition of man is always going to win in that race. But This is the tradition passed down by the apostles. They were passing down how Jesus taught them to live. That was their tradition. They were teaching others to live the way the apostles are living. They're essentially teaching others to obey like the apostles obey, like Jesus told us to. Teach them to obey like you obey. So in this use, traditions are good and authoritative. We just have to be very careful what traditions we listen to. Now keep in mind, Paul's talking about doctrine. And uh we say this a lot and I you know I sometimes I feel like nah you don't have to say it, but uh w I think we need constantly reminded, because there's always this undercurrent that doctrine isn't that important Doctrine is an obstacle. Doctrine is cold and hard and dry and it accomplishes nothing We must never sour on the idea that doctrine is very, very important all the way through Scripture. Doctrine is not the only important thing, but is one of the most important things. And how do we stand firm? We pour ourselves into the Bible. We pour ourselves into teaching. We shape what we believe by what we fill our minds with. Have you ever heard someone talk about their spirituality in a way that doctrine wasn't important? I d I don't know. I mean I've hung out with people like that. So I'm kind of familiar with that. I don't know if any of you have. But they say only loving Jesus is important. And only your experience is important. And only this whatever they describe is important. And what they describe doesn't happen to be words from the page of Scripture. As if the the two of the two have no relationship to to each other. Loving Jesus and doctrine are like polar extremes. They're opposites. You can either love Jesus or you can be obsessed with good doctrine, but you can't do both Well, that's not how Paul presented it, ever. John Scott comments: to stand firm and hold to the teachings means to be uncompromisingly loyal to the teaching of Christ and his apostles. This is the road to stability. The only way to resist false teaching is to cling to true teaching. For the Thessalonians, they had two things to rely upon. They had the memories of what Paul and his team had taught them, and they had the letters that he wrote. You and I have so much more. You know, even the search feature. Yeah, I I I I think it spoils us a little because back a hundred years ago, uh the Bible preachers had to know the Bible And the only way they could learn the Bible, a lot of them, was just to read it over and over and over again. Until it became second nature. I'll listen to some of these guys now and I think Man, you you have spent so much time in the Word. You can just tell when they talk. Now I can use a search feature and find out every time the word justification was used and it takes about you know thirty seconds. They had nothing like that before. So anyway, we have so much more in terms of resources than they had. They would have thought all their dreams would come true if they had what we had in terms of study material. I wonder how much they would have taken advantage of it in comparison to what we do. Okay, so you and I are facing the same future that Paul was warning the Thessalonians about. Maybe it happens in our lifetime, maybe it doesn't. But Paul has prepared us, not just them, but he has prepared us in this letter. Our minds need to float back to where our path started. It started in the mind of God prior to the world being created. He knew our names before the world was created. And he chose us for salvation. In its proper time. As we face an enemy that looms large and scary, we start with where we came from. And then we consider where are we headed? We are headed toward absolute glorification. We are headed to the best that can the best that best can be. That's where we're headed. In the meantime, we're in a process. The process is taking on God's characteristics more and more by faith and God's Word. We are filling our heads with truth and believing it in a way that is effectively changing our hearts and our lives. Never perfectly, but substantially. Did the talk of the Antichrist unsettle you? Did the current headlines scare you? Then we need to take Paul's remedy to fear and dread and read it afresh. Our start is in the mind of God, in the love of God. And in the plan of God before creation. Our lifetime on earth is maintained by the mind of God, in the love of God, in the plan of God. Our end of life on earth transfers us into a reality created by the mind of God, in the love of God, by the plan of God. That is part of our remedy for the fear that we could easily succumb to. Sometimes I think we find it hard to remember that the Thessalonians were real people just like us with real fears, a lot like ours. It was real temptations to flip out, which they evidently were doing. When we do, when we forget that, we put ourselves When we remember it, we put ourselves in their place, and I think we'll maximize the comfort that comes from Paul's words. They were words the Thessalonians needed to hear. But we're nearly 2,000 years closer to what Paul promised what would happen. We need these words more than they ever did. This may be a good week to ask based on what I do every day, based on how I respond to potential threats. How much do I trust God? How much do I really believe what Paul is telling the Thessalonians is really true? And along with that, what has God said in his word that will remedy my failures in fully trusting God? It's worth the time to think that through and think, what is the big problem I have in my life with obeying God and believing God? And then go to his word and find out, what does God actually say about this particular thing? The trust issue is the biggest issue in all of our lives. We learned that in Isaiah. The better we get at trusting God, the more we enjoy our walk with Christ, and the better we represent Him. To the church and to the world. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you that you