Okay, last week we had the scene set for the next way that God was going to show off. This week we'll see how he orchestrated everything for his glory. First, in verse 14, the king asks Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego if the claims against them are true. Will they truly not worship the king's gods by worshiping at the king's statue? We don't know if they answered or if they had no chance to say anything. We do know that the next thing that the king did was offer them a second chance to bow to the idol. Now look at this closely. Look how caring this king was being to these young men. Isn't that how it would have seemed at the time? After all, the king doesn't want these young men to die. They don't have to. He's only asking one thing. Aren't these young men being terribly unreasonable? Ungiving. He was fooling for these young men to continue living. That's what the king wanted. As long as They would bow down to his gods. We can picture the king saying, please don't make me do this, you know, in a benevolent kind of gesture. We're likely to see this more and more. Supervisors and executives, they don't want to fire Christians. After all, they're good employees And all they're asking is that these Christians sign a document that says what is bad is good and what is good is bad. These employers want to keep Christians employed. They want to. These managers are carrying people as long as the Christians bow to their gods. It's not unusual for non-followers of Christ to like followers of Christ. What's not usual is for the world to accept you not bowing to the gods that they have to bow to. Tolerance is one of the most popular altars in our world. And we could go off on the word and it's inconsistency, but whatever. And there are many. We can expect that the hardest voices to resist are going to be the ones that care most about our welfare While demanding that we compromise our worship to God. King Nebuchadnezzar didn't want to inflict this penalty in one way. He was a good king after all. I mean, that's how he saw himself, but he'd do it if he had to. That seems like the dynamic that we see in this text. And just so we don't brush this off as being the kind of test that only happens to other people in other times, this is a quote from one of the commentators. He said, the idols that we are asked to worship are the various pleasures, the desires, and the attitudes that society tells me I need to have if I am to be fulfilled and lead a worthwhile life They promise to bless me if I will bow down to them, but to curse me and ruin my life if I fail to meet their demands. I thought that was an interesting take on that. The world is always in various ways telling us what we are made for, and hence how we should worship. We can be certain that the world seldom gets it right, and that's not by accident. Now, this is what Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego replied. I guess just one time would be okay. I mean, after all, I I don't really mean it in my heart And God knows that. And it's just my body. It is in my spirit. And after all, don't scripture say that gods are really nothing? And no, we know that is not what they said. That is not what they said. Some commentators suggest that the Hebrew children responded quickly because time would have allowed the temptation to foster And that could be. When we know what the right thing is to do, the quicker we commit to it, usually the better. When we know the right thing to do, the quicker we commit to it Usually the better. This is what they really said. Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. Wow If this be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of your hand, O King. But if not Be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up. You and I know a lot of doctrine. And that's very good. It's valuable. And it's necessary. But it's far better to have a little doctrine and live by it than to have a lot of doctrine that we ignore in our day-to-day decisions. The Hebrew children would have recited the Shema from an early age. And it begins, Here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength. These men knew that. And not only they knew it, they believed it. They were committed to living it. I think this is in essence what verse 16 is saying. King, given that we serve the one true God who demands that we worship him only , We don't really even need to answer you when you demand what we owe only to our God. Essentially, you don't have the authority to ask the question. I bet the king loved that. These guys were gussy and they were bold. You want a role model, young people? You want a good example to follow Do you want to live like someone who made a difference? You don't have to look any farther. These guys made an amazing stand here. Verse 17: If this be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of your hand, O king. Scholars argue about what the this in if this be so is referring to. I think it's referring to the furnace. I think they're saying, if you do what you say, and God actually allows you to throw us into this furnace, which is not the certainty you think it to be, King, if you do throw us in this furnace. Our God, whom we do, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of your hand. I think this is displaying good theology. First King, you might not be able to throw us in. You think he can, but you might not be able to. Second, if you do, God is able to deliver us from the furnace Third, no matter what, God will deliver us out of your hand by protecting us from the furnace or by taking our lives. Either way Verse 18, but if not, be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up. I think he's saying, even if God allows you to throw us into the furnace, and even if he does not protect us, if God does not deliver us from the furnace, we're still not going to worship your gods. I've always loved this passage. I don't know if when you get to it, you feel the same way that I do. We all know of passages where God's people were given divine insight into what was to pass. Some healings were like that. The prophets came to Paul and told him what was going to happen in his life. Sometimes people would pray knowing that God would answer their prayers. Sometimes Paul seemed to know what was going to happen. So they confidently, you know, throughout Scripture, People confidently ask God to do something, fully expecting that they would get what they asked for. When they asked that prayer, it was not with any doubt at all. They they believed Somehow they knew that God was going to do that thing. But there are other examples in Scripture as well. Like the prayer meeting that was held for Peter. I don't know if that's the best example, but Clearly, these people did not believe that God was going to let Peter out of jail. Now maybe they were praying for something different, and we've got to hand them that. But out he came, even though their prayers were probably not specific or expressed with great faith. My experience is a lot more like that. Yours might be too. We pray for what we think God wants. But we're fully aware that we might not be asking for the right thing. In fact, Scripture talks in a way that gives you the impression Sometimes we don't know what to ask. Sometimes all we can do is groan, and the Holy Spirit will interpret those prayers for us. It will put those into words, and it will be according to God's will. So, a lot of times we don't know how to pray, we don't know what to ask, we don't know what to expect, so we trust the result to God's hands. That's what these guys were doing. That's how the Hebrew team approached this situation. Now, first, they knew what they must do. They must obey God, and this setting it was very clear to them, they had to defy the king. Sometimes we don't know what we should do. Sometimes things are not this clear. They're not this simple. Sometimes we face complicated situations that are it's difficult to discern the right thing But in this case, it wasn't difficult to discern at all. It was difficult to deal with, but it wasn't difficult to discern. Second, they knew what God was capable of They knew who God is. They had a very good picture of this God that they worshiped They knew that God, while keeping them alive in the fiery furnace was physically impossible, it was not spiritually impossible. God can violate the rules of nature that he originally put into place. When you make the rules, you can change the rules. Now remember, these guys never had the privilege of reading the book of Daniel. Sometimes I think that's hard for us to remember. But they didn't get to read this in advance. God had never rescued anyone from fire previously like this, at least not that I could recall. So while they had no precedent, They had a proper view of God. They had a big God theology. Third, look how they approached God. They didn't presume on God They didn't put him to an unnecessary test. They didn't say our God must rescue us from this fire if he is really God. If God is good, if God really loves me, he must show himself good by doing this specific thing. No, there was none of that. They came before the one true God, submissive to his sovereign will. They knew that God will do what God wants to do, when God wants to do it, with whom He wants to do it. So they don't know how it's going to pan out for them. If you want to find yourself in a crisis of faith, tell God what he needs to do if he is good. We do well to avoid that situation. God is good. He does not need a man-created test in order to prove himself good. He's already sent Christ to save us. We know all we need to know about God's goodness for us to place our faith in Him. We have all the evidence that we need. And fourth, they were willing to do the right thing whether it received an immediate payoff or not. They had already made the big decision about discipleship. That's not a new thing. This is the decision that Jesus told people to make ahead of time so that they're ready for anything. Luke 14, 25 through 33 says this. Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you desiring to build a tower does not first sit down and count the cost whether he has enough to complete it Otherwise, when he's laid a foundation and he's not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and he was not able to finish. Or what king going out to encounter another king in war will not sit down first and deliberate whether he's able with 10,000 to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? And if not, while the other is a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple Jesus was preparing his followers for the fiery furnaces that come in the Christian life. He didn't do his recruiting by telling people how much better he would make it for them here and now if they become a follower of his. Now it's incredibly true that the blessings of the Christian life are plentiful, and we are so thankful that they are. And the joy that we experience cannot be obtained in another way. That's all true. But think about this. What would Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego have done if they were following God for the reason that God makes their life better? They would have had a dilemma. They would have had a crisis. They would have had to rethink everything. And they were not in a real good situation to do that when the king is stoking up his fire. That's the decision that's best made well ahead of time. You and I were already called by Jesus to stop and think about this issue ahead of time. So when a situation like this comes, it doesn't flip us out. Now, we don't need to think about it then because we have already decided the value of Jesus now. That was the appeal that Jesus made to the crowd following him. Is that our commitment to Christ this morning? And yeah, we don't need to pretend that we know that we would pass any test that could come at us with blind colors. But we can know that we have decided That we want to be faithful to Christ to death. We are willing to be made willing to die for Christ if that's what must happen We don't need to pretend we're confident we're going to pass any test, but we can be committed to Christ with the understanding that we would want to want to die for Christ. It'll be God who will need to supply us with the grace needed when we face the test. So we don't have to face the test before we face the test. We don't have to drum up something that we don't know, you know, we could be uncertain about. He's just asking us to make up our minds ahead of time. What's he worth? What's he worth to you? It's very inconvenient to make up your minds at the last minute. The Hebrew children had obviously made up their minds long before they were placed in this situation. They had counted the cost of discipleship. So the Hebrew children tell the king, No, we will not bow, and if you can kill us, so be it. Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with fury. We see him a lot that way. And the expression of his face was changed against the three boys. He ordered the furnace heated seven times more than it was usually heated. So the king was being magnanimous to these Hebrews, but the response they gave him struck right at the king's pride. Not only were they not going to be grateful for the king's kind gesture, they were going to insult him by telling him that the king has no power over them. They don't even need to answer his question. If you want to ignite fury in a person who loves power, act like they're powerless. If you were teaching someone how to deal tactfully with people in power, you would not take them to this passage. Now, these boys would have been comfortable in Jesus school when Jesus said, and do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. They passed that test. So now we have another example not to follow. Look at what a great decision the Fury of the King inspires. Never ever do this at home. Decisions made in haste and anger usually lead to more loss and regret than anything else Anger is sometimes a proper motivator, but it is always a poor counselor Verse 20, and he ordered some of the mighty men of his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and cast them into the burning fiery furnace. Then these men were bound in their cloaks, their tunics, their hats, and their other garments, and they were thrown into the burning fiery furnace. Because the king's order was urgent, and the furnace overheated, the flame of the fire killed those men who took up the boys. And these three men fell bound into the burning fiery furnace. So the king had some of his strongest soldiers, evidently guys that would be very useful in winning wars Which you might want to consider before you have them walk up to a fiery furnace. He had them handle the Hebrews. And it's almost like the king is saying, You think I don't have power? I'll show you power. And he took his strongest guys and his hottest flame to display how much power he had. I'm not sure what the significance of binding them in all their clothes was. It's almost as if the king was making the point that he wanted nothing of them to be left after he exhibited his wrath on them. He wanted nothing to remind anyone that they ever even existed. I've always wondered how the furnace was built. I figured it'd need to be below ground level, because they were thrown in And they fell into the furnace when the guys throwing them in died suddenly, implying it was downhill, some sort. Now I'm thinking it must have been visible from above and to the side. But the guards must have had to get close enough to the edge for the rising heat to destroy them. It looks like the guards, in the process of throwing them in, were killed. And that left the Hebrews to fall the rest of the way. So now there are three less strategic military men to help with Babylon's wars. I can almost picture the king's wife asking him later, do you think that was really necessary? But maybe that is something only our wives would do. There was probably still room in the furnace for more. Verse 24 Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished and rose up in haste. He declared to his counselors , Did we not cast three men bound into the fire? And they answered and said to the king, True, O king, you can count. And he answered and said, But I see four men unbound walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not hurt, and the appearance of the fourth is like a son of God's. So the king was watching, sitting down. But this made him jump right out of his chair. He clarified the facts with his counselors just to make sure he got it right, and sure enough. Three men were sent to their certain death, and here they were, walking around like they're on a Sunday stroll. The only thing that burnt were the ropes. So they're seeing the impossible That would have been enough. You think I could have left it at that point, and that would have been enough. But he had more to reveal about himself. God was not content with that accomplishment. He wanted to reveal himself just a little bit more. Nothing that the king did would ever overcome the fellowship that God has With his children. Nothing that the king did would ever overcome the fellowship that God has with his children Not only is the one true God powerful, the one true God is relational And when you mess with his people, you mess with him. Most scholars believe that was Christ that showed up. I think it probably was. There's nothing conclusive in the text, but there are other places in the Old Testament where God showed up in human appearance, and most of the times we believe it to be Christ. Whether it was Christ or an angel, there's a tremendous encouragement here for us. And aren't we always looking for a place to be encouraged? We are never In the trial alone. We are never in the trial Hello. Are you facing something that's terribly difficult? Are you tempted to freak out or to give way to fear? You can know that not only is God aware of your plight, He is also applying all the resources you need so you can make it through the trial If what was needed was for him to show up, he would. Usually he sends his people in our trials. Sometimes he sends his people to cause our trials. But it's just like our God to minister to us, even in those situations that seem designed to destroy us. Maybe our God will deliver us from the circumstance. Maybe he will deliver us through the trial. That's for him to decide. But we can trust that he is with us in the trial. Verse 26. Then Sh Nebuchadnezzar came near to the door of the burning fiery furnace, and he declared, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the most high God, come out and come here. And then they did. And the satraps, the pre-prefects, the governors, and the king's counselors gathered together and saw that the fire had not had any power over the bodies of these. I want to just throw this in here because I just learned it recently. One of the proofs that Daniel actually wrote the book of Daniel is that when they got training in in uh Aramaic, I think it was. As an administrator, they got trained in lists. And Daniel makes lists every time he starts talking about something. And it's just another proof that it truly was Daniel who wrote it. I just thought that was interesting. The hair of the heads was not singed, their cloaks were not harmed, and no smell of fire had come upon them. Remember how Nebuchadnezzar started this thing. He was committed to making a lesson out of these men. He was going to show to everyone: you don't mess with the king and his gods. And look how it turned out. God made a lesson out of King Nebuchadnezzar. And the lesson is don't mess with the one true God and his servants. This is the second encounter that the king has had with the Most High God. But like we were talking in Sunday school, we can't be too hard on him. How many times does it take for us to get the point? How many times does God have to deliver us before we expect Him to deliver us or come through for us and we expect Him to come through for us? He now calls the Hebrew children servants of not just God, but the Most High God. Now, he probably still didn't have good theology. You know, he hadn't given up that there are other gods, and this one's higher. But he knew one thing for sure. The Hebrew God could do what none of the others could. And this is a second time. that that happened. The king understood power, and this God had power. It's interesting too that the original intent of his statue was to bring everyone together to solidify the worship of the king and his gods. What message do you think they went home with? All these officials are now going to return home with a message about the one true God. Again, God chooses very strange evangelists in this book. Then verse 28, Nebuchadnezzar answered and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. who has sent his angel and delivered his servants who trusted in him and set aside the king's command, and yielded up their bodies rather than serve and worship any God except their own God. People will work will notice when you are dedicated to to Christ uh without consideration of your life. That is going to be noticed. Therefore, I make a decree: any people, nation, or language that speaks anything against the god of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shall be torn limb from limb. That's an interesting thing to pronounce to everybody. I can just see that like posted on a a street street poll in in Oakland. You know, anyone who says anything about the Ferndale Church is going to be ripped limb from limb. For there is no God who is able to rescue you in this way. Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, in the province of Babylon. You've really got to hand it to the king. He was very perceptive. He got every piece of this right. First, he knew that it was the God of the Hebrews who did it. The Hebrew team had trusted in their God to the place that they were willing to die rather than worship another God. Now, think of the implications. Think of the before and after as you would experience such a thing. Didn't the situation look dismal for the Hebrew team? Would it not have been easy to question the goodness or the wisdom or the power of God right up to the time that these young men were thrown into the furnace? I mean, if you were one of them, wouldn't it be easy to doubt God? But look at the outcome. The whole horrendous situation was orchestrated by God to do amazingly good things for his people. What looked like disaster was again opportunity. And isn't that what Peter tells us? The trial of our faith works patience. So I guess that's James. But Peter has his own things to say about it. The king now made a decree that great violence will happen to anyone who mocks the God of Israel. That king understood power. He believed proof when he came across it, and the God of the Judeans is powerful. Now look what God used this for. This potentially horrible, awful misuse of power by a even king. Look how God orchestrated it and used it. Now, Daniel is first in command in Babylon under the king, and the rest of his Hebrew team are promoted up to even higher positions than they had been previously, and they were pretty high to begin with. And not only that, now the Judeans have a religion with a favored status. How often has that happened in history? The king would now protect the Judeans from religious persecution. That's a wonderful point to close on. Our God never forgets those that he calls his children. He is always working for their good. Always. No matter what it looks like, no matter what awful thing it appears that we're facing Sometimes the backdrop that he does it against looks dismal and it sure is puzzling. But God is never limited in his efforts to bless his children. You and I don't often see miracles God certainly still does them. We shouldn't expect them regularly. Yet we know that God is always the same. His intent for his children is the same as it was for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And if a miracle is what is needed, a miracle is what we'll get. God is always working for the good of his children. Will we trust him this week? Whatever happens, will we trust him this week? Let's close in prayer.