Although you'd you'd think after five years I'd I'd be able to show up on time. It's like it's like Northern Virginia didn't want to let me go today. Um but man, yeah, it has been five years. I was Uh just thinking on the on the drive over here, I was remembering back to year one when I had no idea what who any of you were. Um Except for the Ramseys who invited me uh out here to their their family's church camp in the middle of West Virginia Woods. And I remember driving in on uh Terra Alta Lake Road over here Thinking, man, what in the world? Um but uh I'm absolutely thrilled to be uh back with you. Just before I get into it, I'll just give you a couple quick updates for those of you who sort of track along with me and my family. Uh my uh uh Katie is very sad that she could not make it this year again. Uh her Lyme , she had Lyme disease, she guys don't know, and so it's just been uh rough on her and she did not feel that she could make the trip this year I was gonna bring Caleb, my oldest son, as well, but yesterday he uh he had a skateboard accident and sprained his wrist, scraped up his He's fine. He's just in a lot of pain. And then my younger son, uh Sam, who is now uh six He had something similar on he's got one of those little razor scooters and he was using it to to jump over things and uh injured his injured himself as well. So I brought the the only one of my children in a sense not not to do dumb things which which is bad. Uh she 's excited to be here uh with her dad. But uh They all send you uh their greetings. Uh bring you greetings as well from the uh elders of Raskin Bottle Church. I was ordained onto the Elder Council earlier this year, and we meet on Thursday nights, and so last night is where it Uh just having a time of prayer together. Um we spent some time praying for you guys and praying for this weekend. Uh just greetings greetings from the church in Ruston. Um Say uh for me as well, uh I noticed you guys tracking with sort of my those of your tracking with sort of my eye situation and macular degeneration It's a slow phase, so my eyes are are still getting worse, but it's so far most of it's in the periphery. There's not a lot of stuff affecting central vision at this point, so that's That's good. I'm still generally able to produce stuff. And uh yeah, again, super happy to be here, glad to be here with you guys What I was planning to do was sort of take a walk through the book of Hebrews this week Uh but in northern Northern Virginia, uh we our our currency in Northern Virginia is bandwidth. And so you never ask like normal questions about how people are doing or what the day is, it's always like, what's your bandwidth for this? And I say, oh, I I don't have bandwidth for that. So it's all about time and being super busy and all this. And so I we we're gonna we're gonna look tonight at at a section of Hebrews 11. And then what you're going to get the rest of the time may seem a little scattered, but it's sort of my best of From it's my greatest tip from 2017, 2018. So what we're doing, what uh what we're gonna do is we're gonna We're going to tie through these themes and stuff. We're going to look at living by faith. And so this weekend, our time together will really emphasize Just walking with God by faith. We're going to look at some uh maybe some uh uh odd examples of that maybe. Maybe some folks you never thought of, like, oh that's okay, that's a way of living by faith Living by faith is uh it's an odd and counterintuitive thing. And so we're gonna look uh we're gonna look at that in our sessions uh together. Uh happy to do it and again just Uh very happy to be here with you. Let me pray. Um clear my mind from a a long Road trip and uh invite the Lord to uh to speak to us through his word this evening. Father, we are uh so grateful uh for your word. Lord, we're grateful that you've not simply uh left us here to figure things out on our own, but in your wisdom and your goodness and in your kindness, you've given us your Word. Lord, you've given us your son, which draws us near to you, redeems us from the sin that separated you. Separated us from you, Lord, that you've given us your counselor, your Holy Spirit, which never, ever, ever in any way departs or detracts from your word. And so Father, tonight as we look at your word, we are so grateful. So Father, our prayer tonight would be that your Holy Spirit would be at work within our hearts. moving our affections toward Jesus, that your spirit would be at work within our minds, illuminating things, Father, that we could never come to understand. On our own with our own human understanding, our own human reasoning. Lord, and we pray that the effects of this is that your spirit would move our hands and we would go and we would live out your word So Father, we are grateful to gather together, to gather before you. We pray now, Father, that as we open your word , that you would change us with the truths uh that are here. Uh Lord we pray that you would uh not not Would not hold back from us the blessings of hearing your word and by faith, by the walking in faith and obedience toward Jesus. that you would not hold back the blessing and the reward that is there. So we give you this time and pray that you would use it for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So uh just this season of life for me and I'll give it sort of maybe a quick recap uh of stuff that I've that's been going on in our lives a lot of myself and my family over the past few months um in terms of just living by faith. It's been a super like an unusually busy season, I feel like. So we'll start with my wife's 40th birthday. which was in uh um February. Uh and as a gift to her, uh I had uh saved up my credit card points and I got her a ticket uh to go to England with one of her best friends Uh it's a lifelong thing. She loves English, loves Downton Abbey, she loves anything having to do with tea and tiny sandwiches and sh sheep pastures Loved it all. So she went, she had a great time. But during that time, what we didn't know when it bought those tickets is that a few weeks later uh the Lord would bring an opportunity for us to move And we moved a whole. 7 miles down the street from where we were. So it's the same neighborhood. The Lord opened up this. It 's a great story. I won't tell it here, but. Well grab me a dinner, I'll tell you the tell you the deal. Uh but anyway, uh as a as a piece of unsolicited advice. Uh if you were ever thinking, hey, while my wife's in England, why don't I pack up my parent house to sell it? Uh sell that house, go ahead and close them and sell that, purchase a new house, go ahead and move everything out of one place into the other. While you're writing an ordination thesis to be ordained, and your kids are on spring break, if you were ever thinking of doing that, don't do it. Free advice. You're welcome. The one neat thing that came from that time is as I was reading, uh happened to be reading through Hebrews at a time And uh within Hebrews 11, about the time a lot of this was ramping up. Now Hebrews 11 for me has been one of, it's one of those books I'm like, ah I don't really say this, but I sort of as I'm as I'm reading it, I treat it as though, ah, this is sort of, I've been here, I know this, it's the faith chapter, and it's really great. Uh but the Lord was kind to just uh draw out some stuff for me. I'm just going to share that with you. It is the great faith chapter of the Bible. And tonight we're going to look at verses 1 through 6. And so let's let's jump in. I'm going to read this now. Hebrews 11, verses 1 through 6 says this. Of things hoped for. The conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith we understand the universe was created. By the word of God, so that what was seen was not made of things that are visible By faith, Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, to which he was commended as righteous. God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith Enoch was taking up, was taken up so that he should not see death He was not found because God had taken him. Now before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God. Here's where we're going to spend most of our time tonight. Verse 6. And without faith, it is impossible to please him. For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists. And that he rewards those who speak him. Without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists And that he rewards those who seek him. And so what we're going to do is we're going to actually take verse 3. It says, by faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what was seen was not made out of things. We're going to take that verse and we're going to lay it on top of verse 6. So we're going to look at verse 6 through the lens of verse 3. Now What we have though in these first uh three verses of Hebrews 11 is this great definition of faith. And it points to the fact that faith is intrinsic to our fundamental understanding of existence. Right? It's the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. We understand by faith what? About creation, about existence, about the universe. We understand by faith it was created by God. We see that reflected in all of humanity. Every single person you and I meet are building their lives In faith upon something. Everyone lives by faith in something, from the Christian to the atheist. And everywhere in between, every human person, every human being intrinsically builds their life around what they believe God is like, whether he exists or doesn't, and if he does. We build our lives around what we believe or don't believe about God. And so what we see here though is that faith is not imagination. Right? Faith is not imagination. It's not best wishes. Faith is not the power of positive thinking. Faith is not vaguely hoping in some higher power or some better place out there in an uncaring universe. Eleven three or eleven one rather says faith is the assurance Faith is the assurance. Now the Greek word there, I'm going to go ahead and jump right into Greek nerdom. The Greek word for assurance here is hypostasis. Hypostasis. Hypo meaning under, like a hypodermic needle goes where? It goes under your skin. Hypo. Uh if you are a hypocrite, hypocrite, you are undercritical of yourself. You're not You're you're you're super critical. You're not critical enough of yourself. You are undercritical. HO and then stasis. Hypostasis means Standing, it means stillness, it means stability. Stasis is a foundation. Space is something that is static. What? It doesn't move. And so we have a hypostasis. Faith is the hypostasis. It is the conviction. It says the assurance, the hypostasis, the things hoped for, the conviction, the truth, the evidence, the assurance, the hypostasis, something that's tried and tested And so because scripture tells you us that faith is hypostasis , the solid assurance, this underpinning, this foundation You see that faith in the biblical sense is not some wishy-washy wishfulness. It's not a blind leap in the dark. Faith by Hebrews eleven, verse one, is an underlying fundamental reality. It's it's so fundamental that it supports everything Faith is a confident trust in the eternal God who has revealed himself through his son. Jesus Christ that is the hypostasis, the assurance, the firm, unmoving reality, with the trust and a conviction Based on evidence of things hoped for and unseen. It's like I've told my one of my one of my kids, I don't remember if it was uh if it was you Beth or or one of the other guys, they were I remember trying to explain face to them because they'd asked so You can think of it in a very simple way that faith is like, it's sort of like wind, right? You can't see it. No one can see wind, but we all the time see the effects of it. In an undeniable way. And because I have evidence that Lind exists, I can't deny it, I'd be a fool to do so There's a hypostasis there, an underlying assurance that there is wind. You came in, you sat in a chair, that's fake. Based on prior conviction, prior experience, no one came in and said, this chase is probably going to fall. I mean sit on. You came in, you didn't think about it. We live by faith. It's a reasonable assurance and a solid conviction. So that's Hebrews 1, R 11, 1 through 3 in a nutshell. Verses 4 and 5, we have a couple of examples. We're not going to go into those this evening, but they fit right in. They're amazing examples. I'm going to dig into those. It's Abel and Cain and Enoch. And so then we move to verse 6. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. How does faith please God? And why does faith please God? Okay? So first it says, let's look at the verse, without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists. And that he rewards those who seek him. And so first we see that faith believes that God exists, right? And it says that faith believes something about the God who exists. And then he's a reward of those who seek him. So God is pleased, he's happy with at least two things about him. are reflected in our lives, in our relationship with him. And the first thing is that he is God is pleased when our lives reflect the fact that He is. It's a great starting point for any relationship. I believe you exist. It's not complicated. So first is that he is. And second is that he is rewarded. And he's rewarding, he's a giver. And so these two foundational assertions about God These two great facts are what we're going to spend the rest of our time this evening sort of unpacking. And so the first one, the God of the Bible is real. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. Whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists. God is not made up God is not made up. God exists. Absolutely. A lot of things around you tell you otherwise. But God did not come into being, and God will not go out of being. God was not created, he was not born, he will not die. God is not growing, he's not changing, he's not evolving, he's not developing. This is the God who has set up Himself. I am who I am. The God of the Bible Absolutely forever is, and he will not ever not be And so it pleases God, this verse tells us, when his absolute existence is known and embraced. He is pleased when the fact that he is is reflected in our lives. So the God of the Bible is real. He exists. The second one, the God of the Bible rewards. He gives. Now this tells us at least two things about God. First, that he is so full, and he is so completely sufficient and powerful. That he overflows. It's in his nature to reward. It's in his nature to give. And so rather than needing something from us , The God of the Bible is like a never-ending spring of life and energy and joy and beauty And goodness and power. God does not need anything from us And so he is able to be a rewarder. And he chooses to do so. The second thing he tells us is his stance toward us. This tells us the fact that God rewards those who seek him, tells us something of how he sees us, his stance toward us. Because Scripture could have used Any word here. It could have used many words, but it uses the word rewards. God rewards. He is a rewarder. What sort of person Gives. What sort of person rewards? That tells us that God is generous and that He is for us. It tells us that God is good and just and a giver of good gifts. This is Jesus speaking in Matthew 7, 9-11. Which of you, if your son asks for bread, would give him a stone? Or if he asked for a fish, would hand him a snake. If you then, though you are evil Know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him? And so it pleases God. When we come to him in a way that that recognizes that he is a reward, that what we have, whether that's the stuff we have, whether that's the abilities we have, whether that's the the the joys we have, whether that's the pain we have When our lives, he's pleased, when our lives reflect that he is a rewarder, a giver, who gives good things. And that he works all things. Together for the good of those who love him. So verse 6 tells us that God exists, that God is real, and that he rewards, he gives. So let's look in. I said earlier we're gonna take that verse, we're gonna take verse six and we're gonna lay verse three on top of it We're going to dig into verse 6 via verse 3. Let's jump back to verse 3. I'll begin by faith. We understand. That the universe was created by the word of God. That what is seen is not made of things that are visible. Because by faith we understand that the universe was created. The universe was created. Not evolved, not a big bang, not divine happenstance, not good luck Not spontaneous chance. By faith, we understand that the universe was Create. Create. Why is this a big deal? Why does it matter? Why can't we just say, yeah, theistic evolution? Cool Why does it matter if we understand this? Verse 3 says that the universe was created by the Word of God. Romans 1, 19 through 21 tells us that God's invisible attributes are absolutely clear through his creation. So clear is fact that at the end of our day, every person without excuse. Recognizing him as created. It's true with almost anything created. Anything created by God, anything man-made. You can look at something someone has made and you can tell something About them. You look at art. My kids study art. I love art. I study art history in college. My kids know a lot about art because of by God's grace of pass that interest on to them and so their times in their school and even at home we'll look at a painting and we'll study it. We'll study how how the artist used life We'll look at his brushstroke to say was this guy in a hurry? Or was he was he paying attention to detail You can tell a lot by someone, by looking at what they have done, what they have created, what they have made, by looking at a creation We know things about the creator. And so in terms of what we're talking about, what What kind of a God makes a hand or an eye or a heart that beats right now and you don't even control it? What kind of a God makes a sunset? What kind of a God makes an animal that tastes like bacon? And it's his goodness and provision. Creation is crying out all the time about who God is. So clearly so that all men are without excuse. So clearly so that if man does not recognize God, the rocks will cry out. So what happens if we refuse to acknowledge that? What happens if we minimize that truth That by faith the universe was created. Because a lot of people stop right there, right? But they don't go further. The evidence is before them, but they refuse to acknowledge it. Again, going back to Romans 1. Verses 21 through 24 will tell us that we suppress truth if we don't like it. Romans 1 will tell us that we are made to be worshippers, or we're made to put our faith in something. And so if we don't worship God , the God that all creation points us to, then we will worship something other than God. And if we worship something other than the one God that we were created to worship , Romans 1. 18 tells us that the wrath of God is revealed, poured out from heaven against those who suppress truth. What truth? The truth that God is created. And thus worthy of honor, worthy of thanks, worthy of worship. So by faith we understand that the universe was created. And by his creation By his creation , created. So if you got verse three, draw a line. If you were to write it out Oh yeah I I sometimes use the slides. So in my in the slide that's in my head right now, I've got verse 3 and I've got a line from created in verse 3 and it's going to he exists in verse 6. By the fact that the universe was created, we know that God exists. Creation tells us that he is there. By faith we understand the universe was created, and by his creation we see that God exists, that he is. Now is it enough to stop there? Is it enough to simply believe in God? To have faith. Okay, yeah, there is a God. There is a creator. Okay It's not enough. It's not enough to stop there. It's not enough simply to say, yes, I believe God exists. I believe there's a creator. James 1. 19 says, you believe there is one God? Good! Even the demons believe that. And they shudder. So what more? Faith is the assurance, faith is the hypostasis, the underlying rock solid foundational reality upon which we view and live all of life. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. If we want to know him, we must believe that he exists. Which we do through his creation. So we believe that he exists. And what? What's the other thing we have to do according to verse 6? We must believe that he exists and believe what? Believe that he rewards. That he rewards those who seek him. We know that he exists by his creation. Creation reveals a creator. How do we know then What do we know? How do we know that he rewards? How do we know that he rewards? We know that he rewards because of how he created How did God create creation? How did He create the universe? Verse 3 tells us. By faith we understand that the universe was created. By his word, by his word Creation begins , Book of Genesis , God speak and God said. Perfectly self-sufficient, infinite trying God of the universe speaks in things that were not. become things that are. God spoke the world into existence, so don't miss that. That all powerful, all knowing, all sufficient, immutable God could have chosen a billion different ways To bring something into existence. He chose to speak. God said, let there be as it was, and it was stood. Psalm 33, 6 says, by the word of the Lord the heavens were made. They're sorry hosts by the breath of his mouth. Psalm 339 likewise says, For God spoke, and it came to be He commanded and it stood firm. A God is not a silent God. Our God is a God who speaks. He is a God who communicates. He is a God who wants to connect with us. He is a seeking person. Why is that important? Communication is foundational to a relationship. not concentrated. We communicate with each other in order to know others and to be known by them. And so the fact that God is not silent Tells us that the sovereign king and creator of all things desires to be in relationship with us. What's the alternative? If you know someone is there and they do not speak to you W what is it what does it say? What is it what does it tell you If you're walking down the halls of your work in school and someone that you know exists pretends like you don't , That's no good. That that tells you something. They don't like you. You smell. It's telling you something. Because you're having to fill in the blank because they are not communicating with you. If I were to walk in this room, when I walk in, I get hugs and greetings and class. That's communication. That's the the relational value. of communication. Communication is the foundation of relationship. And so how do you get to know someone? Well you can watch them, you can observe people You can get to know someone by by observing their actions. You can look at the painting, right? You can see if they know about light and how to use a brush and how to use colors and attention to detail. Observ uh observation will tell you some things about them. But how do you really deeply know and understand and connect and bond? with other people. It's eventually through words, through communication, through words and communication that reveal thoughts and feelings and joys and fears and affection. Kings and kingdoms throughout history have risen and fallen by the power of words. Words matter. And so the fact that God created us. By his word, by his command, the fact that he has given human beings language, languages , That we like him, we speak. Some of us too little, some of us too much Uh the fact that he made us to feel some level of significance when we are in community with other people. All of this tells us that we work best, we grow best in relationship. It tells us that it is God's desire to speak out, to reveal himself to us in order to facilitate relationship with us. God is not silent. God 's first recorded interactions after creation, as he interacts with human beings, his first recorded interactions are words. Words of teaching, words of direction. Words of instruction and admonition. Go here, do this, don't do that. Eat of this, don't do that Throughout the ages, God has spoken through prophets and kings and dugeons and shepherds. He's spoken through visions and dreams. Clouds and fire. Hebrews 2. 4 tells us that God has spoken through signs and wonders and miracles. By the gifts of the Holy Spirit and speak , God has throughout the history of man rumbled from the heavens. He whispered in the winds, and he still speaks today. He's given us his word, scriptures. The Bible. And so when you read your Bible, that is God speaking Where Scripture speaks, God speaks. And so the fact that we were created And how he created, by his word, tells us some very important things about the God of the Bible. But it tells us mainly that he is not simply an idea to be thought about He's not just a mysterious cloud of power floating around to be afraid of. He tells us that Above all other people, that he is a person, a capital P person to be listened to To be understood, to be enjoyed, to be obeyed, and ultimately to be worshipped. We were created for a purpose, and that purpose is ultimately tied to being in relationship with the God who is not crowned, but the God who created the universe by his word. And so we're weaving something together here. Some big ideas about God and faith and life. Without faith, it is impossible to please God for whoever would draw near to him, believe that he exists. And that he rewards those who seek him. So again, we're overlaying verse 3 on top of that, right? By faith, we understand that the universe is created. How? By his word. So God speaks. By his word, we know that he is a rewarder. Just like by his creation, we know that he is. By his creation, God exists. By his word, God rewards. So again, go back to the slide that I have in my head. In verse 3, by his word, I'm drawing a line. To God rewards in verse six. Rewards. We're gonna take a Very quick but very appropriate. Right turn, but we're going to spend the rest of our time. Because as we look at the word And the reward of God. I'm going to make this statement that I'm going to spend the rest of our time unpacking it. By its creation, God exists. By his word, God rewards. The word is Jesus. Jesus is our reward. The word is Jesus Jesus is our reward. John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him, all things were made Going back to creation. Creation by the word. In him all things were made. Without him, nothing was made that has been made. In him was light. And that life was the light of all mankind. What is John talking about? John is talking about creation and the word, and the word is Jesus. The word in John one is a person In John 1 and verse 14 says the word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only Son who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. By his creation, we know that God exists. By his word, we know that he rewards. The word is Jesus. Jesus is our reward. Hebrews one verses one through three shows us how all of this our faith creation by the word of God God evidence, the evidence of his reward. Hebrews 1, 1, 2, 3 shows us how all of this that we've talked about so far resolves in, points to one thing. That's the person of Jesus Christ. Here's Hebrews 1, 1 through 3. In the past, God spoke to our ancestors, to the prophets. And many times in various ways, but in these last days he's spoken to us by his son. Whom he has appointed heir of all things, and through whom also he made the universe. through whom also he made the universe. The sun is the radiance of God's glory, and the exact representation of his being sustaining all things by his powerful word. After he had produced purification for sin He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty in heaven. It's all right there. God speaks by Jesus. God created the universe through Jesus. God's glory is perfectly represented in his Son, Jesus. All things are made and sustained by Jesus. Jesus purified our sin. Jesus is the heir. Of all things. Jesus is the heir of all things In these last days he's spoken to us by his son who he appointed heir of all things. What does it mean? That Jesus is the heir of all things? An heir is someone. entitled to something, someone who takes on something. An heir is someone who is justly and rightly rewarded something. Jesus is rightfully rewarded, rightfully appointed, rightfully given all things. It's all his. Everything you have, everything you are, everything you see falls under his rule and reign. Galatians four, verses four through seven. Says, but when the set time has fully come God sent his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those under the law, that we might receive adoption to sonship. Because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts. That spirit that cries out Abba Daddy Father So you are no longer the slave But if you are in Christ, you likewise are a child of God. Then since you are his child, Galatians tells us God has made you also an heir. Romans 8, 17, those who have trusted Christ are heirs of God. And fellow heirs with Christ. Hebrews eleven 6. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists. And that he rewards those who seek him. God is a rewarder who gives us the word, Jesus. Duby space is our hypostasis. A he is our assurance. He is our sure foundation. He is our conviction. Jesus is both the rewarder and the reward. It's all is in this context of relationship because God speaks. God rewards. And so our sin, our active rebellion against God, broke that relationship. But God was not silent. He was not apathetic. God sent a word. He sent the word. He sent Jesus. And so God is And God rewards. And God's reward for us is Jesus Christ. Romans 623, the gift of God. The reward. The wages are sin and death, but the gift. The reward, the prize of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord. How do we receive this gift, this prize, this reward? Faith by faith. Faith in Jesus is the reward. Faith in Jesus is the gift that saves, where it is, by grace you have been saved through faith. This is not of yourselves You didn't work for it. You didn't earn it. The only thing you contributed to this whole process was your hatred of God By grace you have been saved through faith, not of yourselves, and of the gift of God. Not by words. So that no one may boast, for we are God's handiwork, created in Christ Jesus, to do good works, which God has prepared us in advance. are prepared in advance for us to do. Hebrews 12 2 tells us that Jesus is the author and the perfection of our faith. Hebrews 2. 10 tells us that Jesus, our great reward, is the foundation of our salvation, who brings many sons to glory. And so the simple synopsis of all of this, again, by its creation, we know God exists. By faith. By his word. We know by faith that God rewards. By his word And by faith. What does it say? We see that the word is Jesus. And that Jesus is our reward. Do you have it in your heart? Do you have it in your mind? Do you have it in the intentions of your actions to draw near to God? Do you want that with your life? Because if you do, then you must know that without faith, it is impossible to please him. For whoever would draw near to God Must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who speak So by his creation we trust that he exists. By his word we trust that he rewards. Jesus is God's great reward to us by faith. You'll notice that all of this, faith included, really depends not on what you are like, but on what God is like. Faith in God's promises frees us rather from fear and makes us brave. To love God and to love others and to live life well. And as you read through the rest of Hebrews 11, which I hope you will take some time tonight, tomorrow to do You will see example after example after example of people who believed in God's existence. They believed in God's reward, even though Jesus had not come for them yet, but because of their faith, they too became heirs. co-heirs with Christ. Each person you'll see in Hebrews 11 lived by faith. Each time, by faith, Abel offered a better sacrifice. By faith, you're not mistaken up. By faith, Abraham obeyed and Sarah conceived and Ivan blessed and Moses feared not. By faith The people crossed through the sea. By faith, walls fell, and Rahab lived by faith. Men and women who trusted God, trusted that He exists, trusted that He rewards. Conquered kingdoms and enforced justice, sustained promises and stopped the mouths of lions, quinched The power of fire escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. By faith, women received their dead back in resurrection. Some were tortured refusing to accept release. So that they might rise again to a better life. Others suffered mocking and flogging and even chained and imprisonment. I'm just reading the scripture at this point. Oh. The end of Hebrews eleven. They were stoned. They were sawn into. They were killed by the sword. They went out and skinned the sheep and goat. Goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated. This is the sort of weight biblical faith is meant to hold and sustain By faith they went out men and women of whom the world was not worthy. Wondering about in deserts and mountains and dens and caves of the earth. And so as we uh close This evening my simple question for you again is will you join them in this? Will you allow the God of the scripture to expand your understanding and your practice of faith so that it supports much more? Your daily temporary worries. We don't diminish those because you have those to stewards. So steward those. But don't let your faith be limited by those, not because of who you are, but because of who God is. This God who by faith we understand created the universe by his word The God of whom it is said it is impossible to please Him without faith. And so if you would draw near to him, believe that he is , believe that he rewards as you seek him. By his creation we trust that God exists. By his word, we trust that God rewards. Jesus Christ is God's reward to us by faith. Love you guys. We're happy to be back with you for the weekend. Let me pray for us. Father, how good it is, Lord, to be shot straight By your scriptures, by your word. Father, would you in our lives do a work that we cannot do on our own? Amplify and expand our understanding of this gift of faith, this reward that you have given us. Those of us who have trusted in Christ. Your son, the heir of all things, by whom and for whom all of creation exists. And yet it's this son highly exalted, who became imminent, walked among us, so that he could live a life that we could never live, so that he could die a death we could never die, but pay a penalty, Father, that we could never pay. So that we might know you , the God who speaks , the God who loves, the God who rewards Father. We are great. The hard truths your word has for us. So Father, would you help us by the power of your spirit? Put into action your word, Father. Keep us from the foolishness of being hearers, not doers. Let us hold that tension before you. And submit our lives to you and step out in faith and in obedience to whatever it is, Father, that you are calling us to, even now, in these moments Father, I trust that in some minds and in some hearts you're bringing something up. Something you're calling us constantly, Father. To live by faith. So Father, give us the courage and the strength. Not because of who we are, but because of who you are. To step out, to love and trust you. Father, bless the rest of our evening. Bless our rest tonight. Father, bless our time this weekend together. May it be sweet. Play games and enjoy fellowship and enjoy meals and Father are taught and received from your word and to pray for each other, care for each other, and love each other. Father, which bless our time, protect it, use it for our good and for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.