Isaiah had prophesied against Babylon, but like we said earlier, Babylon wasn't really the major player at this point. In fact, nobody probably could have foreseen Babylon being a threat. The main enemy was Assyria. Now Isaiah begins talking about information that his listeners would probably really hone in on. What will happen to Assyria? What will happen to the great threat against us right now? This is what they really wanted to know. So let's look at the prophecy against Assyria. in uh 24 through 32 again. The Lord of hosts is sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought, so sh it shall come to pass, and as I have purposed So it shall stand, that I will break the Assyrian in my land and on my mountains, trend him underfoot, and then his yoke shall be removed from them, and his burden removed from their shoulders This is the purpose that is purposed against the whole earth. And this is the hand that is stretched out over all the nations. For the Lord of hosts has purposed it, and who will annul it? His hand is stretched out and who will turn it back. Sometimes we talk about powerful humans. What we're normally talking about are people who can determine something with their will and then accomplish the thing that they have determined. President Trump says that he will build a wall to protect our borders. If he's as powerful as he says, he'll accomplish the thing. We regard that, we call that power. But we watch and we wonder if if he can pull it off, because there's a disconnect between his will and what he can accomplish. And that's true of all human power, not just him. It's limited. It can will better than it can do, or at least more than it can do. Absolute power. Absolute power is power that can always accomplish what it can imagine. That's God's power. Isaiah quotes God here. Surely as I have thought, so it shall come to pass, and as I have purposed, so it shall stand. That's the kind of power we have working for us. Why in the world do we get so bent out of shape? Imagine this kind of power. If God thinks that it's as good as done. And what does he say about his intentions towards his people? Aren't they all good? Then how in the world can we justify our deep-seated fears and worries? We have got to believe a lie somewhere in that process. We must either think that God isn't truly for us. Or he can't really do what he says, or that we will not bow our knees to his plans for us. There's no good reason not to trust God. So God has thought it, and God will see that it happens, and nothing is going to stop that. Now, what is it that he's going to do? He says that I will break the Assyrian in my land and on my mountains tread him underfoot. Then his yoke shall be removed from them and his burden removed from their shoulders. Now, what are all the smart people who hear what Isaiah just said gonna be thinking when they hear this? Right. Little Judea is gonna take on the superpower of the world and it will beat them Uh-huh. That's gonna happen. That would be like Puerto Rico taking on Russia and winning. It's it's that kind of thing. When we look at it from a human perspective, this is ludicrous. But that's why we need, as God's people, to develop faith. Faith believes what God says because God says it. Faith believes what God says because God says it. Faith throws human reason out of the window when what God says seems to violate human wisdom. We've got to understand that. Above everything else, God does whatever God says God will do And we can bank on it. With everything that we have, we can bank on that. And if God says he's going to upbreak Assyria in his land, God is going to upbreak Assyria in his land. Look here too. It says, then his yoke shall be removed from them and his burden removed from their shoulders. Does that remind you of anything? How about this, Matthew 11, 28 through 30, come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. God's will for our lives as believers is an easy yoke. Doesn't necessarily mean it's an easy life, but it's an easy yoke. This takes the heavy burden that life may be and makes it lighter by a shared experience. We use the power of God for all the heavy lifting It means living in a relationship with God where God does for us what we cannot do for ourselves When we trust our intuitions and our perceptions, we always gravitate toward a heavy burden. Have you ever noticed that in your life When you trust yourself and you would go against what God says and you say, I've got to do this or I've got to have this or I think this is the right thing. I don't I know that this is what God says, but I'm going to do it my way, what do you always end up with? It's always a heavy burden. Even in all our attempts to avoid the heavy burden, we just make them heavier Think of some of the most awful burdens you've had to carry. Wasn't some of their weight due to not trusting God, to fighting against God, by telling God what he can and cannot do in your life? From telling God what we were and were not willing to accept from his hand. And wasn't the answer finally found in trusting ourselves fully to his care? Saying, God I trust you. I know you're right. I have been resisting whatever it is, and now I submit my will to you. Well, nothing has changed from Isaiah until now. God was going to remove the burden of the Assyrians for the Judean. They only had to trust and watch. What burden of oppression are you bearing? Where are the enemies of God applying their yoke in your life? Where do you most need the deliverance of God? Trust God, believe God, obey God. That's how the hard yokes are lifted and the easy yoke is received. That's where we find rest for our souls. What would people around you say about how you live your life? What would people around you say about how you live your life? Would they say you have a restful soul? In Christ, by the way that you you face your life experiences? Would they say you have a restful soul? Would your life be characterized by peace? Would they say that your yoke seems easy and your burden seems light? Why? Or why not? Now, I think we do well to look exactly how God delivered on his promise to Judea. And this is, I find it, extremely interesting. And we find it in 2 Chronicles 32. You might want to write these down because we're going to be on these for the next couple of weeks. 2 Chronicles 32, 1 through 23. Second Chronicles thirty-two, one through twenty-three, and second Kings eighteen and nineteen. 2 Kings 18 and 19. I had originally planned to cover this in one sermon, but given how much ink is given to this event in Scripture, I thought it worth two. There are many amazing relevant principles in this story that we can apply to our lives. But to understand it, we need to understand what was going on in Assyria. Sennacherib i in uh Hebrew it's Sanke Reb. Sankei Rib. Was a son of Sargon the king. I believe it was Sargon too, but he wasn't the oldest son of Sargon. Sennacherib quickly took power over his older brother when Sargon was assassinated in 705 B. C. So uh Sennacherib was good at political and military conquest. He had a knack for it. And Nineveh was the capital of Assyria. During Sennacherib's reign, Babylon was originally under his control. So you've got Assyria, and then Babylon sits inside of Assyria. And and he controls it. But it was continually rebelling from either inside or being overrun and rebelling from the outside. So a lot of effort was being spent keeping Babylon. in in in track. This this will be important to know later when Babylon comes into focus. Remember, it will finally be Babylon that carries those living in Jerusalem out of the country, not Assyria. At least living in Jerusalem. Now, Judea, that's a different story. But in the city of Jerusalem, they will not be carried out by Assyria, they will be carried out by Babylon. Now if you have the map that Brad handed out, you might want to pull it out. It'll help you get your mind wrapped around what was happening in here. It's difficult to know the order, but Jerusalem took control of Ekron. Ekron was just a few miles to the west of Jerusalem, so you've got You've got Jerusalem, you've got Ekron, and then you've got the Mediterranean over here. Alright, so uh Ekron is over here. Jerusalem goes over, and the Ekron king was pro-Assyrian and an ally of Assyria, and they had connections. So there was communication going back and forth, and they Ekron is basically a a milepost or a military outpost. for uh uh Syria. It would be similar to Cuba conquering Puerto Rico. Uh the US would take notice because Puerto Rico is one of our something. It's not a state but it's uh uh territory So then in 701, Tyre and Sidon refused to pay tribute to Assyria. Now, Tyre and Sidon are right on the coast of the Mediterranean. So uh Tyre was famous as a trading city. They built excellent boats and they got rich with trade. And Sidon was about ten miles north and had a similar reputation. So Sennacherib directed a campaign coming down from Assyria, down along the coast of the Mediterranean, destroying his enemies and hauling the captives then back to Assyria. Then the campaign came eastward from the Mediterranean. I suppose this is all backwards to you. Yeah, but anyway, that's how it is. Destroying his enemies and uh coming eastward and uh got down to El Peka which is about ten miles south of Jerusalem. And when they reached Alteca, the troops from Egypt met them there. Now I don't know if they attacked them once they got there or if they were there waiting for them to come. But now you're only talking ten miles away. I mean this is like here to McHenry or left than that. That's how close the the the enemy was to Jerusalem. And took over Elteca and beat the Egyptians, which had to be a disconcerting thing for the Israelites to hear, or for the Judeans to hear. And the Syrian uh he defeated Israel, and then the city uh was probably ten miles south, and then Assyria entered Ekron. So you They came down, here's Jerusalem, came down below them, took this city, went back up to Ekron, where this all started, where where um Jerusalem had really ticked off Assyria by taking that king, went to Ekron, took over that, and the elders were flayed alive for having handed over their king to Hezekiah. Now that would not have been pleasing things to know for the people in Jerusalem who were the guilty party for taking the king. So you get the idea what's coming on here. Then the Assyrians sieged and attacked 46 Judean towns and carried off 200,150 prisoners and much spoil. So this is the region they're in, Judea, an Assyrian is kicking butt. I mean it it's just going through and and taking any city, any town at once. And taking the captives and taking them all back to Assyria. And that's when the Assyrians encamped against Hezekiah at Jerusalem. So that's our setting. Some things we learn from Senekarib 's written history is that Hezekiah reportedly freed the king of Ekron at this time. Uh he was forced to somehow, we don't know exactly how, but he he decided that it was him is is in Israel's best interest or Judea's best interest to l to let him go. And he paid Th well this is interesting. Sennacherib 's report says he paid a tribute of eight hundred talents of silver and precious stones and other things of value, but the biblical record of it that we'll get to soon says three hundred You know how kings are. So anyway, nothing's changed there either. Now at this point, we have some trouble reconciling the biblical account with Sennacherib's account Some scholars, even good ones, say that 2 Kings 18 and 19 are reporting one singular incident, just retold from a different perspective, and that would better match Sennecherib's report But the little that I've read led me to believe that there's no reason to think that Sennacherib's report precludes there being two events and not just one, as described in chapters 18 and 19 of 2 Kings. We simply don't know. We don't know the timing and that really we have seen so far is not unusual in the biblical account. Usually if we're to know the timing, the timing is specifically given. If not, you cannot assume that things happen immediately after one another. And sometimes even that one precedes the other. But anyway, that's the history. And it's important to understand something else at this point. And I think probably by now we're all getting it. Hezekiah is in a pressure cooker. Hezekiah is in a pressure cooker. He is responsible at this period of time for what is going to happen next, and everything relies on it. One of the most stressful situations I've ever faced was when I couldn't get the phones to ring at one of our insurance agencies locations for over a week. Which means they weren't receiving phone calls from customers, which is not good for an insurance agency. And I couldn't get the vendor to fix the problem. And uh the stress in that situation just increased by the hour. I mean it was kind of you could tell, you could tell it was going up and I was feeling it, and I was powerless to do anything against it. Well, what Hezekiah was facing here was a billion times worse than that. Much worse. He has the enemy on the march. The enemy was, humanly speaking, a force that was impossible to beat. It just wasn't unlikely It wouldn't require, you know, a lucky a lucky couple of passes like in a football game. This was impossible. Hezekiah knows what's happened to the people who thought they could stand against Assyria. He's already seen the elders flayed at the city next to them. So this decision that Hezekiah must make will affect every single person under his leadership. And the logic of sight would tell him you cannot win. Have you ever had a situation like that in your life? Where you needed to make a decision in the face of insurmountable odds, and to do the faithful thing, when you look at it, you think It's impossible. The enemy is too great. They've had too many victories in the past. We can't possibly defeat them now. Maybe we should apply this to the sin that so easily besets us. Maybe we should apply this to those things in our lives where we excuse our sinful behavior by saying, well, that's just me. I can't change this. Even though we know it's living counter to the demands and promises of God. Hezekiah's pressure cooker, whatever our pressure cooker is, his is worse. His is worse probably than anything we have ever or will ever experience. But the principles still hold. Who are we going to trust? That's what it all comes down to. Who are we going to trust? That is the core issue. Who are we going to believe? Who will we believe the reports Trump. Will we believe the reports that our senses bring us? Or will we believe the words of God? This text in front of us shows an amazing good example, rare in a human. Watch Hezekiah and we'll see how it's done. He shows us how it's done. Okay, so 2 Chronicles 32, 1 through 23. We'll start there and then skip over into 2 Kings. It says, uh, after these deeds of faithfulness Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came and entered Judah. , He encamped against the fortified cities, thinking to win them over to himself. Thinking to win them over to himself. Now it starts off with after these deeds of faithfulness, and it's talking about Hezekiah. If you look at the previous chapter, you'll see which acts of faithfulness God is talking about. The the record is. Hezekiah had all the idols cut down in Judea. Rare. Extremely rare in the history of Judea. Even with good kings. He got the worship services to God back where they should be. He made the people support the true worship and take care of the Levites. The laws regarding how the Levites were to be taken care of are restored. The last verse tells us that he did every act to seek his God with his whole heart. He was all in. At this point in his life, Hezekiah was all in. He was obeying God seriously and sincerely. That's the best it gets. And it's so sweet when we see it. And that's how we should all be living. Doing every act to seek his God with his whole heart. Now think about this. Calamity came upon Hezekiah when he got serious about serving God. It didn't come when he was unfaithful. It didn't come when he was willing to pay tribute. It rushed in upon him after he decided that he would serve God. This will often happen in your Christian life. The devil will resist any progress of faith in your life if he is allowed to. You're not a threat to him in a double-minded condition, where you try to love the world and try to love God at the same time, trying to gain the benefits of both When you secretly worship the idols on the hilltops and then publicly go to the temple like a good God fear No. You become a threat when you're serious about obeying God. When you begin to follow Him with your whole heart When that happens, you're a threat to Satan's kingdom, and he'll want to shut you down. And he'll do whatever is in his power to do so. Fortunately, he has limited power. The word Sennacherib means the moon god has prospered his kinsmen. Not something makes you run out and name your kid Sennacherib The moon god has prospered his kinsmen. Now, this is the interesting part. The name of the moon god is sin. Sin. S-I-N. So you could say his name means sin has prospered his kinsman. Is not this a type of devil? Surely with a name like that, is that not the devil's sermon that he preaches in our minds every single day? Sin will prosper you. Sin will prosper you. This is a good thing. You need to have this. You gotta have this. This will make you happy. God's holding out on you. You just have to have this. Sin will give you something good. Worship sin and you'll get the desires of your heart. You'll get what you want if you just do what feels good to you, if you follow your heart. So we're going to approach the message of Sennacherib as a message from the devil. Because that's essentially what it is. It has all of the same stuff in it that we get every day. It's just couching a little more political of a scene. Notice that Sennacherib has thoughts of what he would do, just like God had thoughts about what he would do. I think that's that's extremely interesting in our text God purposes a thing, and Sennacherib purposes a thing. Sennacherib thought to win these cities for himself. But watch. Which one wins? You know? Is there really going to be any question? We'll see that only God has absolute power, nobody else. Verse 2, and when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and that his purpose was to make war against Jerusalem, he consulted with his leaders and commanders to stop the water from the springs which were outside the city, and they helped him. Thus many people gathered together who stopped all the springs and the brook that ran through the land, saying, Why should the king of Assyria come and find much water? Good thinking. And he strengthened himself and built up all the wall that was broken, raised it up to the towers, and built another wall outside. Also he repaired the Milo in the city of David, and made weapons and shields in abundance. Then he sent military captains over the people. gathering them together to him in the open square of the city gate, and gave them encouragement, saying, Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid nor dismayed before the king of Assyria, nor before all the multitude that is with him, for there are more with us than with him. With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. And the people were strengthened by the words of Hezekiah, king of Judah. What a wonderful act of faithfulness Hezekiah did here. At least that's how I view it. I could be wrong about that, but I think what we see is faith. He doesn't rely on human wisdom. He relies on the character and the promises of God. Oh, that we'd follow his example when the enemies threaten at our gates. Notice here too that having faith in God does not always mean taking no human action. We've talked about this in Sunday school a lot of times. A lot of times it's hard to know exactly what action we should take and what action we should leave to God. But often faithful action has to accompany faithful trust. These guys got it got to work. But the work they did assumed that it would be effective. I mean, there is no reason to build up the walls if you think that they're going to be torn down They were sealing off the water supply and gathering the troops. They were willing to fight. They were willing to do everything that they could do. They were willing to work, and they were walking by faith in God's deliverance. Sometimes our lives are like that too. We must trust, but we must work. Often our work is in dealing with the minds of people Including our own. In fact, that's the major work, I think, of of sanctification. I think that's a major work in uh Christian ministry But work and faith often go hand in hand. They're not mutually exclusive. We often must pray that God would show a brother or a sister something about themselves And we must be willing to lovingly show it to them ourselves if God gives us the opportunity. In fact, often that's how we start the process. We see something, we think that God would want them to know. They think that they would want to know, so we approach them and maybe there's some resistance. I think this is uh particularly true of wives, where sometimes you have just got to trust it to prayer. So we go to the person, we hope to uh uh uh accomplish a good change, uh uh a realization in that person's life But we're ineffective. So we we call out to God in prayer and and say, God, I I'm not sure. Maybe you don't want this person to know this thing. But it would seem like you would So please, you show it to them. You show it to them yourself. And like I was saying, I think it's particularly true of wives in a submissive kind of environment where you run up against a wall and you've got to trust that to God and you say, God, you know this man. You know this thing. Please show it to him. And then sit back and exercise your faith to see what God is going to do. It's true of much ministry. And it shows that you trust God. So you're doing something and you're trusting God at the same time. And if the issue isn't a blatant, definable sin, a wise person at that point makes this a point of prayer instead of the human temptation. to just bug that person about something that they cannot see. In verse 6, it says that Hezekiah gave them encouragement. Literal it means he spoke to their heart. That's neat how it's worded. He spoke to their heart. Isn't it refreshing when we find people who speak God's principles to our heart? Aren't there some people who can really address God's truth to the heart of who you are? Sometimes they can get you out of your downward thinking spiral by giving you a chunk of truth to chew on that counters the temptation of the way that you are thinking. I found that true for me at least. Sometimes they can tell you the truth in a way that inspires you. Inspires you to be a person that you would not have been if you were not in their environment. It makes you want to stand up and fight instead of accepting defeat in your lethargy. Exhortation in the New Testament is really the same kind of thing. It is speaking to a person's heart. It's coming next to people so we can speak to who they really are and to what they are really facing and deal with the thoughts they really have and replace it with the truth that God really says. We can speak to their hearts. And then look, let's look at the reasoning here in verse 7. He says, be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid nor dismayed before the king of Assyria, nor before all the multitude that is with him. For there are more with us than with him. With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God, to help and to fight our battles. Hezekiah tells his people to be strong and courageous. What's the opposite of that? Strong and courageous, the opposite is afraid and dismayed. Afraid and dismayed. We get to pick how we want to be smart We get to pick how we want to be smart. We can be smart by human wisdom, or we can be smart by faith. Being smart by human wisdom will have us living afraid and dismayed, with great reason, and we'll justify it, and we'll defend it, and we'll excuse it, and we will foster this same attitude in others that we have influence with. And how would human wisdom do the counting in this incident, you know, in this particular environment? It would count by what it can see. And it would think it foolish that anybody else would not. It would count by what it can see. It would say, I count 10,000 soldiers that we have, I count 50,000 soldiers that they have. They're trained, they've killed lots of people, they're good at it, we're novices, we lose. Isn't that smart? Aren't there all kinds of reasons to fear? That is us at the core. That is the faith the faithless fleshly thinking that we are most prone to immediately. If you hit your default button, that's what you go back to. And unless our friends and the Holy Spirit hound us about it, that's where we'll likely stay. We need to get to the place where we say to ourselves there is no excuse for this. This is not being smart. This is being faithless and unbelieving of our awesome God. That's why unbelief is such a big deal Now, how did Hezekiah count? This is how we need to learn to count. We need to count like Hezekiah. Here's a math force for us. He counts the invisible. That doesn't look too smart on the surface. He counts by what God says, not by what he sees with his eyes. And he applies a kind of heavenly math. We need to get this equation. God equal infinite power. Humans equal limited fleshly power. Infinite power is greater than limited power. Therefore, we win. That's God's math. That's heavenly math. That's how we need to learn to calculate our problems. And then it says, with us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. Now notice that. To help us and to fight our battles. We too have our God to help us to do what we should do. So God is helping us do what we should do and to fight our battles for us when it's only God that can win them That's life for us. That life that explains the difference between what we do and what God does. God helps us to do those things that we should be doing and does for us those things that we cannot do The biggest of them being to save us, you know, to take care of our sin. And that God sent Christ to do for us what we could never it didn't matter how long we would try to get our sins taken care of. We would never accomplish that. It cannot be accomplished by man. Only Christ could accomplish that thing. So he won that war that we couldn't even begin to fight. But now sanctification is the process of applying what it is that he did for us in everyday living. So we do what we should do. While trusting in him and what he has already done. So God both aids our proper, faithful human effort and fights for us when it's only he who can overcome. Now, what a great job this king did. We should follow his example as we face dangers with our fellow believers. Now we're going to switch over to 2 Kings 18 and 19, and we see some things that aren't quite as good. It expands on the things that are said in 2 Chronicles 32. In 2 Kings 18, 13-16, it says this. And in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them Then Hezekiah, king of Judah, sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, I have done wrong, turn away from me. Whatever you impose on me, I will pay. That is not exactly what we would hope to see in a king. And the king of Assyria assessed Hezekiah, king of Judah, 300 talents of silver and thirty talents of gold. So Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found at the house of the Lord and in the treasuries of the king's house. At that time Hezekiah stripped the gold from the doors of the temple of the Lord. And from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid and gave it to the king of Assyria. It looks to me like this was the first effort of the king to avoid a conflict with Assyria. This was probably a fleshly act. It definitely was, not a faithful one. So we can see, and we'll see later in Hezekiah's life, that Hezekiah was far from perfect. Which is comforting to us because we're far from perfect. So it makes you feel like, well, maybe I can learn something from this guy. He started his dealings with failure in this area of his life. Sound familiar? Have you failed in serious ways in some area of your life? Well, let Hezekiah be an encouragement to you. Past failure does not mean future failure. Fleshly strategies to get what you want can be abandoned. New faith-filled strategies can be taken up and succeeded at. Hezekiah is our example. God does not give up on his children. Our past failures will cost us. It cost Hezekiah all the silver in the temple. Hezekiah took those things that were designed to honor God and to be used in a specific way, and he desecrated them. He used what he had available for a purpose that it was not designed for. And he was an unfaithful steward with what God had given him there, and he was never ever going to get that back. He would have to live with that regret. But God did not give up on Hezekiah, and God did not abandon Hezekiah. Hezekiah was one of God's children. That is how sin always affects the life of a believer. That is how it is. Sin punishes, but God is long-suffering and God is gracious. Now, rather than preaching a very long sermon, I had to break this one in half, and this is the halfway point It has prepared us for one of the most dramatic displays of faithfulness and one of the most dramatic displays of God's power in the Bible. If the suspense is too much, please read it for yourself this week. But we have all the makings to learn how to live our lives in the face of great adversity in this text. We have a man, Hezekiah, who's just like us. He sometimes succeeds, sometimes fails We have an enemy, just like the devil, taunting Hezekiah to be unfaithful and to compromise and to choose the easy way out. And the options end up being total bondage under the enemy's reign, or total freedom under the reign of God. Christian life. And there's one pivotal issue in this whole event. On whom would Hezekiah place his trust? There's always, that's always what uh victory or defeat comes down to in the Christian life. Who will we believe? What will we believe? Who will we trust? Who are we believing in the test points of life? Who are we believing? I hope the drum roll will run in your mind as we prepare to hear from God next week about how to respond to letters from the devil. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for such a wonderful insight into how things work by showing us. this incident in the life of a king and his people. We ask that you would help us to learn the the right lessons, that we would be encouraged to believe in ways that we have not in the past, that we would trust you, that we would get to the heart of things. And that we would believe your truth and what you say over and above the enemy's lies, the letters that we receive from him, whether literal events or Things that just pop into our heads. That we would trust you, that we would obey you, that we would honor and glorify you, that everything that we do, we would be Choosing the right thing to glorify you with all of our hearts. Like Hezekiah did, at least for a few minutes. And we ask that you would create this change in us, this growth in us, so that Jesus Christ would be glorified in us. Our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.