I'm going to issue some homework this week. You've got to read the full chapter nine this week. It is so good. It it's one of the easiest chapters, I think, in the Bible to read because it's it's such a rich story. And uh it's it's good to read it in context several times. Uh it's one of the one of the passages in Scripture that the passage itself is so good that no matter how many times I look at it, I don't feel like I'm doing it justice. But we're gonna we're gonna get her a shot anyway. So anyway, um We're going to start into the story this morning, and we're not going to get very far into it. It's simply that rich. This is a story of a man that Jesus found in his blindness And left the man seeing in every way possible. First, he was unable to see things, you know, things we take for granted. He can see stuff, he can see the world, he can see the light. But secondly he was enabled to see Jesus for who Jesus really is, which a lot of people don't see even though they have eyes. Now it may be helpful to know that at this period in Christ's life, he has pulled back from teaching the crowds. We will see now a tendency of him to teach his disciples, to have smaller groups, to not make himself public as much. The hostility has reached such a state that Jesus focused mostly on just teaching his disciples. And this is the first of the instances that's recorded in the book of John. So verse 1, as he passed by, Jesus saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents? That he was born blind. The first thing that we see is Jesus saw a man. Jesus saw the man. This man was a needy man. If you were to approach this man as he sat there in the street, as he did every day, you would know what would come next out of that man. He would call out to you something like alms for the blind. So, what would you and I want to do when we saw this man? We're walking wherever we're walking through the temple. We see this man, we know what he's going to do. What is our inclination? Mine would be to kind of get to the other side of the street, because I don't want him intruding into my life. I got things to do. We might not want our lives imposed upon by the man's need. And we've all heard the stories of people who do the do you know, begging and they get in their Mercedes at the end of the day and they drive to their big houses. So we've heard that any money given to these folks could end up housing their addictions or whatever. This this man wasn't, you know, in that exact state, but you know how we are. Uh but the point still stands Needy people like this make us uncomfortable. Well, Jesus saw this man. Jesus was passing, so he was on his way somewhere. Jesus had agendas just like we do He was on his way somewhere else, and he saw this man, and Jesus was prone to see meaty persons, even on his way to other places. Jesus saw us, didn't he? We were spiritually in this man's state. All we could bring to Jesus was our need. That's all we had to offer Jesus. But Jesus went out of his way to find us and to come to us in that very state of need. This in itself has applications already that are uncomfortable, at least to me. These needy people around us are people nonetheless. And they need Jesus. Who is there in your life that you avoid because they're needy? You just don't know what to say. Well, we tend to grow in our usefulness if we'll take a chance to really see that person like Jesus saw this man and to go to them. Sure, sometimes it requires wisdom, and I'm not saying across the board you should do that with every opportunity that you have, but it's worthy of consideration. How can we be like Jesus in the situations when we find ourselves around people who are needy? Now this man was blind from birth. This person has never, ever, ever seen anything. There's no light that reaches the sensors that allow for sight. That's all we know about the man so far. He's born blind. He was born disadvantaged. The only opportunity this man had to provide for his supper was to appeal to the generosity of others. How would you feel if your life was like that? He didn't have the opportunity that we men have to w work hard to provide for our families. This man would have loved To have the opportunity that we sometimes complain about. He was blind. He may have regarded himself as being useless to everyone. That would be hard. Verse 2. And the disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? Now, the disciples saw that Jesus saw the blind man. And they had a question. And I really hope that they didn't ask their question loud enough for the blind man to hear. I suspect they did. It's difficult to imagine saying something more rude or insensitive to a blind man. It'd be treating that man as if he is a prop. instead of a human being. Talk about rubbing salt into someone's wounds. But like I said, I think that is exactly what they did. Who was who sinned, Lord? This guy sitting here? Or it was his parents. We'll see that Jesus actually answers their question. He doesn't rebuke them for the question Jesus used it as a teaching opportunity. Now, you and I know, I would guess by now, it was the wrong question. It's based on a wrong assumption. But the disciples were sincere, at least they appear to be Who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Now look at the assumption in that question. It is based on a simple formula. If you do good, you get good. If you do bad, you get bad Simple. The disciples' assumption is that there is a direct relationship between how godly you are and how well things go for you in your life. If you suffer, it's directly tied to someone's performance. Suffering is earned, blessing is earned. That's how they viewed life. The friends of Job in the book of Job had this kind of thinking. Job's friends, they keep trying to convince Job that he must have really done something evil to make God so angry because God would not allow this kind of suffering if Job had been good. That's the whole that's all Job's friends. It you know, after the first couple chapters you just think, shut up. You know, poor Job, it's bad enough. So Job's suffering was so severe and it was so sudden that it was obvious that it had to be supernaturally inspired I mean for everything to happen like it did in Job's life, they knew his friends knew this Job was singled out for this. They knew that much. God must be punishing Job for sin, is what they thought. And we know that's not how it works. We'll look at why these disciples may have viewed it differently in just a bit. But let me ask you. How do you think about things like this? Are there seeds of this in your thinking? When you see someone suffering, do you sometimes think that person must have done something evil to deserve it? Now think a little bit about the question the disciples asked. Who sinned? This man was born blind. The only chance he had the sin would have been in the womb. Not sure how well that theory would work So, most likely the disciples thought it was his parents' fault. Somebody had to sin. And notice the assumption again. They weren't allowing for any other possibility. It was one or the other. Now, why might they have thought this? Why might they have thought that the parents sinned and the child suffered? Well, in Exodus 20, 4 through 6, it says, You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in the world. Heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God. And this is the part that he they would have been thinking. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. So this would appear to say on the surface that the kids are held guilty and punished for the sins of their parents. But that can't be the right take on it, because it we see something else in Ezekiel. Ezekiel 18, 19 and 20 says, Yet you say, Why should not the son suffer for the iniquity of the father? When the son has done what is just and right and has been careful to observe all my statutes, he shall surely live. This is God speaking. Why do you think that I'm going to punish the son for the father's sin? No, the one who observes my statutes, he's going to live. The soul who sins will die The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. Now, how do we understand that? One seems to say it will be visited, the other seems to say it won't be visited. Notice that the verse in Exodus is about idolatry. And the word fathers in the Exodus text is probably talking about the heads of tribes, the decision makers, the leaders. of their tribes, of their of their nation. What happens when you pass on to your children a false religion? An idolatrous religion. For instance, what would happen if a grandfather would convert his children and his grandchildren to Islam? This new spiritual direction is likely to become multi-generational for the whole clan. But Exodus doesn't say that those who love me will die. It says the punishment comes upon generations of people who hate God. The warning is to the fathers about starting idolatry. Decisions often have multi-generational consequences. Don't you follow idols, so there's a good chance that your children will not follow idols. That's the idea here. Then Ezekiel is telling us that God does not punish any individual for sin if that person is not in sin. Now we know in the New Testament there's that there's an exception, sort of, in that all of us are under Adam. All of us were born under that that sin state But uh he's basically saying the soul that is guilty of sin is the one that dies, and what his father did does not make any difference in any way. The father of the clan may have set things in motion that made it very hard for you to come to the true faith, but his sin did not damn you. Yours does. Okay, so the disciples' way of seeing this was wrong. God does not work the way the disciples thought he they did. He did. No one had to earn the suffering for suffering to exist. They didn't have to earn it. Of course, we know that, yeah, sin caused it. Sin caused it, but not directly. When Eve ate the forbidden fruit, sin entered the world, and it has never been the same With the fall came all manner of suffering. Diseases and disabilities and malformities and man-eating lions. And wasps, I think. Can't think of anything worse. Um, all kinds of bad stuff entered into man's experience. In the new earth, there'll be none of this suffering, because the fall will be undone, and since consequences will be removed Okay, so personal sin is not always the source of a person's suffering. Okay, personal sin is not always the source of a person's suffering. Well, can it be? Can your sin be a source of your suffering? And yes, yes, it can be. And Scripture lets us know that it comes from at least two sources. The first source is sometimes our suffering is a direct consequence of our sin or someone else's sin. And second, sometimes our suffering is a result of the discipline of God for our sin. Let's look at consequences. Okay, so if you pack if you smoke a pack of cigarettes per day, you are likely to develop lung cancer. All right. If you drive on the wrong side of the road, you're likely to do hospital time if you're that lucky. Proverbs is chock full of this kind of wisdom, this kind of information. For instance, it says this about child rearing in Proverbs 29-15. The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. If we refuse to discipline our children effectively, there's a high likelihood that we're going to suffer when they become adults or on their path to adults. And some of us can remember making our parents suffer. When that is the case, when that is the cause of the child being unwise, then it's not a discipline of God. on you as a parent, it is a natural consequence. But often a child is raised well and still ends up choosing his own way. That will cause suffering for the parents as well, but it doesn't fit into these two categories. We'll get to that. And remember, as you read Scripture, Proverbs are statements about how things normally work Proverbs are statements of how things normally work. Proverbs are not promises. When you view a proverb as a promise, you are taking Scripture out of context. Not every child raised up in the way he should go will return to them when he is older. That is a proverb. It is not a promise. That's a proverb. A proverb has exceptions, a promise does not. A proverb has exceptions, a promise does not. Okay, so sin has natural consequences that cause suffering. In fact, the closer we get to Christ, just the very presence of our sin in our life makes us suffer. It hurts us. When we sin, it hurts us to know that we are offending our Lord. Sin will make you suffer just by doing it. You will pay a price if you're a believer Okay, so what about sin being the discipline by God? Mark just read this passage at Christmas, 1 Corinthians 11, in our communion reading: for anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks. And drinks judgment on himself. That's why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. Direct consequence. But if we judged ourselves truly, if we would do the judging instead of sinning and letting God sort it out, we would not be judged The whole point here is that God judges believers who live in sin. God judges believers who choose to live in sin. If we hold wrong, sinful attitudes toward each other. If we're doing church business with anything other than church attitudes, God will single us out for discipline And if we resist his discipline, he might even kill us. These are all sufferings directed to us. Because of our sin. And thank God that he does discipline us because he's trying to get our attention to bring us back. In James five, fourteen and fifteen we read about the elders praying for those who are sick, and at the end of the passage we're Told that the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick and the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins, he'll be forgiven. We see again a direct connection between sin and disease. It's not always that way, but sometimes. Sometimes it's that way. There are a million good reasons to honor Christ by faithful, obedient living. Okay? The payday is tremendous. But just in case we need another incentive, the fear of God's discipline is also a worthy motivator. So if we are suffering, if some sudden difficulty falls upon us, it is perfectly appropriate and I think it's required To start this process by ask asking, Am I committing a known sin that I will not give up? Am I committing a known sin that I will not give up? If you know that you're living in sin, that is the best starting point. Your suffering could have been sent to get your attention. What a glorious, gracious thing that God would do to discipline you in that state and to cause you to turn from your sin. Your suffering might be the two by four to a mule's head. You know? You gotta get his attention first. That might be what's happening. Another valid question is, is the suffering related to something I am doing? Am I causing my own suffering? For instance, if if everyone treats me in the same way and I feel like I'm suffering at the hands of others, if all my relationships end up falling apart, am I doing something to them that is causing this reaction? Things like that. Look at your life and see what is the result of what I am doing and does it track its way to me? If we find every relationship falls apart, there's a common denominator. It's me You know, then there are a lot of things in life like that. If my health has gone downhill, have I changed something recently that might be causing it? Or am I habitually doing something that I know will cause it Do I have have habits of eating or drinking or drugs that are causing my misery? If so, commit to the Lord to make changes. Unless, of course, you like to suffer, and then keep doing what you're doing. Most of us, I think, would say, well, no, I'd prefer not to suffer if given the choice. But what if none of this fits those categories? What if you're living faithfully, as far as you can tell? What if you're doing nothing that would cause the suffering you're experiencing? What then? Well, that's where we're at this morning. Praise God. Verse 3. Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned. It was not that this man's parents sinned. Why was it? For the works of God to be displayed in him. That's why this man was born blind. The disciples wanted to know the cause of the suffering. Christ wanted them to know the purpose of the suffering. The disciples wanted to know the cause of the suffering. Christ wanted them to know the purpose of the suffering. Don't we often ask the wrong question? After we've searched our soul in the Lord's presence for any rebellious sin in our life, and after we've determined that this wasn't a consequence of my choices, after all that, don't we want to ask why? Lord, why me? Lord, why now? Lord, why this? And God is generally pretty patient with us in all of this if we're not getting too haughty. But those kinds of why questions are not always or even often answered in this lifetime. A lot of times we don't know why we suffer. But the purpose For our suffering we are told over and over and over again. In this instance, Jesus says that it is so the works of God might be displayed in this man and his suffering. There are other scriptures that tell us the same general thing, in different words. James 1, 2 through 4 says, Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. Obviously, this is not a trial of discipline. This is not a trial that I brought upon myself. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness, and let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and Complete, lacking in nothing. There is the purpose. When you have a trial in your life, you don't have to worry about finding the purpose. There is the purpose. The trials are making us what God intends for us to be. They are doing for us what nothing else in life could accomplish in our lives. If we could see our situation from Christ's position, if we could enter into eternity and see our setting, see our situation, we would ask for the trials. Because we could see from the good hand of God the eternal benefits that He is providing to us. And that is hard for us to believe. But if what God says is true, is true, that is really how dramatic it would be. We would say, Lord, bring this on because I see the end goal. I see what you're doing for me. I see what you're doing in me. I see what you want for me, and it's all good. Bring it on. They're always for God's glory. All the suffering that we face is for God's glory, a Christian at least, but it's not all only for God's glory, it's for our good, like we sang this morning. First Peter six and seven says, In this you rejoice, though now for a little while if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes though it is tested by the world. By fire may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Christ. Suffering, trials Glory and honor. God is showing off his power and his grace through the genuineness of the faith that he has given us as we go through trials. This would not be seen if not for the trials. These things will be exposed for praise to Christ when He returns. Trials are an opportunity for us to increase praise for Jesus. When he shows up. Trials are an opportunity for us to increase praise for Jesus when he shows up. And Romans five, three three five. Not only that, but we we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character. And character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. So do you want do you want endurance? Do you want character? Do you want hope? It comes through suffering. Again, the sufferings have an effect on our character. If properly handled, the suffering makes us stronger and more resolute Christians, and it increases our hope and joy. And one more, Second Corinthians four, seventeen and eighteen. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. Okay, and our suffering will be seen as tiny and insignificant when swallowed up in eternity with Christ. In other words, for what it is producing Our suffering is always worth it. For what it is producing, our suffering is always worth it. We may not know the cause, but we know a purpose. And we always know the purpose. Okay, so in our text, Jesus says that the man's blindness is so the works of God might be displayed in him. Now, how are the works of God going to be displayed in this case? In this case. We know that this man is going to be healed. God could not have shown up or shown uh showed off. This particular thing, if there wasn't this particular need. So he saw fit to bring that need to the surface. Is that always how God displays his works in those that suffer by this kind of miraculous healing? And we all know that the answer is no. It's not always the result, at least not in this life. Christ will take away all suffering for all time when he returns, but not every incidence of suffering in this life will be removed like this man had his removed. Remember Paul Thorn? Paul had a source of suffering. Nobody knows what it is. Everybody guesses. He prayed three times for the quick removal of this source of suffering. And what did he need to conclude? That God just hasn't healed me yet? That's not what he says. He said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power, that's God's power, is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, I, Paul, will boast all the more gladly of my weakness, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Paul's answer from God in his suffering is that God wanted to display his works in a different way. Than the blind man in our story. God was going to display his power by Paul experiencing the effects. of his suffering. So Paul would display his weakness. So Paul would display his inability. That's an odd thing you would think. But God would display his strength through Paul's life. God would display his ability Through Paul's life. Now, I'd like us to think about something from this text this morning. Who made the man blind? Who made the man blind? This is what the psalmist says. Psalms 139, 13. For you, the psalmist is talking to God. For you, God, formed my inward parts. You, God, knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. By you. Wonderful are your works, for my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God, how vast is the sum of them. At the end of the day, it is God who made this man born blind. And it was not a result of any individual's sin, except maybe Eve. I like blaming Eve. It's nicer than Adam. But anyway, there were There was no one being punished here. God was orchestrating one more item in the lives of people. How heartbreaking it would have been for the parents when they realized their son was blind, when this son was born. And their son was blind. Instantly they would have known the great cost both they and that child would have to pay. Their plans would all change, and no one asked them if they were ready to accept this It just came. I listened to a sermon by John Piper that was very impactful, and I'm paraphrasing what he said, but the points are important. We weren't left in the dark about the meaning of darkness. About the meaning of suffering, about that suffering that we cannot understand. He has not left us alone to despair in meaninglessness, nor are we to create meaning Our natural selves might not like the answers. In fact, if we're living for ourselves, the answers will be no answers at all It might go against how we want God to be. But God permits the union of a father and mother, knowing the outcome of the child, whether you use the word permit or cause The outcome is purposeful. God has purposed it. God has a plan for this life. And God has a plan for everyone affected. by this life. It is not a punishing plan. It is not a hateful plan. It's a loving plan, even though the love might involve severe harden hardship for a long time. We need to think about this. Based on what Jesus said about the blindness's purpose to display the works of God, we learn that suffering can only have ultimate meaning In relationship to God. If you remove God from the purpose You are left with no meaning for suffering. Our world has to come up with a meaning because they don't have that relationship with God. It can't make sense to them The meaning for the suffering can only come from God. The blindness happens so that the works of God might be displayed in this man. For that to be any comfort to us, we have to value God above everything. If God is not a primary worship, this truth isn't any comfort to us at all. We'll be saying, I want a normal life. I want to live out all my plans and dreams. I want to have a life like normal people. I don't want life to gravitate. Around this need the needs of this human. That's what flesh says. But love for God will transform this difficult situation into something that has meaning. If what we mut most in our lives is for God to be glorified, you may sit back and wonder, how is God, how is God going to show off Himself in this situation? Of mine that will be full of difficulty. Wha what is God going to do? How can I play a part in his design? But one thing for sure A good God has good designs for you and your child, even a child with disabilities. And it didn't It didn't come upon you by mistake. It was ordered and purposeful for the good. Now, as Christians, we have to be patient with our friends who have had their hopes shattered. We need not respond to every word said in desperation or disappointment. Sometimes we just need to be there and love them as they experience their loss. In time, believers are often ready to take in a truth that will help them. But it might take a while. I probab I've been trying to prepare myself for this portion of the sermon for a week. Fiona was formed in Suzy 's womb. With forty seven chromosomes instead of forty six. That was no accident. God did this. God allowed this. God purposed this. To display his works. Now scientists and doctors may describe the cause differently. They might talk about all the technicalities, and they might be right, but from them we get no meaning. We don't need to understand. The cause to understand the purpose Fiona was given to us as a gift to display God's works. And he has displayed his works. Already, hasn't he? To watch the faith of Susan Jared has been one of the biggest encouragements in my life. Some may say it's impossible to remain faithful to God in trials like this. But largely They did it. And then God changed the outcome. From death to life. For Fiona. Some of us were praying the prayer of faith for this to happen, believing that God surely would do this thing. I was not one of them. But some were. And God showed his works. God did the impossible. And then we thought about how hard it would be for Suze and Jared to care for her. And there are surely some difficulties for her that other children don't and won't have. But she has turned out to be a blessing that lights up the room for all around her. I cannot wait. To see what God has in mind for this little girl. I hope I live long enough to see it. You and I aren't left in a state of meaninglessness. We know God's purposes. And this is true in all of our suffering. The suffering that might appear random and without purpose, it is so good that God has given it. us his word. It is so good that he has given us his son. We live in a kingdom where hope is a staple. Praise God. Let's pray. Oh Lord, thank you for this scripture. Thank you for this truth. Thank you for reabilitying