You guys can turn your bottom some more to do that actually. We're in Mark two, uh, starting in verse uh uh uh fourteen Oh read and um you wanna pray? Uh you're gonna jump right in. Starting in verse fourteen of Mark one. Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repents and believed in the gospel. Passing along the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew and the brother of Simon, casting a met into the sea, for they were fishermen. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. And going on a little further He saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brethren, who were in their boat, and in the nets. And immediately he called them, and they left their father, Zebedee, in the boat, with the hired servants and following. Let's try. And we each need you to open our eyes, to open our hearts, and to make clear your word to us. And we pray right now that you would be with me, that you would guide my lips. Father, help us each to hear your word, to act accordingly. Holy Spirit, would you come right now and would you guide us in your truth? We ask this in Christ Jesus' name. So from a young age, um I don't know how many age you guys have seen, the chronicles are Um from a young age, uh from a young boy. It came out when I was around the middle school age. I wasn't I wasn't one of the wise ones to read books first. I started with the movies. Um So I I I really love the conference of Narnia. Uh and I was actually listening to it the other night as I was uh doing the dishes, I was listening to the audio audiobook. Um And the book starts and uh Lucy, as you maybe if you read the book or if you haven't, there's a girl named Lucy, and she enters her entered a wardrobe in the first, which is a big cabinet. I mean most people know what a wardrobe is, I suppose, but It's a big cabinet, basically she goes into the lane of Narnia and she meets this fawn and his name is um thank you. So you think okay, you all know it. Um And Thomas says something though, and it's really interesting. He says that it's winter. And he asked for if she's a daughter of Eve. And there was prophecy in Arnian that when the daughters of Eve and the sons of Adam would come, that the winter, that the white witch who was over the winter, would be reversed and Aslan would come. And as most of us know, we probably know eight times I get boost goosebumps when I hear it. Because uh Thomas says something and he said that's really interesting. He says that the time has come. And it's so interesting because if you watch the movie, then when you see all the sons out and all the daughters become, you see the winds are begin to reverse And you see the pr the and they say at one point they say that the powers of the dark or the the powers of the white witch are being reversed. And then they say something. And it s it it keeps it literally sets chills up my spine when I hear it They say ask for his own move. And that oh just he just as a young boy I just like get so excited because you know in that moment That hope is coming. There's a glimmer of hope on the horizon. And this is we we jump into the Gospel of Mark today and we see in verse 14 Jesus saying something. He says, Now after John was arrested. Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God. So far in the Gospel of Mark, we see claims of Mark claims and makes an assertion that Jesus is the Son of God. And then we see his baptism, and then we see him driven into the wilderness for testing. And from other gospel accounts we see John baptizing and preaching. So other Jewish leaders at the time would have been preaching basically a stricter conformance to the Mosaic law, but John was preaching something different. He was preaching a baptism of repentance. In a sense, he was calling the people to turn from their self-centered ways and to turn back to God, dependence. And Mark says something that's so interesting. He keeps using these phrases throughout the Gospel of Mark immediately. And now, but here's the first time he says it, he says in in the ESP, he says now. As this had happened. So now John was arrested. And apparently for Jesus, John's arrest was the beginning of his road to the cross. So even in the beginning of the Gospel of Mark, you can even, for Unarnian lovers like I am, you can hear, ask when this one will move. Because you kind of know in the prophets of earlier that Hapla is the pre - he's the typological Christ. And we see Jesus now, all of a sudden, now. Jesus is on the moon. In a sense, John, the beginning of the gospel account, you can see the shadow of the cross resting over Jesus' journey. And it was probably Mark 1 verses starting verse 3, which is pointing back to the prophet Isaiah that says, as it was written in Isaiah the prophet. Mark speaking earlier in the chapter. So this is probably what Jesus was being recognized. Now, behold, I send a mess I send my messenger before your face who will prepare your way. The voice of one crying to the will of us prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Remember now that God had to be silent for the people of Israel for 400 years since the prophet Malach So Jesus saw John as the one who would go before the anointed one, the Messiah that we refer to. And Mark also makes clear that Jesus was heading into Galilee. The same place that the prophet Isaiah in Matthew 4 we see, which you can actually turn with me if you want real quick. Isaiah chapter 9, starting in verse 1. So we see this is not just Mark referring to back to Isaiah, but we see that Matthew does the same thing. It says in in Isaiah chapter 9, starting at verse 1 and 2, but there will be no room for her. Who was in anguish? In the former time he brought into contempt to the land of Zebulum and the land of Napali. In the later time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan Galilee of the nations. The people, so this is what we see happening in Mark's gospel. Verse 2. The people who walk in darkness have seen a great light. And those who dwell in a land of deep darkness, on them light has shown. And we're we're jumping into the Gospel of Mark, and we this is where we're seeing. Is the light is now being shown to the people of God. I should do it to the nations. In this moment in Galilee, it wasn't even the Jewish people, it was just the nations. Whether the people of Jesus today knew it or not, Mark is making clear to us, to the reader, what is happening. What these people were witnessing was the coming salvation of the nations right before their eyes. And Jesus went about proclaiming the gospel of God. With some formulation, the gospel of the kingdom of God. So the word gospel we we use a lot and it literally just means good news. Tim Keller um says it like this. But the word is actually a say wrong. Egalion in Greek, which is translated as good news or gospel, combined anglo, the word for announcing news, and the prefix you, which means joyful. Gospel means news that brings joy. This word has currency, as Keller says, as as when Mark used it, but it was not religious currency. It meant historic history-making, life-shaping news, as opposed to just daily news. So they have gospels all throughout. Actually at one point they even had the Gospel of Caesar, they would call it. Basically Caesar would go about when a king would be enthroned, basically what would happen was They would send messengers and they would go and they'd be they'd be called heralds who would go and proclaim news. The king has won, or the battle has won. That's what we mean when we see gospel This is good news, King announcing news. And I want to ask this a question. With Jesus proclaiming The gospel of God, what does this teach us about God? I think this is a question we should ask, which is a question we should ask of every text we ever walk into. What does this text teach me about who God is? Jesus is proclaiming the good news of God. It 's first showed us good news would mean that God's coming salvation. But we see also that God is full of justice and that he shows the first that God is just because he is going to do the right So he's going to right the wrongs that have been done. We've seen this all throughout the Bible. We see this threat of God bringing his justice. We see it in Ezekiel 34, we see in verses 20, it says, Therefore Thus says the Lord, the God of the Lord God to them, Behold I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep, referring to Israel. Because you push with s with side and shoulder and thrust at all the wheat with those horns, so you have scattered them abroad. I will rescue my flock. They shall no longer be a prey. And I will judge between I will judge between sheep and sheep. So we see all throughout the Bible that God is full of justice. We also see though, and this is where it begins to come together, that God's justice and God's mercy are going to meet. We see God is full of mercy and compassion. We see that God is merciful and compassionate because He has sent a way for us. This is what Jesus was proclaiming when he says that the gospel of God, the good news. We're going to get to that. So we have to start when we when we walk into the gospel, we have to see the gospel of Mark, we have to see that finding the right message is really, really important. We have to see when you find the right message, there has to be three things. We see Jesus give three things. He says the time is fulfilled, the kingdom is near, and then he gives us the message of how we get to the kingdom. And we see that Mark even parallels this in verse fourteen. But Jesus says in verse fifteen, he said, Join on, the time is fulfilled. Jesus' words near Marks at the beginning of chapter one. But I think it's interesting, and R. C. Sproul actually pointed to this, and I think it's so helpful. When we look at time. Because we only have a few words for time. In the Greek there there are two words for time. The first is chrono, which is more of a moment-by-moment passing of time. This is how we usually understand time. And then there's this word that is used here, actually, Harios. May I said that on, but it doesn't really matter. Which is a historic event taking place in history So we generally understand time as a passing by actually the software we have at work is actually called Chronos, which I didn't even realize until today, but it's a passing by time, it's a keeping of time, passing moment by moment. But what we have here is Keros. Which is a historic event taking place in history. And R. C. Sproul says it, he says the most ca chaotic event in all of history was the birth of Jesus. In fact, all of history is defined by that moment. We use the designation BC before Christ and AD, the year of our Lord in Latin, to date events and before and after his death, his birth. The Greek word then going on. for fulfill is floroma. Which basically means super fullness. So what we see and I the reason why I I don't like it when creatures go is the green and I don't like doing it either, but it's so helpful. Because these words of time is fulfilled, don't mean the max of what Jesus is saying to us in English. The word for ploroma, which is fulfilled, is basically like when when you fill up a cup of coffee, which I love coffee, you never fill up the cup of coffee all the way to the top. Because you always need room for cream, let's put creamer, but most people put creamer, or seven walking around, you never fill the cup all the way to the frame. But the word for fulfill Jesus is using here is filling it to the brim. So you can picture really. It's like Jesus is saying that the most distorted event ever is bursting forth. It's a historic event and it has been fulfilled and it's here and it's running over, brimming over at the top. So finding the right message starts with scenes whose time has been fulfilled. Tim Keller again says it like this. He says, the difference between Christianity and all other religions, including no religion, the essence of other religions is its vice, where Christianity is the news. Other religions say this is what you have to do in order to connect with God forever. This is how you are to live in order to earn your way to God, what the gospel says. This is what has been done in history. This is how Jesus lived and died to earn the way to God for Jesus. Christianity is completely different because it is joyfully new. We see this in Romans, we see Romans 5-6, it says, for while we were still weak, at the right same word, at the fullness of time, Christ died for the Epic Austin. And we see it again in Galatians, Galatians 4, 4 through 7. But when the fullness of time, exact same words, carrios ploroma. The fullness of time had come. God sent forth this son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. So that we might not receive so that I'm gonna stop there. It's the full meaning. But then we have to see two. So Jesus starts talking about this kingdom. The time is fulfilled, and he starts going on. He says the kingdom of God is at hand. So we have to see first off that the kingdom of God declares the rightness. In this moment he's saying the kingdom of God has come near to the people. And you might be asking or wondering, if the kingdom of God has come near, why is everything still so rotten? Or maybe if the kingdom of God is at hand, why is there still so much evil in the world? Jesus refers to the kingdom of God often in the Gospels as a way to describe what he was bringing into the world. Mark Mark Straff said it like this, which the Kingdom of God is such a lofty topic, but he says this. He said the best interpretation of the data is that the Kingdom of God has been inaugurated, which is beginning Through Jesus' life, death, and resurrection, put awaits consummation in the future. Jesus proclaimed the kingdom as both present and future, as already, but also not yet. The people of Israel were waiting for the Messiah to come and to bring about redemption for the people. And he confirms this statement in the kingdom coming near when he went Immediately after we see his his dialogue with the disciples , what does he begin doing? He begins going around and I always heard it. Somebody put it like this, they said this When Jesus starts his earthly ministry after John had been arrested, what we see Jesus begin doing is he called it Yahweh. Up until this point , Yahweh was of the Old Testament. He would bring healing and he would bring all of basically the Old Testament law. We talked about it a little bit this morning at um Sunday school, yes. Talked about it a little bit when we said that the Old Testament law was about keeping people like lepers were kept over here, and people who were sick had to do these ritual things. And God did that for the for the protection and the goodness of the people. But what we see Jesus doing immediately is he began to steal the sick and delete delivering the demon for us and raising the dead. Basically, he starts walking around doing God with things. There becomes a man who starts going around and healing, reversing the curse. Everything that went wrong in the garden, the ideal. Everything that the ideal started with, Jesus began reversing what the curse and the fall back into the ideal. But Jesus goes on. He says that the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Repent and believe in the good news. So the right message always begins with repentance. Repentance, Jesus is referring to, is most literally understood as a turning away from It can also be understood as Jesus saying to these people, they need to turn from their sins to before God. It'd be like this. Repentance can be most purely in itself seen. In if you had a really, really hot pipe, there used to be a hot pipe in our house that I would always go up to and touch. When I would go to cut a hot pipe, basically I would have to pull my hand up. And my dad would have thick skin, so he would walk up to it and hold it and call me a baby for not a But it was just funny when I thought about that because this hot height it is just like repentance. That's true repentance. True repentance is not true. Sticking your hand on the hot pipe and saying, yeah, that pipe's really hot. It's still burning me. No, it's a touching of the hot pipe, seeing that it's hot, and pulling away. But the right message also comes with belief. Repent. You can't just end repentance. In our culture and talking to students all the time, I would argue I bet 95% of the students I talk to most of the time will tell me, yeah, I believe in the gospel. Yeah, I believe in who Jesus is. Anyway, this goes back to the idea of belief. So if it starts with repentance, but then goes to belief. He says to repent and believe. So it's the two two sides of the same coin. And if you take one side away, it's not a coin anymore. Me and Cable I I always do tell a story about Cable by coming foot. We always have this argument um about Bigfoot. And we argue all the time that he argues for Bigfoot. Because he can't prove that Bigfoot doesn't exist. And I think Bigfoot is not real, I'll be honest. I'm not sure if there's any believers out there and Bigfoot doesn't exist. I'll be honest with you, I don't think Bigfoot is really But it's funny he says that he bel he says that he thinks they claimed before, I believe in Bigfoot. And it's funny, like He says that he believes in big story. Intellectually, like he may believe in big stories. But when he's walking around in the woods, because he loves hunting, he does not actually believe in big story Because if he believed in Bigfoot, his life would look different. If he believed in Bigfoot, he would he would not he I think he'd kind of walk around with like maybe like looking around. Maybe a little bit more like fear So he can say intellectually that, yeah I believe in big books. But Howard does not believe in big books. He can say whatever he wants. He does not believe in big books. Because you can say you believe in something, but your life does not look any different because of the belief. It's not true belief. Danny Aikens says it like this. He says, We are commanded to live in a state of repentance and trust. This call is not a momentary one-time decision that has little, if any, effects. This is a life-altering change, a radical transformation of our life orientation. I like that. A life orientation. A king has arrived who rightly demands that we follow and radically obey him. This is the unchanging and uncompromising message and vision of the eternal kingdom of God. Here's another question I want us to ask. You should always ask of every text is what does this text teach me about simple community? What does this text? So we started the first one is what does this text teach me about the character of God, who God is? And the second is what does this text teach me about divine? And I would say that we start with this that we are more sinful than we will ever be. Repentance is a continual event, not a one-time act. The heart of the Reformation which we love was always repenting. Always repenting Continually turn. Our sin is not just murder or killing, but God looks deeper into the heart of every man, knowing his thoughts And there is so many so much scripture I can give for each of these things, but I'm not going to do that. Because what we see is we are more sinful than we realize. Because it's the very thing that Jesus came and was telling us to turn from The second thing I would say is we need someone to bring us into the kingdom of God. He comes and he says, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. And what's he tell us? Repent and believe. There's someone who has to come and take us into the kingdom. The good news, the gospel, that God has made a way in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we see that in 1 John 2. It says, My little children, I'm writing these things to you that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Because then we move on and we see Jesus keep going on. And he says, I think we have to start so we we found the right message and then we found how the kingdom what the kingdom of God says about the right message And then what our response is to get into the kingdom. So how do we find the right people? And we see starting in verse sixteen. It says, Passing along the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting his net into the sea of Galilee. For they were fishermen. I think it's important to note when we look and see that we these men were fishermen, that they were I I don't know, maybe I think maybe I naturally think this. These men were not poor by any stretch of the imagination. These men were likely extremely well off and likely partly owned or were going to someday owned their father's business. So these guys were not poor fishermen. The fact that he didn't have a job probably means that they were pretty wealthy It's important to note because I ever time I hear that passage, there's people where it's like, ah, poor fishermen. Like that was a terrible job, which I'm sure it was a stinky job, but I don't think it was a terrible job. Jesus said to go on in verse 17. So Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. So we see that Jesus calls, Jesus' call finds the right people. We see that Jesus' call finds the right people. And you you can you can look back in Jeremiah, Jeremiah sixteen, um, verse sixteen. Well I'm not gonna read it because it 's it's a lot to it, but Basically we see that this idea, this imagery of fishing for men, it's ironic that these guys were fishermen, we said when following out to become fishers of men We'll get we'll get to that actually. So let's just keep going. During this time Jesus what Jesus was doing was unheard of there. So Jesus for him to go and to say to some people, follow me and I will make you fishers of men. It was unheard of. Rabbis would never ask someone to follow them. They would have been having people applying to follow them or study under them. The closest thing we understand to the way the rabbis worked were that they were like institutions of higher education, where you didn't demand to follow people or for people to follow you, and they definitely didn't have to they definitely had to come after you and initiate to you for them to follow you. The rabbis would have never focused on themselves. They would have allowed people to study under them, but it would have been missed the purpose of understanding the law more. But Jesus taught as one who had authority. Jesus, follow me. In Mark 1, 22, we see later, but they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught as one who had authority. And not as described. In a culture that valued the family unit as highly as this culture did, what Jesus is saying is extremely lofty. In traditional culture you get your identity from your family, and even though these men continued in their families to some respects, they did not they and did not quit fishing, they still had to leave their family unit in that way. What Jesus is calling them to do is a lofty calling, and we cannot be too quick to dismiss it. He actually says in Luke 14, 25 to 26 He says, Now the crowd, the great crowd is accompanying him, and he turned and said to them, If anyone comes after me And does not hate his own father and mother, and wife and children, and brothers and sisters, yet even his own wife, he cannot be my disciple. Jesus is not actively calling them to to hate them, but it's a hate in comparison to. If there's any part of you even here today that's saying, I will all obey Jesus as long as I get X, Y, Z. I'll obey Jesus if he gives me a radius of my job. I'll obey Jesus if my career drives. I'll obey Jesus if my health is good. I'll obey Jesus if my family is together. The thing directly after the if statement becomes the very thing that you're worshiping. And in the same way that God would call the people out of slavery and bondage in the Old Testament, just like we saw in the Exodus accounts. Jesus' call beckons people to follow him today as well. And it's no less it's no less offensive, and it's no less lofty for us. The next question I want us to ask of the text, I think we should always ask, is what does this text teach me about Jesus Christ? The first thing I think is easy to you to see is the what he is the one who calls sinners to himself. From the beginning of the account of Mark, Jesus' biggest concern was the sin of the people. And he ultimately went to the cross to redeem his people so that our sin must be larger than we could ever imagine. He's the one who calls sinners to himself. We see it over and over again. Oh, wait. But he calls Simon, and he calls Andrew, and he calls James the son of Jeopardy, all these men. And he calls them. Jesus is the one who calls. But then he does how he calls, but he commands something. He commands our life to be fully surrendered to him. Going on in Luke fourteen. He says in verse 27, whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be disciple. For which of you, desiring to build power, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to Otherwise, when he had laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all Bruce began to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. And he goes on, he just keeps talking about counting the costs, what it means to follow him. He demands our life to be fully surrendered to us and tells the disciples to count the cost of following him. The third thing I think we can see from the life of Jesus is that He loves, His love for us is far above and beyond what we will ever observe. First John 4, verse 10 says, in this love, not that we have loved God, but that he who loved us and sent his sons. To be the propitiation for our sins, basically taking on wrath and making us pure. That is love. It 's that Jesus came and took on our wrath. And made us pure. That is how we know love. Tim Kellarian says this, then, because the gospel, this is the gospel. That we are more sinful and flawless in ourselves than we ever dared to believe. Yet at the very same time we are more loved and accepted in Jesus Christ than we ever therefore. The last thing that we need to see is that we are following the right master. I tell students all the time, say and when you talk to somebody who maybe is an atheist or someone that is saying that it's not really that important who I follow. If I always fresh back and ask them I always tell them the same the same state the same statement. It's not about if you're going to follow Jesus, I want to ask you the question of who are you following Because every single one of us in this room and every person that has ever lived ever is following someone or something. And the question is, are you following the right master? Who's your master? Or do your mas and and our culture has got it so that we've got it away. We're not like the people of old who would set up wooden wooden idols and we would collect we would sacrifice to them. No, our idol is much more insidious. Look in the mirror. That's the one who that's the one. The guy who I look in the mirror at is the one I'm most tempted today to make the idol. To make my master. It's not that much different than in Jesus' day. In verse 19, he says, and going on a little further, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were in their boat, mending their nets. Just having a normal day at work. And Jesus comes and he says, and immediately, verse 20, immediately. He called them, and they left their father's ebony above with the hired servants and followed him. You can just imagine I don't I don't know about you guys. You can just imagine having a thing with this. And I I didn't work on it full time, that wasn't my career, that wasn't what I was doing, but I could just imagine staying there working with my father and some guy coming along the road. And saying, come follow me and be just dropping my shovel or dropping whatever I had and my dad would probably look at me and be like, what are you doing? Like this is this their career, this is probably their his hope in that they would one day take on the business in their inheritance? You can imagine the disbelief that Zebedee had and he watched his sons walk away, leaving a life that he thought they'd have. So the fourth question is this, is what am I called to do, think, or believe based on what I see in this passage? So we've asked the fourth question. We've asked the question of what does this passage teach me about the character of God? Then we ask the question, what does this passage teach me about sinful humanity? Then we ask, what does this passage teach me about Jesus Christ? And finally, what does this passage call me to do things or believe? The first would be that this the first and only is that we're following it This is up to the passive following as a wholehearted devoted, wholeheartedly devoted, not perfectly devoted, but truly devoted to him and his mission of taking his father's new fame to the nation. We're not f we're not called to follow some set of rules or some advice. We're called to follow we're called to follow St. Jesus. And a lot of times what this looks like, but most practically in our lives, would be our priorities. And I just want to ask you the question, what are your priorities today? Because most of us aren't being called into give up our lives at work. But in a sense we are. Because here's the problem, when we get our priorities mixed up, when we start with We basically stop following the camp. When our first priority moves from me being a sheep to me being a dad or me being a husband or me being a campus minister even Such holy work. When my priorities shift and that other thing becomes the main focus of my life, my priorities and everything else in my life get shifted. So I'm first called to be a sheep, I'm first called to be a follower of Jesus, and when that priority shifts, when that becomes not the most important thing, no matter what it is, in this grid, your life will be out of balance. So I'm first called to be a sheep, and then I'm called to be a husband from scripture, and then I'm called to be a father, and then whatever else I'm And if you're a a wife or a lady like obviously like you're you're not called to the same exact thing but fill the blank. Put the other way around. You're first called to be a sheep. When that priority is shifted and not the main focus of our lives. We have stopped following King Jesus in those moments. I the song I I grew up uh singing a little a little hymn when I was uh which province does know it the song uh I Have Decided to Follow Jesus. I heard somebody recently say where that song came from. It blew my mind as I just did a quick Google search for that. There was a man named um there was a guy named I'm not gonna try to say it. You can look it up if you like along with his family decided to follow Jesus in the middle of the 19th century through the efforts of an American Baptist missionary. Um and this guy uh and his family were called to renounce his faith in the village by the village chief And the convert declared, this is just the Wikipedia page, just verse one, and the convert declared, I have decided to follow Jesus. His two children were killed in response to threats, his wife, him and his wife, he continued, though no one joined me, still I would follow. His wife was killed and he was executed while singing The World Behind Me and the Cross before me. This display of page is reported to have led to conversion of the chief and the others and nobilities. I'll be honest, we're we're not in the same place today. But in the sense we are When my priorities have shift and that my following of Jesus is is no longer the most important thing in my life. Everything else is shifted. It is a call to believe. And I ask you today, do you believe? Not just as like Bigfoot I'm not like just like a Bigfoot belief of like, yep, I believe he's there. No. I mean like believe In the way of your life is different. It's a call to repent. Do you need to repent? The answer is yes. Always. Always repenting. Always turning. And it is a call to follow up. Have you made this commitment of following? And are you following this high and lifted up chain? For Jesus, we see your words. And Father, we are so weak in and of ourselves. But we rest and we know that it is your call to continue to follow So Lord, we ask that you would give us the strength, Lord, the Holy Spirit, that you would come and give us what we need to readjust priorities in our lives. Father that we would treat father and mother and wife and child. Not actively work, but in comparison to But Lord, you would be the most important, that we would follow you in everything that we do. Lord Jesus, would you come and help us shift the priorities of our life? Would you make them pure or we love you, but we thank you. for being able to gather today and thank you for the gospel or the good news then the news, but it's not advice that we don't follow. But it's the news, the needs. Stand back and rebel at news that is life altering historic news. Father Government, thank you We thank you for your goodness. We thank you for your mercy. Amen. So John asked me to uh also to share about proof. Um to share a little bit about