Sixteen is probably one of the most quoted verses in the Bible. Even our world tends to like it at a glance. Because if you take it out of context, you can create a world where God loves everyone without conditions. And you might think he accepts everyone just as they are. If they'll just say, Yeah, yeah, there was a Jesus. I believe Jesus existed. I believe that. And I like what little I know about him. Yeah, I I believe. I I may I may have even prayed a prayer to him at some point So I'm good. God loves me. I like being loved. That's all good. And that might be the most dangerous position that a person can find themselves in Because it would be easy to fool yourself enough that you'll never investigate further what this thing about faith in Jesus really is. You may never find out that true faith, as Jesus defines it, turns from sin to Christ. True saving belief in Christ changes us in such a way that we have a new heart that desires to serve God above all else. And if that change doesn't happen, there's never been saving faith, no matter what you might have done This morning we're going to delve deep into John 3. 16 and its context. I hope it's as enlightening for you as it was for me. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life Now, one way of breaking that apart, of seeing this text, is uh three phrases. For God so loved the world that he gave his son. That whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. Another way of seeing it is borrowed from John Piper And he breaks it down into four Ds. We always like that. Four D's. It's easier to remember. Design for God so loved the world that he gave his only son Duty that whoever believes in him, danger should not perish, and destiny but have eternal life. I'd like to start with the two most common distortions of John 3. 16, and they're subtle ones. They're found in the phrase, for God so loved the world. Let's focus on the word so. If we go back up just a few verses in our text, we see this. And focus on the use of the same word so in this text in John 3. 14. It says, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. When we read this, what do we understand? How do we use the so? Do we think it means that to the degree that Moses lifted up the pole, so that too is the degree that Christ must be lifted up So if it was completely lifted up, then Christ has to be completely lifted up. Or do we understand it to mean in the manner that Moses lifted up the pole, so in that same manner Christ should also be lifted up. We probably don't give it a second thought. We understand the so in that verse to mean in the same manner, in the same way. So when we look at John 3. 16 and we read the word so, we should use the word so in the same fashion. In fact, the Greek word leans to this meaning. For God so loved the world could properly be translated as for God loved the world in this way. For God loves the world in this way. That's how the Christian Standard Bible, which used to be the Holman Bible, translates it. And it's a very solid Bible translation. In this case, I think it's the most accurate of all of them. For God loved the world in this way Now why does that matter so much? Why am I being so picky about a word? Well, our culture worships itself. If God is not changing our minds and hearts, we're going to have the tendency to take a cultural perspective into the reading of this scripture. And we'll read it with a cultural slant We'll read it with the us placed firmly in the middle. We'll read it in a way that makes us look good and puts ourselves in a positive light. It's just a natural inclination. uh of our culture. And if we think the word so means so much, instead of in this way , We could easily skew the verse in this , the meaning in this verse, without even trying to, to mean God loves me so much that he would give his son. And then suddenly the focus can easily switch from the idea that God is so loving, which is really the emphasis of the verse, to the idea that we are so lovable. Then we project our meaning of the word love into the sentence, and this is what we get. For God was so smitten with his warm emotion toward the loveliness of humans that he was driven to give his son. After all, he felt that strongly toward us. What else could he do? Now, I've used this illustration before, but I think it's helpful. When I married my wife, I would have said that I loved her. And depending on the definition of the word, I I did, certainly not like I do now. But you can rest assured that my decision was not based on pure benevolence. It was not like she was my enemy and treating me horribly, but I thought, wow, now there's a woman who could really use the benefit of my love. I I'll I'll do her a favor and marry her. There's there's a mission I can take on at my own expense for which I may receive nothing in return. You know. No, if if I thought that I would have moved on to somebody else in a New York minute I loved Carla because she was very desirable to me. I saw an advantage for myself by pursuing her, and I picked her because she was most desirable. We need to be really careful not to project that kind of thing into this text We need to be careful not to project our motivations onto God. The emphasis in this text is not in any way the lovability of the loved ones. The verse is not describing anything about us. This is describing what God's love is like. It's describing the lengths that God will go to meet the needs of his beloved. Jesus was describing something to Nicodemus that Nicodemus would not have expected, nor would we if we were there. Salvation is not about our goodness, which is what Nicodemus thought. It is not about our desirability, which is What Nicodemus thought. It's not about our faithfulness, which is what Nicodemus thought. It isn't even about a human being's ability to make a good decision. It's not about the ability to make a good decision about Christ, even. It is all about the virtues of our God. For God loved in this way. This is vital. If we're to understand our salvation, it starts here. Every salvation is a glorious display of the character of God. That is its source, and that is its purpose. The second misconception focuses on the word world. And we've discussed this much in the past, so I'm not going to spend much time here. But God loving the world basically means the The created world of mankind. So for God so loved the created world of mankind. It's not intended to say that God loves all the members. Each individual member of mankind. We would need to look at other scriptures to find out about that. We'd be stretching the meaning of this verse to the point of breaking to try to get that meaning out of this verse. So there are two misconceptions we need to avoid before we move forward. Now, what about God's love? What should we think when we read for God so loved? Well, what we're looking at is agape love. God 's love reaches out to meet the need without regard to the expense due to his innate character. Of being loving. For God to give is a statement about God and God alone. It's a statement that says: God values his creation of mankind. Why? Why does he love the creation of mankind? Because it's like God It's like God to be that way. It's like God to do so. It's that character of God that gives us hope. If God loves the created order of mankind, he might love us. It doesn't mean that he does love us simply because we were born. We'll know if he loves us because the wind will blow. Spirit stuff will happen in our lives. Our hearts will be drawn to Christ, which is not what happens to a spiritually dead person. We'll believe in him. But the fact that God loves the world means that this is our only hope. We might be one of those that he does. This verse also serves as a good reminder. The love of God gives. Agape love gives. It gives to meet a need. It doesn't give because it expects a return on investment. It gives because it's in the character of God to give, to meet needs that only can be met by love. When we do a loving gesture , Do we expect, or what do we expect in return? When you do a loving gesture, what do you expect in return? You can usually tell most by how it makes you feel when you don't receive whatever it is that you were hoping to get in return. Many problems in the church happen when the acts of people, the acts that people do are not driven solely by the person's gratitude toward God. Sometimes we do good works in an effort to gain something from people. We love them to get something from them. And then when we don't get the response we hope for, our emotions alert us that we might not be as good as we thought we were. Because I shouldn't be upset. I if I'm doing this for God God sees it. God will reward it. God is happy with what I did. That's good enough. So, anyway, these problems arise, I believe, to reveal our motives. Sometimes we get bad responses from people, unexpected responses from our loving gesture, to show us our hearts might not be as pure in our motives as what we think they are. We have room to grow But when we give only to please God, we're always happy with the reward, even when people's response aren't what we expected. Sometimes we're not happy for them because we know it it it says something about them that's not wonderful. But uh agape love gives. Then verse 16: for God so loved the world that he gave his only son. Okay, what about this only son stuff? What does that mean? What are we to think about this? Well, Jesus is God the Father's Son. Jesus is the Son of God. He was begotten of the Father. How? What does that mean? How should we understand that? And my first response would be loosely. Loosely. I believe God is putting something that we cannot understand in language that we can understand. There are some things about Christ's relationship to his father that are like sonship. We look at him, we say, yeah, I can relate to that. I see how that fits. But it's not everything like we would naturally understand about sonship. All the indications in Scripture are that Christ was eternally dwelling with God. We all know that sons have a beginning. It's when they were born, and that is unlike Christ. In the beginning, Christ already was And God gave his son. That means he already had a son to give. So it's it's he's not talking about when he was born on earth. That uh that he became the father's son. If I were to give you twenty dollars, it means I had twenty dollars to give you That's the idea here. And this son is special. He is an only son. Now, God has many sons as a result of Christ, but they're all adopted. Christ is the only family-related son. John Piper describes all of this as the design. This is designed for our salvation. And this is the focus of our verse. If you want to understand this verse, understand it like this. It's about how loving God is and what it is that God would give. And every other point is secondary as we look at this. I moved on from the point about Jesus being God's son. We can visit that some more in a later text. But anyway, um, if you want to understand John 3. 16, it's about loving God and what it is that God would give. Take that as the central point, everything else is around it. Now there are lots of people in the world who are angry when we say that Jesus Christ is the only way to God. They want to believe that Muhammad and Buddha and Confucius and others will get us to God just as well. And they they want many ways, but they're looking at it all wrong. The real question about ways to God is not why is there only one way? The question is why is there a way at all? That's the greater question. Why would God provide a way to people like us? R. C. Sprohl makes a wonderful point. He says something like this. Imagine this. God creates people and puts them in an ideal situation. And not long after they're placed there, they rebel against their creator. Then God picks a man, Abraham, to bless him and to reveal himself to. And not long after that, his offspring rebel against him. Then he rescues these people from the slavery at Egypt and he reveals his law to them, and they rebel against him. Then he delivers them into the promised land, and they rebel against him. And then he provides profit after profit, and they kill them. Now, why in the world would God provide his son to these people, knowing full well that they'll surely kill him? That's the question that should be asked. And since God has provided this son, how in the world will anyone avoid judgment who has rejected this son? That is the perspective we have to see this from. God did not owe mankind anything. The fact that He provided us one Savior is so phenomenal that we should fall on our faces in worship. To expect more than one Savior just shows how little we understand our fallness and our sin and His holiness. So that's where we are in the text. Now, let's remember our friend Nicodemus. His mind is by this point blown. This conversation is going to take a long time to recover from. He'll probably need to get over his anger, over his hurt pride. Jesus didn't treat him like anyone special at all. He'll need to get over his humiliation at being revealed as a spiritual novice, because he thought he was a spiritual hot shot. And he'll need to come around to rethinking who God truly is. Nicodemus religion would have never expected a God like this. But what do you know? Here he is. This God, who is one, has a son and a Holy Spirit, and this son is going to be sacrificed for humankind. Not for the Jewish nation only, but for people in every people group. No, Nicodemus will not recover from this conversation any time soon, and if he does get in line, it's only going to be because of a miracle from God. Believing in Christ is God's design for a human's only chance at salvation. And that brings us to the second point: duty. That whoever believes in him, that whoever believes in him. Now we already know that this is not as simple as it might seem. The belief that saves is not generated by human will. We've hammered on this point, but it's an important point to hammer on. Jesus already spilled these beans to Nicodemus. No, there has to be spirit stuff happening. A person has to be born again first before this kind of belief springs forth. But when this miracle happens, the result is dramatic. This person will submit his entire life to the will of this God that he or she loves. They won't do it perfectly. We are all testimonies of how we don't do it perfectly, but it's substantially. It will be an obvious change You'll be able to tell that the spiritual wind has blown in a person's life. Now it's hard for us to know when this has happened in various people. Some people will continue in sins that are obvious to us. But the person may not yet be able or willing to recognize the spiritual wind blowing in their lives in that particular part of their lives. The Lord may need to cause the havoc of sin to break out in a person's life before they fully understand. But over time, you will see a trajectory toward spiritual growth in a believer's life. It might be ugly, but it'll be there. A spiritual trajectory. And it won't be the same in every person. We're all testimonies of that as well, but it will be there. We should never ever believe that someone can believe in Christ in a saving way without there being an effect on how they live. That would be like saying the resurrection power of Christ took over Christ's body in the grave, but he may or may not have risen from the dead. No, the power has an effect. It accomplishes what God desires to accomplish. Faith without works is no faith at all. Something changes. I'm pretty sure most of us are in firm agreement on this point. There are a lot of places where you can hear the gospel presented, where it's a simple decision that you make and you pray that prayer and you're in you're in good. You've got your hell insurance, everything's locked up, now go live the way you want. That is not the gospel. That is not what the power of Christ does. So believing in Christ for salvation is the only way a person can be made right with God. Just as the people in the wilderness were snake-bitten, and they had to look at that pole by faith in what God said, so must everyone look at the Savior who was put on the cross for their salvation from sin. Alright, let's move on to John Piper's third point. Danger should not perish. That's the danger, where he says should not perish. Think about this for a moment. Why would people perish? Do you realize the way this is written, the assumed default condition of human beings is that they are all bound to perish unless something happens? Why is that true? Because they must do something in order not to perish. They have to believe in Christ. If they don't believe in Christ, they will perish. We'll look at this default condition in a lot of detail next week. But now what does it mean to perish? Well, first we know that it goes against what happens if they do not perish. It's in, you know, it's the opposite. If they do not perish, they have eternal life, living in the blessing of Christ. So to perish means they will not have the eternal blessed life. But our context tells us a little bit more in verse 18. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe in him is condemned already, because he has not believed in the in the name of the only Son of God. So we see in verse 16 that the one who does not believe will perish. Here the one who does not believe is condemned already. That gives us a little more information. To be condemned is to come before the righteous judge and be tried and to receive the sentence that comes along with the guilty verdict. The sentence is to remain under the wrath of God instead of to escape the wrath of God and live in God's blessing. Revelation 14, 10 says that he will also drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur. In the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And it goes on to talk about uh God's wrath being poured out on people as well. So just as the reward is eternal and wonderful. The wrath is eternal and horrible. Now some might question if the torment in this wrath lasts forever. And that's a good question. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. But there's no question at all that the punishment is eternal. There's no coming back from it. There's no turning point. It's awful and it's forever. Now this this to me comes down to one of the most central uh Applications. There's certainly more, and there's certainly good ones from what we've covered so far. But do we know anyone who we do not love enough to warn them of this impending danger? Do we know anyone we don't love enough to warn them of this impending danger? Really? I mean, how heartless could we be to not make it a point to bring it up to them if we have that opportunity These folks might think they have some problems. You know, the the non-believers around us, and certainly they do. Maybe death is a problem, maybe sickness is a problem, maybe their finances are a problem, maybe addictions are their problem. But at the end of the day, if a person does not have faith in Christ, they have a bigger problem than all of those combined. The greatest problem in any unbelieving person's life is God. The greatest problem in any unbelieving person's life is God. For it is God who will display his just wrath upon them if they will not believe in God's Son. Think about it. If God displayed his love for mankind by giving his son, what is the greatest insult a human can give to God? It's to reject that son. We're already born deserving the wrath of God Nothing can compile our guilt more than to reject God's only provided means to escape his wrath, his one and only Son. Now let's look at the last point in our text this morning. Destiny. But have eternal life. But have eternal life. One of the greatest assurances a believer can have And I and I hope this is true for all of us here, is when we look at our own heart and we find that our heart is absorbed to some degree with the same things as our holy God cares about. As this happens, we grow in certainty that the wind of God has blown in our hearts. That a new birth has happened. When we look at John 3:16, we see why God sent his son. So we see what he cared about so deeply He was willing to pay the greatest price to win that which he valued so deeply. He wants his people to come to him. He wants his adopted family to be with him forever. That is why God does what God does. He wants his lost children to be found and to have eternal life. That is our God. That is the heart of our God. What do we desperately want? Is this at least part of what we want How much time did we spend this week thinking about ways we could share the gospel with those open to our influence? Have we invited them into our homes if we see the opportunity to do so? Have we developed strategies to talk with them? Especially, and I think this this is more important than any of the other questions. Have we spent time in prayer praying for them? If we hear these words and we think, yeah, in my heart I care for these people, that's a good start. And I I wouldn't doubt that there is anyone here who doesn't feel that way. But it's a terrible finish. What do our lives do that demonstrates our love for who God loves? For what God loves. For God so loved that He gave. What efforts are we giving toward that which we know God cares so deeply about? Sometimes we best measure what is most true in our hearts by that which we actually do in our lives. If nothing else, we can make a list and pray For a few people who you know are lost. If If we regularly pray for them, we will find that we view them differently. We will view our encounters with them differently. And we'll look for more and more to see if God is answering our prayer on this day. You'll look for opportunity because you believe that God answers prayer. And he will provide the opportunities. And you will take them because you are prepared for them, because you are looking for them. Do you want more purpose in your life? Here's purpose. It was enough purpose for God to send his own son. That's purpose. That's pretty important purpose. Secondly, about this eternal life, this is the motivation for Christians in the world. As we're living our lives in in this world, over and over and over again, we are to fix our minds on eternity. We're told that over and over and over again. We're to see things from an eternal perspective. Look at what Jesus said to his disciples when they were entering a period of their lives when they would feel that all was lost. Now remember, Christ was just about to leave them. They are going to be up against it. What's he leave with them? And we can learn, you know, now this is important stuff. If you're gonna face an an immediate crisis and it is a very dramatic one, what do you want to hear from God? This is what John Jesus said to his his disciples. John fourteen Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it weren't so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you You know, he's using a little logic there. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and I will take you to myself, that where I am you may also be. And you know the way to where I'm going. You and I, if we're in Christ, if we've been born again and trusted our lives to Christ and His work, we have eternal life. It's ours already We have an eternal inheritance that is guaranteed through the Holy Spirit. This truth is not intended to remove the feelings that our trials may create. This eternal perspective. No one had more of an eternal perspective than Christ did. Yet Scripture tells us that he experienced many strong feelings. He experienced the heat of the trial. Eternal perspective does not remove those things. So we shouldn't expect that we can whistle happily through our trials. But it is true that Christ's eternal perspective is how he faced those trials and gained the strength to make it through them. What did Christ think about to fuel his mind to face the cross? And Scripture tells us, in Hebrews 12, 2, it says, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, So he's thinking about the joy. He's thinking about what's coming. Despise the shame and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. While Christ was facing the cross, he was looking past the cross to what the cross would complete. what the trial would accomplish. He was looking into eternity. Eternal life for all of his children. That was his joy that he would experience at the end of the trial. He faced his temporary trial by looking at the eternal benefit. and the reward. And again we see that in John 13, verse 3, said Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God. That is the perspective that Christ held on to when he was facing his greatest trial. Here is Christ about to be betrayed by Jesus. about to take upon himself all of the guilt of all the sins of every believer that has ever been committed, and we know from our own history how bad that is He's going to be abandoned by his friends, and the creatures he created were going to put him to death. What you know In a moment like that is vital. How you think In a trial like that is a matter of life and death. And what did Jesus think? Knowing that the Father had given him all things into his hands, knowing that he had come from God and that he was going back to God Eternal perspective. You and I are promised the eternal life through belief in Christ. You and I have been given the fuel. To face every trial and temptation by God's eternal promises. There is no greater gift that a human can receive than the hope that every single Christian has. We look upon that pole and we look by faith in Christ and we receive this gift of eternal life. It is impossible. Well, to put this glorious truth in words that do it justice We do well to are you facing a trial that tests your faith? Consider where you've come from and where you're going. Don't let your eyes fixate on how you feel or the dangers you perceive or the bad results that you can envision. Fixate instead on the goodness of God and the promises He has granted you in Christ. Let's close with a paraphrase of our verse on what we have focused on this morning. It's a paragraph instead of a sentence. And uh obviously this is from my study, check it out for yourself. It is not the Bible, but I think it's helpful. For God the Father gave of Himself to meet the need of humankind in this way, that He gave His one and only pre-existing Son to become a man and serve as the perfect sacrifice for their sin. He did this so that anyone who would, by their new birth, be able to be able and willing to look at Christ with faith in Christ to save them. This person will not face the condemnation and wrath of God that they fully deserve, but this person will live forever in the reward place prepared by Christ for those who love him. That's John three sixteen the expanded version. Let's close in prayer. Lord Jesus, you died.