Imagine yourself in Israel. The time is way past when the exiles had returned. From Babylon under King Cyrus. The people returned from Babylon and they rebuilt the walls and the temple. And then as time went on, trouble set in What are they supposed to think about all this? At some point in the future, generations later, Antiochus Epiphanes invades and desecrates the temple. How should the people of God respond to this? How should they look at it? How should they think? And then later, the Romans come in and take over the country. And that was horrible, but what should they think of that? When we read Daniel, we read most of it as history. From our perspective, it's history. But that's not how the Jewish people read it before Christ They read it to let them know what to expect. Can you imagine what some of the faithful ones might have thought if they didn't have this help when trouble struck Israel They may have thought God had totally abandoned them. They may have thought evil would eventually triumph. They may have thought that everything was going crazy. But God gave them Daniel's prophecy to let them know that things are happening exactly as he had ordained them Scripture tells us that God will not allow his people to live in sin. There will be a discipline for the children of God, and there will be a punishment for the enemies of God. He preordained it all. So what a blessing it was that Daniel wrote these prophecies down. It's important to note that Daniel 7 was written in Aramaic. That was last week's. Aramaic was the common language that everyone could read, so it was a message pretty much for everybody Daniel 8 was written in Hebrew, which only the Jews could understand. And this exposes some of Daniel's purposes in recording it, I think. He was recording it so his countrymen would be able to understand what was happening to them in the future. And in the future they may not speak Aramaic. I don't remember if that's true or not, but they wouldn't they would continue to know Hebrew. For us, this passage serves a different purpose. We read it as primarily fulfilled prophecy, at least chapter 8. At least most people. Again, everybody has their own view. So we see Daniel prophesying hundreds of years prior to these prophecies coming true. First, God showed Daniel that the Medes and Persians would take over. That was only a few short years away when Daniel received this prophecy. So he received the prophecy, and not much time later, exactly what he said would happen happened. And then God predicts that the Greeks under Alexander the Great would become a world power That's a little trickier. While when it happened, it may have looked chaotic to everybody else. The students of the Word of God would say, I knew this was coming. I didn't know when it was coming, but I knew it was coming. Daniel was prophesying of the Greeks as a world power before the Greeks really had any power at all. They were a very minor player at the time of Daniel We look at it and we say, of course God could predict all of this. Our God sees the beginning and the end. He sees it all the time. He doesn't need time. To straighten things out like we do, or to learn things like we do. Time's not a constraint to him like it is to us. God ordains history, God plans history So we can look at Daniel and say, yes, we can trust our God to do his will now as he did then. We can know that our world is not out of kilter, no matter how it looks. We can know that the Bible is true. We can know that God is still on his throne. And there's more evil to come. We're promised that. But he will overcome in the end. We're promised that. So we can thank God for the assurance that the book of Daniel brings to our souls. Okay, let's look at our text. Verse 8, in the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar, a vision appeared to me, Daniel. after that which appeared to me at the first. And I saw in the vision, and when I saw, I was in Susa at the citadel, which is in the province of Elam, and I saw in the vision I was at the Ulay Canal Now, there are a couple things to note here. First, Daniel was not in Susa. You know, that's not where he was writing this from. But in the vision, he was in Susa. Susa was the winner headquarters for the Medes and the Persians. It was 220 miles east of Babylon. It was now in what is called southwestern Iran. So Nehemiah and Esther were written about Susa, inside of Susa. The second thing is the emphasis given to the things he saw. Like the verb uh the words he saw uh happen over and over and over again in this passage. And I think there's an emphasis there we should get. As we read this chapter, we're meant to share Daniel's experience more than understand some kind of treatise. It's possible that if Daniel could have, he would have passed this on as a picture book. He would have preferred maybe a video, which obviously he had no ability to do. But Daniel invites us to experience with him the things he was experiencing. That's how it's written. So here's the first action that he saw. Verse three, I raised my eyes and saw and behold a ram standing on the bank of the canal. It had two horns, and both horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last Now, it's wonderful that we are not left guessing about what is what in this verse. We read later in the chapter and we find out exactly who the two beasts represent in our text this morning. Prophecy is not always so clear. But we jump down in the text down to verses 20 through 22, and it tells us: as for the ram you saw with the two horns, these are the kings of Media and Persia And the goat is the king of Greece, and the great horn between his eyes is the first king. As for the horn that was broken, in place of which four others arose, Four kingdoms shall arise from his nation, but not with his power. Wonderful clarity. That is so helpful. And remember. Daniel has given names here that he probably is not terribly aware of. Okay, so this ram is the Medes and Persians And it turns out that the Persians were actually the more powerful of the two. Cyrus was far greater than Darius, and he ended up being very powerful. Now remember in Daniel 7 when we learned about the bear on its side, one side higher than the other? Well, it's Persia that was the higher side, and the Medes, which was the lower side. The Medes were in power before the Persians, but the Persians were superior militarily to the Medes. Also, it's interesting that the Persians actually use a ram as their symbol for their kingdom. Like we in the USA use uh use an eagle, they used a ram. And a ram's head with two horns, one higher than the other, actually was found in different parts of the ruins of Persepolis. So the earlier readers of Daniel would have probably not needed an explanation on who that beast was. They probably would have known if they knew their surroundings at all. And they could guess. Then verse 4, I saw the ram charging westward and northward and southward. No beast could stand before him, and there was no one who could rescue from his power. He did as he pleased, and he became great. History tells us that the Scythians were northward, the Greeks were westward, and the Egyptians were southward. And the Persians conquered them all. In our not so recent history, it would have been like the Germans attacking all their border countries. Nobody could stop them. They just were completely unprepared for the military might that was going to hit them. And the the Germans looked invincible. That's how the Medes and Persians would have looked at this point in history. Verse 5: As I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west across the face of the whole earth without touching the ground, and the goat had a conspicuous horn between his eyes. Okay, this horn between his eyes is clearly Alexander the Great. And this is an amazing, an amazing piece of history. Alexander the Great was in his twenties when he began these conquests. The kingdom of Greece began 200 years before Daniel. They were actually called the goats people The name is believed to be the result of this following story. Quranus, their first king, went looking for a place to live and to set up a kingdom. Quranus was advised by an oracle to follow the goats. How do you like that for finding real estate? So he did. And there was a herd of goats trying to avoid a storm. So he followed the goats to Edesan and set up his kingdom there. Alexander actually named one of his sons Alexander the Goat. Like his middle name, Alexander the Goat. So y you can easily see why he's referred to as as the goat or why the Greeks are. And everyone would have und understood the symbolism who lived during the rise of the Greek Empire the Green Kingdom. But they would not have known that ahead of time, like Daniel did. Verse six He came to the ram with the two horns, which I had seen standing on the bank of the canal, and he ran at him in his powerful wrath. I saw him come close to the ram, and he was enraged against him, and struck the ram and broke his two horns. And the ram had no power to stand before him. But he cast him to the ground and trampled on him, and there was no one who could rescue the ram from his power. Again, this is something that we can read in history books. Alexander attacked the Medes and the Persian Empire several times. There are recorded wars that happened. The conflicts between the Greeks and the Persians were very violent. Alexander first conquered the generals of Darius at the river Granicus in Pergia, maybe. And after this, he attacked and totally routed Darius at the Straits of Issus in Cilicia, and after that he again attacked and routed Darius at the plains of Arbella in Assyria. Where it says that he came to the ram with two horns, which I had seen standing on the bank of the canal, this is probably referring to Alexander at the river of Dranicus. You can picture Darius' army on one side of the river and Alexander's on the other. And Alexander's troops actually swam across the river and attacked Darius' army with a great fury. You would think that was a real disadvantage, you know, having to swim across the river and all, but he they did well. And then Alexander fully conquered Persia and Media and sacked and burnt the royal city of Persepolis. The capital of the Persian Empire. Now there's a little backstory that explains why Alexander may have applied so much fury, why they made him so angry. Evidently, Darius kept trying to bribe Alexander's captains and was trying to get some of his troops to assassinate Alexander. So you can see how that wouldn't set well. Alexander eventually killed off all the royal family of the Medes and Persians and ruled in their place. Okay, verse 8. Then the goat became exceedingly great, but when he was strong, the great horn was broken, and instead of it there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven. Alright, Alexander had conquered most of the known world by age 33. And that's when he died. Now, how he died is pretty interesting. Evidently, somebody challenged Alexander to drink a whole punch bowl of wine, which he did. And it was probably up to six quarts of wine. And then he fell ill Well, one might expect uh a little illness, but he fell ill ill. After ten days of intense fever, he viewed his soldiers for the last time They essentially came in to say goodbye, and he could no longer speak. He just looked at him in a way that they knew that he recognized him. And he was declared dead on June 13th. But what happened next was a real mystery. His body did not decay or go into rigor mortis for like 10 days. In fact, some of those around him concluded because of this that he must have been a god, since he wasn't suffering the normal human fate. Since then, a doctor at the School of Medicine in New Zealand theorized that Alexander actually had Gillian-Bareth syndrome. This is an autoimmune disease where your body attacks itself so severely that often the person cannot even move. Many times people with this syndrome need to be hooked up to ventilators to assist their breathing because they're they they just Can't breathe. And if that's true, it makes sense that the doctors couldn't sense a pulse or his breathing. And what probably killed Alexander the Great was an embalming process. After Alexander's death, his natural brother, Philip Auritius, and his two sons, Alexander Aegeus, and Hercules. ruled the Greek kingdom, but they were all murdered within fifteen years. And then the great horn, the Greek kingdom was broken. None of Alexander's family were left on the throne at that point. So there's a vacuum in power. What happens? At this point, the governors of the provinces took the title of the kings for themselves. Seleucus, who had he had Syria and Babylon, was the first. Lysimachus, who had Asia Minor, Ptolemy, son of Lagus, had Egypt, and Cassanor had Greece And verse 9, out of them came a little horn, which grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the glorious land. There are two popular theories presented about who the little horn is. We were talking a little bit about this in Sunday school. Most, I think, believe it to be Antiochus Epiphanes, because he was Greek and he did exactly what was prophesied. He took over the Seleucid Empire, and history records that he actually committed the abomination of desolation. That we'll talk about later. The other theory, trying to, and this is where it comes from, trying to match what's prophesied in chapter 7 with four kingdoms. And trying to make it match with chapter 8 with two kingdoms, they take the second kingdom and expand it because it looks like What's said about the fourth kingdom is very, very similar to what's said about the third kingdom. Okay So anyway, uh the the other theory is that the Roman Empire actually arose out of the Greek Empire, so the Little Horn was one of the emperors of Rome. And I think since we can easily match the characteristics described with Antiochus, that there 's really no Roman empi emperor that matches it so well. I think we should just probably go with Antiochus Now, Antiochus was in power from 175 to 164 BC. I have a quote from the Reformed Expository Commentary that gives a lot of helpful information. Once again, with the benefit of historical hindsight, we can clearly identify the little horn of Daniel VIII as a historical figure. Antiochus, whose nickname Epiphanes, means God made manifest. Now think about that for a name. God made manifest Was the king of the Seleucid Empire, one of the four kingdoms that emerged from Alexander the Great's former territory. Now, this is interesting. He he initially was not first in line for the throne But he seized it from his nephew through intrigue, and then enlarged his kingdom through substantial military success. Antiochus was a tyrant who tried to unify his kingdom by forcing all of his subjects to adopt the Greek culture and their religious practices. So he was not forgiving of anybody practiced in any other way. He banned circumcision, brought an end to sacrifice at the temple in Jerusalem in 167 BC. and then deliberately defiled it by burning pig's flesh on the altar and placing an object sacred to Zeus in the Holy of Holies. He also burned copies of Scripture and slaughtered those who remained true to their faith in God, fitting perfectly the description of a stern faced king who was completely wicked This king was part of the fulfillment of the dream, for the angel had prophesied that in the latter part of their reign, when rebels have become completely wicked, a stern-faced king, a master of intrigue, will arise. He'll become very strong, but not by his own power. He will cause astounding devastation and will succeed in whatever he does. He will destroy the mighty men and the holy people. These acts of, and this is still a part of the quote, these acts of gross sacrilege by Antiochus triggered a rebellion on the part of the faithful Jews who were led in their revolt by the Maccabees. After a lengthy struggle, their rebellion culminated in the Seleucid forces being driven out of Judah and the temple being cleansed and rededicated in 164. Antiochus himself died in somewhat obscure circumstances during a campaign in the eastern part of his empire in 164 BC These events of real history faithfully reflect the events described in Daniel 8, reinforcing once again the message of God's control of all history. Now we read on in our text, verse 10, it grew great even to the host of heaven, and some of the host, and some of the stars it threw down to the ground and trampled on them. It became great, even as great as the Prince of the Host, and the regular burnt offering was taken away from him, and the place of His sanctuary was overthrown, and a host will be given over to it together with the regular burnt offering because of transgression, and it will throw truth to the ground and will act and prosper So Antiochus grew more and more powerful. And it says, even to the hosts of heaven, and some of the hosts of heaven, and some of the stars it threw down to the ground and trampled on them. Now you look at that and you think stars of heaven You know, uh we know, I mean, literally, if a star, which is essentially one of our suns, came down to the earth, there be no more earth, The stars in heaven are sometimes used as a figure of speech for the people of God. And that is probably what it's talking about here. I mean, it looks like persecution. So there's two schools of thought about the holiness of heaven. Some see them as seeing simply seeing God's people on the earth, the seeing the faithful people. God's stars, as you were. Others see them as angelic beings. So there's some room there for interpretation Verse 11 is where it's fought. It says, he became great, even as great as the Prince of Hosts. Some say that this text is describing what Antiochus thought of himself. And I think that's what it is, not what he actually was. He was Antiochus was putting himself up to the level of God. Others think that this was describing a spiritual battle that was ensuing in the heavenlies. But no matter what the hosts are, I've got to think that Jesus is the Prince of the host. In in scripture, it's either Jesus or the Father who I think would only be the ones who qualify for that. And um Um in my Bible it's capitalized, and that doesn't mean, you know, it's perfectly for sure, but um I can't see anyone actually being as great as Christ. So that leads me to believe that Antiochus viewed himself as being as great as God, as great as Christ. We know a good deal about Antiochus and his uh his character, fortunately. He certainly did think a lot of it himself We know that Antiochus made coins with his own image, and this is what they said : Phios Epiphenes, which means God manifested. Can you imagine? Making a poster and putting your your picture there and putting under it, God manifested. He used to declare that if a person wanted to see what Zeus is like, they should they should watch Antiochus. Now that's a person full of himself. Then it goes on, and the regular burnt offering was taken away from him and the place of his sanctuary overthrown, and a host will be given over it to Together with the regular burnt offering because of transgression, and it will throw truth to the ground, and it will act and prosper Antiochus reigned over Jerusalem for about six years and four months. In about the middle of that time, he entered the temple of God and he set up an altar dedicated to Zeus. He then offered a pig on that altar, and he also stopped anyone from making sacrifices or even worshipping the one true God and an external fashion. And he would kill them if they would try. Where our text says that the horn will throw truth to the ground, we need to know that Antiochus made a show of burning the Torah. First, he tore it all up, and then he burned it. And notice the phrase in verse 12, it says, because of transgression. And the question again here is, whose transgression? Was it Antiochus' transgression? Was it the host's discretion? And I believe it fits the pattern very well of God bringing in oppressors. After the people of Israel disobeyed. I mean, we have example after example, he promises he's going to do it. So I think that's what it's talking about. I think it's the the people of God's transgression And I think Antiochus was allowed to do what he did because of the majority of the Jewish people were living in rebellion against God When it reached a certain level, God gave him over to Antiochus' control so that the true rebels would be punished and the true followers would be disciplined if needed. Now, there's something interesting in this history as well. There's a book not included in our scriptures called the Maccabees. And in it we read a story about a Jewish hero arising to stand up to Antiochus. His name was Judas. His nickname was the Hammer. And it sounds so much better when Alistair Begg reads it in his Scottish accent. Judas. He raised a rebellion that was successful in driving Antiochus out of Jerusalem. And following his ousting, the temple was cleansed and dedicated anew, and that's where the feast of dedication or Hanukkah, which they still celebrate, that is where that came from. Verse 13, Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to the one who spoke, For how long is the vision concerning the regular burnt offering? The transgression that makes desolate, and the giving over the sanctuary and host to be trampled underfoot. And he said to me, it's interesting, one holy one speaks to another holy one, says, How long is it going to be? But the answer is the Holy One looks right at Daniel and gives it to him. Not sure why that is. And he said to me, For 2,300 evenings and mornings, then the sanctuary shall be restored to its rightful state. So Daniel overhears a conversation, and it's between two holy ones. The question is: how long will it be that offerings cannot be offered on the altar and the transgression that makes desolate? Now it's interesting that in the Maccabees that we learn about the actual details of the abomination of desolation. That's where the event of sacrificing a pig in the temple was first called the abomination of desolation. This angel refers to it as something a little different, but it's not difficult to assume that those are the same. He said the transgression that makes desolate. So it's about the same. Now it's interesting to note the angels don't know everything. They're curious creatures, and they need to inquire about things. That's how they learn, and that's what this one did. And anyway, the answer is either 2300 days Or 2300 times of sacrifice, which would be 1150 days. One is about six years and four months, the other is just over three years. Either would answer here to uh to the timing because Antiochus ruled the city for about six years and four months. And he set up the abomination of desolation for about three years before the end of his rule. So either one of those numbers would work out. Now, what's the likelihood that someone could have so specifically and accurately predicted this future? Obviously, it would be impossible to know everything that would happen. from what I think was 538 BC when Daniel spoke it and wrote it, to 164 B. C. when the temple was rededicated We never need to fear that God will be surprised by any event in our lives. He truly does know the beginning from the end. His plan for his people is always perfectly carried out. He even gave them warnings from time to time of exactly what was about to happen. So they could always know that nothing surprising was happening to them. It was just like God had said would happen. Carla and I have been reading in Table Talk about the prophecy that Jesus gave about the the timing coming the the time coming that was going to be great tribulation. for the people. And he warned them about Rome coming to Jerusalem, among what I think other things, but he he warned them of that So that it was the Christians who largely survived that that uh onset of the Roman government destroying Jerusalem because they they knew what Jesus said, they remembered what Jesus said When they started watching and seeing Roman troops amassed outside of the city, they took off. They headed off for the hills and they their lives were spared. Nothing proved In anything that happened to the Israelites, anything that happens in our lives, nothing proves that God could not protect them or bless them. Everything proved that God was guarding his relationship with his chosen people. And he told them what was coming for their benefit. Now we'll take up from this spot next week, Lord willing. Now, this was a rare sermon, and it was largely a history lesson. And for application, I'd like to repeat something I said earlier in the sermon. You and I can look at Daniel and say, yes, we can trust our God to do his will now, just like he did his will then. We can know that our world is not out of kilter, the least little bit. God is still on his throne, and there is more evil to come, but he will overcome in the end exactly as he has foretold it No details in our lives are going to escape his attention. No purpose of his will will be forgotten or missed or changed You and I are as eternally safe as we could possibly be. You and I, if we are in Christ, are as eternally safe as we could possibly be. So this week we can thank God for the assurance that the book of Daniel brings to our souls. Let's close in prayer. Lord we thank you again for