Paul is just finishing his letter to a new church that's struggling to do the right things. He just told us that there are those who are in he just told those who are in step with Paul's teaching and are in step with the Holy Spirit how to deal with a difficult interpersonal issue that they're going to have to deal with. He just told them to enforce discipline on these people who name the name of Christ, but they can't be counted on to earn their own living. The Thessalonian believers are no more looking forward to doing what Paul said as we would be. You know how you feel when you know you have to confront somebody in the church about something Some spiritual issue. Well, that's probably how these people were feeling too. So what does Paul say next? How does Paul end this letter after having dealt with some of these issues? What is it that the Thessalonians need as they deal with conflict in their body? What is it that we need when we're struggling with issues that are inside of our doors? At least one of the things that we need. And this is what Dr. Paul prescribes here. Verse 16 Now may the Lord of peace himself Give you peace at all times in every way. If this was you receiving this letter while knowing you're going to have to do some very difficult Things with fellow believers who are stubbornly resistant doing the right thing. How might you receive this Yeah, Paul, right. You just told us we needed to shake things up and do some things that are sure to stir up conflict. I doubt peace is on the calendar for a while. But look what Paul says about this piece. All times and in every way. All times and in every way. I think the NASD version might have the best translation here. It says Now may the Lord of peace himself continually grant you peace in every circumstance. Every circumstance. Every one. How can that be? How can I be at peace when I'm rebuking a fellow believer? How can I be at peace when I'm having an argument with my spouse? How can I be in peace when I'm hurting from something someone did to me or didn't do to me? Peace at all times and in every circumstance? That's a tall order. What is this peace that Paul talks about? Well, Scripture normally uses this word peace, referring to two different things: peace with God and the peace of God. Peace with God is normally used in the context of our relationship with God through Christ, our standing. with God. The peace of God is talking about an internal state that we are in due to our faith in God and His Word, and due to thinking about and applying our position of being at peace with God. So let's first look at peace with God. Peace with God. No human other than Christ is born into peace with God. The natural human condition is described very differently. Romans 2. 5 describes the natural man's attitude, and it says this, but because of your hard and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteousness judgment will be revealed. Not very peaceful. Later, Paul describes our state dramatically in in Romans 5, 10 and 11. He says, For while we were enemies We were reconciled to God by the death of his Son. Much more now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by His life? More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom We have now received reconciliation. Paul described the unsaved person very accurately He doesn't call them, oh, they're poor God seekers who God has not yet fully revealed himself to yet. He does not give any indication that any human in their natural state would want anything to do with the real God unless a miracle happened to him first. They have to be given that appetite. It doesn't come by nature. No, he says, while we were actually in all reality enemies of God While we were a people who, if we had the power to hurt God, we would gladly do so. That is, after all, what enemies are like. That's just how fallen we truly are at birth. We would not know that about ourselves except that God tells us. Paul masterfully shows us that God does not leave his children in that state. He reconciled us to himself if we were in Christ. And he did it by his son's life, death, burial, and resurrection, and his intercession for us at the right hand of God. Now we rejoice because of this. Romans 5, 1 and 2. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God. Now, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through Him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Christ has brought us into right relationship with Him if we have responded to His call on our life by faith. We have been justified. We have received full pardon of our sin, so that now we can be received by the Father. Now we can go boldly into his presence, an impossibility before justification. No longer must we run and hide like Adam and Eve did in the garden. Now we can pursue and embrace our Savior as our dearest friend. We are adopted sons, loved and chosen and predestined by God before the foundation of the world. There is no enmity at all. When we sin as a Christian, we may feel we have to run from God, but we are wrong. We may feel we have created enmity, but we have not. If we have any sense at all, we run to God, not from him. We have to reread Romans 6. 1, where it says, What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? And the answer in the context is obviously no. We should never do that. We should never make a mockery of God's forgiveness. We should never take advantage of it in that way. But look at this again. This does not say that grace does not abound when we sin. That's just the thing. It does abound. And the fact that it does abound should be incentive not to sin. How can we be saved by this wonderful gracious Christ and continue to willfully live in a sinful condition? That's the context. But when we do commit a sin, and we will, it's pretty well guaranteed in Scripture, grace does abound. That part is true, and praise God it's true. Christ is always desiring us to come to Him to receive the restoration of fellowship. After you sin, that is what he desires from you. He doesn't want to rub our noses in our failure. He may want us to understand why we did what we did so we can repent fully and accurately. But he wants us fully forgiven and to restore our fellowship with him as soon as possible. You can know if you are in Christ, that is his desire for you. Even after you have sinned. When we sin, Christ truly does show off his grace. It superabounds. There's always enough to restore us to him. There's always enough grace to restore us to Him. Always. We are sons. God has removed the enmity, and He has granted us a position of peace. We are now insiders in his family. Now he protects us from enemies. We are no longer one of his enemies. We are greeted eight times in Scripture with the blessing of grace to you and peace. Grace to you and peace. We're told that the God of peace will sanctify us completely, that our whole soul and body be kept blameless at Christ's return. God has called us, He has called you and I to peace. Those who are in Christ have peace with God. There is no enmity between us and God any longer. That is accomplished once for all at our justification. But isn't it true that this state of being at peace with God does not always show itself in our lives as it should? Sometimes we look like we have anything but a stable, our state of stability and security, being at peace with our Creator. We don't always live congruently to that truth, to that fact of what Christ has accomplished for us. We don't always maintain the peace of God. In our lives, even though we have peace with God. And yet we have so much reason to Think about the source for a minute. This is God. He is a God of peace. What does that mean? I like how John MacArthur puts it. He says, God is at all times at perfect peace, without any discord within himself. He is never under stress, worried, anxious, fearful, unsure, or threatened. We can't even imagine that That state of being that God is in. He is always perfectly calm, tranquil, and content. There are no surprises for his omniscience. No changes for his immutability, no threats to his sovereignty, no doubts to cloud his wisdom, no sin to stain his holiness. Even his wrath is clear, controlled, calm, and confident. Yes, the God we are at peace with. Is perfectly at peace with everything. He is the God of peace. One would think that that would translate into us calming down a bit. But that's hard for us because walking by faith is harder than walking by sight. It doesn't come naturally for us to trust the God that we cannot see as much as to trust those things that we can see. And they'll flip us out. And not much peace comes from walking by sight. The whole concept of peace, even Is even different than how we normally think of it. And I'll quote from John MacArthur one more time. The Hebrew Bible uses a familiar but significant word, shalom. In its purest sense, shalom means peace. But the connotation is positive. That is, when someone says shalom or peace unto you, it doesn't mean I hope you don't get into any trouble. It means I hope you have all the highest good coming your way. Most people in our world, and this is Jillish quote, don't understand peace as a positive concept. All they know is the negative aspect of peace, which is merely the absence of trouble. The biblical concept of peace does not focus on the absence of trouble. Biblical peace is unrelated to circumstances. It is of life that is not touched by what happens on the outside. You may be in the midst of great trials and still have biblical peace. End of quote. Isn't that interesting? It's almost like we need another word for peace. It's a lot that way with our English words and the biblical meanings. We need a word for peace that's pregnant with joy. This is the peace of having a satisfied soul. It is more than just a lack of turmoil. It's resting in the goodness of God. It's fully experiencing the goodness of God. This is our peace of God. It's not just the absence of war with God, it is basking in the goodness of God. Let's take a look at this piece of God. We can get a feel for what kind of situations this piece is experienced in, or is supposed to be at least. Jesus is having the last evening with his disciples, and they're getting the idea that life as they know it is about to end, and they're confused, they're distraught. They all the plans that they had made are falling into pieces. Everything that they expected in their life, everything they were building upon in their minds, is changing The person they relied upon to lead them is announcing his departure. He's throwing some strange teachings at them. Just try to imagine what that would be like. You have invested the last three years of your life being with this guy in and out day after day, coming up with ideas of what is going to happen We've all faced tumultuous situations from time to time, but I wonder if any of us have faced anything as life-changing as this was for the apostles. Maybe we have. But this would have been one of them. And what did Christ say to them? He didn't show much pity. He doesn't say, hey God, I'm really sorry to leave you in this spot. I know how hard it's gonna be for you. I know how hard it must be. I I really feel and maybe maybe he said things like that on and off. I don't know, but if anything when you read the co the context He bombards them with truth that they must believe if they're to make it through this trial. In the middle of his words to them, he tells them this: John 14, 27, Peace I lead with you. My peace I give to you, not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Jesus is telling them, I'm leaving my peace with you. It's here for you to access. And when I give you something, I really give it. This isn't pretend. This isn't wishful thinking. I'm giving it to you. I'm delivering it to you. It is a sure thing, and you have a choice. Everyone else will tell you, you surely cannot help your hearts being troubled. You can't help being crippled by fear. That's perfectly okay. But I'm telling you, choose my peace over that stuff. Do not let your hearts be troubled. Don't give in to that thinking. Don't let your hearts live in fear. You don't have to go down that path. I am giving you peace. Choose it instead of every path that you're going to be tempted to go down in the next day. If we jump up to verse 1 of chapter 14, we see this. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it weren't so, I would have told you that I would have told you that I go to prepare a place for you. Would I have told you? And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may also be. How are the disciples told to live in peace? How are they to gain this peace of God? It is found through a belief and trust in the character of God. It is found through a belief in the goodness of God and the trust in what this God has promised to us. A few chapters later, in the same conversation, Jesus said this in John 16, 33: I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you'll have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world. Jesus knows that the disciples are not going to get everything right. They're going to mourn as if Jesus is dead. They'll suffer that anguish. They're not going to get it all right. But he knows they'll come back to his word. They'll come back to his word. How much is that like us? We get caught up in what we see In what we're experiencing in our life situation. Our seamer tells us stuff and we believe it, or we take it at least, like it's true. And we respond to it like it's true. But we get drawn back to God's word because that's what God is like to us. Always gracious, always pulling us back to his word. We always have the opportunity in front of us. Moment by moment to experience the peace of God. Always. But we often stray We often make the choice to believe what we see instead of what God says. We could believe what Jesus says in that moment. But we don't, for whatever reason. Maybe we're distracted. Maybe it's not anywhere close in our minds. And our peace goes out the window But if we're in Christ, he draws us back and we reorient and we choose to believe. And we find ourselves in the peace that belief grants us. Philippians 4, 6 and 7 says, Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God, and the peace of God. The peace of God, even in all those circumstances, in all those situations, the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. So, as we fully trust in God, we will find that peace is the result. It's both experiential peace. And a chosen path of belief. We choose to orient the path God is directing us in. We say yes to Jesus. And as we orient to peace, as we orient to being obedient to God and trusting in God, as we choose those decisions They we just choose the things that keep peace with God, that experience and and those choices Guard us, both the peace of God that we experience and the peace of God that we orient to by walking in that path of peace. They guard us from doing all the other stuff and thinking all the other stuff. They protect us from all the harm that the enemy has in store for us. when we choose a path that opposes God's will, that violates peace, that invites chaos and doubt. Choosing peace protects us from that. We're always choosing. We're always choosing the faith path or the anxious path. The past don't happen to us. The incidents might happen to us. The reactions, the responses we might have immediately, they happen to us. But the past don't happen to us. We choose the paths, and we bear the fruit of those paths, of those decisions. We can, in everything, by praying and choosing to thank God, we can choose to let our requests be made then alone to God. We can run to him with what we think we need. He's always open to hear from us. He invites us. And the result will be the peace of God. The peace that goes beyond our thought processes. It goes beyond the logical reactions to what we think. It surpasses all understanding. And this peace we choose to live in and prioritize will guard our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. It'll keep us from the extremes of doubt and despair that our minds are prone to take us in. Now, this is either true or it isn't. God either means it or he doesn't. You and I are called to trust him in this. Just like the disciples had to. And they didn't do a real great job of it. But that's what they were called to. And then Paul continues, the Lord be with you all in our in our context. The Lord has messes of his presence. He calls us to peace and then he says, the Lord be with you. John 14, 16 and 17 says, And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. This was in the same conversation that Jesus promised peace. He promised his presence through the Holy Spirit. John 16, 13 and 14 says, When the Spirit of God of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak of his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. Again, later in the same conversation, Jesus encouraged his disciples with the coming of the Holy Spirit. He tells the disciples that the Holy Spirit will continue with the truth-telling that Jesus had done previously. They won't be without direction. They won't be without truth. They won't be without insight. They won't be without Christ's voice. His influence in their lives will continue. And then right before Jesus ascends to heaven, Jesus says this Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you, and behold , I am with you always to the end of the age. The message is loud and clear. The peace of Christ comes because of the promised presence of Christ. That's what the disciples needed to hear from Christ. I am with you. I am with you. You may not see me, but I am here. There will never be a time when I am not with you. Do you sometimes feel far from Christ? You sometimes feel far from Christ. That is your seamer trying to tell you how things are based on your experience. Christ's word says He is with you through the Holy Spirit. Now you may not have the fellowship that you can have with Christ based on the choices that you're making. You may have created distance on your side because of the sin or lack of your pursuit of God. But it's not God who has moved. It's us. And we can immediately span that gap through repentance. That's the beauty in Scripture. We can span that gap through repentance. The Holy Spirit is always pursuing us. He's always welcoming us back. All we need to do is turn around and tell the truth about what we did or did not do. We must confess our sin in a repentant spirit, and he will immediately respond by forgiving and cleansing. That is what he wants to do when we commit sin. It's not more complicated than that. He wants us to come back. We always have the opportunity to have the peace of God because of the presence of Christ. No matter what life situation we face, Christ is with us through the Holy Spirit. And this peace should also spill over into having peace with each other in the body of Christ It's possible that the words in the English Standard Version, in every way, actually mean that God will grant peace among the believers Even if it means fighting for that peace by doing the work of exhorting and confrontation with each other. It's God's goal that we live in peace with each other as well. Hebrews tells us that in ver Hebrews 12 verse 14, it says, strive for peace with everyone. And for the holiness without which no one will see God. Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. The church should be a place of peace, a place full of the goodness of right relationships. Scripture gives us guidance on how to make it be that way and what to do when it starts unraveling. Each of us needs to be part of this process. Hebrews tells us all, strive for peace. Peace in the church does not happen without the striving of all of its members to attain and keep peace. So back to our text. Paul says this. Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all. Then we go on in verse 17. I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. This is a sign of genuineness in every letter of mine. It's the way I write. The Lord contends to give us peace in all our circumstances, in all our church relationships, largely because Christ is In our presence. And that's Paul's final statement of desire for the church in this letter. After that, Paul wants to make sure that the Thessalonians know that this letter is really from Paul. At work, we used to use this program called DocuSign. And this program would assure the receiver of a document that the document was truly signed by the individual listed in the document. Well, Paul's docusign was his signature and a sample of his handwriting. I'm guessing that it may have been difficult for anyone to imitate Paul's writing And maybe because his eyes were so bad. I mean this is just guesses. We don't know. Well I think he probably wrote like a doctor. And that's what he's saying here, is that Paul probably had other people write his letter up to this point. And then he would write a few things at the end so people would know, hey, yeah, this is from Paul. Nobody else writes that back Or whatever. Nobody else writes like Paul. And then Paul closes with this. Verse 18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Sometimes I think we read this stuff and we just blur it over because we've read, you know, these kind of statements so many times in the New Testament that we we kind of lose their meaning. Well, isn't grace such a wonderful thing? Those of us who are in Christ are in Christ because of God's grace. Now we know that God is love, but there is nothing to stop God if he were only loving, from only loving those who deserved his love. God's love extended in the fellowship of God's self already. The Father and the Son. And however it all works out with the Holy Spirit, there was love between them. Love was exhibited between the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. It already existed and was extended to the angels. Because God's love. He certainly loved the angels. But in all of this, the angels would not have seen any evidence of God's grace. When the fallen angels fell, there was no grace displayed. There would have been no opportunity for it. But then humans came along. The angels watched as God loved Adam and Eve. And that probably didn't strike them as being all that unusual. But then Eve tasted the fruit. Maybe I chose just Eve tasting the fruit because I like it better that way. But anyway, that they they ate the fruit and now the stage is set. My guess would be that the angels expected justice to be served. That's what they're used to. That's all they knew of God. At least that's what it seems like. But God had a different plan. God 's love, without God's grace, would have done us no good. Grace is the character of God that allows us to access all his other attributes. If not for grace, most of God's other attributes would actually be a strike against us. His justice and God's righteousness would simply destroy us. His omniscience and his omnipresence would be truly frightening to us instead of comforting to us. There would be no comfort in a shepherd who has a rod and a club. When we know that the club is to be used on us instead of the wolves that threaten us. That's the beauty of the shepherd. He's got a rod and his staff, and that rod we know isn't going to be used on the shepherd, or on the sheep. Grace is what allows all of God's other virtues to come to our aid, to come to our protection, to come to our salvation, to come to our benefit. It's grace. If we were to rename this church, I think an appropriate name would be the Grace Place. It's kind of catchy, though you think. The Grace Place. We're all here because of that. We're all here because of grace. And Paul doesn't want these folks at Thessalonica to forget that. None of us had a higher status than any other the moment before Christ regenerated us. None of us did. We were all equally enemies of God. And the moment after regeneration, none of us had a higher moral status than the other. We are all equal participants in the complete righteousness of Christ. We all got here by the same amount of grace. So here we are. Here we are by grace. If we're here in Christ, we are here by the grace of God. Christ made peace between us and God. He made us at peace with God. Through Christ and His promised presence, we can continually experience the peace of God. And that peace with God and that peace of God is to flow over to peace between God's people. And at the end of the day, this has all been accomplished because the astounding quality of God's grace. What a wonderful conclusion to 1st and 2 Thessalonians. Next week I hope to present a sermon about the new New Covenant Theology, and then the following week, Brad will do an introduction to our next study, the Gospel of John. This week we may want to answer the question, Is my life one of peace? Is my life one of peace? If someone observed my behavior and my demeanor and my words and my reactions, what would they think about my God? Is he sufficient and close and loving and ever relevant to every life situation that I face? Or is he a theory I hold and a belief statement that I can quote? Is he someone I have an intimate relationship with? Or is he someone I just know a lot about? And where we do not have the peace of God in our lives, as that displays itself Let's believe what scriptures say. Whatever scriptures we need to believe that will give that back to us. Let's call upon Christ. And and be constant in prayer with him, in continual conversation, like a friend And live in this peace of God. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much.