May be noticeably different, but uh it'll be fixed this week, so glad for that In football, when a quarterback sees a change in the defense that would cause the play that he has chosen not to work, he calls what's called an audible. It's a last-minute change in plans due to a circumstance that he did not expect. This morning I'm calling an Audible. And it's either John -led or spirit-led, and we'll find out which in the rearview mirror. Let me tell you how this change in focus came about. Most December, I take a hard look at my life. And what I'm looking for are those things that are either outright wrong that I must stop outright right that I should be doing are those things that are lawful but not helpful are helpful but not required by the law I start with the question, what am I here for? What am I here for? Why do I exist? Why does God have me breathing his air? Do you often think about that? Do you often examine what your life is really for It's so easy to get lost in our obligations that we forget to look at the bigger picture. And I'm not making light of the obligations. They're very important. But what am I for? Fortunately, our text answers that question. Paul is writing the Corinthians, and they're full of problems. I mean The Corinthians have to be his his most difficult church. And even the ones that have the best and the strongest theology that you would think, oh well finally, you know, here's somebody who gets it They have the most freedoms. Even they blow it because they don't love their brothers. They get caught up in saying, I have my right, I have this right to do this thing. I can show you in scripture It does not violate God's laws. God permits it. So I'm going to do this thing, and I don't care what you think about it. I'm not going to be robbed of that freedom. I don't care how it affects you. And Paul says, no, no, you're still not right. You need to put your brother's needs above your own. That's love 101. That's what Christ did for us. Come on, guys. And then Paul reduces it down to its core, and that's our focus this morning. It's also the core of every other single thing. in our lives. It's that one thing that we should be doing, like Jesus told Martha. And what is it? Verse 31. It's interesting how he throws such an important verse in the middle of his talking with them about their problem here. So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Do all to the glory of God. In our text context, he's talking about indulging in lawful liberties. But we can apply that to everything this morning. It is our core purpose. To glorify God. In the Westminster Catechism, the first question is this: Question one, what is the chief end of man? Answer one, man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. They got that right. You and I, and everyone born, were created with an obligation and purpose of glorifying God. By submitting to his leadership over our lives and becoming conformed to the image of Christ, who perfectly glorified God and was God. And included in this process is our enjoyment. Our enjoyment. Glorifying God is our source of deepest pleasure, of deepest joy. Whoever wrote that catechism put a lot of thought into it. Our purpose isn't just to live a human life as God designed it to be lived, but it's to live it in such a way where we regard ourselves, we see ourselves as being blessed Beyond imagination, while we do it. You and I will not perfectly glorify God until we're in our glorified bodies. But that's what you and I are here for. So most December, I start there. And that's my purpose. That's why I breathe there. That's what I am for. Then I work my way from there. I look at my life. I want to improve. I want to do better. And I've found in my life that this usually happens. By very little changes that happen habitually. Have you ever noticed that you don't get in shape by taking a one-time 20-mile walk No, it's much better if you take 21 -mile walks. It's even better if you develop a habit of taking a one-mile walk twenty times per month. That ends up to 240 miles walked per year. That's to Hagers down and back. The habit will change your life much more than an event will. And if you have to start with a hundred-yard walk, start there and keep doing it. That's how the Christian life is. So I look at the end results I want to get to, and then I look at my life. I look at my habits. The primary question is, or at least it should be. How can I glorify Christ more this year than I did last year? Simple question. How can I glorify Christ more this year than I did last year? Are we all together in that? Is this what we all want? I know most of you enough to believe that that is what you want too. That's why you come. Meet together. They're one of the reasons. As I thought about our body and a new year, I thought it would be very good if we start off this year with a challenge. And that's how this all came about. I think from talking to you that glorifying God better is truly what you want in your heart of hearts. I know we all have a funny way of showing that That's not really funny sometimes, but odd. From the youngest Christian here to the oldest, this is what we must want. How can I glorify Christ better and enjoy him more? I mean, really, why wouldn't we want that? As afraid as we might be that we might just fail again, isn't that what we want? The sermon is for you here who are like me. It's for those who are dissatisfied with our progress, or sometimes satisfied that we've gotten this far, but we know it's not far enough. And it's for those who yearn to live in a way that pleases our Lord even more than we please him right now. Now, to help us a little more, let's look at the broad overarching commands in Scripture. We won't break them down into the small parts like we often do. We'll stick to the big things, the general guiding principles for how to glorify God, because that's what we're trying to do. Let's read look at the one that Jesus gave us that we read at the beginning of the the call to worship. And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question and said, test him. It said, Teacher, which is the greatest commandment of the law? What a question. That is a really, really good question. And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Jesus did not hesitate. There is a highest command. This is it. This is the top. You want to pick one thing to live by, pick this. This is a great and first commandment. And the second is like it. It's like it in that it's very important. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commands, commandments depend all the law and the prophets. And if you want to understand the Old Testament law, take out these two commands and you put everything that's in the rest of the law under those two commandments. Okay, we want to look at our lives to see how we can grow in glorifying Christ. So let's start at a high level. All obedience, all faithfulness breaks down into these two things. First is loving God with everything we've got. That's basically what that means. Loving God with everything that we've got. Now, loving God is different than loving people God has no needs. He has no needs that we can commit ourselves to meeting. But he does have a will. There are things he wants from his creation. And we love him by committing ourselves to what he wants from us. He wants us to trust him. He wants us to run to him with our concerns. He wants us to ask him for what we need. He wants us to praise him by growing in our knowledge of who he is. And having a deeper appreciation for who he is. He wants us to thank him in the midst of all the situations that he has placed us in. He wants us to obey him. He wants us to pour ourselves into living for those things that matter most to him. How can we better glorify God by doing those things this year? That's not a rhetorical question It's a question we owe it to God to spend some time answering it. Don't just give a broad iata prayer. All of us here are probably would agree with that. I ought to pray more. That doesn't do much. Pick something you can commit to doing better and develop a plan to do it. Commit to a few small things that you can do daily this year that you are not doing, or not doing this year that you are doing. Do any of those things immediately come to mind? If they do, that's great. If they don't, spend time figuring out what they are. Commit that time to God. Take it to God in prayer. He will show you. Carlos sometimes asks me, what can I do to make our relationship better? And uh sometimes I think about saying, well, marry someone else. But those th those may not be her exact words, but but that's basically the question she asks. And I usually have an answer After I think about it a little bit. And she usually has an answer if I have the bravery to ask such a question. Because face it, we always have room to grow in our relationships. Well, we can bet that there are things that impede our fellowship with God. And there are some things that we know, and there are some things that we are blind to. Do we not think that he would be quick to reveal those things when we honestly are ready to deal with them? That is what he wants. In our lives. He wants our fellowship to be unbroken. Okay, the first thing we should look at to better glorify God is how we're loving God. The second is loving people. Like we love ourselves. How are we doing with that? It can be a little frustrating to any perfectionist That we are just going to have to accept that we will never do this perfectly in our lives, just like loving God. Any more than we'll love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. On any day, any one of us could walk up to another and say, You don't love me as well as you ought. And any one of us would have to say guilty. We'd have to say, yeah, you're right. Now, when that person starts defining how we're not loving them as he should, we might disagree with that But there's only one debt in our life that Scripture says we should remain in or that we will remain in. Romans tells us that we have a continuing debt of love toward one another. Romans 13:88 138 says, Owe no one anything except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. So we owe that to each other all the time, every day. We will always owe each other love. We will never love enough. You will never have loved enough. And that's okay. There is always another opportunity to meet another need. To pray another prayer, to spend another hour with someone, to check in on someone, to grant some encouragement, to give some correction We will never have loved enough. We can accept that and still strive every day to be more like Jesus in doing those things. That's accepted. That's what it's going to be like. We know it's God's will for our lives to be loving. We know it. What tiny step can we make this year? What little thing can we add to each day? Or each week, that will improve our love for one another, that will guarantee that we do that thing that comes to our mind that would be loving toward one another That will improve our love for the lost, even. The answers to that question will be as varied as we are. The Lord has different niches for each of us. He designed us differently to fulfill different spots. But for sure, he has work for all of us, meaningful work. Often exciting work when it involves people. That 's not to say everything that we have to do is going to be exciting and thrilling, but a lot of it is. What little things can we change that could make a huge impact by January 1, 2025? If we were to start habitually doing it today. You don't need to figure that out now. Take it to the Lord this week. And I mean, really, do it. Plan when you will do it. Put it on your calendar. Put it on a reminder. Do whatever you have to do. But do this. Come not very often. This vehement about please do this thing that I am asking of you, but I'm doing that this morning. The Lord will show you. Those things. Again, these are things that are for sure his will. He wants them done. He will help you do it. In fact, he will empower it. For it is God who works in you, both to will and to work according to his good pleasure or for his good pleasure. But we need to show up. We must do what he tells us. These changes are not likely to happen to us by accident. If they would happen by accident, they would have already happened. We aren't likely to stumble into the changes. They require intention and commitment. Now, let's look at one more big picture command that Christ gives us, and these are the things that help us know what we're here for. It lets us know the broad headings of what Christ commanded us to do. And it's again, I know that actually this was read for the call of worship. Matthew 28, 16 through 20. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Okay, here's Jesus telling the disciples what he wanted them to do. We can't get better than this if we want to know what Christ's will is for Christ's church. And this has a direct bearing on every believer, as every believer is instructed to be part of a church. If you look at Acts 2, you'll see that there were believers from all over the known world. I just noticed this recently. I'm sure I heard it before. But reading through Acts, it stood out. It says there were devote men from every nation under heaven in Jerusalem. In In this surrounding. And we know that they were baptized with the Holy Spirit. So you got people coming into the church from all over the world. They were baptized with the Holy Spirit. And then persecution broke out And that persecution was God ordained. And it spread the dispersia, I think they called it. It spread Christian people all over the world. God had the going part largely taken care of before Paul started. But the Jews that went didn't have a full understanding yet of just how much this was also a message for the Gentiles. They were going away thinking, oh, this Jesus was for the Jews. And they were kind of owning it that way. Well, Paul was given the ministry and making it clear. No, you got that wrong. This Jesus is for everybody. Where verse 19 says, go therefore, many scholars translate that differently. They translated as you are going. As you are going. And that wouldn't make perfect sense. This large group of new converts were soon to be gone, going throughout the whole world. Go is not the primary command in the scripture. The central command is make disciples. Make disciples. Everything else is a support to that command. All of us are going Every time we leave our front door, we are going. Every time we communicate with unbelievers, even digitally, we are going. How do we make disciples? Other places we're told first to preach. Preach. We proclaim the same gospel that we believe that saved us. We're witnesses to that gospel. Why is your life different? It's different because God led me to understand I'm a sinner who is in need of him. I need to be saved. I need forgiveness. And he died on the cross to take my penalty so that I could live forever. And that that divide could be removed between me and God. And now I can be right with God because Christ took the penalty for my sin and I have faith in Christ. You know, we're to witness to that gospel. So we speak that into the ears of people. And when some respond, we bring them into the church. But it's interesting in the book of Acts, they brought the people into the church. In baptism. It's baptism where a person admits their unity with Christ, and in the book of Acts, that appears to be the point that they are brought into the church. They had to actively identify with Christ before the church would really take them into membership, although they probably did not have anything like official membership like we would. And they also didn't have the gazillion denominations either, which would be sweet, sort of. But after that, they were taught how to obey. And the assumption is that we are to teach these people who are coming to Christ how to obey like we obey. This is probably not a sit-down school lesson, although sometimes it might be. It's more like life lived together. We take someone into our lives and we say, let me show you how a Christian man loves his wife. even when she's difficult. Let me show how you show you how to respect your husband even at times when he doesn't appear to deserve it. Let me show you how to raise up your children. in the admonition of the Lord. I'll show you how I obey those commands to submit to the Lord in all things. I'll show you how to handle when your life appears to be suddenly falling apart. Let me show you how to do that That's real discipleship. That's the kind of discipleship that Christ was talking about. It has to be more than sermons and Sunday school, and that's not to That's not to say anything less about sermons in Sunday school. We can safely pretend, though, in those social environments like here Um we can pretend things, but discipleship has to done be done in real life, where life gets real, where your real self comes in. But The moment when you hit your finger with the ham. The moment when life collapses in on you. The moment when your car won't start. Real life. And Christ promises as we're about all those things that His presence will be with us. We just read that. He'll be empowering what we're doing. And I was thinking about this. After all, won't living in Jesus' name be accompanied with the same power as praying in Jesus' name And that's what we're talking about. So what are you here for? What are you on planet Earth breathing air for? Why are you in this church on January 21, 24? I had to change that date twice. What is your purpose? What can you focus on in 2024 that will bring more joy and peace into your life and others around you? This opportunity , it's fresh opportunity. It is this morning's opportunity. We have the chance to please Christ this year more than ever before You might think, but I'm already so busy. I'm already so burdened. But these things I'm talking about are things you'll be glad about. As you see the fruit in your life grow from developing the habits of godliness, they will be things you'll look back at and you'll say, Man, I'm glad I did that. I'm not going to go much further this morning. There's no need to. This is not so much a sermon as a work assignment for all of us. If you or I come back here next week and we've done nothing with it, we have failed in this assignment. I don't usually use words this strongly. But it is true. I am that convinced. Every scripture agrees with what I'm asking us all to do If you do it by a different method, so be it. How you do it, that doesn't matter. If you've already done it, or if you're in the process of doing it, or if you continually do it, that's great. You're doing better than me. And I've no doubt of that status. But if you can find a reason that it's against God's will to do such a thing, show me. And I'll never preach something like this again. But if not, consider that you may be refusing a means of grace that God has given to you if you don't take this seriously. Now, some of you may find your lives in the midst of some crisis or other, so this introspection may need to wait. That's fine. Then put it on your calendar for a later date. But I believe this is the Lord's will for all of us. It is for his glory. How can it not be? When we're asking God, how can I glorify you? How can you possibly? Be wrong in that. And I want to ask one more thing. We know that God's will for Ferndale Baptist Church is evangelism and discipleship, because Jesus said so. I want to hold out this is a challenge for every one of us for the year 2024, for the whole year. This is something that will require little thought. Put this saying on your fridge. Put it on the door as you go to leave. I'd like us all to join in offering like a 30-second prayer daily in 2024. The words don't matter, but the idea does. Again, if you're already doing this, just keep doing it. Something like, Lord, please guide me this day. to someone I can witness to and show me very clearly when I have the opportunity That's all. Please guide me this day to someone I can witness to and show me very clearly when I have the opportunity I've thought about this a lot. I cringe when I think of barging into other people's lives and interrupting their lives in order to present the gospel. I've done that a lot. And I have trouble drumming up the desire to do it again, to do more of it. And maybe that shows a faithlessness on my part. And if so, I'm open to correction. But even when I did it, God did not seem to bless that much. I've become more convinced regarding evangelism that what is needed most Is not more activity on my part as much as calling upon God to move in a way that directs our efforts and to affect those people's hearts Now he will he will direct us to people who will not respond. This isn't to assure that I'm going to get 100% batting average when I talk to somebody about tribes. But what it is, is going to raise our awareness of God's activity around us so that we are looking For God to move in the lives of those people around us And it may change our approach. When I see a human being, I'm not going to think, oh, that's the person that gives me this, or that's the person I go to to get this. It's going to be, oh, that's a person God might be working in today I'd like to see 2024 be the year that God shows off with He can do it for a bit. Not that he hasn't in the past. I see constant growth in a lot of your lives and the others I probably just don't know well enough to see the growth. And it's thrilling to see that. It's wonderful. But I'm not suggesting any kind of evangelism program. I'm not suggesting any effort other than praying this prayer and then being on alert to what God is doing. I think God wants to see some of these seats filled with people that he will draw to himself, and I think he wants uh to use the wealth of our knowledge that we sit on to help some new Christians learn how to live. Knowing what kind of God we serve, I cannot imagine it otherwise. So I plan, in fact I already have, put it on Slack and on Facebook. But here's the application from this morning. Prayerfully ask yourself these questions, all of us. Where's my life failing most to glorify the God? In light of the commandments to love God and love people , And in light of the commandments to make disciples, what am I doing that I believe I should not do? What am I not doing that I believe I should do? What few things could I change daily to change that? And what accountability can I put in place to assure that I will actually carry through on this? And again, these are on Facebook and Slack, so you don't need to get them all written down now. Also, pray something like this daily. Lord, please guide me to this day to someone I can witness to and show me very clearly when I have the opportunity. In closing, I'd like to say this I believe that the single most self-deceiving thing in many of our lives is our ability to interpret our intentions to obey as if it's obedience itself If we hear a sermon and we think, yes, I agree with it, yes, that is true, yes, that is that is what people should do. I should do that, it's as if we think we get credit somehow for doing it. It's as if we think intending to do it gives our lives the benefit we gain by actually doing it We might easily think that our enthusiasm in agreeing with what we hear translates into something good. But all it really Causes in many cases is that when we think we are we end up thinking we are more spiritually healthy than we really are because we mentally agree with what we are hearing. What would our lives look like if we actually put into place the changes that we have been convicted in the sermons that we should put into place? Over the course of a year. I mean I'm I'm most guilty because I'm the one who studies this stuff What things, no matter how tiny, will we commit to begin to change this week due to what we heard today? Those things are how we grow in glorifying God. To make no change is only to fill ourselves with more information. Let's move beyond intending well. What will we do? And again, this isn't a zero or a hundred. You know, all of us, I know, are are applying ourselves to living more godly lives. I know that. But just allow this sermon to provide some guidance this week. And again, I'll I'll post these. They have been posted. But the challenge has been given. Let's close in prayer. Lord, I pray that you will bless your word to our hearts. Lord, I pray that you will not allow us to