Uh you may have noticed we're going to begin using the ESV version of the Bible rather than the New King James. I believe it's more accurate and it's It's a little easier to read as well. And if that causes any problems for you, please see me and and let's talk about it. We're also doing things a little unusual this morning Normally when we start a new book, we start with some overviews by speakers who are very good at that sort of thing, and we have special guest speakers. But I knew there would be some special guests here, so I wanted to preach this morning We'll do an overview of Daniel 1 through 6 with Pastor Pawson next week. And then we have an Irish gentleman, Paul Foster, to give an overview of chapters 7 through 12. And you will really enjoy his accent. But I'll be gone next Sunday when our first special speaker will be here. So, why the book of Daniel? Why are we heading into the book of Daniel? Why did we choose The book of Daniel, and why now? I thought it might be good for you to know what we're thinking. Do you look at what's going on in our world and feel like wickedness is winning? Do you look at the corruption in our government and fear for what's coming? Do the laws that are being passed seem designed for wicked purposes? Do you fear that they might put us in a bad spot where Christians will be persecuted? Does it trouble you that the world singles out Christians to malign them when it certainly doesn't do that with anybody else Do the elites in power seem to have an agenda against us? Do you find that it's very easy to compromise your biblical standards in order to enjoy what the world offers you Does the content of what the world is teaching in its educational systems trouble you? If any of these things are true about us, we've come to the right book. Daniel is a book that can comfort our souls and relieve our fears. It's a book about how God does what God wants, when God wants, to whoever He wants. Daniel teaches us that this world is not in any way, by any stretch of the imagination, out of the control of God. Everything in it is serving a purpose. Even wickedness is being used for good. Many of you are employed in secular work in the secular marketplace. Daniel is a man who is in a similar spot. His wasn't exactly a corporation, but it's a lot similar to a lot of the circumstances we find ourselves in. He was in an environment that was hostile to the belief in God There were expectations that he faced from his supervisor that were contrary, directly contrary to his faith. Daniel lived in an environment where it was very hard to stand up for what he believed in, to stand up for his faith in his God The world around him wasn't just content to let him believe what he believed. They were making him choose whether he would be faithful or if he would cave. The government rulers that he worked for were tyrannical, to say the l least. I mean, a king by a king's very nature is a tyranny. While while we might fear getting fired at our jobs, Daniel's co-workers were fear feared being eaten. My team at work says when things are going bad, well at least they can't eat us. Well, in Babylon, the lions could and would eat them. So the stakes were higher for Daniel than they are for us. We'll also see, if we're careful, that God lacks no ability to have his people promoted. It's kind of odd how how we'll watch this through Daniel. Even though the whole world system is against him It's not unusual in Scripture for God to arrange for His people to have pockets in the secular world where they find favor with their employers or their leaders. God arranged for Daniel and his friends to find favor in the most unlikely places and in the most unlikely ways. I've often been impressed with how fickle the corporate worlds can be. I may do ten things exceptionally well and fail at one task. And if that failure happens to be highly visible, it can drastically affect my status. And the reverse is just as true. I've learned that in the corporate world, I simply need to trust God for whether he wants me promoted or demoted. At the end of the day, I mean I need to do the best job I can to represent him But I have no way of figuring out how to make the right people see the right things and think the right things and feel the right things toward me. It can't be done. So I need to do the best I can, and then I need to trust God that God will do what he once done in my circumstance. It's not ultimately my employer who decides where to put me. It's God who orchestrates that. And we're going to see this in Daniel. It takes away a lot of fear. It not as much relies on me as what I think it does. But I think one of the biggest things that jumped out to me as I began studying Daniel this time around is the pattern of how God brought attention to himself. How God brought attention to himself. You read the first six chapters and you cannot miss it. And it is very costly how he brought attention to himself Look in Daniel 2. What platform does God create before he displays his power? He made Daniel and his friends wanted men They were to be put to death. They were just waiting for execution. Why? Had they done anything wrong? No, they just happened to be working in the wrong department. You know, that's really what it was. They were in the magician, enchanter, and sorcerers division. And they were facing a rapid and permanent downsizing. Kevin and Tyler, imagine if NFT decided to kill everyone in the Delophony department because Ring Central could not do this function or that function. That's similar. That's similar to that's what Daniel was facing. Now think about it. If you were Daniel and his team, would you have viewed this as a golden opportunity? That they're coming after you for your life. Would that seem like opportunity to you? I think it's safe to say that none of it none of us would view it that way. They were going to die, and there appeared to be nothing that would stop it, because somebody had to interpret Nebuchadnezzar's dream, and he wasn't going to tell anybody even what the dream was. Now, people were certainly watching how Daniel and his team faced this. All eyes would have been on him. And that is exactly what God wanted. That is why God orchestrated the whole thing. Then God revealed the king's dream to Daniel, something that was impossible to do, and everyone knew it was impossible to do. We're going to get to this eventually, but even the other sorcerers and things said God doesn't visit men. And it would take God visiting men for anyone to know this. And God was honored through the whole process, and Daniel was promoted. Daniel had a rough road to promotion. I'm not sure I would really want to have to face the circumstances he did to get promoted. But anyway, I saw I say all this to point out that God had a divine purpose for this horrendous situation. God created this backdrop of bodily threats to portray his own wisdom and his own strength and to show off Sometimes the more dramatic the threat, the more opportunity for God's glory. We need to keep this in mind as God places us in difficult, threatening circumstances. We can't know how God intends to use it. He tells us in general terms that it will be for our good and and how it will shape our faith and our character. We're given those promises in God, that that's what God intends trials to be for. And we know that that's going to happen. We don't know exactly how this is going to turn out in on this earth. But Daniel did know that the threat to his life held the opportunity for greater advance. Hang on. Did not know. Yeah, I was thinking that didn't make sense. But Daniel did not know that the threat of his life held the opportunity for greater advancement in the king's business. Than he could have ever imagined. God often use creates a stage of conflict to glorify himself. We've got to keep that in mind. I think that's why the church grows so much during persecution. Then in Daniel 3, Nebuchadnezzar creates a huge statue and demanded that people worshiped it. Why did God allow that? Why did God not stop this thing? Now, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego are in the crosshairs. What was the purpose of all that? It just looked like an arbitrary use of an evil elite. You know, some some person with a lot of power did something wicked and passed that on to everybody. That's what it looked like. That was how Daniel's team would have experienced it. But it was much more than that. The situation was created for God to be glorified in such a way that no one could deny the power of God. The king, this wicked king, became an evangelist. He sent out an amazing endorsement of the one true God to all of his kingdom. This is information most of them would have had no way of knowing. But when this event happened after the event It was so astounding that the gospel got got spread by an evil king. And the team got promoted again. Then in Daniel 6, Daniel fell into a political trap. He had two co-workers, and they all had the same job. But the king wanted to give a better job to Daniel that would make him supervisor. You might want to listen, Tyler. So they did all this that they could do to sabotage Daniel's chances. And again, Daniel's life is threatened. What for? So God could declare his glory again to a secular idolatrous world. We really need to see our world the way that the book of Daniel portrays it. It lets us sleep easier at night. The Bidens and the Putins of this world are putty in God's hands. At any time he could drive them to madness, like he did to Nebuchadnezzar. For some of them, you might think that he already did. But anyway, he could put an idea in their head to do anything. He could create favor between them and a Christian that could make all the difference. That is the God we have. He is not limited in his ability. He's not limited in his scope. To change this world through wicked people. And situations of conflict are often the stage that God will set for glorifying Himself. We need not fear them. So, why the book of Daniel? Because we need the lessons that this book teaches us so we can faithfully and courageously stand for Christ in an evil world. Now let's go to the text. Verse 1. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, with some of the vessels of the house of God And he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his God I love the Bible because it describes events in time and space that can be looked into, can be checked into. Was there really a King Nebuchadnezzar? Yes, there was. Was the circumstance similar to this? Yes, yes, it is. And it allows us to verify the Bible's truth by looking at world history, just one other evidence of its validity So this is the first conquering of Judah by Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. It was in 605 BC. There would be two more later Originally, Nebuchadnezzar had hoped to have Israel be a vassal state , taxpayers basically, but living in their own land, governed by Babylon, but But living just pretty much like they were living, just with different leadership. But the Judeans were very resistant to outside governments telling them what to do. And they have always been through throughout history, because you know it's only natural. They viewed themselves as the people of God. They viewed themselves as only answering to God and anyone, any evil uh Authority that came in, they would be very resistant to. So they had been. So eventually Nebuchadnezzar displaced almost all of them. Scripture gives us bits and pieces about that history. So in our text, the king took his spoils and put them in the temple of his god, Bel. That was the common thing to do at the time, evidently And remember, these vassals are these vessels, because we're going to see them later. Also note this, the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, into King Nebuchadnezzar. Things on this earth often don't have the cause and effect that we ascribe to them. A historian might look at all this and say that Babylon conquered Judah because they were more powerful. You know, Babylon was more powerful than Judah, but that's not the real reason. Babylon conquered Judah because God wanted it so. He was punishing Judah for their rebellion. God wanted his people conquered and he wanted them taken to a foreign land. He wanted the world to know that he is not to be crossed. Fear of God is a good thing. It's where wisdom starts. Verse 3. Then the king commanded Asphanaz, his chief eunuch, to bring some of the people of Israel, both of the royal family and of the nobility. Four youths without blemish, of good appearance and skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge, understanding learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace And to teach them the literature and language of the Chaldeans. Evidently this wasn't uncommon. This was like a regular thing that kings would do. The king wanted the best of the best from the Judeans. The word for youths here was probably young men between 12 and 14 years old. We might not think that about Daniel. Between 12 and 14 years old. Now, they had to be from families of the nobles or of the king's lineage I think probably because they were learning more. They had the access to learn more than maybe, you know, a poorer person. They had to be good looking without any obvious physical abnormalities. I think, you know, who would want somebody in the king's court that was hard to look at? And then they had to already be somewhat educated. And they had to know stuff, and they had to have the ability to use the stuff that they knew. They had to be able to demonstrate that. And it looks like they were to have special giftednesses. They were to be endowed with knowledge. Like some stuff came to them that didn't really, it might have been hard to come to other people. I think this is all describing someone who is a quick study. The king is looking for what we might think of as a model student who has an appearance that would be okay to look at. Carla often describes these kinds of quick studies and excellent learners as they pass through her class. They kind of stand out and you think, you know, that person is going to go somewhere. It's like Jay is one of those people. And this would consist, and the the class that they're going to be in would consist of four Judeans, along with other nationalities, probably. Now, these children were going to go to the public school system of Babylon. This isn't something that stands out immediately, but that's what it was. And they were going to be indoctrinated by the Babylonian world and the Babylonian world view. In fact, that's what they were being taught. It says right right up front. And there was not a thing their parents could do about it. They could not homeschool. It's interesting that the children that were selected were also very spiritually faithful We'll see that's true by their future choices. They were remarkable. Maybe that fact had something to do with how well they did scholarly. Or maybe God had simply ordained to use his faithful children for this purpose. Anyway, verse 5: the king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate and the wine that he drank. They were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were stand to stand before the king. We could think of this as a mandatory scholarship. They had room and board and free classes. But they also had no choice in the matter. They were going to receive the best education the Babylon Babylonian money could buy for three years And after this three years, they will do exactly what they are told to do. They'll be the king's attendants. Verses 6 and 7. Among those These were Daniel, Hananiah, Meshel, and Azariah of the tribe of Judah, and the chief of the eunuchs gave them these names. Daniel he called Beltishazar. Beltashar. Jared did it better than me. Beltishazar. Maybe you're Beltishar. Hananiah he called Shadrach. Meshiel he called Meshach. And Azariah he called Abednego. Now this is important. We might get the idea that the education that the Hebrew children were being offered was simply information, you know, neutral information. We might think there was no spiritual agenda behind what was going on here. But it was neutral. But this text lets us know it was distinctly designed To have the students abandon their God and follow Bell. When the world offers education, there's going to be an agenda in place It may take a while for it to become visible and for it to become fully in action. But the devil is a prince in the power of the air. And remember that he's in charge of the world system. Now he still has to obtain God's permission, but we already know what the devil would do if he were free to do anything The devil wants to strip true belief in God by whatever method he has at his disposal. So we can expect that agenda to make its way into government schools. It's predictable. Here in our text, we see the Babylonian school agenda, and it's found in the meaning of these names. You don't get it by just reading it, but you get it when you understand what each of the names means. Daniel means God my judge. Belteshar means Bel's prince, the God Bel Hananiah means whom Jehovah hath favored. Shadrach means illuminated by the sun god Mishal means who is comparable to our God? Meshach means who is comparable to Shak, a Babylonian goddess Azariah means whom Jehovah helps. Abednego means servant of the shining fire. There was nothing neutral about this education. It was intended to make them stop worshiping the one true God To a substitute idol of the Babylonians making. That is what it was designed for. It was to cause them to identify as anything but a person of God. That may help demystify what's going on in our government schools today. Nothing has changed. Be careful when you regard the world's education as something that is neutral. It is not. Even if it were to start there, it will not remain there. Okay, so the obvious intent is to rob these Hebrew children of their faith in God. That helps us to understand the use of the word but in the next sentence. I mean, it seems like the butt's out of place until you understand those names. Then verse 8, but Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food, or with the wine that he drank, therefore he asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to defile himself. Daniel could see what these people were trying to do to him and his friends. Now remember, Daniel's 12 to 14 years old. And Daniel made a resolution to himself to not allow that to happen. Now, he would not worship that false god. It also looks like here Daniel arises as the leader of these four. He's the one listed as first resolving how to handle this situation, and he led in this plan faithfully. Now, why did Daniel see it as important to not eat and drink the king's provision? Evidently, it was a common practice that when food was prepared for a group like this, a small amount of it would be taken out and thrown on the ground as an offering to the gods. It would be thrown out as a sacrifice to the gods. And that was intended to sac sanctify the whole meal for everybody So that in essence if they throw out that little food, all of that food was sacrificed to God. It was dedicated to false gods. So, to eat the food would be to participate in idolatry. Plus, there's Jewish food preparation things like kosher that they could never be sure were followed Now, while Daniel and his team, they could not refuse to be named with idolatrous names, and that would be difficult. I mean, you can call yourself whatever you want to call yourself, but they were going to call you those names from here on in. Godless names, idolatrous names. What a vexing that would have been for those individuals. Now Daniel couldn't stop that. He knew that. But they could try to say no to eating idolatrous foods. That he did have the opportunity to try to make that stand. Now, you kids, a bunch of adults come into your world and they take you away from your parents Maybe you're 12 or 13 or 14 years old, and then then you're given really, really, really good food. But for you to eat it, you know, would be wrong. It would be against God. What do you think you'd do? How hard do you think it would be to try to get this changed? I mean these people are telling you what to do. And they're bigger than you. And they got all the power. And it's just you, the four people and maybe thousands. And it was good food, and they were just teenagers, and they were dealing with these powerful adults. If you imagine that, you're getting close to where this book is talking about That's the situation that Daniel and his friends were in. This would not have been easy at all, in any way. So we can guess that they really need to get their courage up to speak to the guy that was in charge of that But they did. They did. Daniel asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow Daniel and his friends to do something completely different than everyone else was doing And he probably had to explain why eating the food offered to idols was offensive. Imagine that. 14 years old going up to the establishment, letting them know why you are offended at how they and everyone else in their nation acts. So what he said could have been very offensive to the chief of the eunuchs. But he did it anyway because it was the right thing to do, and that's the only reason. It was the right thing to do. Would you have had the courage to do that at your age, at that age? Young people, you need to do everything that you can while you are young. So you will stand up for Christ in these kind of settings and realize you might be alone in doing it. No matter how difficult or unpopular your situation is. Verse 9, and God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. This is really important to understand. I find it amazingly helpful in the corporate world. What would have happened if God had not gotten Daniel into the into his boss's good graces? As far as we can tell, there would have been no book of Daniel Because that first event would have never happened. God's plan included getting Daniel on the good side of the head eunuch. And it says he God takes credit for it here. He does not say that Daniel uh arrived at that. God gave him that. What does that tell you about life in the secular world? There are a lot of self-help gurus who tell you that your advancement relies completely 100% on your performance. And that's how it appears to be. But that's not how it is, according to our text. When I got hired at the bank, the CEO, Bill Grant, was one of Mike's good high school friends. And that relationship really benefited me. And then as he got to know me, he liked me. So even when I did some things that were troublesome to him, and I did a few of those things, I had the benefit of the doubt. Now, I'd like to believe I was in favor due to my winsome personality, but I know that is not true. God place me in his good favor for my benefit and for the benefit of my family, the benefit of my church, and hopefully to give him some glory. And what if I simply cannot get on the good favor of somebody? We've all had that. Does that mean that God is against me? Does that mean I'm overly offensive No, I mean sometimes it is a result of us being offensive or things that we've said or done, but often it's due to God having a different purpose for that situation. The good thing to know is that our favor is not totally reliant upon our behavior. And we will always have as much of it or as little of it as is needed in our situation for our good and God's glory. Even when we make mistakes, the outcome is still in God's hands. I've made some doozies, and I've learned I don't need to fear the outcome of those either. Because God has that handled too. The responses of the people that we answer to are in the hand of God. The favor that God gave Daniel was to be used when we take up the next text in a few weeks. Because Daniel had his boss's favor. His boss was willing to take a chance on Daniel And remember, people weren't just fired for doing a bad job. They were killed. So it took a great deal of good favor to get this man to take the kind of chances that he was taking on the request of these these Hebrew youngsters. I hope you can already see in our study that this is not so much a story about the amazing things that Daniel and his friends did. Although they did certainly did some amazing things. They were gutsy people. The story is mainly about what God did. So far, God handed the land of Judah to a godless king. And God gave Daniel favor with the chief of the universe. It'll be exciting to dive into what else God is going to do next in Daniel as we go through the study. I think this week a good application would be to rethink our ideas of cause and effect. Do we really think that God orchestrates things like who we meet and how they regard us? Do we think that he has absolute control on what world leaders think and say and do? Do we really think he's powerless to change anything to make it what he wants it to be? It might also be good to consider what platforms God had to create before he was going to display his glory. Will we welcome that opportunity to give God glory? Even when it places us in distressing situations and even physical danger, will we welcome it? Will we have faith in God that he has something good in mind somehow, some way that we cannot yet see? It's easy when we can see the end of the story. It'd be easy to be Daniel if you knew the end of the story before he entered the entered the story itself. Sure, they can throw me in the lion's den if I know the lions aren't going to eat me. But that wasn't Daniel's story. He reached God's glorification by risking everything for God. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your kindness and grace.