Okay. Something unusual happened this morning. I uh I lost the sermon that was supposed to be the next one. I'm blaming it on the drugs I was taking yes last week from the from the uh surgery that I had, uh that seems like a good excuse to me. But it could well be that This sermon is being preached this week because God has in mind for someone here, or maybe many of us, to hear what's being said I guess the al alternate could be true too. It might be that next week's sermon is intended to be to next next week's visitors. I I don't know. Anyway, from our last passage in Mark, this is the next thing that happens. So it's in in the final piece of the text from last week. This is uh this is the thing that happens next as the gospels go on. Now you may have noticed this is from the book of Matthew. I thought it was very important that we look at this together. There are two reasons. The first is that this parable in Matthew gives us the understanding of what Jesus meant when he so often said The last will be first and the first will be last. We hear that, we see it a lot, but it's extremely rare that that we see such a good compilation of what it is that Jesus was actually meaning when he said that. And the second reason is that we've got to get our heads around this idea that God is not fair in the way that we think is fair We absolutely need to understand this, or we're going to spend much of our time being irritated and angry at God. So let's start at the beginning. For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. Now when he had agreed with the laborers for denarius a day, he sent them into the vineyard. And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace, and said to them, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right, I'll pay you. I'll give you. So they went. And again he went out about the sixth and the ninth and did likewise. And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle and said to them, Why have you been standing here idle all day? They said to him, Because nobody hired us. He said to them, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever's right you will receive We need to understand this workday in order to get the idea of what's going on here. 6 a. m. was the first hour. It was then that the day began. Every hour after that was added to the first. So the day normally lasted to 6 p. m. So math's pretty easy. That's 12 hours. A 12-hour work day This helps us get a handle on what's going on. At 6 a. m. the owner hired some people. This is a common practice. At 9 a. m. he hired some more. At 12 noon, he brought in some more. At 3 he brought in some more. And at 5 p. m. one hour before quitting time, he brought in some more. Typically in this culture, men would show up in an appointed area in town to get hired for this work and they would just kinda hang out until they got hired. It would be an unusual person maybe who would stay there all day, but in this story that's what they did. Who would think that they're going to get hired at five in the evening? But they were there. Now look at this. The first guys had a negotiated rate. They would work for one day for one denarius. And that's a fair wage. They knew that that's what they signed up for. The terms were very clear. They were explicit. They were agreed upon. The contract was negotiated. There was a very clear understanding. There's nothing here left to the imagination. They agreed To work for one day for one denarius. Little trust was needed. This man would pay them what he had agreed upon. So it was a very clear deal. All was good. Both parties thought this was fair. Now, what about the rest of the employees? What was their deal? Well, they took by faith that the landowner would be fair to them. They didn't negotiate a deal. The landowner said, whatever's right, I'll give you. And they trusted him. No questions asked They showed no signs of mistrust. They showed no signs of feeling like they needed to protect themselves. They trusted the honor of the owner and went off to work in the fields They trusted the landlord's word that he would make it worth their while. He would do what was right by them. Okay, so the day ends. Verse 8. So when the evening had come, the owner of the vineyard said to his steward, Call the laborers and give them their wages, beginning with the last to the first. Now's when the misunderstanding starts. It's payday. It's time to pay the workers. Now it's important to notice that this starts from the last to the first. This is a big clue into understanding what Jesus means. And remember that Jesus often says the last shall be first and the first last. This is showing us what he's talking about. We have got to understand that phrase the way he uses it, not the way that we would normally interpret it. And this is the parable that is the best example of what it means. He takes the last workers And he pays them first. Verse 9, and when these came who were hired about the 11th hour, they each received a denarius. Okay. These guys worked for one hour. One hour. And what did they get paid? They got a full day's wages. A full obeys. Do you know what that means? Well, quite clearly in this parable, God is the landlord, God is the master. And what we learn is that God is not fair. God is not fair. He is not equitable. He does not dish out grace proportionately. We have example after example in Scripture of this being true. One of the best examples, the thief on the cross. He did whatever he felt like doing in his life. We don't know what he did in his life. We just know he was a thief. He didn't worry about not doing the sins that his countrymen may have chosen not to do, maybe yet sometimes they great Effort they could have stolen, but they chose not to because that they honored God. While the disciples were following Christ and sacrificing their comfort for his sake on a day-by-day basis, Here is this guy ripping off other people simply because he could. And again, we don't know exactly how, we don't know exactly what he did. But now what is the man on the cross, the thief on the cross, what is that man going to inherit as a result of his confession of Christ on that cross? He is going to inherit the same eternal life as all the disciples. He's going to inherit the same eternity as the one who obeyed God's law from his youth. Is that fair? Well, no, it's not fair. Look at the woman at the well, or Mary Magdalene, or the woman caught in adultery These women appear to have done whatever they wanted with their sexuality. While lots of other women were being careful and chaste, these women were spending the commodity like it was nothing. Yet what end will all these women inherit? They'll inherit the same eternity that all the chaste believers will inherit. They'll receive the same eternity as the women who have said no to that activity. Is that fair? No, it's not fair. Look at the tax collectors. They had sold out their fellow countrymen for their own profit. And profit they did. They were living high on the hog. They had it made. While their countrymen may have been scrapping for a living, these guys were getting filthy rich. But when they came to Christ, what eternity were they going to receive? They were going to receive the same eternity that all of the faithful followers of Christ would receive. Even the ones who had obeyed Christ from their youth. Is that fair? Of course it's not fair We could go on and on in scripture. We can find example after example of people who almost seem to be rewarded for doing the same things that we may have chosen not to do, or who have not done the things that we have chosen to do. And it just doesn't seem fair. They've not same paid the same price as us. They haven't done the work. But then, look at us Look at us. You and I have sinned. We have sinned knowingly, and we have sinned intentionally. We have seen good that we should do and we have not done it. We have seen evil that we should not do and we have done it. And in contrast, Look at Christ. This Christ who has never sinned. He was tempted just like we're tempted and he has never sinned. And what happened? What happened here? Didn't he die in our place? Didn't he take upon himself our sin? Didn't he experience the guilt of the depth of our depravity before they placed him on a cross? And then didn't he suffer on that cross, taking the insults upon himself that we so fully deserved to receive? Now tell me, was that fair? Was it fair that God's grace extended to us, but God's justice was extended to He God's innocent Son? Shouldn't it been the other way around? Of course that was not fair. That was hideously unfair But that is how God's grace must be to save people like us I would guess that all of us have wrestled from time to time about things that are very unfair, that seem unfair to us. We see lazy people rewarded like they're workers. We see immoral people rewarded like they're pious. We've seen liars rewarded like they're truthful. We've seen cheaters rewarded like they were honest. And there's something that cries out in us and says that isn't fair. And it isn't. But we need to always come back to who we are before Christ. What did we deserve? And what did we get? And what did Christ deserve? And what did Christ get? God isn't fair. But oh how gracious he is. Oh how gracious he is. And if we had to pick between the two , Really, which one would we pick? Do we really want God to be fair? If he were, we'd all be headed to hell. Because that's what's fair No, anyone with any sense would say, I don't want God to be fair to me. I want him to be gracious to me. I don't want to get what I deserve. I want to get what I wish I could have. I want to get a result that I don't deserve and could never deserve. That is the Christian life. So there's no sense looking at our brothers and sisters and getting bent out of shape about things that they receive that aren't fair. We're just wasting our time. We ought to want for them things that aren't fair. Because we want for ourselves things that aren't fair. We want grace. We want God to dish out to us things way better than anything we could deserve. And ultimately, we're being very short-sighted when we bemoan gifts that brothers and sisters get that they don't deserve Because when it's all said and done, we are resting our eternity upon us receiving things that we will never deserve. Why get Ben out of shape when brothers and sisters receive grace? Well look at this parable. Doesn't it sort of trick us into seeing ourselves? Doesn't it display the worst of ourselves when we're thinking that we're only being fair? Really, and as we go through this this text and we're reading it, who do we relate to? Which party does our heart go out to? Which party are we inclined to say, yeah, what he said? You know Verse 10. But when the first came, they supposed that they would receive more. And they likewise, likewise each received a denarius. And when they had received it, they complained against the landowner and said, and saying, These last men have worked only one hour, and you made them equal to us who have borne the burden in the heat of the day. Okay, the people who have worked for one hour received a full day's pay. The people who worked all day found out about that. I'm sure that made big news immediately. And how did they process the information once they heard it? Well, I've been good. I've been faithful I've worked a lot of hours. I have I've been giving my master obedient service all day. I did what he said. I wasn't out enjoying the day like these these guys were I was doing what was in my bat master's best interest. Therefore, if my master is to be equitable, he will give me more than the guy that only served the master for a short while. Don't that seem like smart thinking? Doesn't that seem rational? Doesn't that seem fair? Maybe even godly? Well, what we are soon to see is that we are very wrong to think like that And you know what? It is exceedingly hard to bring ourselves to believe that Just find someone who has been blessed after not doing all the things that we have done for which we have paid a great price. We all have our places, and they're all different, and each of us I'm sure. We all have those points where we show that we would prefer justice over others than grace. Don't we all complain against the landowner from time to time? Don't we all complain that others have not done for him what we have done? Yet look how blessed they are. Don't we suppose that we should get more? Don't we expect things should be easier or better, or that we should get more credit or more praise? Doesn't it bother us that God dishes out equal blessing to those who have been very faithful? And those who have been less faithful. The first thing we ask in the back of our mind is, well, why bother being faithful? Even now I'm guessing that we're thinking, yes, that it is only fair that God would differentiate those things. He should. If he's God, he ought to be fair. But look what Christ says next Verse 13, but he answered one of them and said, Friend, I'm doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me? And you can see this conversation this morning at this place. Didn't you agree with me one day, Wendeneris? Take what's yours and go your way. I wish to give this last man the same as you It's my business. Is it not lawful for me to do that what I wish with my own stuff? Or is your evil, is your eye evil because I'm good? Wow. This turns our idea fair upside down. What Jesus says here seems like sheer wickedness to the legalist who thinks that his efforts ought to gain him something every day with God. How about the rich young ruler that Christ has just dealt with? How do you think he would have liked it to find out that the tax collectors would enter heaven before him? A person with a legalistic mindset is going to hate Christ. There is no doubt about it. This will be so offensive to them that they cannot recover. Look at Christ's reasoning. I'm doing you no wrong. I'm doing you no wrong. The first thing we need to notice is that the landowner never does anything different than what he promised. He said he would pay a denarius, and he does. He's living by his word. So no one can say that they're defrauded or that they were cheated The same is true of every believer. Every believer is going to be granted eternal life, eternal reward. God will never go back on his promise to award to us that which he has promised to us. God never does any wrong to his children. God never fails to give them what he has promised. God never shortchanges one of his servants. God never underpays his servants. But does he appear to overpay some? Without a doubt he does. In fact There's a sense that anything that we get is an overpayment. It's more than we deserve. It's not more than it was promised, but it's more than we deserve. And when he does overpay, who has the right to complain? Do you? Do I? If the truth be told We would find out that he has overpaid every one of his servants. Have we ever deserved God's grace? Well, that would be ultimately impossible. The definition of grace is unmerited favor. How can unmerited favor be merited? It's impossible. It can't be. So I think the issue that's being brought up by Christ in this parable is really do those Who who do those who are doing the judging really think they are? Who are the workers who got to work all day serving the master Who are they to think that they can judge the master on how he treats his other servants? It is really, in the most ultimate of senses, none of their business. Keep looking at the mindset here. Christ says this, I wish to give this last man the same as you. Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with my own things? Or is your eye evil because I am good What Christ is saying here is that the landowner can waste his resources on undeserving people. There's nothing in the law that would prohibit a landowner from giving away his assets to people who don't deserve it. And whose ro whose resources are they? Do they not belong to the landowner? Do they not belong to God? It isn't like he's taken your resources and given them to someone else. No, they're his to give, his to take away, and it's really none of our business. Then notice what he says next. Or is your eye evil because I am good? We naturally think that when we think about what is fair, we are being good. But Christ has shown us here that this thinking's wrong. When we criticize the grace of God being displayed to God's children as God sees fit, what we are exhibiting is an evil. Our eye, our way of seeing, our way of evaluating and processing information in that case is evil. And why is it evil? Because it evaluates and criticizes that which God has done. And what God does is good. How do we know? Because God is good. God can distribute his resources however he sees fit. And it's not been given to us to evaluate how that grace should be displayed. When we think we have that right and that privilege, we are wrong and we show our perspectives to be very evil MacArthur captures the essence here when he says that the problem was not injustice on the part of the landowner, but jealousy on the part of the worker. He goes on to say that jealousy and envy are not based on reason, but on selfishness. The charge of unfairness was not grounded in a love for justice, but in the selfish assumption that the extra pay they wanted was pay that they deserved. In reality, of course, what the latter-day workers were paid had absolutely no bearing on what all the what the all-day workers were paid. They had, as it were, entirely separate contracts with the owner. That's MacArthur. I remember a few years ago I was approached by an employee under my authority And uh she complained, I mean I was taken completely by surprise. She complained very loudly and very discontentedly that a fellow employee was hired after her And she found out that day that that fellow employee was paying more money than she was. And this woman, she had missed the point. Every employee signs a contract with their employer. It's not a group contract for everybody. If the boss wants to pay someone more and it's his money to give it, that's the boss's business. What we need to ask are the conditions we're experiencing under our employer or our master, are they favorable to us? To compare with somebody else's conditions, it's none of our business. MacArthur goes on to say this, to understand the parable's spiritual meaning, it is necessary to understand who and what are represented in it. Jesus explicitly said the parable is about the kingdom of heaven. We see that in verse 1. The vineyard is therefore the kingdom itself The landowner is God the Father, and the foreman is the Son, Jesus Christ. The laborers are believers, and the denarius is eternal life Which all received equally for trusting in Christ. The work day is the believer's lifetime of service to his Lord, and the evening is eternity. God's sovereign , I'm still quoting uh MacArthur, God's sovereign principle for salvation is that every person who comes in faith to his son Jesus Christ receives the same gracious salvation prepared by the Father and given by the Son. There are no exceptions or variations. Whether a person comes to God as a small child and lives a long life of faithful obedient service, or whether he comes to him on his deathbed All come into the kingdom on the same basis and receive the same glorious eternal blessings. The penitent thief who turned to Christ on the cross with his last breath Received the same salvation and heavenly glory as the apostles. He died justly as a criminal, whereas most of them died unjustly because of their faithfulness to Christ He did not even have one hour to serve Christ, whereas some of them served him far into old age He knew just enough about Christ to be saved, and his service was limited to a brief time of praise and thanksgiving. Whereas the disciples were privileged to live intimately with him for three years and were given unique divine revelation from and about him. Yet all of them were received equally by their divine Savior and King, and stand equally before Him in heaven That's all MacArthur. Now, this is not to say the Christians will not receive their individual rewards. And that's really not the topic here. What this is discussing is the equality of salvation. Not the difference of specific rewards for service. And notice that in the parable, the steward keeps going back and inviting workers to come. He keeps going back and inviting workers to come. How refreshing is that point? If you're not a follower of Christ this morning, it's not too late. That's the emphasis here. Even those who are old have an opportunity to turn to Christ. If you're willing, now is the time to come to Christ. Even if you know that you've lived in an unworthy fashion, now is the perfect time to come to Christ. You can have the same salvation as everyone who has come before you. That's the beauty of it. Now we come to the last verse. So the last will be first in the first last, for many are called, but few chosen. Notice again what this parable was about. It was not about how the last were made superior to the first. It just shows that the last and the first received the same grace from the same loving Lord. The last received the first's rewards. And the first received the last's rewards. They all ended up coming in at the same status. They all shared in the eternal reward equally. And what is the reception of this grace based upon? What is it about all these people that they shared in common? What was it that was so special about these people? It was not the length of time they worked. Probably not even the quality of of work they did. It was not i the most significant thing about them was that they were chosen. While many had the opportunity to work, they were called, these were the ones who responded to the call, and they were rewarded by an enormous, unfathomable grace. That's where we all are as brothers and sisters in Christ. That's where we sit this morning. Well, it's important what we think of God, it's even more important what he thinks of us. I say over and over again that we're all in this together, and here we see it again this morning. We all share a common salvation, and the last and the first will share it alike. There's no difference in the eternal state we're going to be in. That's the point of this parable. So will we follow a natural evil bent? Then, having learned this information and conclude that, well, since everyone who makes it into the kingdom shares the same reality, we would be smart to try to make it into the kingdom by the skin of our teeth. You should pay it less. By being saved in the last moment of a faith faithless life. Well, no. There's other scripture that deals with that kind of idea. Psalms 37, one of my favorites. We'll skip through it, but uh verse one don't fret because of evildoers, nor be envious, don't envy The workers of iniquity, those who are going to get in by the skin of their teeth if they get in at all. For they shall soon be cut down like grass, if they stay in the state that they're in, they're in bad shape, and they'll wither as the green herb. There is no future in wanting what the wicked have. And in reality, they'll only have it for a short time. No, it's much better to do what verse 3 takes us into, where it says, trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and feed on his faithfulness. Delight yourself also in the Lord, and he'll give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Don't fret because of him who prospers in his way. Don't fret because of the guy who is not doing what he's supposed to be doing, because of the man who brings wicked schemes to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Don't fret, it only causes harm. Basically, we learn here, virtue is its own reward. Living for God is a glorious opportunity. We need to always keep that in mind, even when it looks like those who live wickedly experience a better life. And that does happen. God promises to make it worth our while. And we will have been found to have had years to serve our Lord Which in the end we will never, ever, ever be sorry for. And we got a lot of error to live in in order not to be sorry for. Verses 16 through 40. A little that the righteous man has, it's better than the riches of the wicked. For the arms of the wicked are going to be broken, but the Lord upholds the righteous The Lord knows the days of the upright, and their inheritance shall be forever. Not like the inheritance that these guys are going to pass on They shall not be ashamed in the evil time, and in the days of famine they'll be satisfied. But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord, like the splendor of the meadows, shall vanish. Into smoke, they're going to vanish away The wicked borrows and doesn't repay, but the righteous shows mercy and gives. For those blessed by him shall inherit the earth, but those cursed by him shall be cut off. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. He delights in his way. That's what we have when we live faithfully. God is delighting in our way. Though he fall, he shall not utterly be cast down. For the Lord upholds him with his hand. I've been young and now I'm old. I can relate to that. Yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his descendants begging bread. He is ever merciful and lensed, and his descendants are blessed. Depart from evil and do good and dwell forevermore. For the Lord loves justice and does not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever. But the descendants of the wicked shall be cut off. The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell in it forever. The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, and his tongue talks of justice. The law of God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide. The wicked watches the righteous, and he seeks to slay them. But the Lord will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged. Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord and keep his way, and he shall exalt you. to inherit the land. When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it. I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a native green tree. We might as well not pretend that that doesn't happen We see plenty of evil men who seem to have it the world by the tail. Yet he passed away. That's the end of all of them. And behold he was no more. Indeed I sought him, but he could not be found Mark the blameless man and observe the upright, for the future of that man is peace. But the transgressors shall be destroyed together, the future of the wicked shall be cut off But the salvation of the righteous is from the Lord. He is their strength in the time of trouble. And the Lord shall help them and deliver them. He shall deliver them from the wicked and save them. Because they trust in him. My point from all of this is that we have the glorious luxury now of living for the Lord. We can do these things that we're told. The wicked aren't doing them. That's okay. We can. It doesn't matter that others may be able to get away with things that we can't get away with. It doesn't matter that some people will seem to slide into heaven by the skin of their teeth. And that will happen. That's what grace is like. That's what our God's grace is like. What this passage tells us is that the person who is living for God, who is dedicated to God in this life, is the wisest person and the most blessed person, no matter how it might appear, to work out in the short run. So serving Christ in the here and now will be richly blessed, and it is guaranteed. This week we would do well to look at our lives and ask, where do we begrudge grace? Where do we begrudge grace to our brothers and sisters? Where do we wish they would face justice or face consequences? Where do we wish they would face the full consequences of their actions? And we should think long and hard about where those ideas come from. It usually does not represent kingdom thinking. And we would do well to learn to see through the eyes of grace. Because those are the eyes that God sees us through. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. It shows us things about you that we would never guess. And it shows us stuff about ourselves that we don't want to see. We thank you that you have extended your grace to us. If you can do it to us, Lord. We know you can do it to anyone. We thank you. We thank you that you are so gracious. as to give full payment after one hour's work. You are so gracious as to use your resources so freely to benefit your children Help us, Lord, to not be misers. Help us, Lord, to not want to enforce some other standard than the one that you use. And help us to represent grace the way you do, so that we represent you the way that we should Help us see these things in our lives this week. And help us to make the changes that are appropriate to be more glorifying to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.