Okay. The topic this morning is God's saving purpose for the whole world. God's saving purpose. For the whole world. Chapter 24 of Isaiah showed us God's judgment upon the whole world. And we began our discussion by talking about the two cities: the city of God. and the city of man. And we talked about their origin and we talked about their destination. We saw that God is the reason why the city of man cannot endure and why the city of God cannot fail. Chapters 25 through 27 are going to fill in the gaps. And that is really our text this morning and next week. Chapters 25 through 27. Chapter 24 talks mostly about the destruction of the city of man. Our text this morning talks mostly about the salvation of the city of God. It continually refers to that day. In context, it's referring to the day when God turns the tables for eternity. It's the day of judgment on the earth, or a period of time soon to lead up to that final day. We see in chapter twenty-four that God will punish, and punish is the right word. Remember we talked about the difference between Between punish and discipline. Punish is the right word, all of those who don't believe in him, who didn't follow him, who would not receive Christ as as his son. We discussed what a terror that will be. The world should be really scared stiff if they have any sense about them. And if that was all that God revealed about himself, we could understand why he would act that way. But this morning we get to revel in the love of God. We see the why of his plan. Isaiah 25, 1. O Lord, you are my God, I will exalt you, I will exalt you, I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things. Your counsels of old are faithfulness and truth. Now, Isaiah has just revealed the punishment of the wicked, and this leads him to break into praise. What he presents is an attitude that's the direct opposite of those faces It's the attitude toward the people of God. It's something that goes deeper than words, but words are used to try to capture it. It's almost something you cannot explain about yourself if you are a believer. It's a force inside you that gravitates toward God. Even if you try to run away, you can't maintain that state. You find yourself drawn back to God. You're drawn back. You can't explain it. It's not. Isn't that really the explanation of our lives if we're believers? Doesn't that best fit the facts of our lives? You know, oh yes, we we decided to follow Christ. We decided to receive his salvation. Those thoughts went through our head. We made those decisions. We confessed his lordship over our lives But what we decided, our decisions don't best explain what really happened to us. A miracle of orientation happened to us. We were truly born again into a different reality that we could not escape from that point on. And in it We simply view the world differently, we view life differently, and we come back to that different orientation point in our lives. O Lord, our heart cries, you are my God, like in Isaiah here. We find that happens inside of our hearts. In direct contrast to the city of man that is about to be destroyed, I have you as my God, and I cannot escape you. I will make much of you, Isaiah is saying. I will make much of you. That's what it means to exalt God. I will talk you up. I will lift you high. I'll put you where everyone can see you. I'll hold you in a more exalted place in my life than anything else. We listened to Thomas Winburg. And he talked about making much of God. Making much of God. That is how the best evangelism happens. It happens when our enthusiasm about God's work toward us seeps into our day-to-day lives, when He is the reason for our existence. He is the reason for our hope. He is the reason for our work. He is the reason for our joy. How can that be avoided? How can it not seep through from our lives, how can that not be attractive to some of the people who hear it and see it? To put it another way, one commentary asked this question, is there anything you are really proud of precisely because it has nothing to do with you? Is there anything you're really proud of precisely because it has nothing to do with you? When you answer that question with Christ You are making much of him. You are exalting him. You're getting it. Then you get how the Christian life is to be lived and explained That's what happens to Isaiah here. He says, I will praise your name, for you've done wonderful things. Your counsels of old are faithfulness and truth. The city of man focuses on the accomplishments of man, the wisdom of man, the pleasure of man, but the city of God focuses on a more worthy target. The believer's orientation is to recognize what God has done, what God has said, what God has revealed. All of us have times when our focus gets askew. We get bummed out due to the truths or lies even that we focus on in our lives. That's the human condition. And normally we get back on track by somebody reminding us of the wonderful things that Isaiah is talking about. The wise things, the true things. Things of God. Maybe at the first hint of our wrong mental spirals, we should work on a list. The list could be called the wonderful things. Just thinking of them and writing them down could likely set us free from much of what troubles us. There are many wonderful things that our God has done. It's worthy of a list, surely. And the councils of old, it says. The councils of old. Oh, what a depth of wisdom. Our world uses the word progressive as always better than what went before it. Have you ever noticed that? So when they talk about a woman's role becoming more like a man's role, they call it progressive. Like now we're really getting somewhere. Have you ever noticed that when we hear the word progressive, our ears pick perk up because we're suspicious of the next word that's gonna come out of their mouths? I know I have. Solomon told us that there's nothing new under the sun. The old truths are the true truths, the important truths, the unchanging truths. Man's predisposition to run from God because of his sin, and God's continual pursuit of man to build a kingdom for himself for eternity. are the old truths. They're the counsels of old. They are God's faithfulness toward us, the undeserving recipients of His Grace. That's the old truth. That's the old counsel. Our world thinks they know better. And they think new is better. They tend to trust the latest new thing. The city of God has a solid foundation that has existed from the time of Adam and Eve and even before it. That is Isaiah's orientation. He's describing the heart's cry of a believer. Then verses 2 through 5, he talks about one of the wonderful things that God has done. He made the city of man a ruin. And it will never be rebuilt. He's talking about the destruction of destruction. The rebellion against God is destroyed at its roots. It will never rise up again. And then look at what God does in Isaiah 25, 6. It says, And in this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all people a feast of choice pieces. a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of morrow, of well-refined wines on the lees. Here we see the salvation of the world. We see what will happen to all of God's people. A feast. A feast laid out by God. A wonderful, glorious feast. The company I work for, I I hadn't really thought that you would be here when when I thought Uh the the company I work for has been purchased by another company. And I was talking to one of the IT guys for the new firm and he told me that rather than rebuilding all of our PCs the new firm is just going to replace them all. All of them. Like some are only a year old. They're going to replace them all. And as soon as I heard that, I noticed a change in my attitude I used to work to provide long-term solutions for my co-workers. So if their PC had any anything that appeared to be a major issue, I would make plans to rebuild it and then get them another PC. so that they would n not have any long term problems with it. But now I think ha, they're getting a new one. I don't have to worry about it anymore. They'll get by. You know, we can we can walk this thing through to the deadline And if it's not stopping them from work, I don't care if it has some fatal floss. It doesn't have to last forever. They'll have a new PC soon. That's the attitude toward life that our text fosters this morning. It's temporary. It doesn't matter what's going to happen in the short run. What happens in the long run is really what matters. All of us are going to have a new reality soon. And it's going to start with a wonderful banquet. From that time on, there will be no more suffering. In verse 8, we see that death is swallowed up. Here the Lord will wipe away all tears from all faces. And the conflict caused by fellow human beings By the existence of sin, gone forever. This is the new reality that makes the old reality worth facing. In July, my sister began talking about the vacation that we took last week. And when we began talking about it, it seemed like a long time until that trip became a reality. But in retrospect, it was just like a flash, and now it's done. That's the perspective that Scripture gives to our present reality. It's a flash. It's like the lifespan of a weed It's like the length of the duration of a morning mist. It's fleeting, then it's over. Every single one of us wrestles with the space and time reality that we live in. For some of us, it's sickness. For others, it's uncertainty. For some of us, it's longing for some satisfaction. For others, it's wishing life were not so hard. For some, it's the frustration of limited resources. We're all in that same boat. Everyone suffers in some way or form in this life But God has given us his old counsel, his true counsel, his wise counsel. And in it God says he will make it worth our while. Before I went to college, I worked for my dad every summer and most weekends. And uh I was saving up for college. That's what he told me I was doing. Now my dad and I never had a conversation about the terms of college. I don't think he ever told me that he was going to pay. So I told him at one point, hey Dad, you know, I can work somewhere else and make more money. I thought he might want me to. And I think he was offended. But he told me that he wanted me right where I was doing right what I was doing. And he told me, just continue doing exactly what you're doing. And that and he I remember him saying this. He said, I should trust him, he will make it worth my while. And that's that's how he worded it, I remember. I'll make it worth your while. After all the money that I saved was used up in the first check for the first semester. My dad paid for the rest of college. I came out with no debt. That's the Christian life in the nutshell We are living by doing what God wants, trusting that in the end he will make it worth our while. That's faith. We simply live every day believing that God will make it worth our while Look at what Isaiah says in verse 9. He says, And it will be said in that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him, and he will save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. We will be glad and rejoice in his salvation. See that? We have waited for him and we will be glad. We have waited for him and he will save. We have waited for him and we will rejoice. That's what faith looks like. That's what faith does. Never allow yourself to think that faith is ripping you off. We are simply waiting for better. We're trusting that God will make it worth our while. When a Christian young person chooses refuses by faith, to refuse to have sex outside of marriage, they aren't doing it because they're losing something. They do it because they believe that God has something better for them. Maybe in this life, but definitely in the next. When a married person by faith refuses to bail on their vows when it gets difficult, they aren't doing this because they are losing something. They do it because they believe that God has something better for them. Maybe not in this life, but definitely in the next. When a suffering person by faith chooses not to give in to self-pity, they aren't doing it because they are losing something. They do it because they believe that God has something better for them. Maybe in this life, but definitely in the next. They're trusting that God will make it worth their while. They don't know how, but they're sure that he will. Because that is just like God. We could go on and on. Every difficulty we face is the same in this regard. A believer is faithful, not because they believe that they think they're losing something, but that they and that they are such good people that they're willing to lose. something to impress God. It's like, look at how much I'm giving up for you, God. No, that's not it. They're saying, hey, this is my God. I know what he's like. I know his intentions for his people. I know what he has planned for me. He told me. Hey, any gig that starts with a party like he's gonna throw is worth whatever it might cost me. I'm not losing anything in comparison to what I'm gaining. I just may have to wait a while. That's the attitude of faith that carries us through this existence. We have waited for him and we will be glad. Does that describe your life? Really? Where have you really waited for God to give you something that you were desperate to have right now? Where have you waited for God to give you something that you were desperate to have right now? Where have you refused your natural reaction to something and chose to simply trust God? In your difficulty, can it be said that you are actively and intentionally living by waiting on Christ? Do you display an attitude that says that you are most blessed, even though the road might be pretty tough that you're walking on? on right now. Can you describe your situation in a way that makes much of Christ, even when your situation is very, very difficult? Would those who are around you describe you as honoring Christ by the way that you trust that he will make it worth your while through the toughest of things. This kind of living doesn't just happen to us. We won't fall into it. It is intentional. It is taking God at His word. It is being convinced at the core of your being of the goodness of God. A Christian in the deepest sense is never a victim. He's always a victor. We're just waiting for the end of the story. On that day, the score is read and we win. It's guaranteed. It's the nice thing about Christianity. You are guaranteed to win at the end. On the day that the prizes are handed out, we get one. On the day that real wealth is measured, we're rich. Christians are the ultimate winners We win an eternity with Christ. How can we even foster self-pity? How can we act like victims? How can we ever think that sin is worth more than what Christ has in store for us? The waiters on God are the winners. The waiters on God are the winners. 1 Corinthians 15, 51-25. three fifty five says, Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised incorruptible and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory O death, where's your sting? O Hades, where's your victory? What a wonderful thing to consider. What a wonderful truth. To lose ourselves in while we're tempted to lose ourselves in any other kind of truth. That is where we win. We've waited for him. We will be glad and rejoice in his salvation. This is a description of eternity. Glad and rejoicing. Every day, if there is such a thing as day, in eternity, will be a day glad and rejoicing. Does that seem to you to be something worth the wait? And what are you going to be tempted to give this up for today, this week? What is temporarily telling you that it is better than this? Where's your trial? Your trial of faith. Now, jumping ahead a little bit, Isaiah 26, 1 and 2, In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city. See the reference to city again? We have a strong city. God will appoint salvation for walls and bowler. Open the gates that the righteous nation which keeps the truth may enter in. Here again is the city of God. Here are the people of God who the city of man regarded like a sorry lot. They thought we were missing out on all the fun. That's what the city of man thinks about the city of God. And what's this city made of? Salvation is the walls and the bulwarks. This city of God is built of salvation. And the gates are open wide for the peoples who keep the truth. This is clearly referring to those who have responded to the truth of salvation when we look at it from all of Scripture. This is talking about people who have seen the brutal truth of their own sinfulness. This is talking about people who have faced the brutal truth of their eternal death verdict from the sin. sin that they were born into and that they have practiced. And it's talking about a people who have understood the saving truth that Christ died to set us free from the penalty. and the power of sin, and that one day we will be set free from sin's presence. Those are the people the gate is open for. And what do those people look like now? How do they live? Isaiah 26, 3 and 4. You will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you Because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for in Yah the Lord is everlasting in strength. This is actually part of a song that is to be sung in the land of Judah in that day. So it's a future song. So looking at that way, how does that change our understanding? I mean, this is always a verse I've run back to, and and uh, you know, I've always assumed that it's about the here and now. Well, in context, it's definitely true about the future. The outcome of this trust is perfect peace. Perfect peace. Can we imagine an environment that is more peaceful than this eternal city of God? It will be peace with God, peace with each other, and peace with ourselves. Now that is some perfect peace, not to be interrupted by any situation that's What's going to happen there? And what kind of person does this happen to? To the one whose mind is stayed on God. To one whose mind Mind is stayed on God. We've said it over and over again, and we'll keep saying it. The battle for your heart is won or lost in your mind. The battle for your heart is won or lost in your mind. What you think about God is the most important thing about you. In our struggle to live a godly life, it does not pay us to focus our attention too much on our feelings or our experiences. We do best to focus on our thoughts, on our minds, on our decisions, on our beliefs. That's where the battle for your allegiance and behavior rages. That is where sanctification happens in the Christian. life. And the determining factor under it all, underwriting all of that, is our trust in God. The word for stayed means to lean upon, to take hold, to be sustained by. We get the idea of a desperation to have. That's this state. To depend upon fully. When we fix our minds upon God, our lives will take on as peaceful of a quality as we will ever get here on earth. And where does all this come from? It's based on our trust. Can you see that's where it all starts? That's an important concept to get. Our trust. We trust in God. That causes our heart to be fixed on God, and that results in peace in our lives. And in eternity, it will be the perfect peace on all fronts. So naturally the next verse implores us, trust in the Lord forever. Of course. That's the solution. If that's where all the good stuff comes from, that's where you need to say. Trust in the Lord forever, for it the Lord is everlasting strength. This is interesting. I had no idea of this. The phrase everlasting strength more literally means rock of ages. Ring a bell? Rock of Ages. That's where the song came from. Who here doesn't want peace? Who here doesn't want a tranquil mind free of useless and unproductive turmoil? Who here does not want a relationship with Christ free of the distance created? By sin in our lives. Where does that come from? How do we get there? First, trust God instead of all the other alternatives that spring up in our lives. Don't trust idols. Don't trust your seamer. Don't trust your heart. Don't trust in man. Don't trust in your own resources. Don't trust your own abilities. These are all the ways we tend to trust, and it just leads to more turmoil and less peace. Trust God. Trust what God says. Trust what God intends for you. As that issue is settled, go to God's word and find out what comes from his mind. Pursue it with the desperation. That's the part I think we lack. I think we have become a little bit laxadaisical. We depend on knowing a lot because we We're in church, you know, a lot. Many of us have been in church all of our lives. And we just assume we know things. But there are questions in our lives that we don't know the answers to, and we We need to have the sense of desperation that says, I'm going to find out, and I'm not going to quit until I know God's mind on this matter. Don't stop until you get an answer from God's word. Some of them aren't simple. Some of them are pretty complicated. Some of them take a while to get there. Some of those answers we desperately need in our lives don't come overnight. Then we put what is from his mind into our mind, and we place replace the rubbish with truth. We reorient our life based on the words of God. And the result of that process is peace. That's the path to peace. You want peace in your life? That's how you get there. That's how you arrive. Let's go on. Isaiah 26, 8 and 9. Yes, in the way of your judgments, O Lord, we have waited for you. The desire of our soul is your name and the remembrance of you. With my soul I have desired you in the night. Yes, by my spirit within me I will seek you earthly For when your judgments are on the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness. You see what this is saying? These people's hearts cry out for the glory of God. They only desire for much to be made of God. They want all the focus to go to God. They want his name to be exalted. They want him to be remembered. And along with that is their continual personal orientation. They sought God often and early. And they look forward to God's judgments because those judgments would result in humanity learning what humanity's got to learn. So these people wait for God's judgments on the earth. What drives them to want God's judgments? Their desire for God's glory. How does that desire for God's glory motivate them personally? They seek God early and often. They want to be with him. They want his influence. when his presence in their lives. They go out of their way to be sure that they do not live without it. And why are they pleased with God's judgments? Because at the end of the day, no one is going to last through the judgments of God without being taught what righteousness is Some in their destruction, some in their salvation. But people will finally see what this God that they make much of is made of. Do you not sometimes wish that God would straighten out so many of the world's inhabitants? Particularly the irritating ones. But uh there are so many that speak so pridefully, they speak with such assurance that there is no God, they ridicule the very idea of God doing what He has He has done in the Old and New Testament. They're champions of the new morality, which is no morality at all. They stand strong for concepts that are more based in rebellion against God than couched in respect for God. They laugh at the idea of a creator. They mock the idea of a Lord. They belittle the idea of God sending his son to save human beings. They put all religions in the same category and confuse the very idea of ultimate truth. We'll look for further at this next week. But in verses 8 and 9 of chapter 26, it shows us the inner motivation of the people. who are waiting for God, the people who trust God, the people who love God. The more we know our God, the more we desire His glory, the more indignant we feel when God is mocked. Remember David and Goliath? Isn't that what really got to him? It wasn't so much Goliath showing up and saying, I can take you. It was more, he was basically saying, your God can't overcome us. Me. I'm going to whoop them. You know, it's that kind of mentality. The more we'll want God to show himself strong as we hear those sorts of taunts, the more we'll want the nations to be taught who they have been messing with all this time. We have to understand that this can be going on at the same time that we long for all God's people to come to Himself. It's not one or the other. I think growing up I got the idea that you know if I'm really spiritual, I am going to only want uh salvation for every human being. But that isn't really how it works out. God scheme of things Things. We don't need to feel guilty for wanting the judgment of God to fall on this godless world. A lot of people who were much better than us have longed for this to happen. In fact, if we really buy into the glory of God, we must desire his ultimate removal of the wicked at some level. Even the souls under the altar in Revelation called out, how much longer are you gonna allow those people to do this stuff? And those souls were not rebuked. It's a good thing to desire the glory of God. But at the same time, the time has been extended because God is looking to bring all of his people into his is fold. We don't have much time left. So while we are trusting God, while we want much to be made of His name, While we are seeking him early and often and long, we need to be preaching his goodness to the world that we are surrounded by while realizing that his goodness will not be experienced by most of the people that we talk to. And rightly so. The righteousness of God is going to be fully revealed. And the people of God want it that way. Isaiah has given us a wonderful glimpse into the love of God this morning. He's shown us how the Christian life works and how to live for Christ here and now. We see God's end game, and it's worth whatever we have to go through. No matter what it costs us, we are never victims. We are always victors. How can we make more of God in our lives? How can we glorify Him even in the midst of our trials? Where must we reorient our trust from what we currently trust to God? It is that trust that everything else in our lives gravitates from. Where do we lack the peace of God and the peace with God? Let's start with trust in Him in that issue. Isaiah has shown us that it is well worth our while to trust our God. Let's commit to trusting our God anew this week in the details. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it shows us. It shows us us and it shows us you. And we see you for who you really are. Lord, we thank you so much that you have seen stooped to our level, that you have called us to yourself, that you have done a a miracle in our lives that would cause us To seek you. And Lord, we ask that you would help us to honor you with the minutes of our days and with the week that we have in front of us, and that we would see even this week, a difference that you are making in our life this week as opposed to last week. And that you would continue to grow us in your direction. That when we We experience that perfect peace when we are with you in your environment and there is no no longer any struggle. That we will see that it was well worth our while and that we will do nothing but praise you for eternity. For offering people like us something like that. In Jesus' name. Amen.