Our text today is Isaiah chapter fifteen through Chapter 23. You may uh be looking at your watch thinking, how long in the world is this gonna take? But it's God's judgment on the nations And it's difficult to track the history of many of these prophecies. And many of the locations are uncertain. And even unless unreal revealed in the text, the timing is difficult to know for a lot of these prophecies. We're going to take a very unusual approach for us this morning. We're going to look at the judgments from chapter 15 through 23 as a whole. And we'll try to glean information from them that will help us in our day-to-day decisions. Please read the chapters for yourselves this week. There's more to learn. There's certainly more to glean from these passages, but we'll focus on what are to me the most obvious applications and some of the most helpful truths. Here's the outline of the text. This is not the outline for the sermon, but it's the outline for the text. The judgment of Moab And you could just put judgment on the left-hand side of your page or whatever. Moab, it begins in chapter 15, verse 1, and goes to 1614 So it's Isaiah 15 through 16, 14. And this judgment we're told will happen in the next three years from the time that it was prophesied. The judgment on Syria and Israel is chapter seventeen. Ethiopia is eighteen. Egypt is nineteen one through seventeen. Egypt is nineteen one through seventeen Then Egypt and Assyria are Egypt, Assyria, and Israel are blessed. And that's chapter 19. 18 through 25. Egypt, Assyria, and Israel are blessed. 19, 18 through 25. Then judgment on Egypt and Ethiopia, clarified. In chapter twenty Babylon twenty one verses one through ten Edom twenty one eleven and twelve Arabia 21 13 through 17, and this was going to happen within a year. Arabia 21, 13 through 17. Jerusalem 22 1 through 14, and that's some of the text that Tom read. Jerusalem 22, 1 through 14, sh and then Shebnah, the steward of the king's palace, is replaced by Eliakim. It's like thrown right in the middle. Not sure why. But Sheibna is replaced by Eliakim, and that's in chapter 22, verses 15 through 25. And then the judgment on Tyre, chapter 23. Now, what we're going to look at from these passages this morning are one , the sins that were being punished. So the sins that were being punished, the second thing is the results that those punishments would have. And the third thing is the interesting and profound points that stand out in the text. Obviously, there will be more than I'm going to cover, but these are the ones I want to bring up. So first we want to talk about the sins that are mentioned in these passages. What we read in our text this morning is pure human misery. Pure human misery. What God has in mind for these human beings is awful. Our world wants to continually measure God based on his record of providing humans with happiness. That's how we evaluate God in our culture. They say if God was truly good, And then they tell us how he should be b be promoting our purposes if he were really a good God. And they point to the Old Testament and tell us that they don't want to serve a God who would have his people wipe out villages, including women and children. You and I don't need to skirt around this issue, nor do we need to expect that many will respond to our proclamation of God's goodness with open acceptance. Human life is never more important to God than God's own glory is to him. Human life is never more important to God than God's own glory is to him. Just as our creations are never more important to us than our own welfare, God does with his creation whatever he purposes When God sent the Israelites into Canaan, he wanted many of these cultures annihilated. Why? There are plenty of references to the prohibition of the Israelites picking up the practices and the idols of those who lived in Canaan This leads us to believe that the problem was sin. The reason he wanted him annihilated was sin. God did not want his people to pick up their sin. And also, every individual that was missed in the slaughter would be a potential future enemy for the kingdom of Israel. So long as this kingdom of his was to be represented by an earthly kingdom, those people who represented sin had to be removed And God makes no apology for this, ever. Our God in the New Testament hasn't changed. He is still the same. But one of the differences is now that his kingdom is now purely a spiritual kingdom There are no longer any geographical boundaries to his kingdom. There are no longer any genetic bloodlines for his kingdom. Our enemies are no longer ultimately human, but spiritual. So we no longer have any commands to kill our common enemies, our human enemies. We're to love them in hopes of winning them into the gospel, into the kingdom. Our world refuses to see this and understand it. So be it. It's true nonetheless. Now, what are we to learn about God's ruthless punishment of these people? One of the themes from the beginning of the Bible to the end is the danger of coexisting with sin. For the Israelites, it meant exterminating the human beings who carried these sinful temptations. For us, it's removing its influence from our hearts, weeding it out of our hearts by the truth. For us, it's fighting the fiery darts of the devil with all the spiritual resources available to us. These nations in our texts are being wiped out. Not all of them, but many of them. They are being displaced. The men are being killed, the women are being ravished, the children are being stolen or killed. This is awful stuff. But that is the cost of sin. That's what happens when sin runs rampant on a planet. No human being is more important to God than God's own glory. And sin is a blatant attack by human beings on God's glory. Sin is essentially spitting on one's creator. It deserves what it gets when God finally brings it into judgment. And when God places unrepentant sinners into the hands of other unrepentant sinners, trying foul is not going to have an effect on God. Now, for us who claim to be believers, followers of Christ, do we see the obvious application here? How can we, who claim to live for God's glory, who claim to cherish God's Son, who claim to be God's children, how can we blindly accept Sinful habits, sinful attitudes, sinful alliances into our lives. How can we invite anything into our homes that will cultivate those habits? How can we coexist with that which God hates? We can't control that out in the world, but we can inside of our walls. The point of all of this is sin is a big deal, and God will not put up with deliberate rebellion forever. That's what we see in our text. Now let's look at some of the specific sins listed in our text. Keep in mind that these are reasons for God destroying these people. If they weren't going to learn or disciplining his people if they were going to learn. Remember we talked about the difference. We ought to pay attention here. So the first thing we have is Moab's sin, which is in chapter 16, verses 6 and 7, where it says, We have heard of the pride of Moab. He is very proud. Of his haughtiness and his pride and his wrath, but his lies shall not be so. The history here is that Moab was so proud When they were threatened, they would not approach Jerusalem for help, even though Jerusalem may have been able to save them at that point in time. That is pride at its worst. It won't seek to humble itself even when facing certain doom. This is the circumstance of all unbelievers who have heard the gospel but simply won't respond to it. They won't approach King Jesus for a rescue. They'd rather protect themselves with their own resources. If this describes your life now, give up. Surrender to the Lordship of Christ while you have time. Gain His help with your sin by receiving His blood to cover your sins. That's the only way to avoid God's certain wrath on your life. Now look at the picture painted in this passage: pride, haughtiness, wrath, and lies. Pride, haughtiness, wrath, and lies. These are often the attributes of the enemies of God. And evidently this whole people were infested with this sin. They were referred to as a group. To be this kind of people. We've talked a little bit before about the reverse is what we should be. We've spoken about this many times, but it's such a dangerous sin that we should speak of it again. Do you resist hearing advice? Do you resist looking closely at your life to see what is really driving or has driven your decisions? Do you start any conflict with the assumption that the fault is not yours? That you would have never done or had the motives that others seem to think you might have You cannot be the one wrong in a relationship. Do we feel that way? More churches and relationships have been destroyed by this single attitude than anything else. Pride. The assumption that we are in the right because we must be, because we're us. The trusting of our own intuition is the final authority in all things personal. Again, pride's goal is not to know and to adjust to truth as it's presented to us. Pride's goal is to win and to silence all other parties. Moab had a chance here, but they did not respond to their opportunity. They would not admit that their way of handling things was wrong. Isaiah had a heart for the Moabites. We don't know why, but he was distraught about their judgment. It's really interesting to r as you read through it, you yi uh as if you're paying attention, you say, what's going on with this guy? I mean this is an enemy of God. Why is he so upset But he was. It broke Isaiah's heart. And that seems to be a very New Testament attitude. He wanted better for his enemy than his enemy wanted for himself. But ultimately God would wipe them out because of their pride and its offshoots of violence and deception. Then we go to Syria and Israel's sin in chapter 17, verse 10. Where it says, There will be desolation because you have forgotten the God of your salvation and have not been mindful of the rock of your stronghold. Because you have forgotten the God of your salvation and not been mindful of the rock of your stronghold The word for forgotten here indicates that something has been lost to memory or a period of time has softened the memory of it. Forgotten. I understand that word really well. Forgotten. Not been mindful. A verb meaning to remember, to mention, to recall To think about, to think on, to be remembered, to recall, to acknowledge, to mention, to make known The basic meaning indicates a process of mentioning or recalling either silently, verbally, or by means of a memorial sign or symbol. The verb often means to mention, to think about. All of our minds gravitate back to the things we most love All of our minds gravitate back to the things that we most love. We remember the things that are most important to us. We think about those things that are most pleasing to us, or we fearfully consider losing those things that are most precious to us. The word remember in Scripture is not an incidental word. It's not something treated as if it will happen if we do nothing to make it happen. We're exhorted over and over to remember God and God's Word. We can't rely upon it just happening. God does not say, allow yourself to remember. God does not say that the responsibility is on Him to make us remember. He commands us to remember He commands us. Let's take a look at a classic piece of remembering. If we want to know how useful remembering is, Psalm 77, 6 through 15. It's amazing. 77, 6 through 15, he says, I call to remembrance my song in the night. I meditate within my heart, and my spirit makes diligent search. Will the Lord cast off forever? And will he be favorable no more? Has his mercy ceased forever? Has his promise failed forevermore? Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah. And I said, This is my anguish. But I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember your wonders of old. I will also meditate on all your work and talk of your deeds. Your way, O God, is in the sanctuary. Who is so great a God as our God? You are the God who does wonders. You have declared your strength among the peoples. You have with your arm redeemed your people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Say David was facing here a troublesome time. It seemed like God had rejected him, like he was no longer in God's favor. And he had lots of evidence. He had lots of truths, like we were talking about in Sunday school. He was bummed out and he had some truth, some reason to be feeling the way that he was feeling. So what did he do? What was his therapy? David practiced remembering therapy. Remembering therapy. It's the therapy we continually need to change our moods and habits of thought. But I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember your wonders of old. I will also meditate on all your work and talk of all your deeds. David probably suffered from some of the same anxieties that we do. That's why we love the Psalm so much, because he's just like us. But he didn't accept their verdict. He used them as a motivation to remember. And when he remembered, he was lifted above the fog of the truths that he could see to the higher truths that only God could see. The more prominent truths, the more permanent truths, the more freeing truths. The truths that would deliver him from his malaise. And he stuck with it until he got to them. To forget our God is not a small deal. To forget our God is not a minor infraction. It's a danger, a great danger to our souls. What will you do this week to ensure you will include remembering God in the midst of your daily routine? How will you incorporate remembering God in your busy schedule? It won't happen by itself. If we only apply this one single point, this sermon will have served a valuable purpose We need to intentionally include remembering God in our day-to-day activity. Okay, Egypt's sin, chapter 19, verse 3. The spirit of Egypt will fail in its midst. I will destroy their counsel, and they will consult the idols and charmers, the mediums and the sorcerers. Well, we can see where Egypt puts its trust. They trusted a God that wasn't a God and would not trust the one true God. We don't need to say much about this. If we haven't considered our idol worship up to this point in Isaiah, we probably never will. The book of Isaiah is just a idle slammer, and you know we really need to uh to keep up with that theme. Idols are bad because they offend God, but they're also bad because they always let us down. They'll leave us in a state of desperation, and they'll never help to carry the burden that they create. Okay, Jerusalem's sin in Isaiah 22, 11 through 14. You also made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool, but you didn't look to its maker. Nor did you have respect for him who fashioned it long ago. And in that day the Lord God of hosts called for weeping and for mourning, for baldness and for girding with sackcloth, but instead Joy and gladness, slaying oxen and killing sheep, eating meat and drinking wine. Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. And then it was revealed in my hearing by the Lord of hosts, surely for this iniquity there will be no atonement for you, even to your death, says the Lord of hosts. There's a 70s song about a man discontent at home, so he takes the long way home. I I think to sing karaoke, but who knows? But there's a line in it where his wife seems to think he's part of the furniture. I always thought that was an interesting way of putting it. Seems to think that he's part of the furniture. This text is talking about treating God like he's part of the furniture. Here is God supplying for every need. He's taken care of his people. He's given them a city with water. And they take the water as a resource and they use it as they see fit. They substitute the provision for the provider. They trust in the provision instead of the provider They no longer need God. They just use what He has given them to take care of themselves. They express no gratitude or appreciation for His contribution to their welfare. They would not submit to the one who has provided everything that they needed. Look what they did when God attempted to call them to himself. He wanted a sign of relationship. He wanted them to act according to the relationship that he was offering them. He was inviting them to share in the perspective that he had about their condition. He wanted them to reflect who he is and what he cares about. But instead, what do they do? They party They partied with the stuff that God gave them. Instead of mourning for how they had been treating God, instead of being ashamed about how they had been living, they throw a party. Looking at their condition in an absolute frivolity. So, as always, we've got to ask. What about me? Do I love what God has given me more than I love God? Do I love what God has given me more than I love God? Do I care more about my relationship with Him than the provisions that He gives me? Do I care more about him than my spouse or my children or my family or my friends? We can often tell what we care about most when God chooses to deprive us of those provisions or when those provisions are threatened. How quick are we to turn on God when God withholds those things that we want from Him? Will we mourn our distance from God even when we're enjoying His provisions? Do we treat God like He's part of the furniture as long as there are no problems? What do we do when we are called to use our resources for His kingdom and we know that's going to cost us things that we care about? What will we do? How do we respond when our resources are threatened? We need to consider this because this was one of the sins that Jerusalem was being destroyed for. It's not a flippant thing to show no appreciation or respect to our Savior and to allow his provisions to become more important to us than his relationship. And that was the sin. Tyre 's sin, chapter twenty-three, eight and nine. It says, Who has taken this counsel against Tyre, the crowning city? Whose merchants are princes, whose traders are the honorable of the earth. The Lord of hosts has purposed it to bring to dishonor the pride of all glory, to bring into contempt all the honorable of the earth. I read something in my study that I wouldn't want to take credit for. It's just too good. This is, I'm going to quote, it's a little lengthy, but it's really good. Finally, Isaiah records the oracle concerning Tyre. His last prophecy in chapters 21 through 23 matches his first in chapters 13 through 20. Isaiah started out with Babylon, and now he concludes with Tyre. Babylon and Tyre are like bookends around Isaiah's vision of the nations. Why? The New Testament explains. The revelation of John sees the whole world as one vast Babylon. Revelations 14, 8, 16, 19, 17, 1 through 19. Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, Revelation 18, 2. That's the way John perceives the end of the world culture we live in. The end of our culture is the fall of Babylon. So on the one hand, he calls the world Babylon, but on the other hand, John also describes our world as an Azene. Isaiannic Tyre. A prostitute who out hustling the nations Come, I'll show you the kingdom the I'll show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, and with the wine of whose sexual immorality The dwellers on earth have become drunk. Revelation 17, 1 and 2, Isaiah 23, 3. The prophetic eye merges Babylon and Tyre together into our understanding of our world. Babylon and Tyre together typify all human societies. Babylon symbolizes ruthless political power, and Tyre symbolizes dishonest commercial success. Babylon, ruthless political power, Tyre, dishonest commercial success. Babylon was a land power, Tyre, a sea power Babylon used force, Tyre used seduction. The strategies differ from one culture to the next, but what matters in the one kingdom of man is money and power and ego and visceral pleasure. All the things that belong to time rather than eternity. This is our brilliant, heroic, costly, empty world. And continuing with the quote, the prophets understood the power of Babylon Tyre of this world, Babylon slash Tyre. They saw that this world is not only the opponent of faith, it is also the seductress of faith. The world not only punishes all who follow Christ, it panders, tempting believers away from Christ. The devil doesn't care much either way. He'll use harsh intimidation and he'll use soft seduction. Whatever works, as long as we lose sight of Christ so that our faith no longer overcomes That is the spiritual battle being fought deep in our hearts every day. I just thought that was really good. Pride is the predominant issue with Tyre, as well as some of the other cities and nations that we've talked about. Now, is Tyre seducing us? What would happen to us if we were suddenly transplanted into Syria, facing brutal hardships and maybe starvation? How would we respond? Would the seed of Tyre undo us? It's interesting that Tyre is only going to be down and out for 70 years. In the prophecy it tells us that information. It's probably gone from 700 BC to 630 B. C. during this Assyria's reign. Because during that period of time, Tyre was not allowed to do any business over the seas, so they had to turn to agriculture to sustain themselves. Probably the restoration that came 70 years later happened because Tyre was a source of trade for Israel. So Tyre was important in God's plan. To uh to aid his people. They were kind of a tool to be used. And it's interesting also how like a harlot Tyra was She was all decked out in clothing to advertise its wares in order to do business without regard for anything that God had said. Money is the God, not God. Now, what's all this judgment going to accomplish? So we we've heard all of the judgment. We've heard at least the sin that caused the judgment What's the end game? What's it going to accomplish? Isaiah 17, 7 and 8. In that day a man will look to his maker, and his eyes will have respect for the Holy One of Israel He will not look to the altars, the work of his hands. He will not respect what his fingers have made, nor the wooden images, nor the incense altars. Hard times are not hard for no reason. Hard times are not hard for no reason. It's a double negative, so you know it means there's a reason for hard times. We don't always know what the reasons are, but we know that this hard time in our text, we know what this was for. This is the goal that God had in mind for his people. Idols are hard to wean ourselves from. There are usually two options. There's the difficult way that leaves No regrets, or there's the painful way that leaves deep regrets. We can work in conjunction with the Holy Spirit's efforts to wean ourselves of it. That requires humility. It requires honesty. It requires choosing to believe what God says each step of the way as we're weaning ourselves from that idol's instance. uh influence in our lives. As it's saying, you must have me. We are saying, My God says I do not, even though right now I feel I feel like I do. That doesn't come easy. It's very hard to say no to those things that we feel deep in our guts we must have. And isn't that where the battle lies? Or we can wait until God does business with us by changing our circumstances. This is usually a very painful way to get free of violence. But God will do whatever it takes if we're his children, and we can thank him that he does. For Israel and Syria, it took an immense burden of pain for them to turn that corner. But God's discipline was going to be effective. How do we want to be weaned of our idols? It's up to us. Will we listen or will we be made to listen? Watch those with small children. Which way makes more sense? I mean as you watch as an adult and you know they're pushing the edge and They're gonna be made to listen. Don't you just doesn't your heart cry out, Why why don't you just do what they say? You know, why don't you avoid the wrath that is soon to be coming upon you? To listen or to be made to listen, we get that choice. Egypt Egypt's um results. Isaiah 19, 18 through 22. In that day, five cities in the land of Egypt will speak the language of Canaan and swear by the Lord of hosts. One will be called the city of destruction. In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the Lord at its border. And it will be for a sign and for a witness to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt. For they will cry to the Lord because of the oppressors, and he will send them a savior and a mighty one, and he will deliver them Then the Lord will be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians will know the Lord in that day, and will make sacrifice and offerings. Yes, he will make a vow to the Lord and perform it. And the Lord will strike Egypt, he will strike and heal it. They will return to the Lord and He will be entreated by them and heal them. God always has an end game, and in it he will be glorified. God is allowing Egypt to suffer so that eventually even they will worship him, at least to some degree. God will display his glory in a heathen land Instead of crying to all their idols, they will cry out to the one true God. And he'll respond to them by providing a deliverer. I can't tell if this is Christ or some human power. But the hard times for Egypt are going to have the exact effect that God intended for them, even though they're horrible to begin with. God is always in control, even during the times of our worst suffering. We don't know what his plans are all the time. We don't know what his plans are, but we can know what his intentions are. We know what God's intentions are. To his people, he tells us over and over and over again So if you're in the midst of a trial, keep that in mind. You might not know what his plan is, but you know what his intention is Now, before we close out, I'd like to point out some abnormalities. First, Sheibnah is singled out in chapter 22, 15 through 25. Now, Shebna was the steward of the king's palace. He was preparing for himself a wonderful crypt to be buried in. So he would have honor even in death. We get a clue of what kind of guy this is. But God was going to have none of it. Sheepnah had exalted himself. He was full of himself. And God was going to put a wrench in his plans. He would never be placed in that wonderful crypt that he had made for himself. And he was going to replace Shiva with someone who was going to be much more honorable than Shebna was. It's interesting to me that Shiva is the only person singled out for judgment in these passages. God must have really hated what he was doing. For him to get, you know, ink time. Another interesting thing is that Babylon is referred to in 21-1 as the wilderness or desert of the sea, depending on your translation. The wilderness of the sea or the desert of the sea. Think about that The desert of the sea. The interesting thing about both a desert and a sea is that neither of them are capable of sustaining human life You're not going to live in the sea, and you're not going to live in the desert. In essence, neither one has anything to offer us. And that's the point. Babylon has nothing to offer us. Babylon has nothing to sustain us. Nothing that will grant our heart satisfaction. So there is really no sense in looking to the world system to get what our heart needs. We won't find it there. We're barking up the wrong tree. Babylon is the wilderness of the sea. Another interesting thing is found in 21, 11, and 12, and there's a play on words here. Edom and Duma are similar in the language that this was written on. Duma means silence. I have a colorful associate who talks about situations when he calls somebody and it's silent. He says he refers to it as hearing crickets. He said I asked this person a question and I heard crickets. That's what Duma is, hearing crickets. Here's another good quote. In verse 11, a plaintiff Edomite voice is asking, Watchman, what time of the night? In other words, Mr. Watchman, Mr. Prophet, what time of the night is it? How much more darkness and gloom do we still have to endure? How long until the dawn of a new era? And the prophet responds in verse 12, but his answer is vague. And that's the point. God is not giving Edom a clear word. Everything hangs in suspense, but God puts them off. Come back again. There is another nation, however, the people of God, and they have a bright future in many explicit promises. He is not silent. To his people. Paul writes in the New Testament that whatever was written in the former days was written for our instruction, that we through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. So Edom hears crickets. The people of God hear his voice. And uh fourthly, in in In chapter 22, 1, we encounter the oracle concerning the Valley of Vision. The Oracle concerning the Valley of Vision. When you want to go somewhere with a great view, where do you go? You go somewhere high. You know, you go to a mountain peak or something like that. You don't go into the valley. You don't go into the valley for vision. There are lots of reasons to go in the valley, but vision is not one of them. Verse 11 says, you did not look to him who did it or see him who planned it long ago. So the people of God were not looking to the right place. They were not looking to their God to, as the song says, order and provide. Their vision has become blindness. And look at what it results in. Verse 13. Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. This is God's people looking just like the world. They've lost their vision of God and as a result they've lost their purpose in life. They're living just like the rest of the world for what the world has to offer. Their existence has been centered on planet Earth with all of its limitations. It is a tragic thing when the church has no more purpose left in their lives. It's a travesty when our lives can be described as getting up and going to bed, enjoying life as best we can and then dying. This is not the life that Christ died to give us. This is what he said. Matthew 5, 13 through 16. You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It's then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all those who are in the house Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. We were put here and chosen by God for a higher purpose. We are to glorify our Father in heaven. That's what our life is for. And our lives are intended to be lights, little places where a person is living by a whole different set of rules We're marching to a different drummer. There's something about us that's different. Because we are not looking to this world to give us what sustains us Will we be that person who voluntarily and habitually remembers God? Will we be that person who will not allow our focus to fall on what God gives us, but on God Himself? Will we remember our purpose in such a way we live to glorify God? And will we be the people that God has no need to even discipline because we don't need to be made to listen We listen because we love our Lord. It's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you for the lessons that we can learn in your word. We thank you for these judgments and the truths that are laid out in front of us. that we can adjust our lives to. We ask that you would help us to be these people. The corrected people, the people who don't have to learn the hard lessons, that we could get some educations that we don't have to pay for. That we would quickly Remember you, that we would orient our lives according to you, that we would love you more than the stuff that you've given us. And that we would represent you in such a way that your glory is seen in unlikely places, like little flashlights in a dark room. Help us, Lord, to represent your goodness with the faith that you have given us. And that we will count on you and everyone around us will know that that is what makes the major difference in our lives. That we are trusting and counting on you. And looking for a city that isn't here yet. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.