God's effective discipline of the king. God's effective discipline of the king We're back at our study of what God is doing in the Kingdom of Babylon. More specifically, we're looking at God's actions in the life of a single human, King Nebuchadnezzar. Sometimes we read things in Scripture and we really don't know what to make of them. So everybody gives it their best guess and then we move on. But this morning we don't need to guess. And these are always sweet for someone in my position. Daniel tells us exactly what God is doing and what his end game in all of this is. God is doing these things for this reason in verse 25. Till you, Nebuchadnezzar, know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will. We need to keep in mind the situation that our story is happening in. Keep in mind that God's chosen people have rebelled against God the Most High. They persisted in their sin for generations until God punished them as a people. And this is the result. These Judeans are in a pagan land without the privileges of worshiping God as they had in the past. They're a minority, and they're here because of sin. One way of looking at this environment and this message and this story is that God is teaching us all a lesson. This is what God does for his own glory when his people choose not to glorify him. God brings a pagan king into what I believe was a saving relationship with God. God brings a king to himself. We must never think of God's ministry being ultimately dependent upon our efforts. This passage shows us one thing loud and clear: God does not need us in order to reach the world. So how should we view this mission that we're called to? How should we view evangelism Well, God commands and he invites us to share in the activity that is central to his heart. God loves bringing people to himself We have the elevated privilege of sharing in this activity with God. That's how we should see it. I think of it in terms of uh Jason when he told his story about taking his kids out to rake the leaves. Such a good analogy. His kids didn't really help him break the leaves. He could have got more done if he were by himself. But his kids got to join in with the work that his the father was doing. Our urgency in evangelism should be based upon how much God deserves to be glorified. That's the reason we evangelize, for the glory of God. God loves drawing people to himself so much that this morning we see what happens when his people fail at doing it. God does it anyway. Daniel 4, 28 All this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar. At the end of twelve months he was walking on the roof of the royal palace at Babylon, and the king answered and said, Is not this great Babylon which I have built by my mighty power as a royal residence? And for the glory of my majesty. Well, the king had a whole year to do what Daniel had suggested He should have worshipped this one true God, because he knew about him, and he should have fixed the way that he was exploiting people. That was the advice that Daniel had given to him And we don't know if he made any headway in that regard in this year of opportunity, or if God just delayed it for a year W we don't know. But we can see that the king's pride is just as bad as it had ever been with that last statement that he made. So the king's surveying his kingdom. And it would have been very impressive. We have to keep that in mind. King Nebuchadnezzar had some reasons to think he was pretty great. He was doing things that were remarkable. It's interesting that it says that the king answered and said. The king answered and said, I have not noticed that before. Answer who? Answered, what? We don't know if he was talking to himself or talking to someone else. We don't know. But we know what he said And I'll bet the king wished he could unsay those words. You ever have one of those times where you say something, man, I wish I could say that back, but you can't Now, what God all what had God already told the king about what part God played in that Babylonian kingdom? Several times already God said, I give you this, or I gave you that, or I made you this, or I made you that. Nebuchadnezzar was aware of the truth. He'd heard it. It just didn't mean anything to him. God was going to make it mean something to him real soon. Babylon, which I have built by my mighty power as a royal palace place to live that will glorify my majesty, that takes Dragon to a whole new level You know, I I was reading and I thought about it as as I had. Even the world doesn't like braggards You know, that you can cross a line and you just feel like that's too much. And the world even feels that way. Well, I think they would have felt that way if they had heard the king say this. There's no proper view of God in Nebuchadnezzar's worldview. What he just said let us know he's missing the right view of God. Here is the I am and there is none besides. Remember that we talked about in Isaiah. It's all about the king's self. God is very long-suffering on a lot of things, and thank God he is. I mean, praise God for that quality in him. But when a human being starts taking credit for what God alone can do, or when a human being starts claiming to be God, that's when things often escalate quickly. Not always, but often. God appears to have a heightened sensitivity to that particular sin. Verse 31. While the words were still in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven. O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken, the kingdom has departed from you. Here is an uh -oh moment of all uh -oh moments. The king may have been thinking, oh yeah, Daniel told me about this. This isn't good. It's interesting that God did not allow the king to finish his sentence. At least that's how I read it. God interrupted him. He didn't even get to finish his self-exaltation before the God of heaven pronounced his judgment on what he was saying. God told him that the punishment that Daniel had told him about is happening, it's starting right now and it's going to end in seven times, seven periods of time, probably seven years. And that's how long it's going to take for you to get the point. And the point is simple. God rules you don't. That's really the rule. God rules you don't. You're not what's special in this arrangement, Nebuchadnezzar. God is the special party. You've just been blessed with all these things you just took credit for. So you're going to live like an animal now. Verse 32, and you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the fields, and you shall be made to eat grass like ox. And seven periods of time shall pass over you until you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom He will. Immediately the word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from among men, and ate grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hair grew as long as eagle's feathers, and his nails were like birds' claws. It's interesting that God chose to make the king like a beast. Romans 1 describes the process of abandoning God. There's a beast-like element to it. When we abandon the worship of God, humanity sinks into its basest animal instincts. In King Nebuchadnezzar's instance, he took the plunge quicker and more visibly. He went instantly insane. Instantly. Now, when a beast lives like a beast, he glorifies God because he is being what he created to be. When a man lives like a beast, he dishonors God because he was created for so much more. He was created in the image of God. He was created to worship God and live in relationship with God. There's a story about John Gersner. He was uh he's one of um he was one of R. C. Sprohl's teaching companions, a a friend of his and uh quite a theologian. Anyway, he was talking one time about the depravity of man and he compared men and women to rats. After he finished, someone in the audience was very offended and said that it was insulting to compare men and women to racks. And he thought about it a little bit. He said, I do apologize. I apologize profusely. The comparison was terribly unfair. to the rats. Now now if if you saw the king in his beast like state, what point do you think you would get? Okay, so if you saw Nebuchadnezzar, you knew this is King of Babylon? There might be several, but I think one point you might not miss is if that beast can be a king, anyone can be a king. Sometimes we have presidents like that as well. But anyway, God truly does give the kingdom To who he wills. God gives kingdoms to who he wills. The king was left without a single virtue that would be useful in running a kingdom. As he's chewing on that grass, he is not fit for any single thing that is required of a king. It's as if God is saying, okay, king, you were saying. You were saying, you know what you were saying? Well, let's see you try to add your kingdom now, if you're so great and all. Let's see the glory you should receive for being in the state you're in now. The point is you, like every creature, are dependent upon God. You just didn't know it. God can make you or break you, and you didn't understand that. God can allow you to succeed or cause you to fail at any given point in your life. God can give anything, God can take anything away. That's the point that became utterly clear to the king at some point. Now, this story is a story about extremes. You and I will never be the king, nor will we ever probably be this out of touch with our minds. Nor are we likely to actually say, look how great my accomplishments are, and how worthy of worship I am. You know, we're not likely to go that far. But that doesn't mean we're free from doing sins in that same family. We're in danger of the same kind of sin when our world begins to revolve around ourselves When we focus constantly on what I deserve, what I want that I do not have now, how I should be regarded. How I should be treated, how significant my contribution is compared to everybody else's. And we could go on and on. That's pride. And all of those things can have elements of self-worship in them. Now look at the beast that the king became. When he came to his mind, do you think he was going to worship himself in that state? Probably not. But there, for the grace of God, go every one of us. If you were suddenly put in that same state, How many of the things would vanish where now we expect or demand worship or focus everything around ourselves and think that you know we should be the center of things? Well, we might as well let them go now. We do well to adapt the accurate view without God needing to teach us a lesson. All of our ideas about our innate specialness apart from God begin to dissolve when we revert to that which we are without God. All of our ideas about our innate specialness apart from God begin to dissolve when we revert to that which we are without God. We are the most useful to God and the least arrogant when we see ourselves in the proper perspective, when we see ourselves as chosen containers of the grace of God. Are there areas of your life where you think you deserve the ultimate credit for what you have become? Are there areas where you demand that people sing your praises or they'll taste your wrath? We need to watch those kind of trends in our lives, those kind of things in our lives closely. We need to humble ourselves, and God will lift us up. He promises that's the truth. We don't want to allow pride to lead us to a fall like the king had. Verse 34. At the end of the days, I Nebuchadnezzar lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me Remember how this trial started? The king was on his palace roof, looking down and looking around, and then he looked inward. Now look how it ends. The king looked up. The king looked up. Is it not wonderful how simply changing our perspective can often change so much? When we quit focusing internally and quit focusing on our circumstances and that which is around me, and when we fix our focus on our God. When we come to God as our Father who is in heaven, whose name is to be hallowed, and we orient around his sovereignty. Could the king have looked up at any time during this process, but he kept choosing not to? We don't know. But seeing how stubborn my soul can be to run to God, I can see that as being possible. So the king finally fixes his eyes and his heart where it should have been the whole time. On his maker, he looks up, and his reason returned to him. Now, I realized that this was an unusual, supernatural event This was not a normal difficulty with anxiety or mental illness or something like that. So God had inflicted the king, and God had to remove that affliction. So we can't apply this exactly like we would in our situation. But nonetheless, how many times have we been reacting to something in our lives? Like a crazy person. And the remedy for us, too, was to pray and to lay it in God's hands, to focus on his perspective from his word that tells us about our life We needed to reorient to the truth about God and the truth about our lives. Isn't it a common experience for us to have reason return to us? After orienting to God's truth, after orienting to God who God is, after orienting to God's word. Is that not often the source of our peace and our calm? It's not best proved in our text this morning, but it is a principle in Scripture that reason returns as we focus as first importance upon our Savior. We think best after we meditate on the truths of God. Now, how well did the king learn his lesson? How well did he explain the change? How close to the heart is it? How much do you get the idea he really learned a lesson? You know what I mean? You know how it is with small kids? You know, when coerced, they will eventually say they are sorry. We can make them hurt enough. They will say that they are sorry, but actually being truly repentant is another matter. You can often tell by how they approach their apology whether they've really gotten the point. Well, how well did the king get the point? Let's see. The king says, And I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him who lives forever, for his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom endures from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. And none can stay his hand or say to him , What have you done? Now remember what God had already said that all this craziness was going to produce. Till you, Nebuchadnezzar, know the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he wills. It looks like God's discipline was extremely effective. And there's something to learn by that. If God wants a person to learn something, they're going to learn it. We don't ever have to worry that a person is not able to be influenced by God. If he determines he's going to make that change, that person is going to change. Well, it looks like the king could have done a doctrinal thesis on that particular gem of truth. He really got it, you know. He got it. He got the lesson. We really don't know how he learned all this. I mean, he was alone in his craziness from what we can see. He must have taken what he did know and just followed the logic. But in the end, he makes a universal doctrinally accurate application for what happened to him. Excellent doctrine First, the king blessed the most high. From what I've read, this term for God tends to be one that focuses on God's sovereign power. It's about God's absolute control of his realm. So when the king blesses the most high God, he is referring to that quality that the king was probably most resistant to. He did not want to admit that he didn't bring something to this picnic. Here we see the proper attitude toward God. It's the attitude that we should always have. The king is turning into a role model in submission. The king praised and honored him who lives forever. The king is adapting his worldview to the eternal person and the eternal kingdom of God. He's seeing it now not as some off there idea. He's seeing this as the reality that he lives in. First, the king says that God's person lasts forever. And then he said his dominion lasts forever. And then he says God's kingdom will last as long as there are people to be part of it. From generation to generation. It'll always be, no matter how many generations there are. Now the king will delve into the insurmountable difference between people and God, and I really think that's the part he did not get. Because it would have been easy for him, the way they viewed gods, to think that gods are just like a superman. And he he has come to a different understanding of God completely now. He didn't see such a clean line between being God and being a man, and now he sees it. Verse 35, all the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as helpful, useful. No, as nothing. As nothing. First, there really is no contender for God's place in the universe. That's what he's talking about. Every individual human falls as short as any other human in comparison to the power and the wisdom of God. The difference in that regard between God and those made in the image of God The score is God infinite, man zero. That's what he's saying. And that distinction puts every man alongside every other man This truth cuts at the core of any kind of human superiority, which was the issue that Nebuchadnezzar had. In the God scale Anything is greater than zero, and zero is our score. So while I may look around and compare myself with someone else in a way that might somehow make me look better, The difference is completely unsubstantial. It doesn't count for anything of importance. So, no human is superior in having God qualities, and that's what it's talking about. And he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. Here the king talks about the spheres of God's power. God does according to his will. Where? Well, he's a spiritual God. He does spiritual things in heavenly realms. He does them there, but he does them in the physical realm also, in the people that we're surrounded by. In the world of angels, in the world of people, there's no difference. Now you and I know this theology. I think we could have all gotten the test question right. Do we really believe it? Let me bring it closer to home. Do you run to prayer for your spouse when you have trouble with your spouse? Do you think God is in control of that human being? Or ourselves for that matter? Do you really think God can change this person that you live with? Or maybe a boss or a neighbor or a church member? We know how church members can be pest. Do we really trust that he does according to his will among the inhabitants of the earth? Do we trust that truth? It's like what Ruth was saying in Sunday school. If God is sovereign, if He is actually in control Of every human being. That should have implications in our lives. Look what he says next. And none can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? Here's where I think Nebuchadnezzar makes the most dramatic distinction between man and the most high. Surely a man must have something to bring to God's picnic, some contribution. How about reason? Surely we can evaluate what God does. Surely we can provide some useful suggestions. Surely our thinking should be factored into what God is doing. You know, surely he would want to know what we think. Surely we can change his mind by what we contribute. Surely he's not always correct. The king really gets it now. He really understands the gap between the one true God and humans. The core problem with the king was he did not have a high enough estimation of God Or a low enough estimation of himself. He did not see the gaping chasm between the best that a man can do or be and who God is. I'm sure that the king had made mistakes during his years as a king. And for sure he reached out for counsels from time to time. We even know he had some guys around. He said, didn't I see. Three guys going to have . . fire and now there's four and they said, yeah, that that's that's right, King. It looks like he should have asked for a bit more counsel when he commanded the furnace to be superheated. But anyway, he needed counsel to avoid making mistakes, like we all do. Sometimes he learned from his failures And even as a powerful man as powerful a man he was, a person could approach him with reasons that would change his plans sometimes. And sometimes they might carefully tell him about a mistake that he had made. That's the world of humans. But somehow the king realized that not only is God's power absolute His wisdom is also absolute. God is self-contained. God is perfect in both his plan and his execution God is so far above man that we cannot correct him or criticize him. If we have a different opinion than God, we're wrong. It's that simple. Always, always. And he is right. Always The truth is, God's power and wisdom are so great that we really don't even know how to think about God. He has to reveal himself to us for us to even have an idea. Have you ever told God that he was wrong? How'd that work out for you? God is exceedingly patient with us. And while it's good for us to tell God our needs, God wants us to share our heart with Him. He wants us to run to Him. He wants us to know that that is where we are safe. With all that being true, it is not wise to tell God what he needs to do about it. None can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? Verse 36. At the same time my reason returned to me, and my glory for my kingdom, my majesty and splendor returned to me. My counselors and my lords sought me, and I was established in my kingdom, and still more greatness was added to me. This story is extremely dramatic. I think that God did not want any person to be able to come up with any other explanation for what was going on here other than God did it. Instantly insane. Instantly sane. Suddenly removed from power. Just as suddenly he is perfectly sane and restored to his position. Where he says, For the glory of my kingdom, my majesty, and splendor return to me I think he is explaining there why God did it, why God restored it. God wanted the tree re-established. I think that's what he's saying. The king is saying God had plans for the tree. So he restored it to its prior status. I don't think the emphasis is on my, like it was that got him into this problem. Now the king might be thinking the people really need an explanation for why I got reinstated. With all this story And God disciplined in me the way that he did. Maybe I should explain why God reversed it all. He was reinstated for the kingdom's sake And God, being like God, blessed this child of his after the discipline accomplished what God was after. And can't we be very thankful for that quality of God as well? When he's done disciplining us. He'll give us a hug. Yeah. He gives us what we need. Still more greatness was added to the king, it says But I bet he never took credit for it again. And notice he does not say I became greater. He's learning. He says more greatness was added to me. That's the lesson he needed to learn. Now he starts talking about things in a theologically correct terms And here is how he closes his letter to all the people in his kingdom. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven. For all his works are right, and his ways are just, and those who walk in pride, he is able to humble The king gets it right. The discipline works. God accomplishes exactly what God said he was going to accomplish in the king's discipline. He is worshiping a God, and this time it's the right God. He's worshiping a God, and this time it's in the right way. He's learned about the character of God. This God makes no mistakes. Everything he does is perfect. Everything he does is right. His ways are just. The king knows who God is, and he knows it's not him. Lesson learned. And the last few words give the conclusion of the matter, and it seems like a massive understatement for what just happened. Those who walk in pride he is able to humble. You'd almost want to laugh after you hear that, knowing the story. You can almost hear the king saying, You can take that from me. Don't ever walk in pride. Never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever do that. Unless you want to be a crazy, homeless, ultra vegan for a couple of years. A good application from our text this morning might be to simply consider the difference between what we know of God and what we think of God. If it's true that God does what he wills with humans, why do we react like we do in some of our human circumstances? Do we think that God is in control in our day-to-day life situation with those pesky humans that surround us? Or do we not? If he is in control, what should we do and what should we learn as a result of that? If he is in control, why would we fret? Do you see what I mean? Our theology says that God is working out his will in the lives of humans. What does our life demonstrate? That we believe. And how can we trust God more fully in those circumstances? Let's close them prayer. Lord, we thank you again For your word. We thank you for how you show your grace and mercy to this heathen king. To how