Now we need to remember the context in order for us to get the most out of the passage again. Peter had failed miserably. He had trusted in his flesh to remain loyal to Christ to the end. And his flesh, like all flesh, let him down. Flesh will always let us down when we're trying to follow God in our own strength. We must expend human effort in our walk with God. But we can't depend upon that effort as the source for that which needs to happen most. Psalms 127-1 says that unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it. Unless the Lord guards the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. We see in these verses that the builders and the watchmen are doing their jobs, and they must do their jobs. God 's part in all this does not free them from the need of expending maximum effort. We have to work hard. We have to strive. We have to struggle. Scripture is full of that kind of language. Spirituality does not buy us out of work and effort. But all of our effort is fruitless if God does not do the spiritual heavy lifting that's done in our needs done in our lives. For instance, when we struggle with the sin that so easily besets us, does Scripture ever tell us to just pray and God will take away our desire to do evil? I don't know of any scripture like that. We're told things to do, things to think, truths to believe, lies to take captive, habits to change. True spirituality assumes a changed heart, and that changed heart will give maximum effort to pleasing Christ. But that maximum effort is fruitless without God doing what only God can do at the same time. The laborers labor, the watchman watch, and it's God who gives the effort the success that he determines. The Christian life is odd in that it assumes maximum effort But it never rests its confidence in the effort that it gives. Confidence is only to be in God. I can work hard to prepare a sermon that represents what God's Word says, but it's a worthless piece of prose unless the Spirit accompanies his word in the hearts of the hearers, me included. So, should I stop preparing and just trust God because only He can do the heavy lifting? If I do, you should instantly fire me. I 'd be disobeying God's command to be to show ourselves as a workman in the Word. Should I prepare, believing that my work can accomplish anything in the heart of the hearer? If I ever say such a thing, you should correct me instantly. I should work as hard as I can for the time that I have And I should trust that only God can make anything that I say have any impact whatsoever for eternity. That's how we're to do everything. God can Justification is monargistic. It's an interesting term to know. It helps un I mean it it sounds like theology, and it is, but Justification is monargistic. Monargistic means that only one party is working. So when we are justified by faith, it's all of God. God does all the work. And we sit by and are thankful that it happens. Sanctification is not monergistic. Sanctification is synergistic in that two parties are working. Two parties are exerting effort. But the ultimate success still relies upon God to accomplish that our our works will accomplish anything in our lives. So it's it it's still In God's lap. The success is in God's lap. Okay, so Peter had trusted Peter. And flesh had let Peter down. And Peter had let Christ down. Now Christ publicly addresses Peter. In Luke 24, 34, it says that Christ appeared privately earlier to Simon, and then 1 Corinthians 15, 5 says that Christ was seen of Cephas and then of the twelve. We don't know exactly how that happened because we're not given any detail into those interactions. Scripture only reveals to us that it did happen. Now, Christ could have, at this point in our text, told Peter That his failure was so great that he would never be qualified to lead again. And that would have been fair. That would have been just. But that was not Christ's will for Peter I want to stop here and take note of something. If we had been there, we had been one of the disciples standing on, been with this group the whole time. What would we have wanted Christ to do to Peter for having failed so miserably? I ask this because we aren't likely to think about it if we just move on with the story. I find in me some of the brother that stayed at home in the prodigal son sort. Remember that story? The one son stayed at home and he worked for his father. And then when the prodigal son returned, the remaining son, the son that stayed at home, the good boy. shared none of the joys that his father had over his son returning. The stay-at-home son would have rather the prodigal son be treated badly Or at least as a non-event. He didn't want full restoration. He didn't want blessing for his brother who had failed his father so badly. I find that in me. Do you find that in you? We want grace to be extended to us for our failure. Because after all, our failures aren't that big to us. We have our reasons and we have our excuses. But we want a pound of flesh for others who fail in ways that we haven't. Failures that we have lofted to be unforgivable sins, maybe. And those sins are mostly put in that status because we haven't done them How do we want those who have failed and repented to be treated? Do we want them to be giving something that even we don't have? That's the position of the other disciples in this group. Peter was their leader. Christ recognized him as such. And the leader had failed miserably. If we were there, would we have wanted this interaction to take place? Would we have wanted Peter reinstated? We would have if we had Christ's heart and Christ's wisdom. But how do you think you would have responded if you had been there? Verse 15, so when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And he said, Feed my lambs. Did your moms use your middle name when they were addressing you when you were in trouble? It'd be interesting to to have a survey. Mine did. It was always John Allen when I was in trouble. So I never had any I any trouble knowing that I was in trouble. Well, the name Simon was like that for Peter. Jesus normally called Peter Peter, but when he rebuked Peter, he usually called him Simon. So he knew it was coming. Now, Jesus asks Peter, do you love me more than these? We looked at this last week, and the most likely these That Christ was talking about was either the rest of the apostles, do you love me more than these guys love me? Or he's looking at Peter's boat and his former way of life and he's saying, Do you love me more than fishing business Do you love me more than your former way of life? In light of the context, I think it is probably the later. Jesus is asking Peter. If Peter loved Christ more than his normal, predictable life, where he could supply for himself and live a normal life, it isn't worth much and it didn't cost much. There are many who might be able to follow Christ as a fisherman for fish. We've gone over this before too. But that's not what Peter was called to do. Most of us know the word Jesus used here for love was Agapel. That's the kind of love that God has for us. It's an unwavering commitment to do what's in the other's best interest, no matter what the cost. Agape love. An unwavering commitment to do what's in the other best the other's best interest, no matter what the cost. So Jesus asks Peter, Do you love me in a fully committed way that may cost you everything? Do you love me that way more than your old way of living? Your comfortable way of living? Do you love me more than that? That's a real good question for us this morning Do we love Christ more than the way of life that we have come to know? Do we love Christ more than anything that this world has to offer? The core of the Christian life is love. What we believe is not primarily a creed It's not primarily a set of rules. It's not primarily a political view. It's not primarily a support group. It is primarily based on love. It's primarily a loving relationship. First, we must love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. Then we're to love our brothers as ourselves This isn't an optional kind of Christianity. This isn't the enriched version of Christianity. This is Christianity 101. This is what every believer is called to. Loving God and loving people, more than anything else I'll borrow from MacArthur here a little bit. In 1 Corinthians 8. 3, Paul wrote, if anyone loves God, he is known by him. On the other hand, the apostle warned, if anyone does not love God, he is to be accursed. 1 Corinthians 16, 22. Only those who love God receive eternal life. James 1. 12, and inherit the kingdom, James 2. 5. Peter wrote in his first epistle, though you have not seen Christ, you love him. Love is also the driving, compelling force that motivates Christian service. 2 Corinthians 5. 14. Love is at the heart of Christianity. God loved us first, and he has enabled us to love him in return. Listen to what Christ said about competitors of love He says, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Now we've talked before about that does not mean that we go home and treat our mothers nasty. But it is in comparison to how much we love God, that it would appear that there are people that we don't care about at all. We love God so much. That's what it's talking about. Then he goes on to say, whoever does not carry his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which one of you, when he wants to build a tower, does not first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he has enough to complete it Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and he's not able to finish, all who observe it begin to ridicule him, saying, this man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king, when he sets out to meet another king in battle, will not first sit down and consider whether he's strong enough with 10,000 men to encounter the one coming against him with twenty thousand. Or else, while the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. So then, none of you can be my disciple who does not give up all his own possessions. Christ is not bashful about talking about competing loves. He does not allow them. He will wean us from them if we are his. We may have all kinds of duties. We may have all kinds of relationships. We may have all kinds of skills and talents. We may have all kinds of possessions. But all of them must be held loosely in the palm of our hands before our God, willing that if he, in his love, decides to remove them from our hands, we will trust him. Neither he nor we will allow those things to enjoy that we enjoy to interfere with our devotion to God. That's the attitude that this is talking about, about loving God more than needs. And that love is seen in obedience Anyone who thinks they love God, but habitually knowingly disobey him, are on very, very dangerous footing. Christ Himself said that if we love Him, we obey Him. 1 John 2, 3 through 6 says, Now by this we know that we know him. How is it? How do we know? How do we know that we have a relationship with God? If we keep his commandments, he says. He who says, I know him, and it doesn't matter what else he says, if he doesn't keep his commandments, he's a liar and the truth isn't in him. That's what Scripture says. And whoever keeps his word, truly the love of God is perfected in him. By this we know that we are in him. He who says he abides in him ought himself also to walk, just as he walked. So we see that love and obedience are tightly tied together. What Christ is asking Peter about is not some emotional intention. He's not asking Peter, do you feel more warm sentiment toward me than you have toward your fishing boat? That would have been easy. Peter could have said, oh yes, Christ, I feel much warmer to you than toward my boat. And then that evening, Peter could have gone back to the boat thinking that he loved Christ more. No, there's none of that. The love Christ is talking about is a life-directing force. It's an all-invasive. It directs and compels the heart and the soul and the mind and the strength. It isn't some fond emotion. It is the commitment of our whole person to the welfare of the name and the person of God at our expense. That's what Jesus was asking, and Peter understood it as such. Christ was essentially asking if Peter loved his Lord more than all competing endeavors. And Peter answered by saying this, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lamb. Now think about it. If you were Peter , In light of your latest failure, that was obvious to all by now, how could you promise to love God in that superior agape way? Peter may want to. He may want to think he could, but my guess is at this point Peter was no longer the old cocky self Peter. He's finally learning. So instead of using the word agape, Peter chooses the word phileo for love. This is fond, brotherly love. And Peter appeals to Christ's omniscience in his response as well. He tells Christ, Yes, Lord, you know, you know that I'm fond of you. You know I love you like a brother. Maybe he's appealing to Christ in this way to have pity on him. Old Peter would have quickly jumped to the word Agapel. It would have quickly said, you know how I how devoted I am to you, Christ. You know I'm going to die for you. It doesn't matter, whatever. We're in this together. But that that's died a painful death In the old Peter, he would have thought he was telling the truth when he said all that. But this new Peter is essentially telling Christ that Christ already knows Peter's love for Christ is not exactly infallible. It isn't exactly rock salt. And he's saying to Christ, you know about the best I'll do is Bala. I know how I feel about you, Christ, but I don't want to promise things I've shown to both you and I I won't deliver on. This could be wonderful honesty on the part of Peter. Peter is beginning to understand where Peter had to end and God had to begin in Peter's life. Then look what Christ says back to Peter. He doesn't rebuke Peter for softening his word for love, for removing his strength. He tells Peter, then feed my lambs. Previously Christ had called Peter to be a fisherman of men. Now Christ uses another imagery, and he tells Peter to be a good shepherd to his flock. He's to feed Christ's lambs. The word for feed could also mean to tend. He's to feed and care for the newborn in the flock. We understand that to mean that he is to provide the flock, the fledgling church, the truth of the Word of God in an environment that is most beneficial. That's the food that Peter is to share with those in the flock who need to hear it most. Now it's important too to see whose sheep they are. This isn't the church of Peter. It's the church of Christ. The sheep are never ours, no matter what leadership positions we are in. They're always Christ, and we are always working for Christ's end, not our own. The verb tense for feed or tend is continuous. Peter was to do it and to keep doing it. This was going to replace Peter's fishing business. This was going to be his occupation from now on until Peter dies. Verse 16, he said to him a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And he said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And he said, Tend my sheep. Again, we see the same interaction with the same Greek words. Christ asked Peter if Peter has agape love for Christ. Peter appeals to Christ's knowledge of Peter's heart, and he affirms to Christ that Peter believes that he at least has Phileo love for Christ. This time, Christ changes the word to a word that means shepherd. It's probably a synonym of the first word that he used. But Christ is essentially telling Peter again to shepherd the flock of Christ. Pastor the church. Care for the sheep. Tend them. Make sure they make it. Make that your business, your goal, your life. Verse 17, he said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. And Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep So Christ essentially asked the same question again. But this time Christ comes to the level that Peter has been offering. He comes to the level that Peter thinks he can honestly assess his devotion at. And Christ essentially asks Peter, Peter, do you even love me that much? He uses the word phileo and he says, Do you really love me with phileo love? Do you even love me as a brother? This troubles Peter. This is clearly intended as a rebuke and a challenge to Peter. Christ was meeting Peter where Peter was Peter understood that Christ wasn't even exhibiting confidence in Peter's profession of love in its reduced version. It's almost like Christ is saying, do you really? I I doubt it. Um although, you know, he didn't he didn't go that far, but he does ask Do you? Do you love me? He's challenging Peter to rise up to that level. He's challenging Peter to love Christ. Peter responds by telling the absolute truth, trusting that Christ can see it for what it really is. Christ knows Peter even better than Peter knows Peter. And Peter knows that. Peter is fairly confident he is telling the truth about his heart toward Christ now. Peter can appeal to the omniscience of Christ. Peter's essentially telling Christ, you know that I'm telling you the truth. You know everything. You know that I'm being as honest as I can possibly be. I truly do love you as a brother. I might not know anything else. I am not confident of making any other claims, but I le I believe this to be true of me. I love you like a brother. In the first two instances, Peter uses the word oida for no. That means intellectual knowledge of the fact. It's like God, or Jesus, you know this to be a fact. In the third, he uses the word gnosco, and this knowledge is gained through experience. This probably means that Peter was becoming emphatic at this point. He's saying, Christ, you are experiencing this as you look at my soul right now. You know it to be true about me. You see it. You are seeing it right now And Christ tells Peter to feed his sheep. This time Peter uses the word, the first word for feed or tend and the second word for sheep. Or Jesus does. Jesus uses the first word in this series for feed or tend, and the second word he uses for sheep instead of lambs. I think Christ is using synonyms in a way to emphasize the point. Christ no longer wants Peter to be fishing. From this day forward, if Peter has any level of love for Christ at all Peter needs to be about taking care of the sheep of Christ. Peter is to be about taking care of these people who are going to respond to this evangelistic message that he is going to put out. This is the same ministry, by the way, that every elder has been called to. We are to be shepherding the flock. We're to be about the things Paul told Timothy to be about in 2 Timothy 4. 2 where it says, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season, convince, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and teaching. Elders, that's what we're here for. We need to make sure we properly prioritize these things We need to make sure we're doing more than meeting our own family's responsibilities. We have got to give attention to the welfare of all of Christ's sheep that we were given charge of. Do you love Christ? Then be about the things that Christ has called you to. Peter did what Christ said. Peter died in doing this service to the Lord and his flock. This is what Peter said close to the end of his life In 1 Peter 5, 1 through 3, it says, Therefore I exhort the elders among you as fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ. And a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed, shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight. Not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God, and not for sordid gain, but with eagerness nor yet as lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock. There's Peter. Having lived a life of doing exactly what Christ had told him, and he's passing it on to the rest of the elders at this church. Something was pointed out in Sunday school last week that I've forgotten to include this morning until I heard it last week, which is always good about having a week advance on the sermon. Christ asked Peter if Peter loved Christ the same number of times that Peter had denied Christ. That probably didn't escape Peter's notice. That might be the reason he got so upset on the third question. God has a way of drawing attention to our failures in a way that gets the best mileage from them. There are sins that we may commit that we don't think are a big deal at first. But God will at some point bring them to our attention in a way we need to do business with them. It's a point where we see ourselves as we are and we learn what we must do differently. It's very good that God does this for us. It proves that He loves us. He disciplines His children. Now, Christ has made it clear to Peter what Peter should do if he truly loves Christ. Now, Christ is about to tell Peter what that's going to translate into. And it's not going to be health and wealth. It's not going to be all the fond things that we could imagine having on this planet. He is telling what the he is telling Peter what the cost will be for loving Christ and obeying Christ. And he says it right here. Verse 18, most assuredly I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished. But when you're old, you'll stretch out your hands, and another will gird you, and carry you where you do not wish. This he spoke, signifying by what death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken, he said to him, Follow me. Basically, Christ is telling Peter that following Christ is going to result in a death by the hands of men. He's going to be murdered for ministering for Christ It's interesting how Christ contrasts the youth of Peter with the future of Peter. It's almost like a contrast between pre-Christ and post-Christ. When Peter was young and free, he did what he wanted for the most part. Sure, he ran a fishing business. He carried out his responsibility, but he had a sense of freedom with it where Peter could determine what Peter was going to do that day. That liberty is now gone. Now Peter is a slave to Christ. Peter is a shepherd to the church And doing that job, carrying out that responsibility, is going to lead to martyrdom. Peter's not going to dress and go where he wants at that point. There are people who will take you and carry you. Where they want to take you. And that's Peter's destiny in following and loving Christ. It's interesting that Christ makes no effort at all to hide the price Of following him. Doesn't apologize a bit. He doesn't shortchange it. Peter just pronounced his love for Christ, the best Peter knew how to do, and Christ is telling Peter what that love is going to cost him. And then Christ says those two words. Follow me. Follow me. The verb tense here is also continuous. Start following and keep following. Follow me for the rest of your life. Peter has seen the example of his loving Lord giving his life for his sheep. He watched that happen That's the example that Peter is to follow. And we understand through tradition that that is exactly what Peter did. Peter followed Christ to death in service to Christ and the sheep. Well, Christ says first, do the job I was doing, and then Christ tells Peter, die the death that I died. That's the ultimate of following Christ. Most of us figuratively pick up our cross and follow Christ. Peter did it literally Now, Peter's just the guy. He's just standing there having this conversation with Christ, probably relieved. that Christ is is trusting him back with a responsibility that was so important. But this had to be a hard blow for Peter. This would have been a shock. These guys were not following Christ so they could be martyred for a cause. That was not their motivation in signing up. They probably wouldn't have even started down this path if they knew that this is where it led. But now, having experienced what they had, they're willing to follow Christ. Even to death. A huge change had happened in these guys' lives. After all, they probably figured who else had the keys to life and death? Who was there like Jesus? Nobody. Nobody. And by this point, they were convinced of that. They were convicted of it. It had grasped their souls. Well, after this blow, Peter's probably curious how this is going to work out for everybody else. There's something in us, isn't there? So he starts with his best friend, John. And John has an odd way of identifying himself all through Scripture. He'll never just say, hey, it's me, it's John. It's always something like this. Verse 20. Then Peter turning around saw the disciple whom Jesus loved. That's why he calls himself. Following. who also had leaned on his breast at the supper and said, Lord, who is the one who betrays you? Now why you couldn't just say, I'm John. I don't know. But he doesn't. Peter seeing him said to Jesus, But Lord, what about this man? So Peter says, what about this man? And Jesus said to him, If I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you? You follow me. One day, maybe, we'll all learn that God has planned for another , what God has planned for another of his servants is none of our business. In fact, much of what God does is none of our business. Many of our questions toward God can be answered by God with the question, what is that to you, really? Why do we feel so much of a need to compare how God deals with us to how God deals with others? Do we really think we're qualified to evaluate God's treatment of his children? That's one of the lessons that Job, one of God's favorites, had to learn. And he paid a pretty tremendous price to learn that lesson. We can't add things up the way we would like. One person may be completely faithful and end up with an extremely difficult life. Another might do everything wrong, and God graciously provides them with an easy life. We might think that isn't fair, but we aren't qualified to make our those judgments. Only God is Bluntly put, we need to mind our own business when it comes to what God has planned for others. We also do not ultimately answer for how others live their lives. We only answer for how we live ours. That should give us pause in thinking that we're qualified to tell other people how they ought to carry out all of their God-given responsibilities. We're free to quote what God says, and we should, about what those responsibilities are, but we need to keep in mind that they answer for their lives to God We don't. We answer for how we treat them, but we don't answer for their lives. Then Christ ends with the only thing that's important for Peter to know. You follow me. You, Peter, don't worry about the eleven. You follow me No matter what happens with John, you follow me. Let me worry about what's going to happen to John, you follow me. Now Christ saying, if I will that he remain till I come, was one of a few clear references by Christ that he is coming back. It's right there in the sentence. Now it wouldn't be hard to figure out from the Old Testament that that had to happen. Christ had to return to fulfill all of the promises for what a Messiah was going to do. He came to uh take care of sin the first time. He's going to come to judge sin the second time. So here Christ says it clearly, and the statement he makes is one of an extreme to make a point. Like he goes clear to the end. To make it very clear what the point is. Christ was basically saying that if I want John to live the whole time any people live on this planet, that's my business. Christ was not saying that John will live that long, but he's just saying that if he did, it's nobody's business but his. If the disciples were sharp, the reference to Christ's return could have been a very encouraging thing to them that morning. To realize, hey, he just said he's coming back. Then verse 23, then this saying went out among the brethren that this disciple would not die. Yet Christ did not say to him that he would not die, but if I will that he remain till I come, what's that to you? This is the disciple who testifies to these things and wrote these things, and we know that his testimony is true. Well, John would know that his testimony was true, because he was John. People are always people. And very few people listen to people closely. So a rumor got started on Christ's words to Peter. Isn't that typical? It's almost funny John concludes by saying that what he writes is true and believable. With this whole story, there's there's a lot of applications to it and a a lot that I've skipped over that that may be comforting to you. But I find great comfort in Christ's restoration of Peter. It means that our lives are not over After we've blown it, God is not going to accept our excuses for disobeying Him Or for refusing to obey him. It's not like he's going to accept excuses. Repentance is admitting the truth about ourselves and our sin to God. So we've got to do business with our failures when we've blown it. But when we have, God points us toward the future that He has planned for us. It's not like we have destroyed God's plan. He has a plan still, and he points us toward it. A prior failure doesn't mean that we have no future. God has a future in mind for us. He has planned it. And we can rest in his sovereignty and go on and press forward. Christ called Peter to follow Christ. Christ calls us to follow Christ. No matter what our failures, that is the future that God intends for his children. What will happen? Well, that's God's business. But we can go forward with our sins dealt with and forgiven, and God will restore us to the life that He wants us to have. And that life will be one of following him, no matter what. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for the encouragement that you give us when we look at the life of Peter We thank you for the restoration that you brought to him while at the same time dealing with him as he truly is. We are so very, very thankful that we can come to you as we are. That we don't have to pretend and we don't have to act as if things about us are not true when they are. You know us. You know all things. Peter got that right. Lord, we come before you this morning and you know all things You know our hearts, you know our failures, you know our struggles, you know our successes, you know our joys. You see them all. And we lay our lives in front of you, asking you to continue to change them, to continue to draw us to yourself, to continue to break our hearts with our sin. That you would continually restore us by the use of your word through your word or through other believers. And point us to the future that you have called us to. A future that is wonderful. Maybe not in the short term, but guaranteed in the long run. A future that is meaningful. A future that has the most important thing that a human being can do in it, serving you. So Lord, we ask that you'd help us this week to grab hold of that future that you have for us. And to walk this week in a path of following you, of submitting ourselves, of holding our lives in the palm of our hand out for your your work and whatever you want to do in our lives. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.