There's a title for the this morning. It would be Confidence in the Flesh. Doing the right things for the wrong reasons. Do you realize that if you're a child of God God has never loved you any more or any less than he loves you right now. You might wonder how this has anything to do with the text, but we'll soon get to that. But think about this. Before the beginning of time, God chose you to be his child. Why? Why did he love you? Well, we like to think it's something special about us, you know, especially after coming out of Valentine's Day. You know, you want to think well, there's something you know It's just ultimately special about me. But that's not what scripture says. Why do you love you? Ultimately, it was purely due to something special about God. Not special about us. God is love. God is loving. That is not a flexible trait of God. That is not something that ebbs and flows with God. God is loving. It's constant. It's unstoppable. So God loves you right now as much as He ever will and as much as He ever has. In your years before you came to Christ, God loved you. He loved you as much as He ever did or ever will. The day you came to Christ, He loved you no more than the day before, and no more than the day after Those times in your Christian life when you lived in ignorance or rebellion, God loved you as much as he ever has. If you failed miserably yesterday, God loves you as much as he ever has. His love is unchangeable because it's part of his character. And we can be so thankful, but not rely upon our lovability, our loveliness. Now, I'm not trying to say that God is always pleased with us in the same degree , I'm not trying to say that our actions have no effect in our relationship with God, or at least in our fellowship with God, I should say. We need to be Specific about those terms. Scripture tells us over and over that they do, but God's love is the constant that runs behind everything that happens in a believer's life. If you're a child of God, you are just that. God is your father. You are in a family relationship, and you will never stop being a child, and he will never stop loving you as such. Now why am I bringing that up in our text? Well our text this morning is about a bad kind of legalism. And we've talked about there are good kinds of legalism where you set rules for yourself. in order to help yourself uh serve God better, serve God more faithfully. Those are good kind of legalisms. But this is a bad kind this morning. And you know what's so bad about it? It's the kind of legalism that says I must and I can make myself more lovable to God I can, by my own effort, win God's love and approval more and more. I can push myself to a place of stellar obedience so that God will be pleased to have me. I can earn God's love. That's the supreme wickedness that drives the wrong kind of legalism Prior to salvation, these legalists believe that one can do work to earn God's love, earn God's salvation. One needs faith and works to be found suitable for salvation. After salvation, they say one must live by the Jewish laws in order to be worthy of sanctification. So again, it's a combination of faith and works. What that trust in ourselves creates is an insult to the love of God. Legalism causes flesh to take credit for that which only God can do. It demeans the love of God and worships the work of flesh. Oh, it never means to do that. It never says that's what it's doing. Never thinks that it's doing itself in those terms, but that's what it's doing. It makes man the hero of the salvation story instead of Christ. Paul's going to share with us his journey from self-worship to God worship. He'll give us great insight into the world of our slippery egos. He'll shine the light on how the flesh can drive mighty actions of moral external behavior. It can drive men to an incredible height of good-looking actions. It can cause a great deal of self-sacrifice and expensive effort, but it cannot ever move a person from the realm of their righteous acts. Just being a fleshly effort that offends God. They can't get them past that. No amount of their effort will ever please God. Praise God that our salvation begins and ends with God, begins and ends with Christ. As we find our identity in what Scripture says about us , And God, and our salvation, we can by faith choose those things that are most pleasing to God from the position of faith That is most pleasing to God. So we're responding to Him based on everything that He has done to us and for us prior to that. Ultimately, the wrong kind of legalism does the right thing for the wrong reason. And it never counts for a single thing with God. It never counts for a single good thing with God. We'll see Paul's math in the text and we can add it up for ourselves. Okay, let's look at the text. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Now finally here is not a word in this context that has to mean in conclusion, as if it's summing up everything that came before it. It can also mean as for what remains to be said So it's a transition phrase into the rest of Paul's letter, and I think that's how we should understand it. Then Paul says, rejoice in the Lord. Well, what a surprise! Let's only talk about joy fifty times oven, up until now. Uh -huh. There's a lot What that means is is a call to action. Actually the words used here are a call to action. The command is a command to do something. It's a call to actually sing the songs and actively give praise to God. Paul's not telling them to drum up an emotion or an attitude. He's telling them to do the action. Get to the business of rejoicing. Do it. In context, I believe that Paul is telling the Philippians to take an active stock in what you have in Jesus Christ. Think about it. Stop. Think. What do I have in Christ? Make that preeminent in your mind because it that is the truth that will protect you and set you free from this awful heresy that's coming your way. Christ and what Christ has accomplished is is the truth that sets you free from the hook of legalism. Knowing Christ will display how insane it is when we try to replace what Christ did on the cross with what we do on this earth. Christ's work, when properly understood and elevated and appreciated, will rescue you from the tremendous error that Paul is about to reveal to them. And it goes on to say, for me to write the same things to you isn't tedious, but for you it's safe. The same things, Paul has already briefly touched on this earlier in the letter. So he's repeating the same thing while filling in the details. And I think the same thing he's referring to is in chapter one, verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight, where he said, only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ So that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. And not in any way terrified by your adversities, which is to them a proof of perd, but to you of salvation and that from God. Also, this is probably not the first time that Paul has told them about Judaizers. Judaizers were like a thorn in Paul's flesh. As you read all the epistles, everybody He starts to mention Judy Osters, it's like when I start talking about GyRS. You know, it's like his his hot topic that just gets him going. So like any good ministry, Paul repeats the important things and doesn't apologize for doing so. It's not a problem for me to say this to you again. Now it's difficult to know if tedious here in this verse refers to it being tedious to Paul in the telling of it, or tedious to the Philippians in the hearing of it. We can't really tell. But no matter which is he is referring to, Paul is saying he has good reasons to do it and he's not going to stop Why? He says, for their safety. For their safety. The word for safe is to keep them from teetering or falling. So Paul is writing what he thinks is necessary to keep his friends from falling into error. He doesn't want them to go down the wrong road. Even though Paul is praying, and we've seen this, Paul is praying for them to grow in Christ, for them to grow in discernment, that doesn't mean that he has to keep preaching on discernment. You know, the two go hand in hand. What we are praying for each other in, we ought to also be working together to accomplish. We don't only pray that people understand things, we also do our best to explain them. So Paul is telling the Philippians why he's gonna say what he says next, and it's for their sake say it's for their safety. And verse two, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the mutilation. Suppose I were to refer to some people in a church down the road somewhere that's teaching some air. And I was, suppose I were to say, those leaders are dogs. They are snakes. They are pigs. They are evil. They might as well emasculate themselves. Would you attempt to correct me after the service? Uh I'm not the nicest person in the world, but even I I would second guess myself after that. Well, we might think that Paul must not be much of a Christian here. He's not very nice. Surely he could say this more softly. Surely he could be more gentle and more forgiving of his enemies or whatever. Don't we sometimes think these things as we read this? What would Paul say if he went by our rules about what a Christian says and doesn't say? And how a Christian should and should not talk? I mean sometimes our ideas about kindness and gentleness get applied the wrong way in the wrong places. We can know that our rules aren't correct if, when we state our rules for behavior, Paul and Jesus do things that go completely against our rules. When that happens, we do well to re-evaluate our rules and submit them to the example of Christ rather than the other way around. That's kind of silent. Beware of dogs. Beware of dogs. That's probably a life verse of Susan's. I wouldn't be surprised to find it on the refrigerator. A Sue seems to be the person of choice for a dog to buy. It could be a big crowd, and the dog should pick her and nibble on her. So obviously, Paul is not talking about literal dogs. He's talking about Judaizers. Now the interesting thing here is that the Jewish leadership frequently called the Gentiles dogs. That was like their most common word to refer to a Gentile by the Jewish leadership as a doll. And the word used is not for the dogs that one might pet. I didn't realize that, but they actually had a name like that. But these were a name given to the wild dogs that roamed in packs and ate the garbage. And they sometimes attack people. It was definitely a term of derision. Paul is saying that those who are calling others dogs are the real dogs. They're the ones who are unclean and feeding on unclean things. They're the destructive force. They're the ones we would be good to get rid of. They serve no useful purpose. In fact, they are actively and continually leading people to hell. What could possibly be worse than that? These Judaizers carry a most deadly message because they could use so much scripture to back their false doctrine. That they you know they were it was easy to listen to them. They were quoting scripture. And it says, beware of evil workers. In the Old Testament, the wicked are referred to as those who work iniquity. These Judaizers are urging the Christians to obey the Jewish rules of conduct conduct. They're basically telling these Gentiles you need to be a good Jew to be a good Christian. They're teaching that one must conform to these rules if one is to be right with God or to stay right with God. Yeah, you came to Christ, but that's not enough. Now you've got to be a good Jew. And by doing this, they're confusing the gospel. They're adding human effort to the work of Christ. By doing that, they are undoing the gospel of God, the only message whereby a person can be saved. It's like they're taking a remedy to cancer. Can you imagine if somebody comes up tomorrow with a remedy of cancer and they mix it with an ingredient that makes that drug ineffective? That's what the Judaizers were doing to the gospel. That's simply evil. Can you imagine a more evil thing to do? There's nothing good to be said about that. These people, these Judaizers, have been the bang of Paul's existence, showing up wherever Paul goes, usually after him. And they're sort of like the devil's cleanup team to undo the effort the effect of the gospel wherever the gospel has had a great effect. It's like the devil sends in the Judaizers. There's nothing good about these people. No matter what they say their intention is, what they are doing is sheer evil. Then he goes on to say, beware of the mutilation. These teachers are claiming to be the circumcised people, the only people who are right with God. We have to keep it in that frame of reference Well, the word for circumcision means to cut around. The word for mutilation means to cut to pieces The word was used for what the idolatrous priests did to themselves when they were trying to get their God to do something. w remember we read about it with uh Elijah and uh and the priests of Baal. They would cut themselves in their efforts to please their gods. They would cut themselves in in an effort to show their great emper effort and and that God ought to respond to them, God ought to do something. And that's what Paul compares these unionizers to. The mental imagery is that these Judaizers are urging for human efforts of cutting. But the effect is not the cutting in the way that it's prescribed by God and pleases God. It's a cutting of oneself in a futile attempt to make an unwilling God act on your behalf It's a play on words that no one reading would have missed it. It's not an act of godly worship, it's an act of heathen worship. And that is what he's referring to the Judaizers as. Just like those priests, the cut the priests. And Paul has had nothing to do with it. He calls it as he sees it. And he takes it even further in Galatians, where he says they ought to castrate themselves in their efforts to please God. We see from Paul's example that it's not always wrong to get worked up with those whose effect on God's people is so deadly and so destructive. We need not feel guilty when we too are motivated by love for God's people so much to hate the effects of the enemy so much, of the wolves who would feed on God's people. That's not a bad sign in the show. That they're aggressive against the wolves. You kind of want that So Paul has laid out who the enemies are and what he thinks of them. But now Paul talks about the real people of God. Those who are really following God, those who are really pleasing God. Says, for we, he's talking to Gentile believers, using Gentile believers, you are filled by, for we are the circumstances who worship God in spirit and truth. That's interesting. Paul does not say those who have been circumcised are the circumcision. He says, the circumcision is all the people of God who have been saved by grace through faith in Christ. They're the circumcision. It doesn't matter if they're circumcised physically or not at all. What matters is if they worship God in the Spirit. The word for worship where he says worship God in the Spirit, that's a specific word. It's a word that's used to describe the service that the Levites provided in the temple. So when these people heard that word, they would have had that understanding. When he's talking about a specific service here, the word is used in direct opposition to the reference of mutilation That Paul used earlier. So while the Judaizers are cutting themselves like idol-worshiping priests, the people of God are providing the kind of true worship and the true temple of God. They're not relying upon the fleshly efforts of winning God's love or earning his salvation. They are living in service of their God in their whole lives by faith. Not to gain something, but because they already have been given what they most needed. They are providing a living sacrifice. These people who are worshiping in the Spirit, they're providing a living sacrifice by surrendering their will to the will of God. Now Paul provides perfect clarity to all that he said. If you want to understand today's passage, pay great attention to this. Rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Rejoice in Christ Jesus. And have no confidence in the flesh. Again, Paul tells God's people to rejoice. And it's given as the direct contrast to what? Confidence in the flesh. We go one direction or the other. We all at any point are exhibiting confidence in Christ and his completed work, our confidence in our flesh. Those are the choices. You want to be righteous? You want to move toward righteousness? You're gonna pick one. In fact, every in everything you do, you're gonna be picking. Am I going to back in the righteousness that Christ has given me and respond in that new identity that has provided me, in my desire now that He has placed in me to serve Him and follow Him and love Him? Or am I going to try to work it up so that I'm going to impress God somehow and win something from him? We got that going on in our head at any time. How were we saved? The Judaizers would say by believing in Christ and getting circumcised to show that we're God's people. Christians would say we are saved by Christ. Alone by faith, alone, by grace, alone, by the word of God alone, and there is no end. Is that sin? A question was asked in Sunday school, a Sunday school class somewhere. How does a person get to heaven? And one of the one of the women there responded, well, it's like a rowboat. Where one ore is work and the other work the other or is faith. And you say, well, you know, if you pull on one you go in circles. Well that's that's clever. But the teacher quickly corrected her and said, that boat's not going to heaven. It's only by Christ's work and his alone that we can ever enter to heaven There is no other word in that effort. And that's where the Judeanism's doctrine is so very wrong, so very seductive, and so very evil. Most cults that claim to have the Bible as their source simply add something to salvation. Most cults will say that a person is saved by Christ They'll say that usually. The ones I've talked to usually good. They may even say you are saved by Christ alone. And you think, oh, we're in the same club. But when you invite them to join your church, you find out what their brand of heresy has an additional something that your church doesn't have. So you've got to come to their church to get it. You'll find out what the and is. And that and is deadly. That and is poison. Salvation is all of Christ and nothing of flesh Christ offered it. Christ will finish it. He works in us to will and to do according to his good pleasure. We work too, but we only work because he works. If he did not work, all our works would be filthy rags. That's the difference. Our works are not filthy rags when they're done in faith. They're glorifying God, they please God. Our efforts become beautiful offerings to the Lord when they're offered in faith. Is there anything in your salvation that you can take credit for? At whatever point that is, you don't understand your salvation. Is there anything in your sanctification that you can take credit for? At that point, you don't understand your sanctification. That's really what Paul is saying. It is from Christ, it is of Christ, it is to Christ, it is in Christ. Rejoice in Christ because He is the cause of all the good things in your life. If not, we would only have our fleshly efforts, it would have no spiritual merit, and what a bad place we would be. Now, Paul goes on to give the best example he can think of: Paul's own history. He's gonna show it by his life. Verse four, though I also might have confidence in the flesh, if anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I'm more so. This is Paul's point. If flesh can produce anything valuable, then Paul ought to be the poster child for it. That's what he's saying. If there's any value in fleshly efforts, Paul should be the top dog in that show He's really making a bold boast. And we know enough about Paul to know he's not lying when he says this stuff. He was a remarkable guy. Essentially, Paul was everything that the Judaizers said a person ought to be. If anyone would have earned something by his efforts, like the Judaizers said should happen, it should have happened to Paul. We start with four things that Paul was born into, and then things that happened to him that he did not choose, and then we move into things that he did choose. Circumcise the eighth day. Paul started out right as a good Jew. He came from parents who took spirituality seriously. He had a good Jewish family. Even though he lived far from Jerusalem, Paul still kept the Jewish rules, and Paul's family did too. Of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin. Of the stock of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin. Paul also had a Jewish bloodline. If anyone could be saved through being Jewish, Paul should be able to be. He could track his limbs. He was Jewish through and through. A Hebrew of Hebrews, it says. So that's a summary up to this point. Paul's bloodline and heritage is all pure Jewish. He had the epitome of a Jewish person. But now Paul moves to his achievements by his hard work, by his efforts, by his decision. Concerning the law, it's a Pharisee. The Pharisees were the top of the line in spiritual accomplishment, at least in the eyes of the people. They were the conservatives of the in the in the uh Jewish religious hierarchy That the common guy would have thought, I'm on their side more than the Sadducee. They were exceedingly obedient to the terms of the law. Those things that could be measured by behavior, these guys were impressive. They were very careful to go by what they thought was the letter of the law. And Paul in Galatians tells us what kind of Pharisee he was. He says, he had advanced in Judaism far beyond his contemporary. That's how Paul describes himself. He had advanced in Judaism. far beyond his companions or his contemporaries. So if Paul is an up-and-coming leader, if they're watching for the next leadership in in the Pharisees He would have stood out above everybody else as being the prime candidate for whatever their leader was called. He was the kind of person that people took notice of. He was very ambitious for his religion. He wasn't your average person nor your average Pharisee. He was at the top of his class If being Jewish could have accomplished anything eternal, Paul would have accomplished it. Now the next phrase is very interesting. Concerning zeal persecuting the church. We show what we really believe by what extremes we will go to carry it out. Many Jews were content to just speak about Christianity being a bad thing, being a purge, being all these things. But Paul cared so much about what he thought was God's honor. He was determined to wipe out it. This thing called Christianity. Maybe it had to do with the fact that Jesus was hung on a tree. Jesus was cursed in their mind. Paul would have had viewed him that way. Anyway, Paul would go anywhere and spend any price to do whatever he thought to get rid of this enemy of true Jewishness. In reality, these Judaizers are also persecuting the church. They're doing it differently. The way they're doing it is tricky and backhanded. And it was nothing compared to how Paul did it. Paul was straightforward and bold about the whole thing. And he goes on to say: concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. Concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. What this is referring to is not the ultimate of righteousness. Which would be the sinless position we have in Christ. That's righteousness. Paul is certainly not claiming that for himself, since he says in other places it's impossible for us to reach that kind of righteousness Now, Paul is talking about the righteousness that flesh can attain. Flesh has the ability to control one's outward behavior to some extent. And if one carefully limits the application of God's law to external behavior, one can live in a way that no one can bring a provable charge against you of breaking the law. That's as good as a human can do. And that's pretty good. That's impressive. A good law abider can live in a way where they can't be convicted of a violation of God's law to their external life. Evidently, that's how Paul lived. At least that's what he's saying here. What an impressive guy. The law would be no easy thing to live up to. They had rules about everything. Yet Paul did live up to its external requirements. His righteous living, living by the rules of the law, was so good he was not open to charges being brought against him. Now internally, that's a different thing. While Paul may have kept the first nine commandments, he certainly did not keep the tenth. He even reveals that later in one of his uh Epistles. Coveting is a heart sin. This is Paul All of these Judaizers were second class compared to Paul. They were amateurs. If a person could save himself, if his works could be added to what Jesus did for salvation, surely Paul was that guy. So this makes Paul the perfect person to tell us it doesn't work. It's sort of like asking the richest man in the world if money makes him happy. If it fulfills his love. When he tells us that it doesn't, we can know that we're barking up the wrong tree if we're looking for happiness there. The same is true here with Paul. If our lives can add to our salvation, if our lives can win favor for ourselves, well then Paul's should have worked. If such a thing could work, it should have work for Paul. But it did work. So we can know it can't work. He's the best example there is and it didn't work for him. And there's another thing we should see here. Look at what flesh can do. This is important to know and to realize and to have in our heads. Look at what flesh can do. We need to be very careful what we're impressed by. I think of Mother Teresa. I've read things that she has said that lead me to question if she ever at any point understood salvation. Yet she's held as a patron saint of love and compassion. A fleshly desire to earn God's favor can drive a human being to exceptional accomplishment. We have got to remember that. It can produce activities that are nothing short of amazing. Qualities that we would admire. Sacrifices that we ourselves might not be willing to make. But we have to listen closely. We should ask the question, why should God let you into heaven? And listen to the answer. If the answer does not revolve around the person and work of Jesus Christ, we are probably looking at a person like Paul was in his pre-Christian days. An exceptional person and exceptionally lost. A person who can outperform any other human immoral actions, but whose heart is still lost in darkness. A person who ultimately can only give credit to oneself for one's accomplishments. We need to be careful by what we are impressed by. What we need to always look for is the gospel being lived out in a person's life. Look what Paul will tell us in verse 7. He says, But what things were gained to me These I have counted lost for Christ. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted lost for Christ. It's a far better thing to be a believer who is failing at making the changes in behavior that we're trying to make. And urgently calling out to God continually to help us, it is better to be in that state than to be a person who is succeeding in the change behavior through the efforts of flesh. Our failures will drive us to Christ. The successes of a legalist will drive them from Christ to self. If you're a child of God, God has never loved you more or less than he loves you right now. Your successes will not cause him to love you more. Your failures will not cause you to cause him to love you less. So trust him. Bask in his love and depend upon Christ for your future brook. There is nothing that fleshly accomplishment will ever add to what Christ has already given you. Rejoice in the Lord, he says twice. Rejoice in the Lord, rejoice in Christ Jesus. Within three sentences. And he's talking about our relationship with God. That's where all the logic of our salvation leads us. If you were to logic it out, if you were to think it out, your conclusion would always be joy. Because that's where everything heads. It leads to us being people who cannot express our thanks enough for what Christ has done for us. We have every reason as a believer to rejoice. We are loved by God. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you. That is so obvious. And we get so easily distracted. Thank you that it's all in Christ. Thank you that it you have started a work in us and you are going to finish. And we have to play our diligent part. We're called to do it. We're required to do it. We're commanded to do it. But we're enabled to do it. And you have inspired in us through this new person that you have made us this desire to please you. We thank you, Lord, that you give us such a great example of what doesn't work in the light of the fall So that he can so clearly point us to knowing you and that being the answer ultimately for everything And we thank you that you are worthy of all glory, honor, and power forever. Help us this week to represent you better, to be more congruent with our new personality, with the new person that you have made us. And by doing so, to give all the glory to Christ for what he has done and what he will do. In Jesus' name. Amen.