I would say the the the family at Pleasantview passes on their greetings. But they all just said to say, hey y'all. So that sounds so much better than those of Pleasant View share their greetings with you this fine morning. Uh yeah, they said to say hi, y'all. So uh thanks for inviting Karen I to be here this morning. Uh we are very excited to be here and to worship with y'all this morning. And uh for about 20 years I did youth and children's ministry. And so I like object lessons. So I'm gonna do an object lesson this morning. More often than not, they have to do with food. Uh you know, they they say you talk about those things that you love So, yeah, yeah, there you go. I've got an object lesson for food this morning. And I need a volunteer. Is there anybody who would be willing to volunteer and oh he put his hand up? Come on up. Thank you, Mark. I'm gonna have you test some things. Now just so you know you don't have to be scared, all of these things are real food items that Angie probably uses all the time. So there's something like octopus or egg, fish eggs, or anything like that in there. Here's what I need you to do. I need you to test or to taste them and then just let me know, yes. I w I'd probably try that again or no, I think I want to rip my tongue out now. So um I just want you to test it, taste it, and see if you say, okay, this is whatever, you know, if it's Chocolate. Yeah, that's chocolate. I I I hate chocolate or something. But just let me know what it is and whether you would uh try it again Probably not. Probably not. What do you think it is? That is vanilla. So probably not. Alright, I'm gonna put the probably knots right right here. There's the probably knots. All right. Give that a shot. No, not by yourself. Not by yourself. And uh what would you say this is? That's salt. That is salt. You don't like to just take the salt shaker and Yeah, I love well no I don't. No I don't. Alright. So another probably not. Hopefully I'll have a probably wood in here somewhere. Um there you go. Probably not. Uh what do you think it is? Flour. Flour. Yeah. I think I've got at least one probably so in here, I'm pretty sure. But this probably isn't th that. Not really, no. And what is this? Butter. Butter. All right, let's see. And what is this? Cocoa powder. Cocoa powder. All right. Yeah, this definitely well, I don't know, you might be really weird and like this. I don't know. We'll see. Any guess? Mm baking powder? Oh baking powder, yeah. All right. Let's see He's really picky, isn't he? That's not bad. Alright. And what what do you say it is? Sugar. Okay. Probably do it again? Probably would. Yes. Alright, we've got uh probably wood. Probably wood over here. You'll never guess what this is, and you'll probably never guess where I got it. I I could drink that again. You could drink that again. Alright. And uh is it uh Coke? No. Alright. Now, I got a lot of probably knots and a couple probably woods. Thank you, Mark. Done? I'm done. Wait. Yes, I'm done. How many guys would say that life is always good? Nobody? Nobody says that life is always good. Okay. What uh Read a passage before we get to Romans 5. That's my main passage today, but uh before I get to Romans 5, I want to read another passage out of Romans, one that you all are all probably familiar with. Now, verse 28 there, it says, We know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. It says that we hope that all things, right? We hope that all things We think that all things. We know that for those who love God, most things Some things? No. All things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose So it doesn't say that we hope, it doesn't say we that we think, it says we know. It doesn't say some things, it doesn't say all things, or yeah, it does It does say all things. It doesn't say some things or most things. It says all things. So let me ask you again. How many guys say that life is always all good? Still nobody. Would anybody say that life is a cupcake all the time? All right. Betcha. Never guess where I got this, huh? Alright. Hold on here. Well, this is Mark's reward for being such a good sport in tasting all those things. Um Everything he tasted here is in this thing. Mark, do you like cupcakes? Would you mind tasting this one for me? If you need the rest of the milk, let me know. So if you haven't had if you haven't had one of Heidi's Cupcakes, by all means get one of Heidi's Cupcakes. Uh They're very tasty. Now, would that go on this side, Mark? Probably not, or this side of most definitely so. Most definitely so. Now the thing is, that cupcake is made up of all these things that he probably what he said he definitely wouldn't do these again. And it's also got some of these good things. So that cupcake is made up of all the things that he really didn't like and doesn't want again. And it's made up of the things that he did like and would try again. With Romans 8. 28, for we know that all things work together for the good of those who love God and are the called according to his purpose. Life doesn't always seem like a cupcake. Life doesn't always seem sweet. In fact, there's another passage over in the book of James. James chapter 1. And again, it's another passage you're probably very familiar with. Count it all joy. You guys ever you're familiar with that passage? Yeah, beginning in verse 2 there of chapter 1. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing So it says, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. How many guys remember the cartoon character Droopy? Anybody in here remember Droopy? He was the little dog about that tall and he always had his cheeks droopy. And whenever he'd get happy, he'd go, yay. Wave his little flag. Yay. I'm counting it joy. Yay. Do you think that's what God is saying here? Okay, God, you said count it all joy, so joy. I don't think that's exactly what God is trying to get across to us here. That when he says count it all joy, he's not talking about droopy. He's talking about an authentic joy, a true joy. There are several words for joy. One of them is in the Romans 5 passage we're going to be getting to in a bit. And a lot of those uh words have the connotation of jumping up and down with excitement. How many guys have ever jumped up and down with excitement because of bad things in your life? Yes, this is horrible! Woohoo! We don't often do that. I was talking with uh somebody recently about some bad things that were happening in their lives, and I I asked them Are you thanking God and giving joy in the midst of this? And she said, Well, I'm thanking God for some of the outcomes for it. That's not not what we're talking about here. In the book of Ephesians and in the book of 1 Thessalonians, in Ephesians chapter five and first Thessalonians chapter five. God tells us that we are to give thanks in all things. How many guys want to know the will of God for your life? Well, I'm going to tell you what it is. Again, that passage in 1 Thessalonians, I know what the will of God is for your life. Beyond any shadow of a doubt, because he says, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God. in Christ Jesus for you. So if you want to know the will of God for your life, one part that He very clearly reveals is that we are to give thanks. That we are to give thanks in the midst of everything. It's funny. We are over at Pleasant View, we are presently going through the book of Romans. We're in Romans chapter 2 now. And have been. But we're in Romans chapter 2 now. And I had the privilege of preaching this series of messages on Romans 1, verses 18 through 21. And over there in verse 21 of Romans chapter 1, it says, For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. But they gave became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. And the passage I mentioned in Ephesians, where he says, and always in all things giving thanks to God our Father. through the Lord Jesus in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. In all things giving all thanks to God the Father. So There are many passages, and there are many more than that, but there are many passages in scripture that talk about in the midst of everything giving thanks to God And saying, well, I broke my leg in 47 places, had 19 surgeries and two years of physical therapy. Well, thank you, Lord, that I got witness to my therapist. That's thanking God for an outcome of what happened. That's what I call the thankfulness of obedience. You're being obedient and giving God thanks. for something you saw good that came out of this. But it's not just giving God thanks for the outcome of the bad situations. It's giving God thanks for the bad situations themselves. And that's hard to do when we're in the very midst of a hard situation. A little bit about my background. My parents are divorced. And I was the first person in my family to get saved. We were living in Illinois when my parents divorced, and my dad is from Georgia. So after my parents divorced, my dad moved back to Georgia. And uh he was raised in church, you know, because it's it's the South. You you go to church. So he was raised in church. When he moved back to Georgia, he started going back to church. And I went down and visited him one summer, and uh while I was there I was going to church with him, and some teens in the youth group uh kind of befriended me and uh Started doing things with the youth group there, and as a result of their their friendship, as a result of their outreach, I heard the gospel and responded to it. So I was the first person in my family to come to Christ. And then I I went back to Illinois for the school year. Um, but eventually I did move move to Georgia. And uh after I graduated from high school, I was going through a really hard time in life. Uh well I mean Let me back up a second. When I was living in Georgia, I would go up and visit my mom and my sister in Illinois during the summers. How many guys have older sisters? I'm so sorry. Um no. Whenever I'd go and visit my sister. Oh yeah. Whenever I'd go and visit my sister uh in Illinois, I would Witness to her. Most of the time my witnessing would end up with me through the door that just got slammed in the my face going, Jesus loves you, and her going, Shut up! Uh I remember one time I was sitting on the floor talking to her, she was uh sitting in a chair, and older sisters know how to push your buttons Uh again, for those of you who have older sisters, you know what I mean. Um so I was sitting there talking to her, trying to tell her about Jesus. I had more zeal than wisdom in those days. So I was trying to tell her about Jesus and she knew just how to push my buttons and she didn't believe this, but she knew it would irk me to say it. She goes. Well, all religions are the same. They all lead to the same God. And that just oh and then she got up to walk by and so in the love of Jesus I punched her in the leg when she walked by. You know, that's that's how my witnessing usually went with my sister So uh fast forward again, I'm living in Georgia and uh going through some hard things and and through the midst of that I was really seeking the Lord and what he had for me. What was what was the direction that he wanted me to go in life. And uh through a lot of prayer, through a lot of godly counsel, really felt the Lord was leading me to move to Illinois, uh, to move back there. And my thought was, yeah, I can witness to my sister again. And it's kind of like God said, No, I I just want you to shut up and pray. I'm like, Oh no, no, Lord, I can witness to her. I'm better now. I I'm better now. I I won't yell at her. I won't punch her anymore when I'm witnessing to her. And God said, No, just just shut up and pray Uh well that's a paraphrase, God didn't tell me to shut up. Um But so I moved back to Illinois in September and I didn't say a thing to my sister. I I didn't try to talk to her about Jesus or anything. I just lived my life. So I moved there in September, and that November she came to me and asked me what that saved thing was. uh that I used to always talk about. And uh I had the opportunity to leave my sister the Lord then. And then that was November and that February, my mom came and asked me the same thing. And so in just a a matter of months I had the privilege of leading my sister and my mom to the Lord. And then several years passed and uh a ministry came to my church called Life Action Ministries. And that was 95. And in 2000, I joined Life Action Ministries. And what we did, we traveled about 10 months out of the year to different churches all over the country. And uh we were at a church down south, and so since we were close to where my dad lived, he came and uh visited me during that series of meetings, and my dad got saved at that series of meetings. And so uh now I'm I'm excited to know that my sister and both my parents are now believers in Christ, uh, even though my parents are still divorced. But when I look back on things What was, humanly speaking, the thing that God used to bring me and my whole family to the Lord? It was my parents' divorce. Now, God says in Malachi that he hates divorce. So it's not saying that divorce is a good thing. But Romans 8. 28, that passage that I read at the very beginning, for we know that all things All things doesn't mean only the good things that happen in our life. All things, you know, when my parents got divorced, I knew that meant no more family Christmases. No more family thanksgivings. Um going to one one parent's house for the summer and leaving the other and It meant my family was torn apart. Not a good thing. Not to mention it is a sin. God says he hates divorce. But that is what God used, being faithful to his promise in Romans 8. 28 to bring me and my whole family to the Lord. Again, it doesn't mean that the divorce is okay. It never was, it never will be. Uh God hates divorce, he says in the book of Malachi. But God does use all things. Now, in the midst of that You know, I wasn't going, God thank you for the divorce. Because I couldn't see things uh the way God does. How many guys ever put together a puzzle? Okay. Say that uh you were putting together a puzzle, and somebody came by and was watching you, and they picked up a piece of the puzzle and they were looking at it, and they said, you know what? This must be the ugliest puzzle I have ever seen in my entire life Now, how many of you guys would think he's looking at one puzzle piece and talking about about how ugly the puzzle is? Does that make sense? No, because it's just this gray color. This is nothing but this gray. It's just a gray puzzle piece. It doesn't look good at all. It's not pretty. When you take that gray puzzle piece, you walk over to your puzzle. and you put it in, you see that it's part of a mountain. Snow a snow capped mountain with a lake at the bottom and a f and a forest, the reflection of the mountain in the lake. It is a beautiful mountain. Puzzle. It is a beautiful picture. But when you look at just that one puzzle piece, it looks ugly. So a lot of times the reason it's hard for us to give thanks in the midst of circumstances, the reason it's hard for us to find joy in the midst of circumstances. is because we're looking at a single puzzle piece. Because we can't see the picture like God sees it. We see that single puzzle piece. Or we're just getting a taste of baking powder. That's all we've got. We don't have God's perspective on things. And that's why sometimes we find it hard to give joy or to give thanks in the midst of everything. But here's why it is so important to give thanks in the midst of everything. This is why it is so important to find joy in the midst of everything. How many of you guys trust God? How many of you guys believe him at his word? I hope we do. I hope we do. I hope you do. But here's the thing about our lives. What we truly believe is going to be lived out in our daily life. What we truly believe is going to be lived out in our daily life If our daily life is one of complaining because of the the circumstances that we're in, if the the the our life is characterized by being bitter about the people and what they've done in our lives. Are you really trusting God at His Word? When God said, hey, that situation you're in, trust me. It's going to be for your good. If you trust me, you'll find joy. You'll have joy. But here's the thing that we don't understand sometimes. That when we're unthankful, when we're bitter , You know, somebody at work has done something and you think you're bitter towards that person , you're not. Ultimately, all bitterness is towards God. All bitterness ultimately is towards God. Romans 8. 28 again. For how many things All. All things work together for good. How can God give us a promise that everything in our life will be for our good? How can He make that kind of a promise? There's only one way. If I told you, if I came to you one day and said, you know what, I'm going to give you my personal guarantee. Here is my personal guarantee. That no matter what happens today, I'm going to make sure it's for your good. You got my personal guarantee. I'm going to make it happen. How many of you guys would believe me How many guys go, oh, I'm so glad you told me that. I feel so much better now. Why wouldn't you believe me? Why are you saying I'm not trustworthy? Well, no, you know rightly I'm not in control of what's going to happen today. I can't give you the guarantee. I can't give you the promise That I'm going to make everything work for your good today. I can't because I'm not in control. The only way God can give us that promise in Romans 8. 28 is if and because he is in control of those things. That's the only way God can make that promise. So if God is giving us this promise because he's in control of all things, that bad thing in your life That person in your life that just grates on your last nerve, or that person who has deeply hurt you, who's in control of the situation? God is. So when we're bitter and unthankful for that situation, ultimately it's really against God that we're being bitter and unthankful. Because He is the one who's in control of that situation. And that's why so many times in Scripture it talks about how we need to be thankful and giving thanks in the name of God. It's because to not give thanks in the midst of a situation is to not acknowledge God's control of it. It's not, it's to nut it's to you're not acknowledging God's goodness to you. You're not acknowledging God's goodness to you So, in the midst of everything, give thanks. Count it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials. It really is a true test. Of whether or not you trust God. Saying, God, you've given me baking pat baking powder, cocoa powder, flour, you gave me a little bit of sugar. God, these things are disgusting. They're gross. I don't want them. God says, do you trust me? Do you trust me that I can take these things? And make something good out of them. Heidi can take these things and make something good out of them. If Heidi can do that, how much more can God? How much more can God I've only got about three hours more of notes, so hang with me. You're laughing like I'm joking. Romans 5. Let's start with verse one. Verses three through five is really where we're gonna focus, but uh I I wanna make sure we get the context of this. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him, we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Man, if you can't find any other reason to rejoice in the midst of anything going on, Verse 2. Through him we have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Let's just for a second turn back over to Romans 8. 20. Romans 8 for a second. Verse 29 For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined, to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. When you read verse 30, there's something that ought to jump out to you. Let me read it again And those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called that answered the call, he will justify, and those whom he will justify, he will also glorify. Is that what it says? This is all past tense, people. This is all past tense. He predestined, called Justified, glorified. It is a done deal You are a done deal in the eyes of God. So when you go back to verse 2 of chapter 5, and it talks about rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. This isn't like my hope that there's a Lamborghini in my driveway when I get home. Man, I hope that happens. You know what? It's not going to Unless you guys really want to bless me. Um, but uh I am not gonna have any. Uh so That's not the kind of hope it's talking about here. According to Romans 8, this is a done deal. It's not a hope that something might happen. It's a hope that we have because something already has happened. You have been justified. And while we don't see it practically in everyday living, we have been glorified. Ephesians 2. I'm giving you guys a bunch of extra stuff today. Let me give you one more extra thing. Ephesians chapter 2. In relation to all this. You want to find a reason or have a reason to have joy in the midst of everything. Beginning in verse 1 of Ephesians 2. It says, and you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, and the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. We were under the wrath of God. Now, one thing that I've ingrained to the folks at Pleasantview, I will ask them this question, what is the most beautiful phrase in the human language? And it's what verse four starts with, but God Verses 1 through 3. We were dead. We were dead. When a person dies When they're on the operating table and they die, do they go, hey, somebody stick the electric things to me. Come on, guys. They're dead. They can do nothing. They are without hope unless somebody around them does something. They're without hope. No hope. They're dead. We were dead. And then verse 4 says, but God But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And then listen to this. And he raises up with him and seated. It's a done deal. It's in the past. seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That phrase, but God, changed your eternal destiny. You were destined and deserving of hell as everybody. And there was nothing you could do. You were dead. Hopeless. But God , such an incredible passage there. If I weren't a Baptist pastor, I think I'd dance. You know? So it's a done deal. In the midst of anything that's going on in your life. You can have joy knowing that it is a done deal, that God stepped into your life and changed your eternal destiny when you are without hope. And there is nothing that can change what he has done. Remember, you've already been glorified as far as God is concerned. It's past tense. You can't change past tense. So, all things work together for good. Count it all joy, my brethren. Give thanks in all things. If for no other reason than because you understand that it is a done deal in the eyes of God Your eternal destiny is set. It is set. Back to Romans 5. Sorry, that was extra. That was free. That was an extra. So Romans 5 Again, picking up in verse 3. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance and endurance produces character. Character produces hope. And hope does not put us ashamed because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. How many guys want hope? How many how many guys want despair? Please give me some more despair. I love it. Yeah. We want you you want some despair? I'm sure dad can take care of that. We want hope. But so many times we want hope now. But how does God bring about the hope that we desire? Sufferings. Those sufferings produce endurance. That endurance produces character, and that character produces hope. You want hope in life? It comes from the sufferings in life. Just like what it says in James chapter 1. Count it all joy, my brethren, in the counter various trials. It says at the end of those various trials, is to be made perfect, to be made complete in Christ. As Christians, our greatest desire should be to glorify God with our lives. And we do that by being complete in Him. God loves us. And he loves us enough that he will do whatever it takes to give us that greatest desire that we should have. Our greatest desire in life should be to glorify God by being completed in him. And God says, I love you so much, I want you to be completed. I love you so much, I want you to have hope. And I will do whatever it takes to get it for you. And so he brings suffering into our lives. We don't think of suffering as good, hence why it's called suffering. But in the hands of God, all of that. Really is something sweet. It's not a matter of whether or not it is. It's a matter of whether or not we perceive it as so The cupcake is good. There's no doubt about it. It's just, well are we going to take things one incident at a time? And end up being bitter towards God or unthankful towards God. Or always say, God, you are a master chef. I know that you can take the bitter things in life and make something sweet. of them. So I will thank you in the midst of this. Man, I'm thankful for baking powder. Because without it I wouldn't have a cupcake. I'm thankful for the results of the baking powder, but I'm thankful for the baking powder too. Without it, no cupcake. I'm thankful for the baking powder and the cocoa and the flour. I'm thankful for those things, not just because of what comes out of them. Are you thankful for the things that God has brought into your life, not just because of the results of them? So when it comes down to it, life is a cupcake. Life is a cupcake. Because remember, a cupcake has both the good stuff and the not-so-good stuff. So if you truly trust God, then you truly can say life is a cupcake. And again, what you truly believe is going to be lived out in your daily life. What is lived out in your daily life? A life of thanksgiving and joy in the midst of various trials, or a life of bitterness and complaining because of those trials. Do you trust God to make a cupcake out of the very most bitter things in your life? Where do you find yourself this morning?