Mark eleven through twenty-two Then the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, testing him. But he sighed deeply in his spirit, and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Assuredly I say to you, no sign shall be given to this generation. And he left them, and getting into the boat again, departed to the other side. Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, and they did not have more than one loaf with them in the boat. Then Jesus charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It's because we have no bread. But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, Why do you reason because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Is your heart still hardened? Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear, and do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said to him, twelve. Also, when I broke up the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said, Seven. So he said to them, How is it you do not understand? Now, Jesus had just fed another 20,000 people using a few fish and crackers. It was well known that he was healing people and casting out demons. Think about that. I mean it's difficult for us, we read this, but it's difficult for us to imagine just the impact that that would have. If you knew someone who was doing all of this What is the last thing in the world you would ask someone like this to do? Probably it's exactly what the religious leaders asked him to do. What we're going to see this morning are two kinds of blindness. There's permanent lethal blindness from rebellious hearts, and the temporary blindness in the hearts of believers. At times they might look the same, sometimes they react the same, but they are drastically different. One is destined to remain blind, the other is destined to see. Verse 11. Then the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, testing him. Matthew tells us a little more in Matthew 16:1 through four. It says, then the Pharisees and Sadducees came and testing him asked that he would show them a sign from heaven. Do you remember when we began this study, what we learned about the Pharisees and the Sadducees? They hated each other. They absolutely hated each other. It would be similar to the environment we face today between Democrats and Republicans. They both want to be in power, but they differ fundamentally on the solutions to the problems. So what we see here would be similar to a coalition of Democrats and Republicans coming to question a religious leader suspected of having political sway, of political power. Now, what is the only thing that would cause that to happen in our world? It would be fear of losing power. Anyone who appears to be a threat to their power was going to be attacked. These religious rulers were being threatened on two fronts. They were going to lose power to lead the people on spiritual issues And they were going to lose political power. And neither side was willing to give that up. So they came together to silence a common enemy, Jesus Christ. Neil Young is a singer-songwriter who was popular when I was young. He's pretty old now. He isn't exactly a monument of truth. But I saw him being interviewed on TV once, and the interview asked the interviewer asked him his thoughts on world peace. And what he said I thought was was wiser than he might normally be. He said in in his opinion, the only thing that would bring about world peace was a common enemy. The only thing that would bring about world peace was a common enemy In the end times, depending on your view of eschatology, there's going to be a short period of world peace under the rule of the Antichrist. Nothing brings the world together more than a basic hatred of God's authority over their lives. And that's what is coming. And that's what it will be based on. Well, we see that principle lived out this morning in our text. The enemies of Christ have come together to kill Christ. That's their intent. They don't have the power yet, but that's their intent. They're just looking for opportunity. Jesus has now traveled back into Jewish territory. He'd been in Gentile territory for several months. He's now back in range of the Jewish leaders. And as soon as he gets within range, they're after him like a pack of dogs, looking for a weakness. So back to our text. Then verse eleven. Then the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, testing him. Okay, the Pharisees and Sadducees are badgering Christ with questions. We can rest assured that this was not one of those discussions where one tries to understand another person's position. to arrive at truth and maybe even agreement so that we can figure out how to get along? These questions were fully intended to condemn Christ. They were testing him. They were putting him to the test. Now, it says that they were seeking a sign from heaven. There's some evidence that the Jewish leaders believed and taught. The earthly miracles could be duplicated by the devil, much like the men in Pharaoh's court could duplicate what Moses was doing But they believed that a miracle done in the skies could not be duplicated and therefore would prove Christ's godly origin. So they were egging him on to do such a thing, as if they were trying to sincerely prove that Christ was uh you know had God's source of power and authority. Well, had they been paying attention, they probably would already know about the sign from heaven when Christ was baptized. They were there. So they should have known there was a sign then from heaven. And they would probably also know about the winds and the waves stopping immediately if the disciples let that one out, and I would guess that they probably did. But these religious leaders were not looking for proof that Christ was true. It's a shame that they weren't, but they weren't. They were invested in finding proof that Christ was false. That was their full intent. At the end of the day, nothing would convince them otherwise. They were sold out to the devil or to the evil that they were doing. Have you ever dealt with a person who's committed to seeing things the way they see them? They're not going to change. No amount of arguing, no logical presentation of evidence is going to change their minds. As a new believer, I would not have believed such a thing was true I would have believed that if a person hears you know something laid out clearly enough that they're gonna they're gonna eventually believe it But I believe it now. It is a miracle and only a miracle when a person sees the light, when they're drawn to Christ. Human reason is used in the process, but human reason does not cause it. It responds, human reason responds to God's call. That's what's really happening, the part that we don't see. Now let's look at Christ's response in Matthew before we go to our text in Mark. Matthew 16, 2 through 4. Christ answered and said to these religious rulers, When it's evening you say it'll be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening. Hypocrites. You know how to discern the face of the sky, but you can't discern the signs of the times. A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign shall be given it. Except the sign of the prophet Jonah. And then Christ left them and departed. We've probably all heard the saying: Red in the morning, sailors take warning, read at night, sailors delight. Well, that's biblical. That's actually in the Bible here. So the Pharisees ask for a sign from heaven. In turn, Jesus talks about the heavens. He said, you want to talk about the heavens? Well, we'll talk about the heavens. He essentially tells them they know more about the physical heavens, weather, than they know about the spiritual heavens, reality. They know more about physical existence than spiritual existence. Essentially, their understanding of the heavens is limited to weather forecasts. They know what it means when they see things in the physical sky, but they know nothing of what it means when they see world events unfolding all around them that's displaying that Jesus Christ is the Messiah and the Messiah has arrived. Essentially, the things they are responsible for, they know nothing about. They're better weathermen than workmen in the Word of God. They don't know how the Scripture fits into world events. Then Christ tells them what he thinks of their request for a sign. He's essentially calling the status of the current Jewish nation and leadership as wicked and adulterous. He could not have been more deeply offensive by what he said here. You know, sometimes we get the idea that Christ and we as Christians should always be non-offensive and all of that. There are times, when we're dealing with wolves especially, that uh we need to speak the truth pretty plainly and boldly. But he could not have been more offensive, and he could not have been more accurate. What he said was exactly true, and he said it to people who would just find it as one more reason to hate him. He says here that the sign of Jonah would be given to them. That would be Christ's death and resurrection. We know that now. But of course, they had no idea what he was talking about. They probably blew that sentence off, figuring, well, I don't know what he means. Let's go to the next thing. And then Christ left them. So now we skip back over to our text in Mark, verse 12. But he sighed deeply in his spirit and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Assuredly, I say to you, no sign shall be given to this generation. Sighed deeply. The word here means to draw a sigh from the bottom of your chest. We've all done that from time to time. We all know what that's like. We hear news that is deeply distressing. We can't help but giving expression to that which is too troubling To be hidden. That's what it's being described. How distressing, how disturbing, how depressing These men, who were supposed to be the guides, were trying to kill the Son of God. Essentially, the majority of people in this generation were about to perish eternally, even though the Messiah, the Son of God, is with them. There is no sign that would ever change their destination. It didn't matter what show God would have put on. You remember the the one parable where the guy says, well send back. uh somebody that to tell my family and uh uh uh and uh in the parable the the basically it it wouldn't matter who you send back Nothing's going to convince them. So it's not like God was guilty for not giving enough proof. These people will be found guilty for having hearts that would not respond to God's love. They had plenty of proof. The problem can be found in Christ's question. Why? Why does this generation seek for a sign? Why is it? Why are you doing this? And the answer is clearly that it's not because they want to show their love for God. It's not like show us a sign because we really want to we really want to follow you. We want to know your will. And no, they don't know they won't they don't want to know his will. They don't want to submit to his lordship. They ask for a sign because they're intent on killing the Son of God, and that's why no sign is necessary. It would not accomplish anything good. This is always the status of the truly spiritual blind. They can't see. They don't want to see. And they'll never see, no matter how bright you shine that light. Now, was no sign given? Well, none of the signs they were looking for was ever given, but they were given signs that those who looked for could easily see. They were given enough evidence that they should be able to discern Jesus' origin. They had enough to know that already. Remember uh when when John asked, Hey, are you really the Christ? and Christ sent back Tell John this. You know, all the things that are happening as a result of Christ's ministry, all of the miracles that he was performing. Those were signs from the Old Testament that Christ uh that Christ carried out in the New. So there was plenty of evidence to discern the origin of Christ. Now let's move on to those who are capable of seeing the light, but aren't seeing it yet. Verse 13. And he left those spiritual leaders and got into the boat again, departed to the other side. Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, and they didn't have more than one loaf with them. And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It's because we have no bread Okay. So Christ was on the west side of the Sea of Galilee in Jewish territory, within walking distance of the leaders, so he's going to get badgered He immediately leaves. Maybe he left in a hurry. Maybe the disciples were distraught with this situation. Whatever the case, they forgot to do something that they knew they had to do. It was their job to get food and bring it along. So what do you think was running through their minds as they're in that boat traveling from one side to the other? Well, I can give you a hint. It's the same thing goes through our minds when we mess up. Uh-oh, I didn't do my job. I wonder if I can hide that fact. I wonder if I can pick up some bread as soon as we land so Christ won't know I messed up. I wonder how I can keep my my mess up here to a minimum. You know, have it be observed as little as possible. And in the meantime, you know, I sure am hungry. We as humans are all messed up. None of us are truly objective about hardly anything. We all hear what we hear through the sieve of our failures. And our insecurities, and our sensitivities. Human relationships are far more of an art than they are science. To those who are married, what's normally the source of your problems in your relationship? From what I've seen, it's when I hear what wasn't said or say what wasn't heard. I assume meanings and intentions. Carla assumes meanings and intentions. And oftentimes our assumptions come from our own failures and our own fears. We suspect motives that the other party may or may not have. We read things in that we shouldn't, and we miss hearing things that we should. Why? Because we have issues of our own that cloud our perceptions. They distort reality. They fog communications. It's extremely difficult to listen well. Very few people ever master that skill. Truly listening involves getting outside of oneself. It involves putting aside our agendas and fears and dislikes. It involves casting aside the need to remember the next thing that we were gonna say. You know what I mean? You're in a conversation and you're spending so much energy energy trying to remember the point you want to make that you don't hear the next five sentences that the person the person says. To truly listen and to truly hear is a very loving thing to do. When somebody's really listening to us, we ought to really think, you know, this is a gift. This is really a gift. It doesn't happen very often. To be truly heard as a human is a wonderful thing. So is this psychological noise that blurs our hearing in us anything new? Not hardly. We see a perfect example of it this morning. What does Christ say? Take heed, beware the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod Then this command goes to a committee. The committee comes back. What's the determination? What is heard? You guys forgot bread. Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. You guys forgot bread. That's typical human behavior. That's how we typically listen to one another. Now, look what Jesus is saying. What he is saying here is extremely important. It gets blown over, but it's extremely important. It's something they needed to know. It's something we need to know. But because the disciples were so hard-hearted, they completely missed this lesson at this time. This could have been a very good teaching opportunity, but it was completely lost because of their response. How many times does this happen to you? You're speaking to someone, you know you're getting to the heart of a very important matter, but the person you're speaking to suddenly becomes absorbed with some other perception. Maybe they're offended at something that you said, or the way that you said it, or when you said it. And you know immediately that you're never going to get back to that important matter in this conversation. It'll have to wait for a future time, another. Like I said, it is so hard to listen well. And it's triply so when someone is talking to us about ourselves. We do well to put off our objections to style and timing to another time if it's possible. It's good for us to listen, really listen, even if the person who is telling us these things is not good at making their points Maybe they're not even good with reason. Maybe they're completely tactless. But they're making a sincere effort to tell us something. We need to quiet ourselves and hear what's being said. These guys missed a very important lesson because they weren't listening. And what was the lesson? Take heed. Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Leaven of Herod. Christ was warning them about polluting influences. Polluting influences. These are influences, patterns of thought that if introduced will end up corrupting the whole lump of whatever it's introduced into. It's 11 works. In other places in Scripture, it's compared to sin. Leaven is compared to sin. Now, what is the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod? What is it? We're never told explicitly, at least not here. This could be a whole study, other study on its own. But it's essentially mixing and confusing worldly ideas with spiritual ideas. Worldly behaviors with spiritual behaviors. For the Pharisees, they had a code of physical behavior that they equated with Spirituality. And then on top of that, they, like all legalists, act very hypocritically. They say one thing, and under close examination, they do another. Herod's leaven was a different kind of leaven. Herod claimed a spiritual status, but his behavior did not have to comply to that status. He thought he could be okay with God even though his life was not at all submitted to God. The Sadducees, who Matthew includes in this list Compromise on truth. They don't have absolutes from God that determine their path. They accept the world's tools as a way to accomplish God's ends. It's a mixture of spiritual and worldly. All three confused political power and spiritual power. All three thought political power was a way to further the kingdom of God, and maybe in this instance, that is The primary leaven that Christ was talking about. I think if Jesus were personally discipling us today, he would say the same thing Beware the danger of thinking political success will somehow further spiritual success. Political power will somehow bring about the kingdom of God or a benefit to the kingdom of God. I have a friend who I talk about often who I differ politically with dramatically, but I think he's correct in his assessment of the harm that we have done to the message of Christ. Liberally minded people think the gospel and right-winged politics are joined at the hip. It's like if you're a Christian, you're right wing. If you're right wing, you're a Christian. So people who think that the government should provide more services to their citizens than conservatives think is prudent Like most most of us as conservatives and I would guess most of us here are probably politically conservative, we tend to think little government, we really don't want the government's intrusion, we don't want the government taking so much taxes to you know and provide all these services. And uh there are liberally minded people think opposite. They think that that it's the government's duty and it's a good thing for the government to be involved in that. Okay, so they think that because they believe that way, that think that way about government That they are excluded from being in the saved group. You know, it it creates an obstacle for them to come to Christ Because they view it from a political perspective because we've trained them to view it that way. It's an unnecessary obstacle And it isn't like conservative politicians have been stellar role models in the world of morality anyway. We would do well to not allow the yeast of mixing our proclamation of spiritual truth. And our political views. We will not further the kingdom of God even if the most conservative politician of our day wins the day. Maybe we'll be more prosperous as a nation, but really what has that done for the gospel in the lives of those who are prospering? The best way to measure the spiritual value of something is to ask how many more people will be in the kingdom of God as a result of the effort? It's unwise to invest so much hope in politics. It'll never further the kingdom of God. The idea that it will I think is a primary example of the Pharisees' leaven. Anyway, this is the lesson they missed in our text this morning. But it's repeated several times in the recorded record, so eventually they got it. And that's a good thing, but they didn't get it this deck Verse 17, but Jesus being aware of it said to them, Why do you reason because you have no bread? You know, why do you come to that conclusion that what I just said has anything to do with what you just heard? Do you not perceive or understand? Is your heart still hardened? Having eyes do you not see? And having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets of full of fragments did you take up? And they said, twelve. Also, when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said, seven. And he said to them, how is it that you don't understand? How do you not get this? How tense can you be? At this point, Jesus addresses the disciples' current problem. Not the one he wanted to address, but this one. He's shown his exasperation with them. He had to wonder when they would ever get the real point. And why? Is it because they're stupid? Is it simply because they misunderstand? No. The problem is the state of their hearts. Their hearts are still hardened, so they don't hear what's being said. They haven't been softened yet. They don't perceive and understand. They don't look at the facts and add them up to understand what God is after. They can quote the facts. They can tell the stories, but they still can't apply those truths to their lives when they find themselves in a pinch. How much like us is that? Really? We know so many facts about God. We can even teach all the stories about God. Most all of us here can teach Sunday school to little kids. But when the least little thing happens that puts us in distress, we suddenly don't have any clue about God in that instance. We miss the point. We forget what we know. Look at the reasoning Jesus uses. Based on the disciples' response, the disciples' assumption must have been that Jesus really cared about not having any bread. You gotta, I mean that has to be the assumption That looks like projection to me. Projection is when we assume that another person is driven by the same things that we're driven by. So, since we would care about bread if we were in charge, then Jesus must be concerned about bread. But Jesus shows how stupid that thinking is. He reminds them of facts about himself. And you know, when we're not thinking right, that's always what we need to be reminded of: who God is. Who God is, what God is like, what God does. We need to know that. And notice what Christ reveals. The disciples already had the facts about the situation. They in essence knew the answer to the question. They knew enough to know better. They had all the facts ahead in their awareness. They just simply didn't apply them. How many baskets of bread were left after I fed the crowd out of nothing? That's what Jesus is asking There was nothing, remember? I mean there was hardly any fish, hardly any any bread. Most of it I I created out of nothing. And okay, the first time I did it, how many? Twelve. Second time I did it, how many? Seven. They know them like that. They've got the facts. And you think I care about bread? Why? That's essentially his question Why would you think I care about bread? I can snap that out of nothing. So how is it that you don't understand? It's not that you don't have the facts. You guys need to see what's going on inside of you. And that's that's where we stand, when we don't get the point When we respond to God in ridiculous fashions, when we don't seem to apply what God has clearly to say in his word, and we respond as if none of it's true. We need to look at what's going on in our heart, because that's the source of the problem. Nothing has changed from then to now with people, with us How is it that we don't understand? There are plenty of things that we think God really cares about, but he doesn't care at all. There are lots of things that we're bent out of shape about, but God doesn't care about. We want them because we want them. Often not because God wants them for us. Sometimes we believe God wants them for us. But he doesn't. There are things like that. And those things only serve as a distraction from those things that God really wants. I think legalism is a is an interesting uh example of that. How we sometimes have a legalism, we think God really cares about it, and over time we find out All that was was a distraction. That's not a real source. That's not what God really wanted. Is there something like that in our lives? Is there something you really care about? Something you see as a spiritual thing, but you have reason to know based on what God has said that it really isn't. It isn't really the focus that God has in our lives. Maybe you think as a good Christian everyone should think positively about you and you get absorbed with that and you care so much about other people's opinion. Maybe you think no one should know about your sin because it would make other people think less of Christ. We can all get stuck on things that we think are spiritually important. But they're not. We've made them up, but that's not what God has said. And those things end up being distractions, just like the bread was a distraction. For these disciples hearing the message that Christ was clearly proclaiming. Bring to memory what you know about God That's what the disciples had to do. That's what Jesus taught them. How many? How many baskets? Does he say those things are important? That we get focused on? What is it this distracting what is what is it distracting you from? What important thing are you missing by focusing on that thing that you've made out into being extremely important to God, but God never said so I think that's a pretty good focus for us this week. Um Examining our lives to see what we have filled with as being spiritual, that God didn't give us to see as spiritual, and also to watch how we listen. How we listen to God's word, how we listen to his believers, and to see just how much distraction we have because of our own stuff going on inside of our heads. instead of really hearing those who are speaking to us. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your kindness. We thank you for your word. We thank you for reaching out to us. We ask that you would help us to learn from the disciples that example. And to hear you when we read your word, that we would read it not with all of our assumptions and all of the things that our minds are busy with and all of those things, but to simply Look at the context, look at what you have said, and apply it. We ask that you would help us in our relationships with each other, that we would Learn how to lovingly listen and put our stuff out of the way so that we can deliver the goods of your stuff to each other. And Lord, we just ask that you would help us to represent you well this week. And that we would uh Apply these lessons in a way that just longs to see your glory and to glorify you more. In Jesus' name. Amen. Listen ,