That's kinda the example of a person just like us, just like any human being. He didn't always get it right. That might be an understatement. In fact, he seemed to start off very badly doing exactly the wrong things, at least in many instances. But he was changing. He was being shaped by God in and through his failures. He was coming around to a new way of thinking. God had to wipe out a lot of his alternatives before he got the point, but God often does that for his children. He's often done that for us. We were to tell our whole story. Finally, in chapter 37, we see some good instincts. And Zechai hears the message from the king of Assyria. We've been calling this message a message from the devil, and that's what it was. The king of Assyrian was just the devil's pulp puppet. So he heard the words of Jerusalem's promised destruction from a guy who looked like he could do it. And this time Hezekiah did the right thing right off the bat. He didn't send a message to Egypt for help. He'd already tried that. That didn't work. He didn't try to bribe the enemy. He'd already tried that. That didn't work. No, at this point, Hendekai shows on the outside what he feels on the inside. The Jewish people had a tendency to be very demonstrative about their emotions. They didn't leave you wondering how they received bad news. They would grab their clothing and rip it. It expressed their anguish or their grief. And then to make things perfectly clear, they would dress the way they felt. They put on sackcloth Our equivalent would be burlap or feed sacks. It quite literally was material that sacks were made of. They would weave goat hair or camel hair into bags, and then they would store their grain in those bags. The cloth was very coarse and very dark. But oddly enough, it was very good clothing against the elements. That's what uh John the Baptist wore, and it was kind of all-purpose clothing. When you would see someone of status wearing sackcloth, you didn't have to ask how they were doing. You would know their soul was in great turmoil. Or at least that's what they were trying to convey. Sometimes they would fake their state of art by wearing sacklots, but their art really wasn't in it. But normally they were suffering some kind of grief. Maybe it was the grief of losing a loved one, maybe it was the grief of remorse over sin, or maybe it was the grief of some other kind of great loss. But that's what the sackclock meant when you saw it. Sometimes I think sackclock should make a comeback. It might be good if we would make such clear declarations of our state of being from time to time. Then if our grief was legitimate, others would know and they could share it with us. And if our grief was of our own making, they could come alongside and help us. Maybe we should make sacklock pins and then we can put them on and let everybody know, hey, uh I'm I'm grieving, I'm hurting here. Uh how about how about we uh get together on that? Anyway, Hezekiah was grieved inside and out. His people were being threatened and God was being blasphemed. If any man ever needed an answer from God, Hezekiah did. We didn't we don't need to go very far for an application here. When we're stressed out by our life situations, and we really need to know what we should do. We need to hear from God. I'm pretty confident that every single one of us in this room can say at some point they have found himself in that spot. And the more desperate our strengths, the greater our need for God's direction and his counsel, and sometimes just his affirmation. So Hezekiah does what we should do, what we should always do. What did he do? He went to the house of the Lord. He went where he could gain access to God. He went where he could be closest to God. Where 's that for us? Well, actually it can be anywhere. But it's best that we're away from all the other distractions in life, wherever we can find that, maybe sometimes temporarily Especially for young mothers. We can go outside or in some quiet room or for a ride But we don't need to go to a building like they did. The Holy Spirit is in our bodies. We are the tabernacle now. So He has come to us. Now back then they didn't have a whole lot of the Bible. It was still being written. Back then, when you wanted to know what God said, you went to one of God's prophets. Now being a prophet was a very, very serious thing. A false prophet could do a whole lot more damage to sincere seekers back then than one can do now. Now almost everything that we face in our lives can be checked out by the Word of God. But back then, not so much. So Hezekiah sent all the spiritual authorities and the persons over the king's household to find Isaiah. He sent his top god, he sent his cabinet, basically, to find Isaiah. And they were all dressed in sackwath, so the stage would be well set. When the dignitaries found themselves in Isaiah's hearing. And they were to deliver a message. And this is the message. Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble and rebuke and blasphemy, for the children have come to birth, but there is no strength to bring them forth. It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rashaka, whom his master, the king of Assyria, has sent to reproach the living God, and will rebuke the words which the Lord your God has heard. Therefore, lift up your prayer for the remnant that is left. Do we get what a heavy God is saying here? He's saying that God is being blasphemy. He was being speaking of spoken of evily as if God is evil. That's what blasphemy is. It's that sort of thing. As if God is not good, as if God cannot be dependent upon. This message is saying exactly the opposite of the things that are true about God. And why? Because of Hezekiah, because of the Judean people, because of the lack of trust that Judea has shown toward God up to this point. Now they're at their ropes in. Now they need to enter the arena, but they don't have any strength to go. Now they need to stand up to the challenge, but they're all out of energy and resources. Their umph is all gone. They're ready to be born, but their mother is out of energy. Hezekiah is talking about all of our lives when we lived dependent upon our own flesh to live the Christian life. We're all out of juice. We just cannot turn the corner on our sin. We can't express faith where we know we ought to. We can't do what needs to be done. We know what needs to be done, but we can't do it. We just don't have whatever it needs left to accomplish this thing. Isn't this a wonderful statement by Hezekiah? He's simply telling the whole truth and nothing but the truth. We can't do what needs God. We need God. We chose our hymn this morning. I want to quote it a little bit. I need thee every hour, the most holy one. Oh, make me thine indeed, thou blessed son. I need thee. Oh, I need thee. Every hour I need thee. Oh bless me now, my Savior, I come to thee. Hezekiah could have written this song. That's what he was doing. In fact, Hezekiah was so low that he could not dignify himself by calling upon his God. He couldn't even say, call upon our God. Look what he says in verse 4. It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rapshaka. Have you ever blown it so bad that you had trouble imagining that God would even listen to your prayers? Have you ever thought that your failure was unforgivable? Have you ever thought that your state to be so low that God would not even care about you when you're not alone? Many people of God have felt that way. And while we can't give way to these ideas in our doctrine, into our thinking about God, we can sometimes accurately describe our feelings that way. Look at this. Hezekiah didn't even appeal to God to do this for his people. He never said, Your people are such wonderful people, God, that you should do this thing. No. Hzekiah appealed to God to do this for God's own honor. Maybe the Lord, Isaiah's God, not Hezekiah, but Isaiah's might hear the words of the Rashad and take it personally. Maybe he'll consider that the Rabshaka was sent to reproach God. Maybe God will rebuke the message that the Rabshaka spewed out against God. So, Isaiah, will you please just pray for the few of God's people that are left? Oh, how this request ought to fill our hearts with hope. It shows us so much about ourselves and so much about our God. Hezekiah was at the bottom of his game He had zero self-confidence. He had failed pretty miserably in his leadership decisions as of late. Here he is, the king of Judea, and this is the best he can do. And we see that he has surrendered. He has given up on any help except the help that comes from God. He has given up on every resource but the resources that come from God. He comes offering nothing to anyone. He just lays out his need in as brutal a fashion as it could be laid out. Can't we do that? I mean, really, it's not that much. Can't we do that? No matter how bad off you are, can't you do that? No matter how much you have failed, can't you do that? You don't even have to be convincing. You just need to be honest. Look back on your life. Aren't those the turning points of your life? When you come brutally to God honestly with your need and nothing else. Oh, how wonderful our God is to meet us when we come to Him just as we are without one plea. But that his blood was shed for me. Isaiah doesn't even feel he is qualified to pray this prayer to God, but he knows it needs pray. So he brings it to the one person who knows God. Now, let's switch sides here. Think about this from Isaiah's point of view. He's been speaking for God all this time. He is laying out the bad news day after day, and as of as usual, people are saying you ought to be more bothered. Every time I listen to you, I hear bad stuff. You know, can't you just be chipper once in a while? He is laying out the bad news day after day, and he's been mocked He's been the town joke, but he stood for God. He has not strayed. He has not given in to the temptations to relent, to be popular, to be more like He said to God at one point in his life, here I am, send me. And he meant it. And he too must have wondered if he would ever be vindicated. He must have wondered if God would ever reward his efforts. Because he's been doing this for years. He may have wondered if he would ever see the bad times he was promising were going to happen. You know, it's kind of an awkward situation you're in when you've given all this bad news, predicting this bad stuff that's gonna happen, and it doesn't happen. I say you got a mixed feeling. Well, I'm glad it's not happening, but boy, I wish it would. It would make me at least look like I'm telling him the truth. And this day he experiences the fruit of his labor. The king and his dignitaries are now knocking on his door and even his help. Suddenly he has become the most important person in the kingdom. Why? Only one reason. He knows God. He knows God. Faithfulness to God will almost pay off in the long run. We just don't know how long the run is. It doesn't matter how many people ignore what God says now. It doesn't matter how many do whatever they feel like they want to do now. It doesn't matter how long they seem to be able to get away with it now. Stick with your faith in God. Be loyal to Him. Surrender your life to Him. Obey Him. All other past will run out of steam if the person is chosen by God , they'll run out of steam. And if they are not chosen by God, they will lead to their destruction. All the other paths don't go anywhere good. Choices to sin will be regretted either because they have dishonored Christ or they have led to eternal judgment. Cling to faith. This was Isaiah's day to shine, one of them. His faithfulness to God finally paid off in a way that he could experience. He was the go-to person in the time of need by all those who didn't take spiritual things seriously. One thing is sure, they're taking it seriously this day. So the the sermons did just what they were told. Now if you were Isaiah, how hard would it have been not to add a lecture here That had to be extremely tense. How hard it would have been not to make them pay for not treating you with respect for all those years. How hard would it have been not to stick that jab in for all the ways they had made you better over the years? Well, when you represent God, you'd better stick to what God said. There's not a whole lot of room for stealth when you're God's messenger. When you speak for God, you'd better speak for God alone. Verse 6, and Isaiah said to them, Thus shall you say to your master, thus says the Lord, don't be afraid of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have left him. Surely I will send a spirit upon him, and he shall hear a rumor, and return to his own land, and I'll cause him to fall by the sword of his own land. Up to this point, Hezekiah did not know what God had in mind. He hears the threats, but he doesn't know what God has said yet. Last week we talked about how in reality, if Hezekiah had known the future as it would pan out, he could have gone to bed and never lost a moment's sleep, even with the Assyrians surrounding the country. But he didn't know. Well, now he does. And from this point forward, there appears to be no need for Hezekiah to show his faithfulness to God. Before God shows his faithfulness to Hezekiah. Hezekiah did nothing but call out to God through Isaiah in his honest need. And that is all. And this is what God does. Verse 8, then the Rabchaca returned and found the king of Assyria warring against Libna, for he heard that he had departed from Lakesh And the king heard concerning Terhakah, the king of Ethiopia, he has come out to make war with you. So when he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying, Okay, look what happened here. It was exactly what Isaiah said that God said would happen. Any surprise there? A rumor. A rumor. God used a message in the wind to turn around a great army. Do you see the irony there? It's ironic that God used one of the devil's favorite tools to reap destruction against the king of Assyria. When people talk about God and the devil, and they talk about God and the devil being in heavy battle, we've got to laugh. I think we all should laugh. The warfare that we have to do is serious. Evidently, the warfare that the angels have to do is serious But it isn't because God needs any help with the enemy. That's laughable. He can get whole armies to move on a rumor. You know, it's not that hard for God. There's no battle between God and the devil. The devil is on borrowed time. He's on the end of a leash, and his time will end when our Savior speaks the word. Part of the battle. Don't ever forget that. God is sovereign over everything. Every. So with this distraction, the king of Assyria did not want to appear weak So he he clearly was weak. God had just jerked his chain and he can rent whatever God said. But he we he can't allow his arrogance to show his weakness. So So he sends his lackeys to Hezekiah again. And he says, Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah, king of Judah, saying, Don't let your God in whom you trust esteem you, saying Jerusalem shall not be given into the hands of the king of Assyria. Look, you've heard what the kingdom of Assyria has done to all the lands by utterly destroying them, and shall you be delivered? Then he goes over a list of lands which the Assyrians have conquered. So here we go again. Blah, blah, blah. You know, he's given the same old routine, the same old message that he gave before. The God of Israel has just done exactly what he said he would do. He removed a great army based on a rumor. But the enemy keeps at it. Peter tells us about that strategy. 1 Peter 5. 8. It says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. From what I understand, lions often roar to scare animals out of their safety. And if if the animal just stays put, the animal would be fine. But it's the roar that gets them to flush. It's similar to the screech of a hawk. It's intended to spare their prey. To come out of safety and to make themselves a target of the predator. That's what the king of Assyria is doing. He's roaring to frighten Judea from their position so he can pounce on them. We need to realize that the threats of the enemy are empty threats to a believer. While he can cause us harm, he cannot do us permanent harm. He cannot undo us. He cannot take that which is most important to us. He cannot overcome God's plan. And we must stand in faith with sober, clear-headed thinking about these things. We cannot give way to the panic he wants to create in our heart and mind and light when he sends messages into our minds or through our world 's media or whatever it is he's sending us to messages through. We've got to stand with great clarity in faith in God. Now watch what happens next. It's wonderful. It's what happens when God turns a person around and repents. This is what begins to happen when we say to God, my life is yours. Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord to thee. Verse 14, and Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messenger. So this is threat part two. He received this letter. And he read it. And Hezekiah went up to the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. It sort of made it the Lord's problem. Then Hezekiah prayed to the Lord, saying, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, the one who dwells between the cherubim. You are God, you alone, all the kingdoms of the earth, you have made heaven and earth. Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear. Open your eyes, O Lord, and see and hear all the words of Sennacherib Which he has sent to reproach the living God. Truly, Lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste to all the nations in their land. And he goes on. Hezekiah no longer needed to go to Isaiah. That's pretty sweet, I think. His faith is growing in God. He's already heard God's message. That's what Isaiah had to give, but he had no other way to get. But he got that. He got Isaiah's message. About what God had to say. And he rested his faith upon what God had said. He no longer needs to know what God says about the situation. Now he needs to get himself in line with what God says. And isn't that often the job that we spend most of our time doing? He needs to begin to pray based upon the promises of God and expectantly look for God to do mighty things He needs to act in the belief in God. This time when Hezekiah went to the house of the Lord, he did not send messengers to get God's word. That would have been an act of unbelief. No, Hezekiah calls out to God. And let's look at that prayer. Look how it starts. O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, the one who dwells between the cherubim, you are God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. What is it called when we make much of the attributes of God? Sort of test question. What's it called when we make much of the attributes of God? I give you the answer. Pray. Nobody says. Somebody. Pray. Pray. Praise and thanking God for who he is. Not for what he's done, but for who he is. It's a show of appreciation for the person of God. That's how Jesus taught us to pray. We begin with praise. I think it's because praise puts everything else into its proper perspective. It puts our problems and God's ability to solve them into perspective. It puts what really matters into perspective. It helps us to get our eyes off of ourselves and onto God. It's the perfect way to begin prayer. And look at what Hezekiah appeals to. God is not a mere idol. God is the untrue assumption in the Rabshakas argument. God is not an idol for a group of people. God transcends his creation. God made everything. He made everything that every so-called God is made of. He made. He's the creator. That really puts things in perspective. Does it put our problems in perspective? Really, how important is our problem when we bring it before the one who has made plans? Do we think we're going to tax his abilities or his understanding or his wisdom? Do we think that somehow this God who made everything will find our problem to be the one who cooks them over to the edge? It's a ridiculous thought. We're to bring them to God and He cares for us. But we really need to consider who we are addressing when we pray. Hezekiah's back in the thousands so far. This is a good day for him. He's doing what we need to do when we face a severe threat. Verse 17, Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear. Open your eyes, O Lord, and see. And hear all the words of Sennacherith, which he has sent and approached the living God. The most powerful prayers that you will ever pray are for God to glorify Himself in your situation the way He said He will. You can always know that this prayer will be powerfully answered by God. We don't know exactly how it'll be answered. It could be answered by our own martyr. Sometimes that's a result, but it's often a wonderful display of his power that we enjoy The greatest problem with Sennacherib's threat was not that they were threatening the people of God. That's a big deal to God, but it's not nearly as great as that it was a dishonor he was bringing to the person of God. He was just like Goliath, and David knew that. Stand for God's honor, and you'll always be on a winning side. You'll always be praying God's will. You'll always be doing God's will. Again, Hezekiah's batting a thousand. Oh, to be like Hezekiah in this setting. He really shines. And I I just love the next section. This has got to be like music to our souls. Verse 18, and you might think it odd when we read it. Truly, Lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste to all the nations and their lands and have cast their gods into the fire. For they were not gods, but the work of man's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they have destroyed them. The thing I like about this is Hezekiah is not afraid to be honest with God. I mean, really, is there anything dumber than be in faith with God? For us to pray pretentious prayers Is there anything more stupid than bringing to the omniscient God trying to pull the wall over his God? You know, that is not smart. Believers are free to be real. We've said that a lot of times, and it is the most refreshing thing about true Christianity that we as the humans that we are, as ugly infected we sometimes, can just be absolutely honest. Because God knew the deal he was getting when he made it. He knew The sins we would commit before we ever committed them. He knew that before the beginning of time when he chose us. There is no need of faith in the Christian life. There just isn't. We're free to be real. It isn't like God can't handle it. Hezekiah is laying out his concerns, and he's telling God why he's having a problem with this particular thing, but he also mixes it with truth. He's saying, yes, Lord, the king of Assyria really has shown a capacity to do what he says with his stress. But there is a difference. And this is a theological difference. Theology is important. Those people only had idols. We have you, and you are different. You are the assumption in the argument that it's false. You are not like the other so-called gods. And it's because all these gods were false that the enemy could have his way with them. He cannot have his way with you. That is the advantage that good doctrine gives to the people of God. We know the truth about God. While they tell the truth about their situations, they can also tell the truth about God. That's what Hezekiah is doing. And then Hezekiah ends his prayer. Now therefore, O Lord our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you are the Lord, you alone. Therefore, are wonderful things. They're statements that reason has value. Truth matters. How we think is important. This, therefore, is a capstone based on a solid foundation of reason. Since you are the only true God Since this creation of yours is speaking against you, since this human looks like he can accomplish what he says Since you alone are God and are the wild card in all his reasoning, therefore save us. Hezekiah is appealing to the reasons that this thing he is asking for will glorify God. And what's the end game? God's glory. That the earth may know that you are the Lord, you alone. Is that what we want our lives to say? Is that what we want to communicate to those around us that we work with or that we're we we're in school with or that we uh uh uh bump into or whatever. Is that what we want our lives to say? That the earth may know that you are the Lord, you alone Do we care more about how God is regarded than how we are regarded? Do we care more that He gets glory than we get acceptance or light? Or the attaboy. Do we care that God's kingdom is built up more than our egos are struggling? Do we care about God's glory more than our safety or even our very lives? That is when powerful stuff happens. When people become absorbed with the glory of God in their lives. When we are expendable in the service of God, when looking good matters more to us, when God looking good matters more to us than anything else in our lives. Those are the people through whom God seems to do mighty things. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you for who you are. Lord, we see that we can come to you exactly as we are. And we can come to you knowing that you will do exactly what you have said that you will do, and that you are trustworthy, and that you love us. And that's all beyond our imagination on some days. When we take it as being true and we come to you Lord, we ask that you would help us to live like Hezekiah this week on his good day. So that we will just clean you and follow you and serve you and uh trust you. And look out for your glory in our settings and help us to see how we can go about doing that. In Jesus' name.