What's the right way to look at scripture? How should we look at scripture? Our passage this morning is still very helpful at letting us know how Jesus regarded Scripture. Here are four common views of how Scripture was inspired. There's the neo-orthodox view. Neo-orthodox. There's dictation Dictation Limited Inspiration Limited Inspiration and Plenary verbal inspiration. That's plenary P-L-E-N -A-R-Y. Plenary verbal inspiration. Neo-Orthodox, this view says that the Bible is not really the Word of God. Rather, it just tells us the Word of God. It tells us about Jesus. The words used are just fallible words. The Bible is only inspired in that God sometimes uses the words to speak to individuals. That's neo-orthodox. Dictation, this view says that the words of the Bible truly are the words of God, but it says people essentially took dictation. From God. God spoke, and these people, not needing to give it any thought, just wrote it down with what entered their ears and their mind. They just jotted it all down. Limited inspiration, this view is like the first in that the words may or may not be fallible. This view holds that historical information may be wrong, but God protected it from having any doctrinal error. They say that God gave some inspiration to the individuals writing scripture, but it was primarily a work of man with limited spiritual intrusion. And then there's the plenary verbal inspiration. Plenary verbal inspiration. And this says plenary means complete or full. And verbal means the very words of Scripture. Complete and full, the very words of Scripture. So this view says that every single word in the Bible is the very word of God. It isn't just his ideas or thoughts, it is the words themselves that are God-readed. Then Scripture tells us how it happened, and the plenary verbal is that explanation that fits It's the best of what Scripture describes in 1 Peter 121, where it says, For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Alright, so obviously the last view is the is the one that I I believe we should all believe, based on what Scripture says about itself. Now let's look at what Jesus says in our text in verse 18. He says, For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. We're going to look at this in detail this morning and we'll see how Jesus views the Old Testament. How Jesus views the Old Testament. This is very important. First, Jesus says about the law or the prophets that he came to do no damage to them at all, but to uphold them to the point of fulfilling them. Christ came and he gave an absolute endorsement of the Old Testament. But to what degree? Was it just the general idea of what they convey? Was it just the core doctrines of what they say? Was it just their moral influence that is carried by some of their words? No, Christ will be extremely specific about how he regarded the inspiration of the Old Testament. He will tell us how far he takes this concept of how to view the Old Testament. And he starts by saying, Assuredly, I say to you. That's a real strong statement. His audience would have known right off the bat, you better take notice of this, because this is really important. They would have known that what Jesus was going to say next was going to be very emphatic. He would essentially be saying, I'm telling you the absolute truth without any qualification. Make no mistake, this is the absolute truth, and it's not going to change. That's essentially the gist of what that phrase would get to these people. And he says this to make the point that he probably thinks needs to be said so strongly because it is not likely to be believed. Jesus does not want to be misunderstood here. He does not want this thing that he is saying to be bypassed or forgotten or thought a little of. And then he says, till heaven and earth pass away. He says, pay great attention to what I'm about to say. Till heaven and earth pass away. Now this is describing the end of history, earthly history. as we know it now. Not history, period, but as we know it now. 2 Peter 3. 7 says, But the heavens and earth which are now preserved by the same word are reserved for fire. until the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. And then in 2 Peter 3, 10 through 13 it says, But the day of the Lord will come as a seat in the night in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with furban heat, both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? Looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Now, we're not exactly sure how this will be carried out, but one thing is for sure it's in the future. And it another thing is for sure we will know when it happened. It's not the kind of thing that is subtle. And until that time, we know one thing. What Jesus says about the Word will remain true. What Jesus says about the Old Testament will remain true. Now, this is helpful because it gives us a time parameter. We don't have to guess when God's word will be fulfilled. It will not be fulfilled prior to this catastrophic event. It won't be completely fulfilled And we've seen partial fulfillments, but it won't be completely fulfilled. So we can categorically reject any subtle theories about how this all might happen here and now It's interesting that Jesus made a similar claim about his word, about the things he was saying, the things coming out of his mouth, and he says this in Matthew 24, 35 Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. So here Jesus makes his words superior to the law and prophet. The law and prophets will be utterly fulfilled. The words of Christ will be effective forever. At least that's how I understand it. So, what is it that will not happen prior to the catastrophic end of life as we know it on planet Earth? Back to our text. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. One jot or one till will by no means pass from the law. Now, what does that mean? Well, the jot is the smallest letter. The smallest letter was iota in the Greek and ioda, I don't know if I'm saying it right, in Hebrew. A tidal is literally a little horn. And it's the mark that helps distinguish one Hebrew letter from another. So it's a mark on the letter itself. It's very small, and it helps identify letters to ensure that the correct word is understood. So this is what Christ was saying there, and they would have all understood it. We have to do a little interpreting. But what Christ is saying is not only won't the smallest letter of the law be changed But even the smallest part of a letter on the law will not be changed. What Christ says here is so helpful to us Look at what is implied here about how Christ looks at the law and the prophets, and essentially how Christ looks at Scripture. Christ regards the selection and meaning of each and every word in the Old Testament. To be so important that not even a nuance will be changed by allowing a letter to be wrongly read. That's how how severe a stance he makes on that. That's that's what his audience would have instantly understood He's not talking about the authority of the word being held in its ideas. He did not regard it as a noble attempt by man to write down some important things. No, he is essentially saying that God communicated to man with every single word that was written. Every single word. The words were selected with purpose. Now I believe that this only perfectly applies to the original document in the original language. There may now be errors in translation. Men are now choosing the best words they can to use to represent what was said in the original. And for the most part they are very good. And that's a very difficult process. And there may have been errors as it was passed down. And that's why we have different versions that have different verses. Some add, some don't have them, that sort of thing. The great thing is that we have enough historical documents that we can make very reasonable guesses about where those problems are. And we can even appeal to the original languages and the oldest and most accurate manuscripts. So we need to add those caveats, but the important point is not lost here God chose even the words that He would use to communicate to us. The original document is certainly a supernaturally transmitted truth and is specific to the very word that was selected. There were no mistakes. Sometimes I lose track of that when I read God's Word. I forget what it is that I have in my hand. I don't know. I suspect maybe we're all like that from time to time. I forget just how absolutely amazing it is that we have the words of God in our hands. We have God's direct communication to us. And these words have absolute authority, the very authority of God. And we can have astounding confidence that when we understand Scripture correctly, we know God's intent. We know his direction. We know God's plant on things, how he looks at things. We know what he thinks. To a small degree. We know what pleases God. We know what displeases God. And to the degree a human can, by reading his words, we know God. We can have an understanding of this God to the extent that our human capabilities allow for it. Jesus endorsed this view of Scripture. Now, how did Christ apply this to day-to-day life? Did he really treat Scripture like every word was important? Well let's let's look at an example of how he interpreted the scripture. Matthew 22, 31 and 32 says this. But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken to you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. The context of the passage is this The Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection of the dead. And they thought they had a valid point because it's not mentioned often, specifically in the Old Testament. Now it's important to look closely at how Christ argued his point. Because that's the degree to which we can trust Scripture too. Look at Jesus' whole point in this passage. It centers on the verb tense. Of a single word. His whole point centers on the verb tense of a single word. It's the verb tense in the statement, I am. The verb tense is present tense, it's not past tense. Jesus treated this doctrinal statement with complete confidence. And the only way you could do this is if you believe that the specific word was intentional and specifically inspired. This particular word and its verb tense were chosen by God. That's how Jesus viewed it. So Christ could make the strength of his argument on that single word. Do you see what I mean? Christ was basing this on the jot and the pittle. He applied it exactly the way he said. When we get picky about exactly what a verse means, a verse says we are copying Christ's style of biblical scholarship. When we're looking at the words , And we're determining what they mean. And then we revert back to the Greek sometimes as he did. And we look at what what word was chosen, what tense it was in. That matters. That's Jesus' scholarship. Now we must compare scripture with scripture to make sure we're getting getting it right. I mean we're not the son of God in that sense. And you know, we don't know uh God's mind without us reading and studying and seeing the whole thing. But we can make some tremendous assumptions regarding Scripture because the Word himself, the Word in flesh, Himself made these assumptions. We can model our biblical study after his. Now, how much did Christ depend upon Scripture? You know, the largest percentage of what Christ taught can find its basis on what was taught in the Old Testament. You read through Proverbs, you read through Psalms, and you see a lot of the words of Christ, or at least the things that he was teaching. Most of what he taught came out of the Old Testament. If we wanted to, we could spend the rest of our time together this morning just reading scriptures where Christ quoted the Old Testament. He knew them and he studied them and he memorized them. He knew what they meant and he knew how to properly use them. We can't possibly know Christ or the New Testament scriptures as well as we should without understanding and knowing the Old Testament. It was interesting, one scholar, I don't remember his name, but he was asked to interpret Revelation. And his church was really, come on, you gotta teach us, you've got to teach us Revelation, and he said to him Until I understand, have done a thorough study of the whole Old Testament, I cannot preach the book of Revelation. So I think it was ten years later, he uh came back and he he taught them Revelation. Now that's a biblical scholar Uh but anyway, uh you've got to understand the Old Testament to understand the new. If we want to best understand Christ We should study the Old Testament with a view for Christ. If we want to best understand marriage and sexuality We should study the Old Testament with a view for marriage and sexuality. If we want to know how to think about money and resources, we should study the Old Testament with a view for money and resources. I think you're getting what I mean. The words in the Old Testament are God's words, and they are the backdrop for the New Testament. It's hard to have a proper perspective on where you are if you do not know where you came from. Now, I don't spend much time in circles with people who call themselves Christians but don't have any regard for the clear text. teachings of the Old Testament. I know that some of you do. I I don't I I I just don't hang out with people like that. Probably the issue where this becomes clearest is the issue of homosexuality. And many people try to make a wrong distinction , a wrong distinction between the Old Testament And the New Testament. And they say the Old Testament was all about the law, but the New Testament is all about grace. The law no longer has any place because it's it's outdated, it it's not needed. Love is the theme now, and loving is defined arbitrarily based on our culture's understanding of love. So now you've got two problems. You've got no Old Testament authority, and you've got a redefined definition of love. So these folks take a word from the New Testament, define it with an extra biblical definition, and then seek to apply it in all kinds of situations. And they apply in a way that would have us completely confused about right and wrong, about truth and lies, about what is proper and what is improper. Any attempts to quote the Old Testament by folks who think that this is the default area? Any attempt to quote the Old Testament by folks who think like this is dealt with anything from skepticism to outright hostility and mind. Certainly we should be gloved. You know, in in this whole in in any in any issue, we need to be loving. We should reach out to meet any non-believer's need without regard for the expense to us, and we do it because of our relationship with Christ, our obedience to Christ. Certainly that is always called for, to look out after their best interests. But we do not need to be morally confused in order to do it. We don't need to redefine right and wrong in order to do it. Hurting a person's feeling with the truth is often required to help a person. A diagnosis of cancer always hurts a person's feelings. But a doctor is immoral if he knows the disease exists without telling that to the patient. And we do not need to succumb to any worldly pressure to try to make God look cool. His word is his word and it represents what he means to the letter Now, those who claim to be Christians but try to redefine sin and redefine love, they have a real problem. And this is the crux of the problem. Might be a good quote to use if you find yourself in this spot. Does this Christ they claim to worship know what he's doing? Does this Christ that they claim to worship know what he's doing? MacArthur says it well. If the Old Testament contains any errors, we must conclude one of two things about Jesus Christ One possibility is that he was ignorant of those errors, in which case he was not omniscient and was therefore not God. The other possibility is that he knew of the errors but denied them, in which case he would have been a liar and a hypocrite, and therefore not fully God. The question to ask a person who claims faith in Christ but has no confidence in the Old Testament is this How could Christ not have known what you know? How could Christ not have known what you know? Christ had complete confidence in the accuracy and authority of the Old Testament. How could he not have known what you know? Obviously, the problem is not with Christ. The problem is with having a view of Scripture that counters his Back to the text. Verse 18. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one sittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. until all is fulfilled or accomplished. In verse 17, the word fulfill has a similar idea of completion. The word for fulfill in verse 18 is a little bit different, but it is similar. And what does this fulfillment consist of? What does it mean till all is fulfilled? Till all is fulfilled. How will everything the Bible says be fully complete? How will it be fully accomplished? How will it be fully obeyed? For sure this applies to Christ. He fulfilled the law by keeping it perfectly He became the perfect satisfaction of its wrath in order to allow us to have life. He has or will be the perfect fulfillment of every messianic prophecy. But the whole world will also be changed according to the law. And all of us will be changed as well. I think this fulfillment being spoken of is even more expansive. I believe this is talking about when everything becomes exactly what it is supposed to be. When everything becomes exactly what it is supposed to be. It's when everything conforms to the perfect will of God, the will described by what he says. Everything is rendered righteous. Everything becomes perfectly pleasing to God. His character and our environment will finally be congruent. There will no longer be a useful purpose for sin or suffering. And there'll be no sources of violation of God's intent. There will be no influence from the devil or the flesh. Imagine that. There will no longer be an old nature. There will no longer be a curse. Even the animals will get along. No more tick bites or mosquito bites or bee stains. No more sickness. No more COVID. No more stress. The perfect law of God, all the desires expressed by God's word, all of his intents, especially as emphasized by Christ, will be perfectly in place. Wow. What a day that'll be. And when will it be? It will be after heaven and earth pass away. And even then, God's desire will not change. I think we'll look back upon his words as the Old Testament scripture for eternity, and we'll sing, Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty. We'll be glad that the law is no longer needed to restrict our behavior because our hearts are perfectly aligned with the intentions of God. There is no struggle. There are no widows or orphans needing protectors. There are no civil disputes needing resolved. There are no diseases that need stopped. There's no problem with family boundaries or land disputes. Theft will be a distant memory, as will hunger and poverty And healthcare. None of the reasons that the law was so necessary will still exist. Isn't that all just amazing? What are you facing today that is not worth enduring to reach this end? Why is it so difficult for us to accept the suffering that we must go through now, knowing that this is the end of the road. This is the life that is promised to us. Can we not have just the little faith that it takes to say it will be worth it all when I see Jesus? This law is going to be completely and absolutely fulfilled. It will be complete. It will no longer be needed for what it is needed for now. And we will be continually driven by our deep appreciation to sing out in praise to the God who provided all these things that we so deeply needed. Have you considered lately just how blessed we are to have God's word so readily available? We have the resources to access as many different versions of this Bible as we want. We have access for free to amazing study resources. I don't know that any generation has ever had as many resources to know and study God's Word available to them as we do. And does it not encourage your soul when you read it? When you study it? Don't you find encouragement there in that process, in that time? together with God. When or even when you hear it preached by gifted scholars and communicators, which we have such readily available to us. It is a rich spiritual feast that God has provided for us. Do we regard that word like Christ did? Do we see those words as the very word of God, the sustenance of our souls? Or what do we choose instead? Maybe a good emphasis this week would be to renew our commitment to reading and studying this amazing word that is true to every word. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that you give us the insight. We don't have to wonder about what you thought of the Old Testament. You tell us right out in very plain English Exactly what it is that you thought of the word of the Old Testament. You show us that it is completely dependable That we can bank our lives on what you've said. And then we have the New Testament to go with it, and the same words are applied to it. We thank you and praise you, Lord, that you have given us so richly this resource and that so many people have paid so dearly to bring it to us. Lord help us to not let it sit in our shelves or to go unnoticed in our computers or phones or wherever it is that we read from now. But that we would depend upon it to have your word revealed. Into our lives so we can more fully please you and be pleased by you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.