Last week we looked at what love does by looking at what Jesus did. This week we'll revisit the text. Remember our definition of what love does. Love reaches out to meet the need without regard for personal expense that springs joyfully from our obedience to God. This definition is not on the level of Scripture, but I hope that it's helpful because it was derived from what Jesus did for us. And that's how we can know that something is true agape love. We can know that if the definition describes what Christ did, it describes what love does Verse 16, by this we know love. The word know here is genosco. This is not as much experiential knowledge as it is factual understanding. The point is not that by what Christ did, we have received experiential knowledge of what love is. It's not saying you now know what love is because you have felt the love of God. No, it's factual. It's logical. We've been receiving lots of tests from the hand of John. Now we're given a litmus test for determining if something is love or if something is not agape love. We looked last week at three components. We know that if something is agape love, it has those same characteristics of Christ's love. If if I were to ask you, do you love me? You might have some trouble. You certainly Don't like everything that I do, and sometimes I irritate you, and sometimes I disappoint you, and sometimes I hurt you, so you might wonder if you really do love me But this makes it simpler. If you saw that I truly needed something that you had, no matter how precious it might be to you, If it was a proper thing to give, would you gladly give it knowing that Christ will make it worth your while? That's an easier question to answer. That brings clarity to the question. That takes out the subjective haze of emotional and intentional evaluation and puts it into the world of the testable Look at the interaction between Jesus and Peter. Remember that? In John 21, 15 through 17. John 21, 15 through 17, it says this. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And Simon said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Christ said to him, Tend my sheep Christ said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And Peter said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. And Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep Look at how Jesus connects the intention with the loving action. Peter was probably in a bind. He was not going to be as cocky as he had been in the past about all the wonderful things that Peter might do. He had just denied Christ publicly three times, something he probably didn't even think himself capable of doing So he probably didn't want to be too cocky, but he was he was trying to tell the truth. And at this point he might not be real sure about what the truth is. He might not have the confidence to say, yeah, I have this love for you, Christ. And the truth might have been that he he just was less confident of his love than he ever had been. But Jesus connects Peter's statement of love with an action of service. It's like Jesus is saying, Peter, I have a need, and my need is that my sheep get fed. If you truly love me, prove it. Meet my need. Jesus is saying, reach out to meet the need without regard for personal expense that springs out of your devotion to me. And Christ goes on to tell Peter how Peter was going to die. He basically lets him know that loving Christ was going to cost Peter his life. But Peter, do it. This is the model of what love does. So we can know what it is. I have good intentions toward you. I want all of you to live long and prosper in this life and the next I don't want any harm to befall you. But is that love? I don't know. I can think of myself as being a wonderful person. Takes a little imagination, but I am capable of all kinds of self-deception. Maybe I love you, maybe I don't. But when I see your need and I know that I can meet it, but I sit on my chair waiting for someone else to do it, the answer is clear. I am not acting lovingly toward you. And if I get off my chair because I love Jesus and you're one of his kids and I can serve him by serving you, and if I reach out to meet that need, even if it's in the most blundering, ineffective manner possible You and I can both know that I love you. Can we know that we love each other before it's tested? Not so much. But need is what provides the proving grounds for love. And we can know that we love and we are loved by this test So we can know if something is loving. By what standard? By what means? Verse 16. Here's the standard. Because he laid down his life for us, and we also ought to lay down our lives for the brother. We know its love on the grounds of mutual sacrifice. Christ died for us. Christ put all his resources on the line to give us what we need. We should be willing to put all all of our resources on the line to give others what they need. Now at this point, we might be like the young woman who was listening to her husband's proclamation of love. And he said, darling, for you I would swim the widest ocean. I would climb the highest mountain. Honey, I would die for you. And she looks at him in disapproval and says, You say that, but you never do. Sometimes love has never required us to go to those dramatic extremes. Besides Christ, I have never had anyone die for me. And I've never needed someone to die for me And dying for someone else would have never provided them what they need. I've never been in that test. So when the standard is dying for another, it's easy to make the standard meaningless We might think that until we find a case where I actually need to die for someone, I'll never really have to do anything. But this laying down one's life, while it does refer to death, it refers to giving up. one 's life. Living one's life in an act of sacrifice. John used the same word when he described Christ taking off a garment In John 13, 4, it said Christ rose from supper and laid aside his garments, took a towel and girded himself He also used it in the illustration of a shepherd. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep, lays it aside. Now, the point is that the shepherd will die defending his sheep, but it's completely in character with everything else that a shepherd does. Every day he is giving up his own comfort for the comfort and well-being of the sheep. Every day he is laying aside his selfish interest for the best interest of the sheep. So this laying aside is more than just death. It involves giving up one's life to be used in the service of others It involves seeing one's own life as being for the purpose of being used to provide for others. It is completely a backwards view of life. Physical death is the ultimate expression of this dying, but death is not the only expression of it. Anytime we give up our selfish desires to meet the need of another person out of obedience to God, we are laying aside our lives. We are dying to ourselves. We are denying ourselves, taking up the cross and following Christ. And that's why John can say what he says next in verse 17. But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? Giving one's goods is an expression of laying down one's life. We see that in the text. It isn't death, but it's on the same continuum of selfless giving Now let's look at this verse again. The first thing that is required here is that one has the world's goods. I grew up during the hippie culture. And that culture was questioning everything that they had grown up with. The results weren't always stellar. There were some that believed that owning material things was not necessary. We ought to all just share them and no one needs to own them. It's i it's sort of what some of the popular politicians declare. Just let the government distribute your goods because it will result in a much better world if you no longer own them, but if they're used for the common good. Some even believe that owning the world's goods is evil. But Scripture never says that. It assumes that people will own property, and the Old Testament law assumes That property should or that people should and will own property and it protected their rights. The law of God protected people's property So we shouldn't get the idea that owning things is in any way evil. Nor should we get the idea that owning things poses no potential evil. Like everything else, it's always hard to keep everything in this world in the proper perspective. You know, like we talk in Sunday school so often, walking that rope. between the two sides. 1 Timothy 6, 6 through 10 says this. Now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from their faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Now, verses 6 through 8 in that text gives us the proper view of material possessions and of money. Our hearts Our idol factories. We dealt with that in Isaiah over and over again. Our hearts are inclined to make gods out of almost anything Our job, our goods, our shelter, our vehicles, our money, our spouses, our children. We are amazingly resourceful in getting things out of perspective and clasping them tight in our hands as if God cannot wrench them out of ours if we hold tightly enough So 6 through 8 says you can't take it with you, so enjoy it and be content when your absolute needs for survival are met. That's essentially the message. And what's the alternative? Love the stuff. Love the stuff. Working to have stuff is fine when it stays in the bounds of the verse 6 through 8 attitude. Working to have stuff is evil as soon as it leaves those bounds and becomes a means of worship, a replacement of God. Money is not a problem. Money is not evil. It's like the survival impulse. It just is. But now what we do with it will always be exactly as evil as we are. Money is fine. The love of it is evil. Having it is fine as long as the person who has the money is living a laid-aside life, a life that exists to meet the needs of others. So back to 17 through 19, command those in in in 1 Timothy 6. Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy Let them do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share, storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come. that they may lay hold on eternal life. Okay, here's a com a command to those who have stuff They are not told that they are able to have this stuff. But look at the warning. Do not trust in riches. Do not trust in riches. Isn't that the seduction? Do you trust in riches? Well, how do you respond when your income or your assets are the least bit threatened? Suppose tomorrow the economy crashes. Instantly it means we will have no means to purchase anything. You know what that event would do? It would expose for everybody watching exactly what we trust right now. If my life falls apart because money is gone, guess who I was not trusting? God. If fear of what is sure to happen overwhelms me, guess who I was not trusting? God. This is where poor people may have an advantage. I think Chris Christofferson was right. When you got nothing, you got nothing to lose. But very few of those we know are that poor. The poor s uh the people some of you met in Mexico were that poor. Do you see the danger? The danger is in allowing something lawful and permissible to take a higher place than it should. The danger is in trusting the gift rather than the giver of the gift I absolutely love this phrase, but trust in the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Who gives us richly all things to enjoy. The problem is identified. Trust in the resource instead of the giver of the resource. The correction is offered Change what you trust. Change what you trust. And look at the phrase, who gives us richly all things to enjoy. It's not until we let go of our control of things. Our trust of those things, our dependence on those things, our need of those things, that we can enjoy those things as they were intended to be enjoyed There was a time in my life that I held on to relationships too tightly because I felt that I would not survive without that particular relationship. But I found that relationships are like wet bars of soap. The tighter you cling to them, the more likely they are to slip out of your hand. I learned that I can enjoy my relationships with you and with my kids and with my wife because what I trust is God. I hope that God does not take any of the relationships I care about from me. No one likes grieving the loss of something valuable, but I think I've lived long enough to know that God will take care of me. God will take care of us. It's only as we live like that that we can enjoy the gifts we have been richly given to enjoy. When we live any other way, desperation robs us of the pleasure of what God has given us. We live in fear of losing the gift instead of trusting the good intention of the giver. And I think the result in the 1 Timothy passage is interesting. Verses 18 and 19, it says, let them do good that they be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share. storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. Look at the elements here. Those with the world's resources in this present age are to be ready to give and willing to share. They're to hold the resources that God has given them in an open hand, always open to the Lord's giving or taking away. Living as a resource of God's, living it, laying down our selfish interests for his higher interests in everything that we do. We hold our lives as being God's. They're not ours. We're stewards of what He has given to us to use. Once we do that, holding our resources as being God's as well. is a whole lot easier. It's congruent with who we are. Then we are ready to give and willing to share. What are we doing when we live like that? We're reaching out to meet a need without regard to what it costs. And then why? In verse 19, it couldn't be said better. Storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. Why give? For the reward. That's why. Would these people feel ripped off to give up the stuff they've worked hard for? Not if they're doing it for the Lord. Not if they believe the Lord's promises. Why? Because the investments made in heaven are not subject to value, loss, penalties, or fees. We simply cannot lose on those investments. It's backed by the banker of God or the bank of God, the maker of all things. The smartest investment that can be made on this earth is on eternity. Is one in eternity, one for eternity. And it would make sense that those who trust God most Are the most enthusiastic to contribute to that fun. So here again in 1 Timothy, we see the exhortation to love It 's worded differently, but it's the same thing. Same thing all the way through Scripture. Verse seventeen But whoever has his world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? So there's nothing wrong with having the world's goods as long as the person who has them is living a laid-aside life, a life given to the Lord's interests. Now, what will that person do if they see a need that their resources can meet? That's a no-brainer. They'll lay aside the resource like they've laid aside their life. They'll use it in the Lord's work, knowing that it's the smartest thing they could ever do with that resource that He has temporarily lended to them That is congruent living. That is fitting in with the Christian life. There's really nothing at all dramatic about that We should expect it of ourselves and expect it of each other. And I think to some degree we have come to expect that. We can't always know what need a fellow believer should meet But we shouldn't be surprised if they're willing to sacrifice something they like for someone they love. In this instance, it's a material good, but it could just as easily be time or effort or anything else that is in our control. that the Lord has given us to use. Now, what would stop us from meeting a need? Clearly in this passage, the need is understood as a real need We may need to go back and forth on whether something truly is a need. I mean, some people think they need this, and we can obviously see they need something else. With our children, we would have never given them what their evaluation was, what they needed. We give them what our evaluation was of what they needed. So we may be in a dispute even in our own head. What is it that is the real need here? And that's difficult to discern sometimes. That's understandable. We don't need to feel guilty that we are rationally trying to figure out that kind of thing But I really don't think that this is an is this is an issue in our passage. The need in our passage, like we talked about last week, has been deeply considered and it is a real need and the believer knows it. That's the example that's given here. If we really believe something is the need, and we have the need and we have the means to meet it, and we will not meet the need, there's only one conclusion. We love the goods more than we love the person. And we want an excuse to not sacrifice that good that we trust and we love. It's interesting that this verse does not say that this person has a struggle with trust. That would probably be how we would word it. It doesn't put it in any kind of positive light. If you see the need, understand it as a need, have the ability to meet the need, and will not meet it, there's one thing for sure. They are not exhibiting the love of God. They have an alternate God that they worship. And they don't trust the God that gives us richly all things to enjoy Now this one instance may not prove their lack of salvation, but it will be a serious hindrance to assurance. And it it it's it it should serve note to us to be a little bit nervous now if we know that there are needs that we refuse to meet. Because that is a very, very bad thing, and it does not represent Christ at all. Verse 18: My little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. Talk is cheap. Sometimes I'm nervous in talking venues because it's so much easier to talk well than to live well. Paul's advice to Timothy was to watch both his life and doctrine closely. We can spout off for hours on end. But those under our influence will usually emulate what we do in spite of what we say. More is caught than taught. It's interesting that Jesus told us when making disciples to teach them to obey. And in context, it probably means to teach them to obey like we obey If our disciples obey like we obey, what would they look like? At one point in my life, I stopped reading spiritual books. And I stopped, and I've taken that up since then, but I stopped because I noticed my talking was improving, but my living was not. And it seemed to me to be a very dangerous thing to be able to talk much better than I live. We need to understand that voicing good intentions is not love. It might be genuine We may be telling the truth about how we feel, but it gets nothing done. It's like saying, I should do this, I should do this, I should do this, but I never put a calendar entry on my calendar to get something done about it Love is the powerful work of God that moves a person of God to action to meet a need for the glory of God. Anything other than that cannot be proven to be love. When I say let's meet this need, but my first action is not to spend my resources for that endeavor, that doesn't prove anything about my love. The rule of thumb is that if it costs me nothing, it's probably worth nothing. Think about it. Love costs. The people who have loved me have spent a lot. My mom and dad changed diapers. They dealt with my evil and idiocies. They did not kill me. They worked hours and hours on end. They required that I go to church. They supported me when I went into full-time ministry. And they, well, they loved me At one point in my life, and looking back, it was a low point, I criticized them for not telling me that they love me. But I was an idiot. By every biblical definition, I was thoroughly and continually loved. Love costs. When you come to me to correct me for something I've said or done, that costs you something. When I try to help you with some problem you're facing, it costs me something And that's all good. That's what our lives are for. That's why we breathe. That's why our hearts are still ticking. We just can't think that voicing all kinds of good intentions toward anyone delivers any mail. I do that at work all the time because I want those people to work with me and for me. But that is not love. If I take them aside somehow and share the gospel with them, That's love. If they have a need and I see it and I reach out to meet it, that's love. But voicing those good intentions , that's the way to accomplish things. When is the last time you paid a cost to meet someone's need and you were glad to do it because it was for Christ? Congratulations. That's love. That is loving indeed and truth. And what is the result? Well, one of the results is that we will be richly rewarded. And that's cool. But look at this, verse 19. And by this we know that we are of the truth and shall assure our hearts before him. There's no ambiguity here. When we love, when we spend our resources for no other reason that a fellow believer needs them and we want to please our Lord, we can have assurance that something supernatural has happened in our lives. If we give for other reasons, like why I sort of want something in return, we can't be sure But if we don't care if we even get a thank you from the person we're serving and we are glad to do it, that is a sign that we have the Jesus disease. We've caught something that we could not have created. Our obedience will never be perfect. So we often have reason, based on a record, to wonder if we're really a believer. I don't know if I've ever talked to a believer that doesn't have that question. Because our records are so bad. But when we see ourselves love someone only for the sake of loving them, we can have confidence that we are a believer. We can gain some assurance by that wonderful fact. And sometimes that's more important to us than the eternal reward that we'll receive. When we love like Jesus When we have the family trait of love, we can have great confidence that we have we've got to be part of that family. That's the only way I could have got this. Who are you loving? Who are you loving, not looking for anything in return? Giving up things of value to you Trying to meet a need only because you know that that is what the Lord wants you to do. Again, congratulations. That is agape love, and you didn't put it there Jesus did. And that's one of the truest assurances that you're a child of his. Let's close in prayer.