We looked at verse fourteen last week, and we'll begin with fifteen this morning. John bore witness about him and cried out, This was he of whom I said, he who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me. The ESV version places verse 15 in a parenthesis, as if it's an aside in John's train of thought. And I think it's appropriate. I think he captures, or the translators captured that well. John goes from who Jesus is in verses 1 through 5. To the introduction of Jesus to the world by John the Baptist in verses 6 through 8. And then verses 9 through 18 is mostly about the ministry that Christ did. Except for verse 15 that jumps back to John the Baptist and tells us a bit more about John the Baptist's agreement. So John bore witness, just like someone would do in a court of law, with one exception, says that John cried out. John the Baptist could never be accused of being mild. He probably did a lot of yelling. He was an unignorable preacher who didn't put up with any pretense or any foolishness. If you wanted a guy who'd tell it like it was, John the Baptist was your kind of guy. John the Baptist said of Jesus, this is the guy I was talking about. He was born after me, and he began his public ministry after me. But make no mistake, his ministry and his person are superior to mine. His ministry is far more important than mine is. It ranks a lot higher. Why? Because before the world existed, he was. John is displaying that John the Baptist also recognized that Christ existed prior to his human birth. He was born after me, but existed before me. Christ is that I am that I am. Then verse 16, for from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. From his fullness we have all received grace. Grace upon grace. So John jumps back to the ministry of Christ, to the affirmation by John the Baptist, back to the ministry of Christ. So he's jumping from the Ministry of Christ, John the Baptist, Ministry of Christ. And here John makes it more than an objective fact. He talks about experience. Experience. He talks about the reality as it reaches us So what has happened to every believer? Let's talk about us. What has happened to every believer? From the fullness of who Christ is, from the fullness of the virtues Christ has From the fullness of the completeness of his ministry, from this infinite source of grace and truth, from that fullness, every believer has received something. And what have we received? We have received the grace that saved us and the grace that keeps us. Now what does it mean? Grace upon grace. Grace upon grace. That's how it's translated in ESV. If you look around the different versions translated different ways But there are lots of opinions, but after studying it, I think the best understanding comes when we tie verse 17 to the meaning of verse 16. I think verse 17 explains what the grace to grace is. The word for upon in grace, grace upon grace, in the SV, that word upon is most commonly understood as instead of, instead of, which is a very different meaning than upon. I was all prepared in reading this the first time through to expand on the fact that we never run out of grace. And it's true, we never do run out of grace. But that can be shown in other passages, but that is not the focus of this passage, which was a surprise to me. Here John is saying, we received grace instead of grace, or grace in the place of grace. And then in the next verse it says this, For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. So you have one instead of the other. A grace instead of a grace. I think the point is that the law was the first grace Some people take a superficial reading of the New Testament and conclude that the Old Testament law was somehow only a burden to the people that it was given to. I think our series in Deuteronomy by Robert Godfrey is showing us that's not true. The Old Testament law was a blessing. It was something given by God for the welfare of his people, who he had chosen for himself, who had certainly done nothing to merit it, nothing to earn it. That is the definition of grace. Unmerited favor. They were shown unmerited favor by being given the law. God gave the law with an emphasis on the word given. It was a gift. It came through Moses, but it came from God. And it came in the context of a covenant with God. And again, this was a tremendous grace. We read about Abraham. He had done nothing, nothing to deserve any special treatment from God. It's like God picked him out of a hat. It's kind of the way he picked us. Now, was there anything wrong with the law? No. The law was perfect for what it was meant for. It was a wonderful guide, but a horrible savior. It provided for sacrifices, even in it That pointed to the grace that everyone most deeply needs, the forgiveness of their sins. And that's what John tells us in the second half of verse 17. He said, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. D. A. Carson helps us see this statement in its full context, I think. It is from that fullness that we have received one grace replacing another. It's in this sense that verse 16 is in the explanation of verse 14. We have seen his glory, John writes, because from the fullness of his grace and truth we have received grace that replaces the earlier grace. The grace of the incarnation, of the word made flesh, of the glory of the Son tabernacling with us Now replacing the grace of the antecedent, but essentially promissory revelation, or basically the law. A. W. Pink said this: Law manifested what was in man, sin. Law manifested what was in man, sin. Grace manifests what's in God. Love. Law demanded righteousness from men. Grace brings righteousness to men. Law sentences a living man to death. Grace brings a dead man to life. Law speaks of what men must do for God. Grace tells us of what Christ has done for man. It's interesting that grace and truth came through Christ. Let's look at this truth. Remember how I said before that the word for truth is not so much true versus false, but of that which is most perfect. Truth, the fullest the truth, the most revealed truth. Well, think about that. Moses taught God's truth too But what Jesus is saying is meant to emphasize the superiority of Jesus' truth over Moses. Moses ' truth was partial. Moses ' truth was somewhat symbolic. Moses ' truth pointed to something. Jesus' truth delivered something. It delivered that end product. Remember how Moses gave manna in the wilderness? That was a kind of bread. Well, Jesus is the true bread of life, John six thirty-five Remember how Moses provided a sacrificial lamb to signify the promise of forgiveness? Well, Jesus is the true Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Uh John 129. So you see the the use John consistently uses the word true in that fashion. The truth that Christ brought us is always more ultimate, more final, more pure. It's the truest of truth. Now, for you who like baseball, you might appreciate this by Richard Phillips. The relationship of law to grace was once taught to baseball fans by the Chicago Cubs. It began when the Cubs traded for Vance Law to play third base. A little bit later, they brought up Mark Grace from the minor leagues to play first base. For two seasons, Law and Grace held down opposite corners of the Wrigley Field baseball diamond. A batter would smash the ball to third, where Law would snatch it and throw it over to Grace at first for the first out for the out. That's how law and grace work together. First the law was given through Moses. The law convicts us of sin and sends us to grace that came through Christ. As I studied, I kept finding things that men said so much better than I could say it. So I've got a lot of quotes this morning. But Merrill Tenney said this. The contrast between law and grace as methods of God's dealing with men is expressed here as plainly as in Paul's writings. The law represented God's standard of righteousness. Grace exhibited his attitude to human beings who found that they could not keep the law. This attitude was depicted in the person and life of Jesus. This contrast has a parallel in the argument of Hebrews 3, 5, and 6. Where it says Moses was faithful as the servant in all God's house. He was a faithful servant, testifying to what would be said in the future. But Christ Christ is faithful as a son over God's house. Hebrews stresses the superiority of the Son To a servant. The servant can, by his commission, administer the law of the house correctly. The son, who's the ruler of the house, can act with ultimate authority that surpasses the authority. Of the servant. Compare the words of Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount, where he said, You've heard that it was said, but I tell you, you've heard that it was said , But I tell you. So notice the instead of in our verse here. We begin with grace instead of grace. Then it's explained as grace and truth through Christ instead of the law. Now, is that what we would have expected? We need to consider for ourselves what the implications are in this, and about how New Testament believers should treat that prior grace. That instead of grace of the Old Testament law. It doesn't say one grace moving into another grace. The word really does mean instead of. Verse 18, no one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. Now, this has always been a little bit tricky. Remember how we saw that John was in this whole passage pointing our Jewish readers back to Moses in the wilderness. And this is just one more place. This is a continuation of that theme. And they wouldn't have missed it. We would, but they wouldn't have. Who is said to have seen God face to face? It was Moses. In Numbers 12, 8, God was speaking and said this. I speak with him, God is speaking of Moses, face to face. That's what he says, even plainly and not in dark saying. And he sees the form of the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses? Okay, so that's what God says about Moses. I speak with him face to face. So how is it that no one can see God and that Moses saw God face to face? Well, this is another one of those apparent contradictions in the Bible. So let's look at the record in Exodus. And this is important because it'll show us several things important to our text. Exodus 33, 17, and 18. Exodus 33, 17 and 18. We're going to go farther than that too. And the Lord said to Moses, This very thing that you have spoken, I'll do. For you found favor in my sight, and I know you by name. Moses said, please show me your glory. So Moses is talking to God the Father, and he says, please show me your glory. Now, what God says next is interesting. He tells Moses about his glory. But it's in two parts, and I never noticed this before. It's in two parts. God first tells Moses about his attributes before he displays the light. Verse 19, and he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim before you my name the Lord, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. Look at that. God's glory is in his goodness. God's glory is in his name. God's glory is in his grace. God 's glory is in his mercy. God's glory is in his sovereign election. He will show mercy to whom he wants and when he wants. But there's more. There's also God's light. God the Father exists in unapproachable light. We're told. If sinful men were to encounter God's presence in this scorching light, we would be instantly incinerated. So God needed to take precautions for Moses ' safety. He had to hide them in the cleft of the rock for his protection. Verse 20, but he said, You cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live. And the Lord said, Behold, there's a place by me where you shall stand on the rock. And while my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by. And then I'll take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. So, Moses essentially saw the afterglow of God. He saw God's glory, but not full on. Remember last week we looked at verse 14 where it said, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Well we talked about the glory of Christ and how it is that we saw it, or how it is that the the John and the disciples saw it. And we talked about how John had actually seen the glory of Christ in dazzling light at one point. That's in the transfiguration. So that's often how the glory of God is displayed. And it's very frequent in Scripture that light is associated with God's presence. But I felt that I didn't do justice to how else we see God's glory and how else Jesus revealed God's glory. And as I studied it, I came across this. John wasn't just talking about the light that Moses saw at a distance. John also saw the glory that God attributes. He saw God's character. He saw the glory of those things as well in Jesus. And they would have been seeing that day in and day out. That wouldn't have been held for that one exception when they went up on a hill and and uh saw some weird things. God's glory is often displayed by both his dazzling light And his character. We don't often see, if ever, in this lifetime, the dazzling light But we get to look into his character all day long. We can see the glory of Christ every day of the week. In John 2, Jesus made wine out of water. And it's interesting what John said there. In John 2, 11 it says, this the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee. And manifested his glory. That's how it was described, the making the water into wine. Jesus manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him. We not only see the glory of God by dazzling light, we see glory through who Christ is. As displayed by what he does. We see Christ's glory through who Christ is as displayed by what Christ does. MacArthur says this. When John says we beheld his glory, he's not only talking about the representation of that glory in life. He's talking about the reality of those attributes which were manifest throughout the ministry in the life of Christ. John could say it this way: we saw his love, we saw his mercy, we saw his wisdom, we saw his knowledge, we saw his power, we saw his justice. We saw his holiness. We saw his compassion. We saw his omnipotence. We saw his omniscience. We saw his anger. We saw his wrath. We saw his kindness. We saw his patien We saw his glory. That is all seeing God's glory. So that's another way that we saw God's glory, or it's another way that That the disciples saw God's glory and that we get to through their records. Now, Moses is said to have seen God face to face, but I think based on all the context, That we're forced to understand that this to mean that God was in active conversation with Moses. They were talking person to person It was not remote like everybody else's relationship with God. It was not reliant upon waiting for a prophet to do the speaking. Moses and God spoke. Person to person in essence. But Moses did not fully see the glorious light of God's glory full on, or he would not have lived to tell the next thing Okay, back to our text, verse 18. No one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. So no one has ever seen God. Even Moses is included in this. No one at all, ever. But Christ was intimate with his father. Christ is the exception here. Christ hung out with God the Father. He has seen his father and known his father. That's the exception that John is making. And the phrase, who is at the father's side, in ESV, that's an interesting phrase, an interesting word. The word essentially describes the folds in a garment that's scrunched up a little bit. Like like how my shirts look when I take them out of the closet if I happen to put them in there. The word means enveloped in the fold. Enveloped in the fold, wrapped in its closeness. Wrapped in the wrinkles is what it really means. Wrapped in the wrinkles. This is more than rigidly standing next to, which you might get the idea of. This implies intimate closeness relationally. Christ was wrapped in the wrinkles of his father. This allows us to be wrapped in the wrinkles of our Savior. We settle for so little of God in our lives when we can have so much. We settle for so little of God in our lives when we can have so much Where this says that Christ has made the Father known, the phrase has made him known comes from the verb which exegesis is derived from, which means to explain or interpret. Jesus is God the Father's explanation of himself. It is his interpretation of himself. Jesus communicates to us the being and the nature of God. We couldn't get this information any other way. The incarnation put it within our reach. Jesus' life and words communicated to us God's character, God's intentions, God's attitude, God's purpose, God's love. It conveyed all those things about the Father that seemed so unknowable and maybe unbelievable until Christ showed up. You know what this means? If you ever want to know God, do you know where you go? You go to Jesus. That's probably not some amazing uh uh insight or anything, but it's important to realize You go to Jesus because Jesus is God made clear. Jesus is God interpreted to us Jesus is God explained to us. Jesus is the clear revelation of who God is. Do you wish sometimes that you could have been here when Christ walked the planet? Do you wish sometimes you just could have hung out with them? And you think, man, it'd be so much better if I just had gotten to hang out with them. Well, I think that would be a disappointment. Because he would be limited by time. He could only be with you when he was not with someone else. He could only answer one question at a time. You'd only get part of the story. You'd always find yourself wishing there was more time to be with him and that he had more time for you. Isn't that how we feel even about humans that we love? You would wish he wouldn't go somewhere else. You and I have an advantage. Jesus Christ is revealed in great length in so many pages of the gospel. We get to know him like the apostles knew him. We get an in depth understanding of his person and his purpose. More so than they had at the beginning. We get to hear the most important of his words. And through the Holy Spirit, we can convene with him anytime we want. What a privilege. He's available to us all day long. We can hear what he says through the word. It's what he would say. And we can speak to him, and he hears us. We're dispromised. We read about him And we know what God the Father is like. We know how Christ regards the Father. He tells us so. We get to read Christ and believe him or doubt him. Have you ever considered that knowing Christ personally didn't prove to be any advantage at all to the Pharisees? And to the Sadducees, and to the political rulers, and the Roman soldiers, and the rank and file of his countrymen. They saw what he did, they heard what he said, and they rejected him. They hated him. They mocked him. They tested him. They rebuked him. They judged him. They never believed in him They never received him. So we shouldn't think that being with Christ personally would grant any advantages over what you and I have been given through his word and through his church. It wouldn't make it easier to follow him. It's very interesting that it's through Jesus that the Father is made known. But not everyone who looks at Jesus gets to know the Father. It takes a miracle. John 3, 3 says, Jesus answered him, Truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. He cannot see it. We've talked about the glory of God in the person of Jesus. And there were many who looked upon Jesus and they never saw it. They never saw the glory. They just saw man. They never got it. Because it had to happen to them first. This light must be seen and appreciated. This light must be received. Christ must be revealed and made known to us. A person has to be born again before he can see the glory of Christ. It won't happen to a person apart from a miracle of God. No one will ever see Jesus the way they need to see Jesus until God moves in their heart. John 1, 12 and 13 says, But to all who did receive him , Who believed in his name, he gave the right to become the children of God, who are born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Next week, Lord willing, we're going to look at this passage one more time. This is the finish of the prologue in the book of John. This is after this we get it right into the ministry of Christ more directly. And believe it or not, we are actually going to have a Christmas sermon on the same week as Christmas I thought that might be a surprise. This is something new. And this sermon next week will be well suited for any unbelievers who might be interested in coming to church at this time of the year. So feel free to invite any of your unbelieving friends. I think they will uh they will hear what they need to hear. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your we your loving kindness.