If you were to title this passage, what would it be? There are plenty of good options, and hopefully we'll look at the most important points that we can look at in this very short passage. But one of the things we can learn this morning is how Jesus builds a church. And that might not seem at first to be the topic, but we find out that it is. Let's think about this. If we were to start from scratch and we're trying to start a church What would we need to start it? But let's start let's start first with a strategy like say the Elks or the Lions would use, the social club. Well first you would need to recruit You would need to go around until you found some people who thought that what you were doing was important enough for them to dedicate their time and their money. So you might focus on people who have money. And you're going to want to be nice to them so that they'll join you, and you certainly would not want to be offensive to them. And in the church group, you'll want something that makes people have some kind of a meaningful and pleasant experience. So you need to look for the speakers and the worship leaders who can create a pleasant and meaningful aura. We may be lacking in in that regard. So you draw in people, you draw people in with the experience that you create. in the meetings and then you do everything that you can to keep them feeling positive toward your group. And by all means you take offerings so that you can perpetuate and grow what you're doing. Okay, so that's how you build successful organizations in the world. Okay, what would Jesus say about all that? Nope. It's all wrong. Look at the spot Jesus is in this morning in this text. In one way of looking at this, these people are starting, they're trying to start a church. They want Christ to be their leader. They want to follow Christ in one way or another. They want to associate around Christ. They're convinced He's something special. Look at all the resources these people could have provided to start this church. Surely some of these people were naturally talented, and some of them would have been good at publicity, and some may have been gifted speakers Certainly they had a lot of contacts that could be influenced. There was everything here needed to start a movement to affect the world. But what does Jesus do? He flatly rejected their enthusiastic attempts. Why? That's the question we have to answer. Why? That's the pressing question of the church in this age. Why did Jesus reject the attempts of these enthusiastic followers? Why should churches today say no to some of the earthly strategies that appear to lead to church growth? How do we deal with the questions that that asks if it's moral and it'll lead to more people being at church, how can we say no to such a thing? Well, look at our text, verse 23. Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing. So Jesus is in Jerusalem for the first time since he started his public ministry. There are a lot of people in town for these events It was the spiritual highlight of the year. And Jesus was doing miracles. It's interesting that they're called signs. A sign is a miracle of something. It's an answer to prophet. So Jesus was doing things that were prophesied about a Messiah. We don't know exactly what he was doing, but he was doing enough of them that the word was spreading pretty quickly about this guy named Jesus. And as the word spread, these people used their mental facilities and made decisions And look at this. These were good decisions. Smart decisions. Their thinking went something like this: Jesus is doing miracles. No other religious leader is doing miracles. No one else can do miracles. Therefore, Jesus is something special, someone with spiritual power. Let's look into him. That was their thinking. Well, there are a lot of spiritual leaders in our culture who want to start and grow churches who would get all excited to find these people. The zeal of these believers would be all that they needed. The leaders would rope these people in and start growing a church. And Jesus would not be one of them. Yeah, these people were making good decisions, but up to this point that is all that they are. They are using human facilities As they should. They're using their human faculties as they should. They were adding 1 plus 1 equals 2. And that's good as far as it goes. They believed in Jesus' name. They ascribed spiritual power to his name. They believed that Jesus is doing miracles. So yeah, they believed in a way. They did everything that human reasoning can do. They would have voted for Jesus. They would have put in a good word for Jesus in the public conversation. But what a human can do is never going to come to our salvation. We need what only God can do. And what God can do is what the church is built on. It's no coin a coincidence that we will move quickly into three stories of three people that who Jesus knew the hearts of. And what we learn is that something spiritual has got to happen before a person has the saving faith, before the person has the proper belief. They must be born again before they can believe the way that saves. Verse 24, but Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them. So the people, on their part, believed in Jesus. But there are two parts here, and the most important part is always that which is on Jesus' side of the equation. The word in trust used here in ESB is very revealing. It comes from the same root word as believe. John clearly intended for us to get this meaning. While these people believed in Jesus, Jesus did not believe in these people. While these people believed in Jesus, Jesus did not believe in the faith of these people, because he knew their hearts. He knew the earthly natural source of their belief, and it wasn't saving faith. It was rational thought. It was the best a man can do, but it's not good enough. Why? Because he knew all people And needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man. You know, this statement about Jesus knowing what's in the heart of a man, it's another statement of Jesus' godhood. 1 Samuel 16, 7 says, But the Lord said to Samuel, Don't look at his appearance or at his physical stature, because I have refused him. For the Lord does not see as man sees, for man sees at the out looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. God looks at the heart. Acts 15, 8, and God who knows the heart, again, is it God who knows the heart bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he did to us. And then in Romans 8. 27 And he searches hearts. He who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And then Hebrews 4. 13, and no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. God knows us. God knows the heart of man. Jesus knows the heart of man. Jesus is God So we can see that only God knows the heart of man. Warren Wearsby says this. He knew what was in man is a statement that is proved several times in John's Gospel. Jesus knew the character of Simon. We've already seen that in John 1. 42. He knew what Nathaniel was like, John 1. 46, remember, under the tree, and he told the Samaritan woman all things that she has ever done. We haven't gotten there yet, John four twenty-nine. And he knew that the uh the Jewish leaders did not have God's love in their heart, John five forty-two. And that one of his disciples was not truly a believer, John 6. 64. He saw the repentance in the heart of the adulteress. John 8, 10 and 11, and the murder in the hearts of his enemies, John 8, 40. Several times in the upper room message, Jesus revealed to his disciples their own inner feelings and questions. Jesus knew the heart of man. You and I have a limited ability to see hearts. In fact, we have a limited ability to see our own hearts accurately. But as we have discussed in Sunday school, you know, that capacity is limited, but what limited capacity we have, we must use. We have to examine our lives No one can examine our lives for us. They can sometimes tell us something that we don't know. But nobody can nobody can reveal our motives. Only we can. But even then we face limitations. Scripture says that our hearts are deceptive. Even to ourselves, our hearts are deceptive. Jesus had no such limitations He knew exactly what was in the hearts of these men. Well, if we can't know our hearts and we can't know other people's hearts, what are we to do? Does God give us no way to discern if a person is being true or not? Are we outright victims for anyone who wants to bamboozle us by simply saying, Well, yeah, I'm a Christian. Well, no. We can't know the hearts of men like Jesus would. But you and I are called to read fruit. Again, we can't do this perfectly, but we can do it substantially. Remember what Jesus said in our study of the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 7, 15, says, Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? So every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire, thus you will recognize them by their fruits. Well, this is good. We can test people to some degree to know if they're genuine. We can test people to some degree to know if they're Christian. We recognize trueness and falseness by the products that come out of a person's life. We're not left with no way to discern. We don't need to simply accept a person's profession of faith as if it is rock solid and that's all we need to know, because people can say anything. How many husbands and wives may wish that they had gazed less into their future spouses ' eyes and spent more time looking at their their lives? How many churches have all kinds of problems because they welcome people into membership and close fellowship who have a great profession of faith but no evidence of faith? Galatians 5. 22 says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. You and I have the capacity, at least to some degree, to read the hearts of men. We can't do it like Jesus did. But over time we can get a pretty good read usually. Jesus was perfect in this. He always knew who the believers were, the real believers, the ones who had had a change in their heart that brought them to belief in Christ. A thing that only God can do. So we can't expect the same. We can't expect the same kind of perfection, but we're given tools. Now let's think about these people that Jesus would not trust himself to. Let's think about these people that he would not accept on his team. Let's look at those that he would not allow them to influence him at all. We know what Jesus rejected. Jesus rejected a human being's best effort at following him. That's odd, isn't it? Jesus rejected a human's best efforts at following him. He rejected those who were in their best intending human nature deciding for Christ as opposed to against him. He was rejecting those who were willing to vote for Jesus and root for Jesus. Why? Why would he reject them? No matter how many times this is preached, I think this is very difficult for us to grasp. You and I, every one of us, every single one of us, was a perfect poster child for the fallenness of man before Christ found us. You and I were living examples of being enemies of Christ. You and I were examples of people whose best righteousness was no righteousness at all. We had a dirty rag 's righteousness. Every one of us. Until we grasp that, we will never fully appreciate the gospel. If you think, oh, I guess I was capable of doing a few wrong things, but I really want that bad, you still don't get it That is not the view that Scripture gives of mankind at all. When a person is driven by the old nature, the difference in the notoriousness of a particular sin they choose is simply a matter of circumstance. In other words, if we were in a worse situation, you would have done worse things. That's how we are, that's who we are, apart from Christ. Just ask a few questions. It might help. What would I have done if I could have done anything and got not got caught? What would I have done if I could have done anything and not got caught? What would I buy what would I have done if I was invisible? What would I have done if I was invisible? What would I have become if I had absolute power to do anything I wanted? What would I have done if my life was threatened if I did not do it? We look at our circumstances and sometimes we look at our sins and we think, you know, I'm not that bad of a We haven't been tested like this. We do best to take God's word for what fallen nature really is. That's the us that Jesus knew would not have trusted himself to. And for a very good reason. Jesus knows our potential. He knows that even when we do good things, our think true thoughts We still cannot be trusted in our old self. We need a new heart. And that doesn't happen by perspiration, that happens by transformation. What is Jesus looking for? To start a church What would should we be looking for to grow a church? Well, in a few verses, we're going to see one way of seeing it. It's said a lot of different ways in Scripture, but let's jump to John 3. 3 Jesus answered him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Unless one is born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. That's a perfect illustration. Did you choose to be born? No, that was one thing outside your control. You certainly experienced it, and fortunately you don't remember it. But it If you were to live, you had to be born. That's what Jesus is looking for. And what are the evidences? John 3 Verse 3 and then verse 8. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Then he goes on to say the wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you don't know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. How do we know the Spirit is active? Spiritual kinds of stuff happens. Spiritual kind of stuff happens. That's what Jesus is looking for. Spirit stuff. Here's another example. Acts 11, 15, and then 18. As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them just as on us at the beginning. When they heard these things, they fell silent and they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also, God has granted repentance that leads to life. Spirit stuff is repentance stuff. When the spirit begins to move, deep heartfelt repentance begins to happen. We see none of that in the text this morning of the people that Jesus is meeting. These people were deciding for Jesus, but they weren't deciding against sin. They were not coming to Jesus out of a desperation to have their sin problem removed. They were coming to Christ as an addition to their current lives. I'd like to add Jesus. He seems interesting. He seems powerful. It might be good to be on his side. I'd like to add Jesus. That's not spirit stuff. That's not what the spirit does. This is what the Spirit does. 2 Corinthians 5, 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. Spirit stuff drives us to do anything just to have a right relationship with Christ. He makes us new from the inside out. He doesn't just remove our guilt, he makes us a new person who is now capable of joining Christ's Church and being Christ's Church. We aren't choosing membership as much as we are being recreated and adopted into a family. Here's another example of spirit stuff. Mark 1, 14 and 15. Now, after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Again, the Spirit drives us to repentance. He drives us to see our sin with the proper disdain and to believe. Now notice here, this is not simply to believe that Jesus must be special because he's doing miracles. The demons have this much belief, and they have this kind of belief. This kind of belief is not saving belief. No, we need the kind of belief that clings to the gospel for dear life. We get just how bad a spot we are in our flesh. We understand that we cannot fix the gap between us and God. No, what we believe is that what Jesus did for us had to happen, and there was no other way of doing it. The price that he paid we could not pay. So we fall at his feet as our Savior and Lord and trust our whole self to his lordship. That is the spirit stuff that Jesus was looking for. That is the spirit stuff that the Holy Spirit creates That is the belief that Jesus would create in his people and then build his church upon those people that he had caused this in. This is a quote from R. B. G. Tasker, who I don't know who he is, but he quotes good stuff. Though they believed in Jesus, Jesus did not believe in them. He had no faith in their faith Jesus regarded all belief in him as superficial, which does not have its most essential elements, the consciousness of the need for forgiveness and the conviction. That he alone is the mediator of that forgiveness. John MacArthur says this without question The difference between spurious faith and saving faith is crucial. It's the difference between living faith and dead faith. Between the wicked who go away into eternal punishment and the righteous who enter into eternal life. Between those who will hear, Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of your master. And those who will hear, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. It's not all that hard to see that it is vital that we have the right kind of faith. The right kind of belief. It is vital that this faith is what we are calling people to. It's this kind of faith we are inviting and encouraging in our faith fellowship called church. We need to build on the right foundation, not a foundation of sand. Not a foundation of human intentions. What's the alternative? I'm gonna read something that's outright frightening. And maybe you've heard this before. It's a quote. The pastor of America's largest church was asked on television whether he ever told people that they are sinners. He replied, I don't. Is that a word you don't use? I don't use it, he explained. I don't have it in my heart to condemn people. I'm there to encourage them I see myself more as a coach, as a motivator to help them experience the life God has for us. He pointed out that people want a more positive message. That was a quote from Joel Osteen. Here we see the dramatic and disturbing difference between the true Church of Christ and the false church of man. Mr. Osteen is happy to build his institution on the best intentions of the unregenerate men. He is happy to have this spurious faith in the followers if it will get them to join his social club. No activity of the Spirit is needed for him to accomplish his goals. No new birth is needed to believe what he is preaching. I use this example because it helps us to see the glaring contrast between the Church of Christ and everything else that's called church. But at the risk of making it sound like the church is impossible to enter, it is only impossible to enter in the flesh. It is only impossible to enter by thinking we can get in by the power of decision making. No, it is not impossible at all when the Holy Spirit is working on your heart. It's not impossible at all when God does a dramatic change on you and that prepares you to come to Him by faith in what He has completed in the cross of Christ. When you are born again, simply calling out to God in faith is all that is needed. That's a wonderful thing. We'll see this amazing truth next week, Lord willing. In John 3. We're just going to get to John 3, 16, I believe that's next week For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. It's interesting. Um I'm kind of what's that called when you give away the movie before you spoiler spoiler alert. Um We need to read John 3. 16, but I never understood how important fourteen and fifteen were with sixteen. You got a poll with your cause of death, your your method of punishment by God, posted on it. And the Israelites were to look at that to be saved. Their awareness of their sinful condition was complete When we look at Jesus on the cross, we have got to understand. He is the answer to our sinfulness. Isn't it absolutely great news that Jesus died on that cross, that God so loved the world that he gave his only son? We only need to believe in the way that God creates in us. He prepares the way In Ephesians 2. 8 and 9, we even see that God gives us that faith, that belief. In Ephesians 2. 8 and 9 it says, For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this Being saved by faith is not your own doing. It is it it your saving faith is the gift of God, not a result of works so that no one may boast. You were given faith. You didn't even drum that up. It was given to you by God, so you can't take any boast. There's no credit for us to take. We weren't even smarter than our neighbors God decided to choose us for whatever reason. And He put faith in our hearts. Amazing. Our Lord is so worthy of praise. As for applications, it's important that we all, and especially the elders, think rightly about this in any of our efforts of outreach and church growth. We are always looking for a miracle to happen in the lives who are those we are reaching out to. We're in the miracle business. If we're in evangelism, we're we're in a miracle business because it won't happen apart from a miracle of God The true church is always built on the supernatural response to a simple gospel. I hope this all serves to remind us what a tremendous miracle God did in us to save us. And may we reflect on that and give God the praise that He is so worthy of this week. Also, it may be good to reflect on the truth that Jesus knows what's in your heart. You know, Jesus knows who we are. Jesus knows who we are, and that's a wonderful thing, because he loves us even when he knows who we are That's beautiful. So we do well to examine our hearts with the Lord's help to see if there's any evil way in us that the Holy Spirit seeks to free us from. Let's pray. Lord thank you that you would not allow your church to be a natural instinct