When I update a computer from uh Windows ten to Windows eleven, which many of you could care less about, but This is true. One of the first things that I notice is this. The menu on the bottom of the screen with all the little icons on Windows 11 is centered in the middle. It's a default setting. The ones in all the prior versions are on the aligned on the left-hand side. And you know, I'm old. I'm used to the left-hand side, so that's what I want. Now I always change it. It's the first thing I change when I upgrade a computer. Now you might wonder what a default setting has to do with John 3. Let's read verse 17 again. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved. Through him. Can you guess what the default setting has to do with this verse I'm guessing you at least some of you have reached it, and others, your minds will never work quite like mine, and be thankful. But condemnation is mankind's default setting. Condemnation is mankind's default setting. What did God have to do if he wanted to condemn the world? Nothing. Nothing. Absolutely nothing. As soon as the two little cells come together and begin our little worlds, the default setting kicks in. We are born into a state of condemnation. And just like my computer, if I do nothing, the default setting is going to remain. I have to go out of my way to change it You and I know this theology. Most of us could get it right on a test question. But I think sometimes we fail to grasp how deeply the default settings have been embedded in us. Think of something that really lights you up in a bad way. Really gets you mad. Something for which you're instantly angry with a situation or a person. Now what often follows that feeling in our heads? What often follows that? What do we do? Do we not often follow that with he or she or they or it? Deserved my response. If I feel this angry, they or it must have done something to deserve it. After all, I wouldn't be this mad if they didn't do this thing. You know what that kind of thinking shows, what it displays? It's very often a failure to under It's a double negative. It's in underestimating the influence of our default setting. It's underestimating the influence of our default setting. Our doctrine doesn't go deep enough sometimes when we deal with ourselves I can say over and over and over again that our seamurs are broken. And maybe that's going to be put on my tombstone. I don't know. And yet I can fully trust the guidance that my seamur gives me at a moment's notice. Our seamers are aligned in the middle of our screens. Our seamers have a default setting that makes everything we do feel warranted. It justifies our feelings, it justifies our responses, it blames things on other people. You and I all have a part of us, our flesh. that naturally thinks if something strikes us in a bad way, we are probably responding correctly to some kind of bad treatment. And as long as we believe that, we'll never get to the solutions to our relational problems. Until we refuse to trust our natural responses and our instinctual evaluations of situations, we can't get to the heart of the real problem. I believe that this single thing stands in the way of restored relationships more than any other thing. If we think the problem with our relationships lies wholly on the other person, we will never fix the part of us that is also part of the problem. And until we see how deep our default condition goes, we'll tend not to question ourselves and our behavior. I'm gonna say something that's intended to be shocking. In fact, when I thought about it, it was shocking. And it's thought provoking. I've prayed about this section probably more than any in any Sermons that I've given recently. Husbands, do you realize that if your wife and kids were perfectly Christ-like? And I granted, they're they're not. But if if they were, you would still have many of the negative emotions and responses and reactions to them that you have now. You would still think that some of your dissatisfaction then with them would be justified. Even if they were perfect. Maybe she wouldn't give you the attention and affection you feel you deserve or the respect in the way you want it. Maybe you would misinterpret things she says wrongly and get unnecessarily offended. Maybe she would need to spend more ti you would think she would need to spend more time with uh others and have have more time to hang out with you. Uh and that's with the perfect wife and kids Wives, if you were married to Jesus Himself, you would still find yourself unhappy and dissatisfied with him at times. I think of that Green Gables quote, you know, that uh one of the ladies was saying to the other, I don't think this person would be adequately satisfied if it was Jesus himself that he was she was married to or something like that. But he might invite people. You know, Jesus might invite people to come home with him and not clear it with you. He might not he might need to spend more time away from home than what you think is really warranted. Maybe he wouldn't do enough around the house You see what I mean? And kids, um you you can you can take this home, man. Make sure you tell your kids this. If Jesus was your dad Do you think that you would suddenly change and want him to give orders to you? Do you think that part of you would suddenly go away that you don't want to be told what to do just because it was Jesus who was telling you? If we think that if we only suddenly got a perfect husband or wife or parent, that all our problems would go away, we're deluding ourselves. Thank God that God did not give you the perfect wife or husband or child or parent. We would do our best to ruin them by holding them up to our fleshly expectations. No, the biggest thing that would change if we had Jesus as a husband or wife or child or parent is that we would know That every negative response that comes out of us is because it is we who are messed up. We would know that it's all our fault. It can't be Jesus' fault. As it is now, we can focus on what's wrong with those around us and miss the fact of what's wrong with us. We can blame our wrong responses on those people who are so obviously imperfect. And we can sneak that by our conscience time after time because they are flawed. If we blame anyone else for the evil that comes out of us , We're barking up the wrong tree. Certainly others need to change, and certainly others can improve. But so do we. And those around us did not put into us what comes out of us. Those around us did not put into us what comes out of us. That was there by birth and by practice. Have you ever considered why we must be resurrected with a new spiritual body? I believe part of the reason is that if we went to heaven as we are If we were given the new earth home, we would be dissatisfied with it and we'd likely ruin it for others. If you don't believe that, I challenge you to think about that deeply. Just the fact, just one fact. That some in heaven will be more highly rewarded and recognized than we will be. That's just one instance. Where flesh would easily ruin it for us. Because we'd start thinking, you know, I think I did better than that person. Or I know some things about that person. If if the truth were no, well the truth is no. You know. It's that kind of thing that we carry with us all the time. In fact, I wonder about boredom. I wonder if we carried ourselves into the new in the new earth that we wouldn't soon be bored and dissatisfied. Because that's enough. That's our default. It really, really, really is. Some of the greatest problems happen in the church when the church ceases to recognize its fleshly natural nature. Now praise God that when we come to Christ, we are given a new heart. But it's not the only influence. The Holy Spirit dwells in us, but that's not the only influence. We've been rescued from the penalty of sin. But oh the presence of sin, the dreaded presence of sin That takes a lifetime to weed out, and even in that lifetime it's not enough. Then we got to get a new body. That takes a lifetime of discerning good and evil by good doctrine and faithful living, which is what we've been learning about in Hebrews. The greatest news on earth is that God was not content to leave us with condemnation of our default settings as humans. The greatest news on earth is that God was not content to leave us with the condemnation of our default settings as humans. No, he did something that would allow humans to get a different setting, a change setting, a very different alignment. God loved the world in this way, God gave his son. So that those who are humans Can have eternal life. Now, about eternal life, John MacArthur has this to say about it. He says this is the first of fifteen references in John's Gospel to the important term eternal life. In its essence, eternal life is the believer's participation in the blessed, everlasting life of Christ. In other words, it's our participation with his life. His eternal life here and now, where we begin that participation. Through his or her union with Christ, which we have now. Jesus defined eternal life in his high priestly prayer to the Father, and he said, This is eternal life that they may know you The only true God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. So it's very clear eternal life doesn't wait for some time in the future. It starts now. It's the life of the age to come, and believers will most fully experience it in the perfect, unending glory and joy of heaven I have all of these references based, you know, that prove all those points if you'd like to see them. So this is eternal life, is more than just what's to come. It's participation in Christ's life now. Belief in Christ is not limited to how we receive eternal life. It's also how we participate in the life of Christ. There's a great danger that you and I segregate faith in Jesus to just receiving an entry ticket to heaven or to the new earth It's easy to miss that belief in Christ is how we wake up in the morning and live our lives as they were designed to be lived. That's our the eternal life that we have. We're waking up to it Every morning, the gospel of Christ is the core of all of our spiritual growth and change. And that is our eternal life Believing in Jesus is how we overcome the sins that so easily beset us. It's how we overcome the fleshly nature that is our default setting. It's how we overcome the residue of our old condemned state. We live from faith to faith. Think about the actions and attitudes that you're most ashamed of right now in your life What is the thing in your life that you know most needs change in order to reflect what Christ deserves from you? That's where the gospel needs applied. That's where eternal life needs applied. God gave his son for an effect at this point. Verse 17: For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Okay, so Christ was sent for the world so the world could escape condemnation and be saved through Christ. The big point that Jesus was making to Nicodemus is that God the Father was doing an exceptional thing by sending God the Son as a means of saving every human being on this planet who would ever be saved. None of the other ways that Nicodemus believed in for salvation were effective. We need to keep in mind how mind blowing this would have been for this famous religious expert. Then Jesus goes on, verse 18: Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe in him is condemned already. Default. He's condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Until a person believes in the only Son of God, they stand condemned Jesus is looking Nicodemus in the eye and he's saying, I'm it. You can imagine the impact that would have had on Nicodemus. It's like shock. How in the world could you say that about yourself, Jesus? I'm it. I'm the only way. Every salvation of every human being relies on me. Every single one. It's me or nothing. It's not me and something. It's just me. Period. Whoever believes in me is not condemned. But what if I murdered someone? What if I did the notorious sins? What if I did this or did that? Are there any restrictions? No, there are not. The work that Christ would do on the cross was limitless In its effectiveness of its salvation to those who believe The work that Christ would do on the cross was limitless in its effectiveness of its salvation to those who would believe. When Christ was done, there was no sin that could not be held to that could be held to someone's account if Christ had paid for it. To think there is a sin a believer can commit and not be forgiven is to think too little of Christ and too much of your ability to sin. Poor Nicodemus. He probably couldn't imagine a God like this. He couldn't dream of a salvation like this. And he probably wondered about all those things. All those people who were like himself, you know, all these good people obeying the law, would they really be excluded if they didn't believe in Christ? If they thought, well, maybe Christ isn't what he says he is I think that's why Jesus continues in his conversation in the train of thought he does. In verse 19, he says, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world and people love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things and doesn't come to light, thus works. You think your works are good. You think you're a pretty good guy. You externally conform to the law in such a way that you can look at yourself and you can proclaim yourself righteous. But you're not looking where you need to look. You're not looking at yourself in the way you need to look at yourself. Look around, Nicodemus. Watch what's happening to all your Sanhedrin. Look at what's happening in your heart as you hear me speak these words to you. I didn't come to condemn sinners, but I sure came to expose sin. I didn't come to condemn sinners, but I for sure came to expose sin. This is how it works. This is the kind of judgment I brought, just being who I am, where I am. I'm like blazing light. I represent God perfectly. I am the perfect role model. I only speak truth. Everything I say is perfectly true. You can't look at me without seeing what you should be and how you should be. And right away that's causing a problem. Why is that? Because the light shines who God is, and by extension, what God has a right to demand of me He is right about everything, and anyone who disagrees with him is wrong. That's the bind you find in when you look at the light. The darkness is any strategy that resists the light. The darkness is any strategy that resists the light. Now why would anyone resist the light? People love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. Now notice here what Jesus does not say. He does not say, oh, they're just mistaken. They just have not taken the right Bible course yet. Or he doesn't say they just aren't quite bright enough to understand this theology. He doesn't say if you just tell them one more thing, it'll make a difference in their thinking. Now that might be how it looks as a person comes to Christ. You know, it's like you tell them one more thing and suddenly something hits them and their eyes open. But that's not how it really is. He makes this pretty clear. Do you want to understand human behavior? Do you want to understand your own behavior and everybody else's? Apply what Jesus says here. And it's simple. We love stuff and we hate the stuff that keeps us from the stuff we love. We love stuff and we hate the stuff that keeps us from the stuff we love. We'll protect the stuff we love. You can tell what a person loves by what they defend and protect. We all love something. And if you watch a person long enough, you'll have a pretty good idea what it is. The devil doesn't have to read our minds, he can watch our lives. It'll be that thing that inspires their strongest emotions. It'll bring out the ferocity when it's attacked. Now, when what we love is God, we are in the perfect spot. That's where we should be. It's perfect. Then we love the light. We love that stuff about God. But again, that takes a born-again act, and it takes a lot of uh Sanctification. No one who loves God loves God by default. If we're to understand our world, we have to understand that our primary problem is a moral one. We make our choices based upon our nature. Our default position loves idols of any kind and all kinds. We love our default self. We love to believe in our human potential. We love the advice of our seemers. And it doesn't seem all that dark. It's just natural. But dark is what it is. Our natural self will keep us from coming to God. Because we don't want our loves to be stripped away from us. We don't want to be exposed by the light as being fundamentally morally bankrupt and irreparably flawed. Darknesses are the areas of our lives and our attitudes in our lives that are counter to God. Sometimes they're good things propped into wrong positions. Our attitudes toward our children or our spouses could be darknesses. Sometimes there are outright wrong things. I mean sometimes they can be good things that we allow to have more importance in our lives than they should. Sometimes they're outlaw outright wrong things, like the love of money or the love of the world Albert Barnes says this: Men are said to love darkness more than they do light, when they are better pleased with error than truth. With sin than holiness, with belial, then Christ. This was the warning, I believe, directly to Nicodemus, saying, This is you, Nicodemus. Watch out that you don't reject me because you love what you have and you hate me for exposing it. And that is exactly the response the Sanhedrin had as a whole. That's the world you're in, he's telling them, and it's a scary spot to be in, because you are going to want to redefine this 20 ways from Sunday when you leave this conversation with me, but this is the truth. Your ways are wicked, and your temptation will be to send me in order to keep status and position in your life. And if you believe in me, you're going to lose it. If you come to the light, all of that is going to be lost I came across some quotes about the nature of the world's hatred of light that were just too good to pass up, and I'd like to include them here. Martin Lloyd Jones said this: if you want to know what this world is like Look what it did to Jesus. He was the Son of God. He had left his throne of heaven. He had come and humbled himself. And he gave himself to healing people and to instructing them. He never did anyone any harm. He went about doing good. What was the response of the world that Jesus is telling us about? It hated him. It persecuted him. It rejected him. It chose a murderer before him. It crucified him. It killed him. And there on the cross he exposed the world for what it is. It would be a great mistake to think the world has changed since then. If Jesus came today, his treatment would be the same. We know this by how the majority of people respond to the gospel. The clever men on the world today are laughing at the cross. They are mocking it. They are jeering at it. They are making fun of the blood of Christ. And they are trying to ridicule it. They're only doing what their prototypes did in the first century. That's what the world has always done Moreover, we would be just as mistaken to think that we are any different. Until we're born again, none of us receive Jesus Christ, the light that was sent. People might have kind, polite things to say about Jesus, but when he presses his claims as Lord and Savior, John 3. 20 rightly says that the world hates the light. The second quote was kind of from a completely opposite view. It was from Alduis Huxley, one of the 20th century's leading atheists. He spent his whole life opposing the Bible and teaching that life is without meaning. And at the end he wrote this For myself, as no doubt for most of my contemporaries, people who believed the same way that he did. The philosophy of meaninglessness was essentially an instrument of liberation. The philosophy of meaninglessness was essentially an instrument of liberation. This idea that comes from From uh atheism and from the idea that we were not created and therefore the creation has no meaning. That thing That liber the liberation we desired was simultaneously liberation from certain political and economic systems And liberation from a certain system of morality. We objected to morality because it interfered with our sexual freedom. I had motives for not wanting the world to have a meaning. Consequently, I assumed that it had none. and was able without any difficulty to find satisfying reasons for the assumption. He's laying it out. I hated the light, and I'd have chosen anything but the light. That perfectly fits with John 3. 19. People love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. Sin keeps us from faith. Since devotion to Christ threatens our devotion to cherished sin. Alright, let's continue in our text. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his work should be exposed. Have you ever flipped over a rock or a board and exposed a bunch of hands? What do they do? They all run for cover immediately. They chose that cover because it was dark and it was protected. They chose that cover because it protected them from the light. It was not a coincidence. Their choices revealed their loves. That's what we're like Have you ever wondered why more people don't choose to read the Bible out of curiosity, if nothing else? I mean, it is an interesting book. Well, if a person seriously reads the Bible for very long, they're going to find themselves exposed. They're going to find themselves exposed to light. And that light is going to shine, and apart from a miracle happening That's going to cause them to scramble. The same is true of attending a church where the Word of Christ is preached. The same is true about being around Christians who aren't afraid to talk about their relationship with Christ. We like to think that if we're very friendly people, people will be drawn to Christ. And certainly there is some truth to that. They'll certainly be drawn to us if we're kind to them. But there's also spiritual stuff going on. And many people will be repelled by the light if we have the courage to speak it clearly, no matter how well we treat them. We also see in this verse that everyone is doing something that reveals what they love and who they are. It makes things easier when those things are clearly wicked. You know how that is. I mean it's easier to discern if somebody's doing something clearly wicked, like they're lust filled or greedy or prideful, uh like abortion or adultery or homosexuality. You know, those things are easy to sort out. It's a little trickier when there are Pharisees type of wicked things, like self-righteousness, things like that. Implied in this passage If Jesus is still talking to Nicodemus, is that Nicodemus is doing wicked things. He could not have missed that as he was being told this. That would be difficult for Nicodemus to accept. You talk about ruining a person's self-view now. But how but by now Nicodemus would be very sure That he is tiring of Jesus revealing him. He's just spent whatever amount of time in the light. And we can see what's happening to Nicodemus here. He has got to feel the hatred rising inside of him, at least the temptation for hatred, because of the way that Jesus is exposing him and belittling him. And if Nicodemus understands Jesus is the light that Jesus is talking about, Nicodemus might get this point. I am revealing who I am by how I am responding right now to Jesus Christ. I am getting exposed and I am hating it. I want that rock to be laid back down so I can have that darkness again. I don't want this anymore. Nicodemus is not hated to hate Christ because Christ is wrong. Nicodemus is tempted to hate Christ because Nicodemus is wrong. And it is the last thing that he would want to admit. Now we get a pretty good picture from Scripture that Nicodemus didn't respond permanently badly. to this conversation. That this conversation with Jesus sparked something in him that the Holy Spirit enabled him to come to Christ. But this is the this is the struggle. You know, sometimes it takes us a long time to really get this. No one likes to be wrong. No one wants to write a book to find out that its premise is wrong. No one wants to push a philosophy to find out that philosophy doesn't produce what we've been saying it will. I think about, you know, telling people how I thought, you know, some of these foods were really good things and some of the artificial sweetener was actually safe and stuff like that. And I go back and throw them all out. Yeah, nobody likes that. We don't want to tell people around us something that we would swear is true about us only to find out it really isn't. No one likes that. In fact, it's easy to hate that exposure. It really is easy. It's our default setting. But a Christian is fundamentally different here. A Christian has a love-hate relationship with being exposed. We hate it enough that we still don't like it, but we love it enough that we would choose it over living a lie any day of the week. Our growing love for fellowship with Christ wins in this struggle in a in a believer's life. Now, not always instantly and not always every time, but overall you will see that this person is weird because they're they love Truth, no matter where it takes them. We'd rather see our sin so we can deal with it for what it is than cover it and live with it. Look what John says here in 1 John, same author. 1 John 1. This is the message we've heard from him. Christ and proclaim to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him While we walk in darkness, those things that are opposed to God, we lie and we don't practice the truth. There's something really wrong here. If we say that we're in the light, we don't walk in the light. But if we walk in the light, as he's in the light, like exposing everything all the time, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sins. If we say we don't have any sin, well, we're fooling ourselves. The truth isn't in us, we're lying. But if we confess our sins If we say, yeah, the light just shone on that, and it is light, and it is that, so I'm wrong. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we haven't sinned, we make him a liar, because he says we are. And the word 's not in us. We're seeing the same concept here. You can't love light without living in the exposure of light. We can't say, yeah, I'm living in the light. I'm tight in fellowship with Christ. I got a good thing going here. And then have all of our lives full of dark deeds. Something's very wrong in that case. That can't be sustained by the sheer nature of light and darkness. But when we walk with Christ in real fellowship, open fellowship, walking in the Spirit, keeping communions, when we are revealed, when God reveals stuff in our life, we say, yeah. We live in exposure. We learn to love it. We've got to have it. It beats our self-illusions and delusions hands down. No matter how much it hurts at times, and it certainly does hurt, or embarrass us at times, and it is very embarrassing Those are small prices to pay to have the uninterrupted fellowship with Christ. And when our bad stuff gets exposed, there's a simple process. It's not like, oh, all is lost. You know, I just saw there's there's darkness in me. Yeah, it's beautiful. This is a simple process. You lean into the exposure. You do everything that you can to get that alight. Shining in every part of your life. You lean into it. You get used to saying, Yeah, God, I agree with you. You're right, I'm wrong. And that fixes our relationship with both Christ and our fellow believers as we do that more and more At the center of all this is a love for the absolute undiluted clarity of truth about who Christ is and who we are. We learn to love this process. We love the truth. Where are you at in all of this? Where are we at in all of this? Have we been strained from reading God's Word because of the conviction it brings in our lives? Have we been avoiding serious topics in our relationships because we don't want the exposure? Has the fellowship of the saints lost its vigor in our lives? Is it possible there's an area of darkness you prefer to keep dark? Are there parts of you that you prefer not to know or not to admit? As believers, we don't ever need to hide. And we have said this over and over again: we are the only people in the world that don't need to fake. We have no good reason to fake. Ever about anything. That is a trademark of a Christian. We love light. If you're aware of a place where you're hiding from the light, hiding from conviction, hiding from confession, today is the time to expose it. Get it out in the open. You have everything to gain and nothing to lose in the Christian life. Confess your sin. And Christ not just might Forgive you this time. He might overlook it. No, it's nothing like that. It's a rock solid guarantee. You expose it, he is going to forgive it. You can get get it behind you in your relationship with Christ and your relationship with believers instead of smack dab in the middle of it. Alright, verse 21. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Isn't this interesting how this one's worded? There are dark things, and we didn't need any help doing the dark things. Those come out of us as natural as breathing. If we're not being sanctified, we know that this is the direction we're going. It's we who do the wicked things in verse 20 That's us. Okay, that's without God's help, we're good at it. But what about when we actually do those good things that look so unlike how we used to be? How are those explained in this scripture? Well, those works are carried out in God. They're carried out in God. That's a big difference than the works we used to do. That there is spirit stuff. You know, that's when wind's blowing. That's God's wind blowing. For it's God who works in you to will and to do according to his good purpose. The per the person described here seems like it could be a surprise to him to find out that what he just did was a God thing. He just brings what he does to the light because, well, that's where he brings everything. He lives in full-time exposure, and exposure to the light is his new default. It's as commonplace to him. And well you know, once you can clearly see the work that he's just done in the light The work has Jesus fingerprints all over it. That's the Christian life. That's living in the Spirit. Protect your fellowship with honesty. When you fail, admit it and confess it and get it out of the way of fellowship. As your fellowship with Christ remains close You grow. And as you grow, the fruit of that fellowship with Christ happens. And anything that is fruit of that fellowship is good fruit. It's fruit that God has done, that was wrought in God. Let's close in prayer.