I had asked Mary a few weeks ago for any notes or tapes from Mike's teaching on the resurrection. And she came through for me with A bunch of sermons from Luke. As I read them, I realized that the road to Emmaus was the next passage that we were going to cover this morning, and one of the sermons that Mary gave me was from our text. It was preached on November 10th. 1986, which uh some of us can remember and some of us can't. That's uh very close to thirty years ago. As I read this these sermons, I was reminded of what an exceptional gift he had, and I can't help believe that God wanted me to use this, use what I read for your benefit this morning. So I'll be quoting them a lot on and off this morning and next week. We even have eight points, three of which I'll So, starting with verse thirteen, now behold, two of them were traveling that day, that same day, to a village called Emmaus, which was seven miles from Jerusalem. And they talked together of all the things that had happened. So it was while they conversed and reasoned that Jesus Himself drew near and went with them. So we'll start with the first point here. Jesus reveals himself in everyday routine. Jesus reveals himself. In everyday routine. Emmaus was a town seven miles believed to be to the northwest of Jerusalem. These followers were likely in Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. They appeared to have a good knowledge of what was happening with the disciples, so these guys were pretty probably well acquainted with Christ and his disciples. They were followers. They happened to be in town when all the unusual stuff started happening. This is the fourth day after Christ's crucifixion. Depending on how you read it, it makes sense that it's three days after, so you'd have the day of the crucifixion and then three days. These guys were in the same state as Most of the other disciples. We find out later that they were highly disappointed because they expected that the Christ would redeem Israel. They hoped he would do the work of the Messiah, as they understood it. But instead, Christ was killed. So these guys were walking home, and maybe they had to go to work the next day. Maybe they took off all the time they could, and they couldn't stay around to find out what would happen. Men and women. Have you ever felt like your obligations are keeping you from the important things of God? Have you ever thought that your your obligations are keeping you from the important things of God? Have you ever felt like going to work or watching the world? Your kids is keeping you from doing the really important stuff. This text assures us that if we're doing the jobs God wants us to do, his access to us is not limited. He'll get us the information or help. Help that he wants us to have. It may not be through the channels we prefer always, but he will get it to us. So essentially, these two guys are probably walking home so they can continue working. They're walking on a dusty road. putting one foot in front of the other in an attempt to get where they are going. Does any of that strike you as being exciting? Is it dramatic? Is it out of the ordinary? It would be like Like us driving to Hagerstown for work. Mundane. Simply what you do. And it is in that very activity that Christ shows up. Now look at him in his entrance. Here is the resurrected Satan. Son of God coming to commune with some ordinary humans in their day-to-day tasks. And what does Jesus do? Does he use trumpets to announce his presence? Does he show off his glory in in blinding light. He certainly could have. He does sometimes. And for sure he deserves to, if he wanted to. But no. He shows up in the mundane with no spiritual indication of any difference. Between him and any other human being. And what's the point? That's where he shows up in our lives, too. Mike says at this point that the point is that Jesus Christ is Lord of everyday real life. Lived right here on planet's earth, planet Earth's dirt. He is Lord of the ordinary and the mundane. That's where we live, and that's where we struggle. We face our challenges here. We come unglued here. And we need God's inclusion here. We need Jesus here. We need his word here. The thing is, Christ is here. We just need to believe. Believe it. That is the amazing truth of the resurrection. Jesus is with us. His Holy Spirit is here pointing us to all truth. His presence is promised. Promised in every believer. He is with us when we fix computers or do laundry or move rocks or feed kids. He is here. And when we believe it, we'll find our lives different. As a result of that belief. What's happening in our mundane day-to-day that we would prefer Jesus not to see? What is that? What are those things? What would we do if he were Standing here. What would we do if he was hanging out with us all day long, sitting next to us at our desk or working next to us in our households, or wherever it is that we go and whatever it is we do? Would we be doing it if he were standing here? Whatever it is. If not, it stands to reason that we don't really believe that he is here now. It's a doctrine, but it's not a conviction. If we would do nothing to Today, but to change our lives, to reflect a true belief that Jesus Christ is with us 24 hours every day, our lives would be radically changed. changed. If we did nothing but act like we believe that Jesus is with us twenty-four hours a day, our lives would be radically changed. If we would make 2017 As the year we believed that Christ was with us, 2017 would be a radically different year for us. Christ is here in the mundane. Christ is here in our moments and days in our hours. Mike quoted this poem. Sometimes when everything goes wrong, when days are short and nights are long, and when When wash day brings so dull a sky that not a single thing will dry, when the kitchen chimney smokes, when there's nothing so difficult as folks, when friends deplore my fated youth, and when the baby cuts a tooth, when When John the baby laughs, but one clings around my skirts till day is done, and good-natured Jane is glum, and the butcher forgets to come. Sometimes I say on days like these, I get a sudden gleam of bliss. Not on some sunny day of ease he'll come, but on a day that's just like this , by somebody named Fay Iqbon. It's on common ordinary days that we are to walk in. On a day just like this that he will return in all of his splendor. And up until that point, it will be day upon day, just like any other, a day when Jesus is with us. Verse sixteen. But their eyes were restrained so that they did not know him. And he said to them, What kind of conversation is that that you have with one another as you walk and you're sad? Then the one whose name was Cleopus answered and said to him, Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem? And have you not known the things which have happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things? Second point. Jesus enjoys a sense of humor. Jesus enjoys a sense of humor. The word for restrain means to be the master of, to get possession of, to take hold or seize. This tells us all we need to know. Christ intentionally took possession of and controlled how these two men would see him. Now, did Christ attempt to get any information from these men that he could only gain if they didn't know who he was? No. We don't see any information. Signs of that. Did he give them any information that he could not have given them if they knew who he was? No. Did he want to keep it a secret that he was roaming around on the planet's field? No. Well what motive explains his action then? The only thing that makes any sense is that Christ was having a little fun. And no wonder. Think of the enormous pressure Christ had been under for the last three years of his life. Then consider this last six months and then the last week. The pressure accumulated to the point he was sweating blood. That is severe anxiety. None of us have felt anxiety. To that point. We sometimes want to complain that the Christian life is harder than we want it to be. Well, just look at our master. Consider how hard it was for him. But what state is Christ in now? Remember how on the cross Christ said. That it was finished? Well, what he had to do, the hard work of our salvation for Christ, was completed. The rest of the heavy lifting had to be done by the Father. Christ had to be resurrected. And that even now was complete. The only thing that Christ had left to do was to reveal himself to five hundred people. And these were all his friends, as far as we know. They were friendlies at least. Now think about that. How hard would that be? How hard would it be showing up in mundane places and saying, Hi, how you doing? Remember? That's what he said to the women on the road. He was showing up to surprise people who think he's dead. That had to be incredibly fun. And you could have recognized them recognize y who you are anytime you feel like it. You could show up in the middle of groups inside of locked doors. You could show up under regular highways and byways of people's lives. What Christ shows us in this story is that humor is part of heaven. It's part of the Godhead. It's just one more More good thing that was created by God. Christ enjoyed it as much as the next God. Mike makes the point that Christ is as cheerful as they are glum. I think imagination is given to us to appreciate stories like this one this morning. Here comes this cheerful guy. He's coming across as maybe simple. He comes across as having no idea, no idea of current events. We can tell by the way The other street Christ, that they're looking down on this simple, uninformed person. He clearly doesn't understand the importance of the times. And Christ doesn't correct them at all. He lets them go. Here Christ is the main figure. Of the story. He's the one that all the hubbub is about. But he probably acts curious and uninformed. Stupid, maybe. And you can know for certain that it's it required some acting on Christ's part. We probably don't consider that the Son of God would be capable of such a thing, but he was. We see this morning that he is. Christ said, What kind of conversation is this that you have with one another as you walk and you're sad? In our vernacular It might be. What are you talking about that has you so bummed out? When we look at the character that Christ is playing, can't we just imagine those people that we have met that can be so irritating because they're always positive? And the reason that they're always positive. is they never really think about anything. So they tend to be happy because they're simple. And that appears to be the illusion that Christ is creating here. Now one of these guys, Cleopaths prospects And I think it's very interesting here that Luke gives him a name. He wants us to know for certain that this was a true, real conversation with a real human being that has a name and could have been tracked down as a witness of this event. There's a whole lot of that in the New Testament. And the guy says, Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem? And have you not known the things which happen here in these days? Our common phrase that might catch the meaning here would be, Where have you been, man? Have you had your head in the sand? Haven't you heard anything? You know, and don't you have any idea what's going on? Now remember who they're talking to. They are talking to the news. If Christ wanted to deliver a message here, wouldn't he have he done it right now? I mean if the sole point was to deliver a message, wouldn't he have done it now? But no. Look out Christ's response. He says to him, What things? What things are you talking about? Christ plays along with it. He's play acting, pretending he's the ignorant dunce that they're taking him to be. I don't know about you, but this is so encouraging to me. It tells me that heaven will be truly the best life. offers and more. If Christ enjoyed humor in this event, we can see that it's part of his character. If he enjoyed it here, surely he will enjoy an eternity with his friends and where there's no self- sacrificing mission at hand that he has got to pour himself into. All distress will be off at that point. All of Christ's friends will be safe. One other thing about humor. Do you ever laugh at your small children or other people's small children when they get so upset about things that don't matter at all? Have you ever considered that God may be laughing at some of the things that we are so bummed out about? Disbelief is no laughing matter, but our absolute foolishness and refusal to trust God in the most transient and unimportant things may be the very things that God laughs at at times. And oh, how offended we would be if we We saw him. Just like our our kids would be when we would laugh at them. Think of what we would accuse God of. Yet his perspective, like the mature adult watching a child, knows the utter absurdity of our pursuits and our affections. And if he laughs, It's been the wisdom of knowing that we're stupid and we have a long way to go. So they said to him the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet mighty indeed and word, before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered. Delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, beside all this, today is the third day since these things happened. Yes, and certain women of our company who are arrived at the tomb early astonished us. When they did not find his body, they came saying they had also seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said. But they did not but him they did not see. And then he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, ought not the Christ who have suffered these things to enter his into his glory? And be given at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them all in all the scripture the things concerning themselves. Okay, the third point Jesus uses the opportunity to instruct. Jesus uses the opportunity to instruct. Now, the two men unload their hearts to this simple traveler. This is the conversation these men were having. They could have been talking about anything, but they were talking and thinking, and they were completely absorbed with the topic of Jesus. Jesus Christ. These men were very clear on what they thought. They can explain it clearly and succinctly. They think well. They report their position accurately. Note their understanding of Jesus. This helps to be able to do that. give us an idea of what Jesus' contemporaries thought and expected of Christ. Now we have gone through, you know, the pretty much the whole book of Mark, and we have this is going to theme over and over again, and I think this is this endorses our our uh our opinions on that. First, they considered him Jesus of Nazareth, that's what they called him, and that's how they knew him. He was the Jesus that was from his hometown, Nazareth. Maybe they knew he was born in Bethlehem, according to the prophecies. Maybe they didn't. We don't know that, but that's how they recognized him. Second, they considered him a prophet. And that would mean that they saw Christ as a spokesperson for God. God was essentially speaking through him. That was a very lofty. And then it says, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. Both what Jesus said and what he did were mighty, and that is how he was viewed. His followers recognized the power of God in the ministry of Christ. They clearly saw Jesus as someone special to God. He was sent from God. He was one of God's people. Just like the Old Testament prophets would have been seen. that is an exception to the rule. This person really stands out. This person is remarkably intended for some ministry purpose by God Himself. Now, how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. There are some who try to put the blame for the crucifixion on Rome. But that is not how these Jewish people understood it. The followers blamed the Jewish leaders and And ultimately the Jewish people for the death of Christ. Rome was just a pawn in carrying out what these leaders wanted. That is how the common folk who were in the know saw it. They blamed it on the leadership. They blamed it. Verse 21. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. The word for redeem also means liberate. Redeem is what Christ did to all who believe. He also liberated them from the power of sin. Praise God for that, even though we often live as if we don't believe that fact at all. That is exactly what he did. But what these followers probably meant. is that they thought he would liberate them from Rome's control. Now things get more interesting. Verse 22, yes, and certain women of our company who arrived at the tomb early astonished us. We've seen the word astonished several times. When they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but Christ they did not see, or him they did not see. Look at this. Look at how unbelief interprets facts. Look at how unbelief interprets facts. They say that some of these crazy women said really bizarre. things. Notice how they word this. We all tend to restate things through the sieve of our beliefs. They say that the women had a vision of angels. A vision of angels. The word for vision means a sight. vision, an appearance presented to one whether asleep or awake. And that gives us a pretty good clue right there. When used in scripture, this word vision is never used for something someone witnessed in the normal state of affairs. It is always a supernatural vision, a new supernatural apparition or whatever. But these women did not have a vision. They did not have a vision. They witnessed an event in time and space. They saw real angels who spoke real language that gave a real message and said that Jesus is really alive. Then some of those other believers who were associated with these men went to the tomb and they got to see that there was no No body. So they knew well something happened, and these ladies gave a report and maybe they were seeing things, but we're still trying to sort that out. That's all they got to see. These these men didn't get to see Christ. And at this point the two Men must have had to leave to do what they had to do. Now, you've got to think about that a little bit. If you were in that setting and you could stay, would you not have stayed? I mean, some of the most exciting things in the hit in the history of the world are happening. And these guys are probably thinking, man, I hate to leave, but I've got to get home. I got stuff I gotta do. I gotta get home. I don't I can't imagine another reason to leave at that point. Okay, so Jesus has been. . Silent through his explanation to these guys up until now. But he's not going to be silent any longer. Now it's to Christ's credit that he was so very patient with these men. How many times did he tell his father, his father? That he would be resurrected. How many times did he tell them, Count, three? That's how long I'll be dead. And yet these men didn't believe, even though they have eyewitnesses to angels telling them that Christ was risen from the world. from the dead. At least the women at one point said, Oh yeah. Oh yeah, Christ did say something about that. These guys don't. These followers didn't even do that. There was no recognition. I understand what that's like. But uh it it seems like they're just pretty dense at this point. So now we get to our third point that we started verse 19 with. Jesus uses the opportunity to instruct. Then he said to them, Oh foolish ones, and slow Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Now this supposed simpleton, who walks up to them as a complete stranger, suddenly reveals his debt. We should learn by this that not everyone who keeps a humble disposition has nothing to grant us. Here is Christ in the guise of somebody who knows very little, and he knows more than any other human on the planet. Now Christ starts in on him. And look what he says. Time for fun here is over. He has He says, Oh foolish ones. That's how he starts his sins. It's slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Oh foolish ones, can you imagine being there? The simpleton starts to speak, and he says, Oh foolish ones. How would you have liked that? You're these two guys, you're embedded in this conversation, you've got a complete stranger, comes in, interrupts your conversation, you're trying to be patient with him. He listens for a while and he looks at you and says, You Idiots. You know, oh foolish ones. You're talking to a stranger, maybe even in a condescending fashion, and this happens. All of a sudden he starts to call you a fool. Humility is called for here. And Christ never seems to have apologize for for requiring humility in the hearts of his followers when he addresses them. We better get used to that if we haven't already. In fact the truth is we need humility to receive The truth about us at any time by anyone. That is the truth of us. Humility receives the truth because humility is the quality, really, of seeing one's self as one is. Pride sees ourselves as we imagine ourselves to be or as we wish we were. Humility is the only view of life that will not balk at the truth. Humility can agree nod its head and continue to listen, because there's no huge surprise coming. Oh, that we would learn true humility so we can hear from God when He speaks to us through His Word or through the ministry of each other. Now, why are they foolish? They're foolish because they choose to disbelieve even in the face of eyewitnesses who are telling them that Christ did exactly what Christ said he would do. How dense can they be? be. A bell oughta be ringing in their head sometime, but it shows no signs of ringing anytime soon. Do you realize what we're seeing here? We're seeing typical ministry. Typical ministry. We often think we should be able to get close to a topic in our ministries to each other. A minister uh a topic of maybe touching on someone's failure or something. And they should be Able to take the hint. You know, if we get close to saying what needs to be said, they ought to be thinking, well, you know, I I'll finish the story for you. You know what? Hints are often not what we need. There's a joke about a farmer I I've given it before, I don't know very many. Um complaining to a friend about the trouble he was having, getting his stubborn mule to move. After listening to the farmer's complaint, his friend said, I know what to do, and he said, Get a two by four and whack that mule across the head with all it got. And the farmer was taken back and he said, How will that get him to move? asked the farmer. And well you see, the friend said, first you have to get his attention. Sometimes we're like the mule, and only the most forceful of truths will make the point to us. Jesus doesn't hold anything back here. We need to follow Christ's example when ministering to others. I mean we only need to bring out as big a canon as is needed for the job. You know, we it starts as uh kind and and patient as we can be, but in order to make the truth, Jesus was pretty blunt here. If it's worth addressing, it's a w it's worth addressing clearly and pointedly. So What's the problem with these travelers to Emmaus? They are slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. That's what Jesus says. That's his assessment of their problem. They're slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Again, we see people who are distraught. These people are confused. They're perplexed. And Christ does not pity them. At least we don't see that in the conversation. We do not see Christ pitying these guys. He points right to the problem, and it is he's not at all complimentary. If Christ would have asked these guys what their problem was, they would have pri replied probably, well can't you see? It's our circumstances. The problem is this. Jesus isn't here. We think he should be here. We don't understand. You know, these circumstances are beyond our understanding. They would be doing much better if it weren't for these circumstances that God has put. place them in. But what did Jesus say the problem is? God has spoken and you chose not to believe what God has said. I know we've said this before, but it's too true to skip over. What is it about us? Do we just love misery so much that we have to have more and more of it? Trust will not remove physical suffering, but trust does provide a platform for us to stand on in the midst of our greatest. Adversary ad adversity. We can have hope even when no one around us can has hope, and even when no one else around us can see why we would have reason to. Even when our enemies are gloating over us. Belief allows us to see the value in what we face. Pain is still pain, but we can see that we are far more blessed than those who have no hope. These roadwalkers in our story could have been rejoicing. They could count. They could have been rejoicing. They had every reason to, but they were miserable. And there's only one reason. They did not believe God. They didn't believe God. They did not believe what Scripture said. They believed. They believed what they saw. They did not believe what God said. They were focused on wanting life the way they wanted it. Boy, does that sound familiar? Isn't that the heart of much of our trouble? We want life the way we want it? They just wouldn't let go. How can we put this so we'll really get it? Belief will trust that God will make whatever we face worthwhile. Belief will will make whatever we face will trust that God will be able to write. God will make it worthwhile. Belief will trust that God allows pain into our life for a purpose, even when we have no idea what the purpose is. Belief will know that in the end we win and all of This difficulty will be a distant memory. Sometimes belief will tell us that we're only suffering because we're calling our Lord and Savior a liar. We fear, we worry, we enter. Envy, we covet, we lust, and all of that is based on disbelief. All of it. When will we believe it? When will we trust God? When? Then Christ. Christ goes on to show these men specifically what they missed. He applies the truth to exactly what they need to hear. Now we need to look at this. When God in the flesh sought to minister to these human beings, What did he appeal to? What did he use? Did he use some ad -lib story or teaching? He could have. I mean he had the authority to, but he didn't. He went to What some would think archaic old dry passages of Scripture. And he explained what he meant to these guys. Now think about that. If that's how the Son of God ministered to people after the resurrection, resurrection, doesn't it make sense that we should follow his lead? But I guess we all realize that we must first understand for ourselves what Scripture says. And that means that we've got to study it first to understand it. If that's good enough for Jesus, how can that not be good enough for us? Let me talk about an example to follow. Then verse twenty six Ought not the Christ who have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Jesus here explains to these followers how the Old Testament prophesied exactly what was to come. I wish we had the transcript. It would help so much in understanding all of the Old Testament prophecies and exactly how they are to be taken. To be a fly on that wall. We'll find in our study of Isaiah how many prophecies of Christ were a mixture of both Christ's first coming and his second coming. And it would have been hard exactly to know how to divide them or to understand those passages. And we're going to have that difficulty. But anyone should have seen how I Isaiah 53 was fulfilled. And there were many others like him. Whatever the case, Christ showed these men from the age old word of God that what Christ suffered had been planned since creation. It had to happen. Now, next week we hope to expound on the other five points from this text. But uh it is hasn't even escaped my notice that today is the first day of 2017. What do we want this year to accomplish in us. What would happen to us if we really believed the resurrection this year? What would happen in us if we acted like God is with us in every circumstance? What would happen if we acted like God was with us in every thought? How would our lives change if we lived every moment? as if we were in his presence, because we are in his presence, whether we believe it or not. I think we would all do well to to consider this at the very beginning of a Another year. That's closing prayer.