Like to start with the question. And the question is answered in our text. What is the primary drive that leads to happiness? What is the primary drive that leads to happiness? What drive must you have if you are to be truly happy? Our text tells us it is the drive for, the ambition for, the hunger for, the thirst for righteousness. Righteousness. Think about this. It's not the people who chase happiness who become happy. Isn't that odd? We've talked about happiness a lot. I've gone out of my way to say that happiness is God's will for our lives. Our ultimate happiness is assured in the future. And presently, there is a truth that runs under the surface of our lives all the time that fuels our happiness here and now. We've covered this for a moment. I've said that Scripture teaches that our lives are to consist of this happiness, and we can receive this happiness as we live by faith. Today we'll look at a crucial element of that hunger that leads to happiness. And we need to understand this very thoroughly. If you follow your seamer or your heart or the world's wisdom or anything other than God's word to make you happy, you will not be satisfied. You will not be filled Pursuing happiness as your object of desire will be a huge disappointment. That's why so many people with all the money, sex, or power that they could imagine are so miserable That's a tragedy. The world pursues happiness all the time, but they can't find it. They can't ultimately attain it. Because happiness is not found by pursuing the immediate feeling of it. Happiness is found by pursuing the means of it. And the means of it is the pursuit of living rightly. Whenever you put your immediate happiness before your immediate righteousness, your happiness is doomed for failure. Whenever you put your immediate happiness before your immediate righteousness, your happiness is doomed for failure. Think of an athlete. Which would make him more happy at any given instance? Eating a donut and playing video games with his friends are running the sprints or the hills or the drills that produce the fatigue and pain. Obviously, the donut would give greater immediate pleasure, but it would never lead to that greater happiness that he pursues. But if that athlete wants the happiness of winning the medal in his sport, his path to that happiness is not found by pursuing happiness. It is found by pursuing the path that will lead to happiness. And the athlete does not lose sight of the ultimate happiness that he desires. He does what he does for happiness But he must choose to pursue the path that will lead to a greater happiness, not the path of immediate happiness itself right now. Now, let's look quickly back at how we got here in our text. Our text today is the next logical step in progression to what came before it. The first three beatitudes tend to be negative. Being poor in spirit means seeing the depth of our spiritual poverty We see that not only don't we live perfectly, but we are completely unable to do so. We experience then a death of self Self-effort, self-hope, self-dependence. Then the second beatitude sees us in tears. We not only see our ineptitude and our powerlessness, but we are confronted with our moral failure We see how bad we really are. We see sin 's effect on everything about us and about our world, and it's devastating. We mourn. And then we become meek. We begin saying, my way does not work, my way cannot work, my way will never work. I give up trying to do it my way, ruling my life. I submit, I surrender, I give, God. I give up. I invite your control. I invite your supervision moment by moment over my whole life. And that brings us to today's text. Now we begin to press ahead in a spiritual direction. We've turned the corner on repentance and are experiencing what it takes to grow stronger in the faith. We see the longing for what we want to be and what we must be. Now, who are these happy people? They are the ones who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Hunger and thirst for righteousness. Now, what is righteousness? The Greek word means the quality, state, and characteristic of being in the right Pretty straightforward. It is the full restoration of man to what he was created for. That is righteousness. It is the man restored to his right position, his right condition, and his right relationship. It's when everything is right again. Given that which is not right is a result of sin, I think Martin Lloyd-Jones is right when he says righteousness is the desire to be free from sin In all of its forms and in its every manifestation. Righteousness is the desire to be free from sin in all its forms and in its every manifestation. Now, at this point, there are some preachers and teachers who only focus on justification in this text. Remember, justification is the once-and-done work that Jesus has completed for every believer. And praise God that He has. When we are justified, we are in some ways just as if we have never sinned. Our sin is removed and considered already punished by the punishment that Christ took upon us. Or took for. Therefore, we are righteous because of him. And some teachers limit this text to that application. So they basically say it's done, it's behind us, this doesn't continue to happen. But there's a problem with that. The verb tense in this passage is continuous So it must be more than a past event. There is nothing to stop us from applying a continual hunger for righteousness here. That's the hunger we see in sanctification. While positionally, every believer is righteous in Christ, we are not always righteous in our actions and attitudes. In fact, we are quite the opposite at times. But this happy person keeps cycling back to dissatisfaction with one's life. We want to be more like Christ. We have it in us that God has created in us our desire to be more like Christ. In fact, we want to be just like Christ as far as we can be. So we keep coming back to this dissatisfaction with ourselves over and over again. It's a continual thing because we see the righteous standard of the law and we see our lives and we see the difference and it bothers us. And while all this is happening, we're longing for that one glorious day where we will see Jesus and be just like him. That is the culmination of all the hunger. That is glorification. So we have righteousness of Christ in justification. We're put in that position. We have this continual striving for righteous living in sanctification. So we're driven on to this continual practice, and we will finally attain righteous living eternally in glorification. Now, if we want to be like Adam and Eve prior to the fall, if we want to be made all right, if we want to be in that right state with God, we know that several things must happen. We must be free first of the condemnation of sin and the enmity which it has achieved. That is the only way that we can be restored to fellowship with God. So we can commune with God like Adam and Eve did in the garden. We must desire that kind of righteousness. Look at all that is wrong in our lives. Is it not all the result of sin, either directly or indirectly? Look at our world, all the craziness and the evil we see. Is it not all the result of sin in one form or another? The only hope our world has is that more and more people would be changed from the inside out by the gospel. There is no hope for our world that will come from the outside changes that can be produced by human efforts. Conservative politics will not give America the answer that America so deeply needs. No, the gospel is the only remedy for the sin problem that is at the heart of every other problem. Notice that our mission and our hunger is not so much external as internal. Because the problem is not so much external as internal. Sin is our problem. Our longing for righteousness begins with the restoration of relationship with God through the work of Jesus Christ. And that is the gospel that we hold. The world does not hold this gospel. We have the answer to what it is that will fix things. Then when our relationship with God is restored, sin interrupts our lives as well. It destroys our fellowship with God, and we we explored that in great detail in 1 John. And we need that restored as well. We need that fellowship restored. We have the relationship restored, but we need that fellowship restored continually. And that's not a once-and-done kind of thing. We all know that Because we all have had to confess our sins over and over again to Christ. It's a continual battle with flesh, the world, and the devil. So we'd long, we'd long for righteousness, we long for this rightness, we long for this absence of sin. in our lives. And as we continue to struggle, we recognize more and more that the greatest problem we have is that we want to sin. The biggest problem we have is that we want to sin. Even when Christ has promised that He has unplugged us from sin's power cord, sin can't make a Christian do anything anymore. We find we still have that problem. I want to sin. You think about it. If you didn't want to sin, how hard would this struggle be? I want to pursue instant pleasure apart from God instead of pursuing God Himself and the pleasure that He has for me. There are things that I want more than righteousness. And I can't blame that on God. I can't blame that on others. I can't blame that on my circumstance. I can't blame that on my personality. No, I am that God. I am that sin So we cry out to God again. We come back over and over and over again. And it's a continual process as we are being sanctified, as we walk in the Christian life Okay, that is the righteousness that is in focus. The desire to be free of sin and completely restored to God. Now, what is our attitude toward that righteousness? Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Hunger and thirst. You and I are not in the position where we normally have a drastic need of food and water. And we have been very blessed in that. It's an unusual thing, 80% of the world I think. is uh is hungry often, but we aren't. If we're thirsty, we're normally not far from an adequate supply of water. That's except for Mark and Angie's house. Which I mentioned earlier. I prepared this four weeks ago, and it seems to be prophetic because Mark is working on his pump right now. And if we're hungry, we have an ample supply of food. Really, think of a time when you were extremely thirsty, so thirsty that water was all you could think of. I went backpacking once in the savage forest. You know, I had a good map, but it had not rained in a long time So many of the water spots were dry, and that's not a good thing. The guy I was hiking with tonight, we had used up all of our water the day before, so water became no longer a concern. It became our only concern. There was nothing more important at that point than finding water. We were no longer looking for an overlook where we could see a wonderful view of the forest. We were looking for a place where water bubbled up from the earth. And we walked a mile out of our way to find it. And when we finally found it, we rejoiced. That is the kind of desire for God that this is talking about. That is the kind of desire for righteousness that this is talking about. Think about hunger. Real hunger. It's something deep in you. And it continues unrelenting until it is satisfied. It doesn't take a break. It doesn't go away. It's uncomfortable. It rests our attention from us. It will not go unnoticed. This spiritual hunger is similar. It continues increasingly and causes us to feel desperate until it is satisfied. Hungering and thirsting of this kind removes competing priorities. It clarifies for us what is important and what is not. It gets to the place where it is no longer seen as an option in our lives. It is seen as the thing that life depends upon. As that thing that we cannot live without. We cannot go through our day without dealing with it. And remember, this is not speaking of an ultra Christian. It is speaking of every Christian. It's talking about you and me. What are you hungering for? What are you hungering for? Right now, what is the compelling drive in your life? What can you not go through a day and not think about? What must you have to be happy? What is that thing? Do you want to know? Does it kind of baffle you as to what that thing is? It's simple. For a day, make a note every 15 minutes of your primary thoughts Write down what you did in that time that you had free to choose anything. We will fill our calendars and our minds with the things we hunger for. Is it Christ? Is it a desire to be free of the sin that keeps you from Christ? Or is it something else? This sermon this morning can be just another sermon. We've certainly had enough of them. Or it can be a catalyst to greater growth, to a greater hunger for God. And you and I will determine which it is. It has little to do with how good the sermon is. It has much to do with how hungry we are for God, how serious we are about our walk with God. If we're willing to do nothing, we can expect to get nothing. It's normally only as we put what we hear into action that we see any fruit in our lives. What do you hunger and thirst for? Look what Scripture says about hunger and thirst. Jesus isn't exactly introducing a new concept to these people. Look what David said. Psalms 42. 1. He says, As the deer pants for the water brooks, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before you, God? My tears have been my food day and night, while they continually say to me, Where is your God? We know where David stood, and we know that his life wasn't perfect to say the least. But at this moment, David is expressing. His heart. His soul was thirsty for God. He wanted God's presence. He needed God's guidance. He needed God desperately. And he felt that need deeply. Psalm 63:1 says, O God, you are my God. Early will I seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh longs for you in a dry and thirsty land where there is no water. What a picture. This is exactly describing what Christ is talking about. David was one of the happy people because he was pursuing God not as some kind of option in his life. But it's a must-have in his life. He had to have it just like a deer has to have water And they'll always find their you see the African puddles, you know, that all these animals come to. And they know the lions are there, but they have to have that water. That's the kind of hunger and thirst that he's talking about. Psalms 119, 20. My soul breaks with longing for your judgment at judgments at all times. Here's the person who comes to God continually, not as a discipline, but as a desperate need. I think if we were to tell David he needed to have his devotions, he would have laughed at us. His life depended upon God. He relied upon God for his survival. That was his his his go-to thing in every day Look what Isaiah has to say about hunger and thirst. Isaiah 55, 1 through 3 says, Ho everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. And you who have no money, come by and eat. Yes, come buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend money for what is not bread and your wages for what does not satisfy? Listen carefully to me and eat what is good, and let your soul delight in its abundance. Incline your ear and come to me, hear, and your soul shall live Here we see what's being described by Jesus. Here we see the alternatives as well. We can go to God to quench our hunger. And he promises to satisfy. Or we can choose those other avenues that we think will please us. And don't we so often do that? Don't we so often make that trade? The plea from Isaiah to us is, and it's a it's a logic appeal. Why would you go spend what you have to get something that will not meet your needs When you could come to me for free and I will meet your needs. Why would you do that? I will give you what you desire. I will give you what your heart really longs for. Why would you go elsewhere? That's the reason. Oh, the misery we spare ourselves when we really believe, that kind of thing, when we really take God at His Word there, and the misery we extend when we will not bend our knee to God. When we will not assume he knows what we need and run to him for it, instead of choosing all of our alternative methods Isaiah 26, 9, with my soul I have desired you in the night. Yes, by my spirit within me I will seek you early. We see that Isaiah had the same mentality as David. They longed for God. They saw their need of God. They felt their need of God. They experienced it. And this need was continually refreshed. And the satisfaction of the need was continually expressed. I mentioned earlier that this is a continual thing We don't hunger and thirst once. You know, that would be kind of convenient. Eat one time and you're good for the rest of your life. It keeps happening. Think of it like this. I don't know what your favorite meal is, but think about that. The last time you ate that meal, did you eat that meal until you were sufficiently cold? I know I just had a real nice meal yesterday. I ate until I was sufficiently full. Now, did that make you want that meal never again? Because you were satisfied? After all, you were filled with it. The truth is, your pleasant experience of having that meal makes you want to have it over and over and over again. Isn't that how we are? That's how it is as we hunger for God, as we seek to be holy, as we seek to know Christ and be like Him, as we seek to conquer sin in our lives. We keep going back and back and back and back because it's so good. It's so good and it's so satisfying What Christ is describing in our text is a well ill is well illustrated in the Prodigal of the Son story The prodigal son story. And we we refer to it often, but it's still good. Luke 15, 15 says, Then he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country. And he sent him into the fields to feed swine. And he would have gladly have filled his stomach with the pods that the swine ate, and no one gave him anything. Here we see hunger. This son, as a result of the decisions that he had made, is hungry, very hungry. Hunger has driven him to desperation. Hunger drives him to move. And verse 17, but when he came to himself , I love that phrase. Probably, I mean probably do too. He came to himself. When he dealt realistically with the truth of himself and his circumstances and where he was at, when he evaluated his life and he saw it as it really was , This reminds me of blessed are the poor in spirit. This son was finally poor in spirit. He had a hunger and he knew that he couldn't fill it. And he said, How many of my father's hired servants have bread enough to spare, and I'm perishing with hunger? I will arise and go to my father, and I'll say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of these hired servants. This is a picture of what those who hunger and thirst for righteousness look like and what they do. They feel their desperate need of resources from God that they do not have themselves, and they run to God to get them. They no longer think another method will meet the deep need of their heart. There is no happy path anywhere else. They've already explored their happy path, and that has not worked out real well. The ideas of alternate happy paths have been exhausted, so the son runs to the father To be fed, to be satisfied. And he runs to the Father in whatever terms that Father wants to accept. Because he has got to have his father. And it does not matter what it costs him. It doesn't matter, his pride is already shot. He's coming to him in absolute humility. Hunger and thirst for righteousness is the only ambition that ultimately leads to ultimate and eternal happiness. Hunger and thirst for righteousness is the only ambition that leads to ultimate and eternal happiness. And there's a lot of ways of saying this hunger and thirst for righteousness. It's hunger and thirst for Christ Himself. It's hunger and thirst for this relationship, unfettered by sin, a fellowship that is unbroken. The way to happiness is through spiritual hunger and thirst. Hunger and thirst for happiness will never produce that effect. Hunger and thirst for righteousness will. Verse 6: Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Okay, so what's the result of those who hunger and thirst for righteousness? The ESV version says they shall be satisfied. They shall be satisfied. I like that one better. I believe it was John MacArthur who said this. The Greek word for filled was frequently used of the feeding of animals until they wanted nothing more. They were allowed to eat until they were completely satisfied. Jesus, and this is still his quote, Jesus' divine pronouncement is that those who hunger and thirst for righteousness Will be given total satisfaction. The giving of satisfaction is God's work, as the future passive tense indicates. They shall be satisfied Our part is to seek. His part is to satisfy. When we hunger and thirst for righteousness, when what we want most is to be like Jesus, To be the person that we were created to be, to be rid of ourselves of the sinful vestiges and live in a way that pleases Christ. The promise is that we shall be satisfied. And that promise is not just a future promise for eternity. It is for eternity, but this is a promise That is for now as well. We always have about as much of Christ as what we really want. We always have about as much of Christ as what we really want. Because when we hunger and thirst for Christ, We get filled with that which we desire. It's a promise. There's no wiggling around. That is a promise. But again, we need to make sure we're not hungering and thirsting for blessedness. Hungering and thirsting for happiness. Our text is talking about where happiness comes from, and it is from a deep and growing relationship with Christ. And now, just so we don't think that this is the only place where this satisfaction of the hand of God is promised, let's look at a few more verses before we close this. Psalms 107, 8, and 9 says, Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men, for he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills. With good things. That's a promise. Psalms 34:10. The young lions lack and suffer hunger. Some of them strike out sometimes. But those who seek the Lord shall not lack any good thing. Psalm 23, 1, and then 5. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not walk. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over. John 4, 14, whoever drinks this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life. We see this satisfaction that God promises. There's no maybe in these senses. If we hunger for righteousness, if what we want is Christ, we will have him Now how do we make this happen? What is it that we must do? What steps can we take to become this kind of person? I think the first step is to call out to God and confess how far we are from being this kind of person. To tell the truth about our lives. We should confess our unrighteousness. We do well just to be brutally honest with God. There's no sense in not being brutally honest with God. I want to hunger and thirst for you and your righteousness. I want to be rid of sin, but I want other things too. And Lord, you see it. You see my heart. You know what I'm made of. You know what goes on in me. Please forgive me. And please help me. I want to hunger and thirst for you and your righteousness more than anything else in my life. I want that. And at the same time, I know I want other things. Please change me. Please make me more like you. Do anything, Lord, anything in my life, but do not allow me to live a life that dishonors you Break me, remake me, do what you have to, but I want to hunger for you. See that God won't answer that prayer. Do we have the courage to pray it? It's really a question. And then we're given a commandment by Jesus. Matthew 6, 31 through 33. And remember, this is still in the Sermon on the Mount, it's just a little bit later. He says, Therefore do not worry saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all those things, But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Seek his righteousness And all these other things shall be added to you. Look at this. Isn't food and drink and clothing things that we think will make us happy? I mean, isn't that often what the world runs to for happiness? Isn't it the world's stuff that we so often seek? And Jesus is saying, choose differently This hunger needs to happen to us. But part of the process is that we need to determine to choose the kingdom style. And the righteousness over the things, and choose righteousness over the things that tempt us to pursue them toward happiness itself. See what I mean? Food, clothing, and shelter. We think by pursuing those and obtaining them, we will bring for ourselves happiness. And we can put anything in that list. And Jesus says, you got it wrong. That you're you're you're focused on the wrong thing. Don't pursue that stuff. Pursue first the kingdom of God, and the other stuff will take care of itself. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. That's a command. And that's not something Jesus says will just happen to us as we go through the day. Like I'll wake up and I'll feel like, you know, uh uh Seeking first God's kingdom. It will just happen to me by osmosis. You know, I'll wake up and it will, you know, I can just be me in the flesh and that will happen. That is something we choose with our wills to pursue. And if again, if we don't choose to do it, it won't happen to us. We can't make ourselves hungry for the right food, but we can focus our attentions upon it. And as we do, God will do the rest. We can focus on doing what He says. and laying our hearts bare to him, and he will create that hunger and thirst in us. And what is the result? He gives us all the secondary stuff we're tempted to pursue. He gives us all that temper that secondary stuff that we think would ultimately make us happy and it never would. We seek his kingdom, we get what we need. We hunger and thirst for righteousness, and we get happiness. Ultimately, we receive happiness by pursuing holiness. I have said in the past, and I regret it now, that God is more concerned about our holiness than our happiness. I was wrong. God is concerned about our holiness because it is the only means to his happiness. our happiness in him. What is it that we are practicing, practically pursuing? What is it that we actually pursue? Daily in our lives. We do well to pray to God and ask Him to reveal that to us as we examine our lives this week. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much. We thank you