Last week we talked about how verse 1 is really the introduction to the whole chapter from chapter 6. The source document for the ESV translation uses a different Greek word for charitable deeds that really means any act of righteousness, an act that we do that we claim is done only for God. So we covered verse 1 and gave an overview of the chapter. Remember that the chapter could be titled, Living in Relationship to Christ. Now, just like last text, Jesus breaks down his talk into examples. He is so intensely practical. The Son of God, God in the flesh, God incarnate, talks to us about day-to-day Life decisions. He talks about, he talks to us where we live. He talks to us in terms that we can understand. Isn't that absolutely wonderful? That our Savior has communicated to us so clearly and so practically. Verses 2 through 4, the first example is about giving. And that giving is our religious act toward others. Verse 5 through 15 is about praying, which is our religious act toward God. And then verses 16 through 18 is about fasting, which is our religious act in relation to ourselves. So let's dig into verse 2 Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory from men. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. Okay, so what is the problem here that Jesus nails right on the head? What is it that is so wrong? What is the attitude that is singled out and defined and condemned here? Notice that it isn't that one does charitable deeds. The deed itself is not the problem. The lesson is certainly not, well, never do a charitable deed. In fact, look at it closely. It says, therefore, when you do a charitable deed. What does that tell us? Charitable deeds are assumed. They're part of the believer's life. There are no believers that do not do charitable deeds Or put it positively, all believers do charitable else. If we're to be perfect, as the Father in heaven is perfect, as we go about learning to reflect God's character traits, How could we not do loving things to meet the needs of those around us? He does that all day long. It would be impossible to be a truly regenerate person and not be loving, not be charitable. After all, Ephesians 2 tells us that we were saved in order to do good works of charity. And those works were prepared for us before the beginning of time. Christians simply do charitable deeds. If you are truly a follower of Christ, you will find that you do charitable deeds because you love God and you want to please the Father by being like Him. Also, they know that this is a way to store up treasures in heaven to do charitable deeds. They have many good reasons to do charitable deeds. We have many good reasons for this. So what's the problem he's pointing out? These people are intending to do charitable deeds, and charitable deeds are good, so what could be wrong with that? The Pharisees do great acts of charity, evidently. What could be wrong with that? The sneaky heart. The sneaky heart. That's the problem that Jesus warns about. And what is this deadly attitude that will rob us of all reward for any charitable action, no matter how charitable the action is? It's hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. As always, we need to define our terms. It's very helpful for us to have definitions for all the major terms that we use in Scripture. It helps us think precisely. Instead of having a vague idea about something, we know exactly what we think about it. We become more accurate about what scripture really means when we know what the basic major terms mean. Hypocrisy is basically playak. Hypocrisy is pretending to be something that we are not. In Jesus' day, it was based on actual Greek theater. A hypocrite was a play actor who wore a mask that they would put in front of their face. They would just hold it there. And that mask portrayed the facial expressions that defined the character that one was playing. So, but behind that mask could be any true facial expression that was nothing like the mask portrait So the mask they held up might might portray joy, but the actor could be sad or angry or bored. And the difference was hidden by the hassle. Can you see why I stressed what I stressed last week? The heart is the issue. Congruence is the issue. Having what I do be represented by what I am, and what I am be represented by what I do. Congruence. So hypocrisy essentially pretends to be something that we are not. And this can be done intentionally or ignorantly. A person who's clueless about who they are inside may have no idea that they're even pretending. The less self-examined we are, the more likely we are to believe and defend our own hypocrisy. But we need make no mistake here. The heart is the issue. The same exact eternal or the same exact act Can be rewarded for eternity or can receive no reward at all. The same act can be rewarded for eternity or receive no reward from God at all. The usefulness or the size or the external of this external charitable act is not that Which determines the reward. How good the act is is not what determines the reward. How great it was, how grand it was, how effective it was. None of those things are the qualifications. The heart attitude is the single factor that determines the reward for the action that we do that meets another's need. The heart attitude, hypocrisy. The hypocrisy Jesus is dealing with is the hypocrisy based on a concern for a man's reaction. Being greater than the concern for God's reaction for this thing that we do. But it pretends just the opposite. We could easily display lots of scriptures about why doing things because other people are watching is dangerous. The fear of man is a snare, we're told scripture. Caring that others think highly of us and like us and accept us is always a danger we walk with. Living to accomplish those things is the wrong focus. I mean, in the course of events, that's a nice thing. But living for them is the danger. Living in fear that we will lose the rewards others can give us is a huge problem Think of all the things that you have done in your life to win another person's approval that you now deeply regret Think of the mistakes that curr that concern for other others' opinions of you has led you into. There are so many embarrassing and disgraceful things that we have done in that realm, at least for me. Our world calls it peer crush. I've almost gotten it found that An interesting concept. They call it peer pressure. As if there is something out there that causes our good things, our good kids to do things. But really, it is the self-serving desire in us to live for another person's approval or to live in fear of facing that other person's rejection. That causes us to do those things. The real problem is the human heart. And it's caused by worshiping the wrong thing. It focuses one's mind on human opinion and allows those opinions to direct one's path. Some lived in a hypocrisy, pretending to do something for God, but really doing it because of fear of others. Fear of their rejection, fear of their response. Well, when that's the case, when that is what our hypocrisy is based on, Jesus has something to say about it. In Luke 12, 4 through 7, he says. And I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that . . have no more that they can do. But I'll show you whom you should fear Fear him who after he has killed has power to cast into hell. Yeah, I say to you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two copper coins, and not one of them sold for two forgotten before your God, but the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. And then in Luke 12, 8, 9, he says, Also I say, whoever confesses me before men, him the Son of Man will also confess before the angels of God. But he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels. Here Jesus gives us the remedy to the hypocrisy that is caused by fear of man. Fear better. Fear better. Make your choice, your fear choices, more logical. Make your fear choices based more on facts. Only choose smart fear, you say. Fear God. Then you have nothing left to fear. Fear's smart. But this kind of fear is not the only source of hypocrisy. So if if this happens to be something that you're tempted to, to pretend to be one thing but really be another based on fear of other people. Fierce martyr. But that's not the only source. The Pharisees were focused on the approval of others. But theirs may not have been as much a fear of man as selfish pride. They wanted to be worshipped. Granted, they would have never said that. They would never use those words, but that's what they were after. They wanted everyone to think as well of them as they thought of themselves. So they pretended a greater spirituality than what they really had. They did things to win man's worship that they would have never done for the love of God. But do you see how it is still all man-oriented? It's man-focused. It's man-motivated. That's the kind of hypocrisy that Jesus is addressing. One that pretends to be spiritual in front of man To win the approval of man, to re get it, to get the reaction there after by man. But if the audience didn't exist, the act would not get done. The act would not be done. Which leads us to the truth we have often stated. We are most truly what we are when no one's looking. We are most truly what we are when no one's looking. In Isaiah, we're given an example, we're given an explanation of religious hypocrisy. And Jesus refers to it as hypocrisy in Mark 7 when he quotes it. In Isaiah 29, 13, it says, Therefore the Lord said, Inasmuch as these people draw near with their mouths and honor me with their lips , But have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the commandment of men. Here's the essence of the problem of the Pharisees' hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is caused by a disconnect with the actions and the heart. A disconnect of the actions And the heart. The people say the right things. They draw near to God. They hang out in the spiritual circles. They say the spiritually right thing. They do the spiritually expected things. They're careful not to break the codes. They wear the Christian t-shirts and listen to the Christian music. But there's no congruence. There's no congruence. There is no real driving fear of God. The real fear of God and its resulting actions is replaced with the cold formalism of obeying the codes of man. And it results in an outward display of spirituality without the Holy Spirit driving. The outward display replaces the inward vitality of living in relationship to God. Which is what this passage is about. And that living in relationship to God is what God is calling us back to in this chapter. So, hypocrisy is spiritual pretending. Hypocrisy is acting better than we are. Hypocrisy is saying we are doing something because we love God, but there really is a different underwriting bees. How do we know if we're being hypocritical? How would you do the charitable work you are doing if no one would ever find out about it? Would you do the charitable deed that you are doing if no one ever found out about it? When you do the charitable work, are you pleased in the doing of it because you know that God is pleased in the doing of it? And that 's your driving factor. Does that thought carry the day no matter what others might think about it or say about it or not say about it? When you do the charitable work, do you try to do it in a way that if at all possible you can keep it silent? Or do you do it in a way to subtly let people know, oh yeah, I did that? As I was putting this together, as I've been studying this whole passage, I am trying to I'm struggling to bring out our own hypocrisy, my own hypocrisy, to bring it out in the open, to have a clear way of seeing what it is, because it's not just the Pharisees who have the problem. We all do. We all struggle with this in our motives. Have you ever noticed that hypocrisy is always someone else's sin? You know, when's the last time you said, man, I'm I'm being really hypocritical here? That's just not a word we tend to use to define what we do. It's hard for us to see that in ourselves. We tend to assume that we have good motives for what we do. We believe our own theories about ourselves. We just do. I think the clearest test to see it in ourselves is not so much to look at our motives. Although we have to look at our motives. I'm not trying to say stop doing that. But it's easy to deceive ourselves. The best test is to look at our actions and reactions. Our actions and reactions. What clues would the Pharisees have had That what they were doing was hypocritical. So put yourself in their spot. You're a Pharisee, you're doing this thing, and you want to seriously know, am I being hypocritical? Well, trumpets might be the first clue. Blowing a trumpet when you're given money, that's a pretty good clue that maybe you don't want to keep that side up Making sure there's a crowd around when you put your money in the plate. That would be a second clue. You know, if the crowd's not there, where when are you going to put the money in? And if they had just looked at that, they could have easily known there was no congruence in their lives. They were not doing these things for God, no matter how spiritual it looked. The clues were right there. Clues like that will be in our lives as well when we are being hypocritical. We'll see them if we have the courage to look for them. If we will prayerfully ask God, show me my motives. I want to do whatever I say I am doing for you, for you alone. I want the reward. I want it to be for you. I want it to glorify you. And I know me. And I know I'm twisted. I know I want stuff for myself as well. And I like people liking me. And I like people thinking that I'm something special. Help me We have to assume that our hearts are sneaky and start there. When you're talking to someone, watch what comes out of your mouth. Watch especially for exaggeration. Watch for explanation of motive that is all in our favor. Watch for presentation of holiness to impress others. What all of that is, is incongruence. It's allowing what we want others to think of us to be more impressive than what we really are. I don't know anyone who has ever lived their life without doing some of this. It's those places where the truth about ourselves isn't quite good enough And we speak in a way to make our goodness look better than it is, and our badness cannot be as bad as it is. And that's all hypocrisy. No trumpets are needed. Where do you fail to represent yourself as you truly are in an attempt to win the approval or avoid the disapproval of man? Now in the world we sometimes have a legitimate reason to hide things. We certainly do not want to be perfectly transparent all the time in the world. Like you imagine that would let Keep me employed for about 30 seconds. You don't owe all the truth all the time. But that is not what we're talking about. We're talking about incongruence that's caused by fleshly desire. And I think it's safe to say that there are topics for all of us where we are tempted to be hypocritical. And there are settings for all of us that we are tempted to be hypocritical. There are conversations where who we really are will not come out, and the reasons tend to be self-serving. And again, I am not saying we need to be completely open and honest with everybody that we talk to, even in the church. You know, we don't have to be transparent. We don't have to let everything that we feel out. I'm not saying that. But as we are being genuinely truthful, we need to be genuinely truthful. Augustine said this, the love of honor, and this is a pretty deep quote, the love of honor is the deadly bane. Of true piety. The love of honor is the deadly bane of true piety. Other vices bring forth evil works, but this brings forth good works in an evil way. Hypocrisy is so dangerous because it is so deceptive. It uses things that are basically good for purposes that are basically evil. And this is the one hypocrisy, he goes on to say, is the homage, the homage that vice pays to virtue. Hypocrisy is the homage that vice pays to virtue. I like this. Hypocrisy brings forth good works in an evil way. That's a good way of describing hypocrisy. You know the thing that is so amazing about all this is how little reason any of us has, if we're in Christ, to be hypocritical. What approval does a human being need most in life? What approval does a human being need most in life? And the answer is easy. If I asked the question properly, Eli and Wanett would get it right. Don't be scared, I'm gonna guess. And maybe even Katrina and Cork. We need God's approval. We need God's approval. We need Him to accept us into relationship with Him. And whose approval is impossible to earn? God 's approval. Our sin has separated us from God, and we can't undo that. We can't fix that. That is not in our power to fix. Yet who loved us to the degree that he crossed that deep gap that we could not cross by spending a price that we could never deserve Obviously, it is God who did that. Romans 5, 8 through 11. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having been now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son , Much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only that, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we now have received the reconciliation. We have been reconciled to God by the work of Jesus Christ. If we're followers of Christ, we are in relationship with God. He whose approval is impossible to earn has been granted to us. Now, how much do the opinions of other human beings play into God's acceptance of us? None. None. Do we need other people's human other humans' approval to be approved by God? No. Not at all. 2 Corinthians 1, 21-22 says, Now he who establishes Establishes us with you in Christ and has anointed us in God, who has also sealed us and given us the Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. It is God who does all that. Okay, so you and I as believers have the approval of Almighty God. We are in right relationship with Him, being in Christ. And there's no human opinion that will affect that relationship in any way. So we do not need that human approval to maintain that which is most important to us. Now, what logical reason would cause us to be incongruent? What reasons do we have to pretend to be anything that we are not? What reason do we have to pretend that our virtues are greater than they are, or our failures are less than they are? There are not any logical reasons. We're only left with fleshly reasons. We want what we want from other humans, and sometimes we feel like we must deceive them together. But my point is, you and I are free to be exactly who we are in Christ. No one in this world is as free as you and I are to be exactly what we are in Christ. Might some people in the church do wrong things with that congruence that we display as we live out our realness in front of each other? Well, of course that will happen. We're sinners with sinners, just like we might do the same with somebody else's vulnerabilities and confess weaknesses. But the point is that we are loved by God exactly as we are It's even better than Mr. Rogers liking us just the way we are. God knows what we are, and He still loves us. He removes all of our reasons for hiding. He removes all the reasons for creating unrealistic expectations and impressions. He removes all the reasons For pretending. And he creates a platform where believers can fellowship at the deepest level this world has to offer. We can walk in the light. We can walk in truth and honesty. Can we be hurting the church by doing that? Of course we can. That's going to happen. But that's no reason not to do it. And we may have to make adjustments in love to not play into other people's weaknesses. We know what that's like. But at the end of the day, we can live like people who are loved and accepted just as we are, because we are loved by the one who knows us completely. Any harm that we experience at the hands of our brothers and sisters is forgivable. Now we must continue to watch for hypocrisy inside the church. The elders especially have a job here, and they have to watch out for the hypocrisy of wolves. 1 Timothy 4, 1 through 3 says, Now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. Speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their own conscience steered with a hot iron, forbidding to marry and commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth Okay, some will be led aside from the truth. Unfortunately, what they declare will give them away. It gives us a clue, a very good clue. They'll preach heresies They'll freak its lies, and behind all of that is hypocrisy. They will pretend to be one of us They'll pretend to be one of us. They'll pretend to be saved through grace by faith, but they're pretending. That's not really where their hearts are. That's not where they stand. So we're told that hypocrisy has always been a problem and it will always be a problem until Christ comes back. But this kind of hypocrisy, in the last text we read, is the hypocrisy of unbelievers, not believers. Okay, let's see if we can finish up on our text. Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, don't sound the trumpet. Before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and streets, they may have glory from God. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. But when you do a charitable deed, don't let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, that your charitable deed may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will himself reward openly Verse 3 tells us to keep what we're doing a secret. Now, why would that be? Why would that be? I think it's for the self-assurance of knowing what our motives really are. You can't be real tricky when you do a charitable deed in secret. Would God care that other people knew what he did? Is that going to mess things up for him? Would it hurt his cause? No, that wouldn't affect him at all. We're the people with the questionable motives. We're the people with the speaking hearts. So we're the people who need protection against ourselves. We're the people who have trouble figuring out why we did something. Some of us may tend to ascribe better motives for what we do, some of us may tend to ascribe worse motives for what we do. But if no one knows the deed we did. We can be pretty confident that we did the right thing for the right reason. And that's the point. There is little selfish motive for keeping what we do secret. There's little selfish evil motive for good things done secretly. So secrecy is for our benefit. It's for our assurance. It isn't that secrecy impresses God. Secrecy is for our benefit to assure that what we are doing, we are doing for the right reasons, that we're doing ultimately only to God. Now, does this mean there will never be a reason to tell someone about a charitable deed? And these are the kind of things that people go to the Sermon on the Mount and they come out with these ideas. Because they take this and they expand it to every situation you could possibly be in. And that is clearly not the case. For instance, if our check does not clear that we contributed to a ministry. Should we not call the ministry and ask them if the check clear? Or should a husband not tell his wife that he withdrew money from the account to take care of a need if she takes care of the checkbook? I mean it sounds absurd, but if you take it to its its extreme, you might end up there. And again, like the rest of the Sermon on the Mount, I don't believe that Jesus is laying out some kind of new laws. What he's telling us in these three chapters is not direct what we do in every single situation. No, he is teaching us how to live in general terms. He's telling us how we should think and act unless there are other factors in play that would be reasonable and not hypocritical to take another path. But all the time we need to watch. Because, well, our arts are tricky. Now, remember that Matthew 5. 16 told us, let our light so shine among them that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Okay, we're supposed to live in a way that people see our good works. But how can they see our good works if we keep a secret? It looks like uh uh um a contradiction. But it's obviously, I think most of us are already way ahead of this. It's an easy apparent contradiction to undo. Both have to do with flesh. There are good works that we do in public where the doing of them costs us Like people who confess to being a Christian in a Muslim nation. You know, they're doing a good work in public. There's no fleshly motives. And the world is going to see it. They're going to see that light. They might not even desire to do such a thing fleshly, but they know that Christ is worthy of it, so they do it anyway. And that's our light so shining among men. That's a good thing. Then we have other things where we may desire these things to be seen for fleshly reasons. But to make sure our motives are pure, we deny ourselves of any of that fleshly incentive for doing that right thing. B. Bruce said this, and I think it's helpful. We are to show when tempted to hide, and hide when tempted to show. We're to show our good works when we're tempted to hide them. And we're to hide our good works when we're tempted to show them. Now, why should we do charitable works at all? Why should we give the money that we work so hard for to somebody else? Why should we love others with our resources? And I think the last verse in the last chapter explains it pretty well. 548. Therefore you shall be perfect Just as your Father in heaven is perfect. You and I are called to reflect the character of God in our lives. We're to be loving because He is loving But look what our text says. It doesn't leave us without incentives. It tells us, oh, yeah, we need to glorify God. Our lives need to be living in a glorifying state toward God. That's a challenge. But we can't allow and we can't allow the opinions of others to play a part in our incentives. They're the wrong incentives. They have to do with what a human provide a human can provide for himself. And there's nothing about faith in those decisions. We're just doing what the tax collectors would do, what the Pharisees would do. No, here is our incentive. Your father who sees in secret will himself reward you over. Your father who sees in secret will himself reward you publicly one day. The motive, this kind of motive requires faith. This motive says, I trust God and God alone to make this action worthwhile. No human factor involved and who's looking or any of that. I trust God and God alone to make this action worthwhile. I have no other reason for doing it. And a good test of whether something is faithful or not is determined that if there was no God, would the action that you just did be a complete waste of your personal happiness? If there is no God and you gave money away in secret, which no one else knows about or could attribute it to you, would it be a complete waste You've squandered resources that could have been used for your own personal pleasure on your trip here on earth. But if there is a Heavenly Father, you will receive a reward that lasts forever. You can know that giving charitable gifts, given in such a way, is by faith. Because why else would you do it? If you give it away in secret to meet another's need Why else would you do it? , And that's reinforced by this passage in Revelation 4, 10, 11. It says the 24 elders Fall down before him who sits on the throne and worships, and worship him who lives forever and ever, and cast their crowns. Before the throne. They cast their crowns. You are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they exist and were created. We ultimately do these charitable gifts because they will be rewarded. And that reward, part of it, will be given to us so that we can give even greater glory to God who deserves all the glory. We are given crowns. And what do we do with them? We cast them at Jesus' feet. We use that glory that we have been given to even further glorify Him. This week we have another week to look at our service to Christ. Let's look at any of the charitable gifts we believe we are given. And I know this church. I know there's lots of charitable gifts that are being given. Did we give them in secret as much as we could? Now we can't always. Now I don't think Jesus is saying, well never do it if you can't keep it secret. But did we keep them in secret as much as we could? Could we have kept them in secret but chose not to? And why? Would we have still done them if others disapproved of them or did not appreciate them? I pray that we find hypocrisy where it exists and we find faith where it exists And then we see the clear difference in our lives. Where we find hypocrisy, we need to repent. Where we find faith, we need to praise God because we didn't put it there. He did. Let's close in the prayer. Lord, we come to you and we thank you that you love this this tricky people