As I study to uh move ahead in our text I kept even pulled back to last week's text, and I mentioned that last week, since I knew it in advance. I could not escape the sentence and you have said in your heart, I am and there is no one else besides. And we've talked a lot about that, and it's no wonder. I've come to think of this as the Flesh's Manifesto. The Flesh's Manifesto. That would be the title for this sermon The flesh's manifesto, I am, and there is no one else besides me. Last week we made application for ourselves based on arrogant assumptions contained right in the phrase itself, not by the context, but by the phrase itself. As I continue to work on this, this outline, this is the outline of form I am and there is no one besides me is a statement of one who one's God is. Who one's God is. Two, one's autonomy. One's defined. Three. One's innate goodness. One's innate goodness. Four One's superior wisdom. One's superior wisdom. Find one's superior power. One's superior power, and sixth, one's superior importance. One's superior importance. Last week we covered Lady Babylon's point two and point three, Lady Babylon's eponyme, and Lady Babylon's innate goodness. We focus on the idea of being self-sufficient, of being economy, of falsely assuming good things of ourselves. Like when we expect and assume that when we do something, well it must be right, because I did it. Like anything we may have done must have been done with pure motive since after all we did them. We make a point that it isn't just the world that thinks this way. We as Christians often fall into the same mentality. We just put it all in spiritual terms. Flesh tends toward assuming autonomy and regards itself with innate goodness. You can see that in yourself if you tell the history about yourself and are honest That stuff comes up. And those pre two precinct preconceived assumptions are very dangerous. They'll keep us from seeing the truth about why we do what we do or why we did what we did. Now let's look at the rest of the things. Look at the words I am. I am. I am is a statement in scripture often of who God is. Flesh always wants to replace the I am, the Almighty I am, with the human I am. We want our identity to replace the position of God's identity. It's the difference between true worship and idolatry. When God says, I am that I am. When he said, I am, and there's none besides me, that's truth. That is security. That is safety. That is an anchor for our hearts that we sure do need. But we feel inclined to replace that I am. When Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. We want to replace that with we want to say I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no, we're not going to write it down or teach it in Sunday school. We'll just impulsively do it. When God reveals the truth about his position of creator, when he commands us to do something or commands us not to do something, we're going to pick an expert. We always do. We always pick an expert. We're going to pick an I am at this at this case. And we will either respond by picking the great and true I am And submit to the Lordship of Christ, or we will pick the tried and false I am of our own wisdom and intuition and passion. So who is the expert regarding all of light? Well, I am, of course. But which I am? There is an I am that will give you life, and there is an I am that will take it away. There's an I am leading to eternal reward, and there is an I am leading toward eternal punishment. We need to pick the right I am. And it isn't. It isn't the one in here. Look at this. Verse uh in Luke 18, verses 9 through 14. Or actually, yeah, 314. Also he spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax player. The Pharisees stood and prayed thus with himself. It's interesting he prayed thus with himself. You would think you want to pray to God, but that doesn't fear to be what he did. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as his tax book. I fast twice a week, I give tithes of all that I possess. It's interesting to start. So I thank you that I am. Let's stop here. What does that sound like to you? The Pharisee could just as easily pray, I am, and there is no one besides me. That's the essence of his prayer. Really? Isn't that what he's saying? Aye. Let's go on. And the fact collector, standing afar off, would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humble than he who humbles himself. will be exalted. The first man here focused on the wrong I am. He believes our fleshly manifesto. He said, I am, and there is none like me. I am superior. I am innately good. I am, I am, I am. The second man saw that I am not. I am not good. I am not worthy. I am not special. All I am is a sin. And this drove him to call on the true I am, the correct I am. Repentance is the process of switching IAMs. Repentance is the process of switching IAMs. Repentance is the road from pride to humility. Confession is the tool of repentance. And we do well to work that tool hard. It takes a lot of work to get from where we are to where we need to be. Look at verse 14. Everyone who exalts his internal I am is going to fall hard. But whoever humbles himself and picks the true I am, he will be exalted. So choosing the right I am is the first point. The second and the third points we covered last week. The fourth point is I am and there is none besides me is a statement of superior wisdom. Notice the prior verses in our Isaiah test. Because of the multitude of your sorceries, for the great abundance of your enchantments, for you have trusted in your wickedness, you have said, No one sees me, your wisdom and your knowledge have worked you. These sorceries were not wickedness for the sake of wickedness. They weren't saying, well, what's the most wicked thing we can do? Let's go out and do it. That's never how we choose our wickedness. At least it's very unusual. They were wickednesses that seemed to provide a benefit. And those are our favorite wickednesses. The Babylonians relied upon their sorceries to keep them safe. That was a useful thing. They relied upon them for inside information. They believed that the sorceries provided them wisdom and knowledge. And while they certainly provided some information, the whole process just warped the people Their thinking got skewed. They could no longer think straight. They thought they had superior wisdom. They thought they exceeded all those around them in wisdom, but living in their cities were a caption of people with the truly superior wisdom. Because they had revelation from the true and one I am God. They knew the real I am, sitting in the midst of their environment in what appeared to be an absolutely powerless. people and overcome people. You and I should be very careful when we give credit to ourselves for positive situations that we find ourselves in, like the the Babylonians were doing here. It's so much like us to want to give credit to ourselves for our superior moral stance, for our spiritual discipline, for our human wisdom. We think things like, my kids are Christians because I was such a good parent, or I'm in a good marriage because I simply would not have chosen someone inferior to marry. We might say those kinds of things or believe that kind of thing, but in reality, it is up to God as to what circumstances we finally find ourselves in. We have proven with our lives that we would do any number of foolish and stupid things. If our histories don't prove anything else, they prove that We would do well to be extremely careful about giving advice to believers based solely upon our experiences. If we can't quote scriptural principles, it's just as likely that we arrived in a good spot in spite of how we live. as because of it. It's a good idea to always preface human advice by saying this is human advice. It may be good advice, it may be bad advice, I'm not really sure, but this is what I've found to be true. And likewise we do well to quote God in such a way that no one ever gets the opinion that it may or it may not be true. This is true. If we quote God, we quote with certainty and we ought to present it as such And we need to be very clear the difference. Fifth, I am and there is none besides me is a statement of superior power. Maybe you've noticed that these arrogant claims are actually characteristic of God. Superior power. Look in our text. It says, No one sees me. I will not be a widow or lose children. I shall be a lady forever. Have you even have you ever boasted about yourself saying I would never do such and such a thing? Or I will always do such and such a thing? And in a short period of time you find yourself doing the thing that your pride said that you would never do. Pride comes before it, Paul. It always does. Our friend Peter was our wonderful example. Yeah. It's so good, Peter was saying, because yeah, it makes us all feel better. Lord, it it doesn't it doesn't matter that all of these whimps would fail you, he was saying. He's looking around and saying, uh I'm better I'm clearly better than all of my confederators here. It doesn't matter that these guys would fail you. If I'm superior to them, I will never, ever, ever fail you, Jesus. I would never deny you. And then what happened? Of course, he's denied three times. It's not just the lady Babylon who makes such claims, who leaves such claims. We strangely take credit by default for good situations we find ourselves in. Like we put ourselves there by our own strength or by our wonderful traits. And if we put ourselves there, we assume, well, I put myself here, I leave myself here. Makes sense. Because after all, we're superior. Have you ever noticed how this comes out of you when you squeeze? You think about other people, and immediately you're trying to figure out how unvetter they are. In some small fashion, we always find a way to be superior. It's it's idiot, but it's it's in us. Pride always wants to prove superiority so that we can justify ourselves. We want to show the difference between me and someone else We want to look down on others as if there is something about us that makes us more special than they. I think of Caleb and Tom's taunts when they were little kids as to which what each of them could do better than the other. But what is truth? What is the truth? Luke 12, 16 through 21 says this. Then he spoke a parable of them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man yield plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, what shall I do since I have no room to store my crops? So he said, I'll do this. I'll pull down my barns and build greater, and there I will store all my crops and my goods. And I'll say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, Who, this night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things be which you have provided? So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich to work God. Here is the power we all have for all of our futures. None. It's all in God's hands. We have no power that God does not give us. Lady Babylon had none of the power that she assumed she had. She was widowed and one of the she was not going to be a lady forever as she saw herself. Nor was it true when she said no one could see. There was a watcher. All of the time by laying bowling. Remember the story in Daniel? Now this is not the story of Cyrus taking power, but it's similar. In Daniel chapter 5. Verse 2. While he tasted the wine, Belshazzar gave the command to bring the gold and silver vessels, which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple. Which had been in Jerusalem, that the king and his lords, his wives and his concubines might drink from them. So he wanted to used them for his purposes. He wanted to profane the the holy. Verse three, then they brought the gold vessels that have been taken from the temple of the house of God, which had been in Jerusalem, and the kings and his lords The king and his lords, his wives, and his contrabands drank from them. They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze and iron, wood and stone That was his day. In the same hour, the fingers of a man's hand appeared and wrote opposite the lampstand on the plaster of the wall in the king's palace. and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote. I love this this verse. Then the king's countenance changed, and his thoughts troubled him, so that the joints of his hips were loosened and his knees knocked against each other. You gotta love that description. Here's the most powerful man in the world, and look what he's reduced to when God lifts a finger. Here's a powerful Lady Babylon with all of her confidence, all of her glory, all of her wisdom. The Belchias are Then Belshazzar brought Daniel in on this and what God had to say about all of his self-confidence. Belshazzar was probably taking credit in his head up to this point of being in charge of this mighty dynasty Like I am so special. I run this wonderful country. I am cool. But that was not the truth. Verse 18 Daniel's talking now. He says, oh King, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father a kingdom. God gave this kingdom to your father. Not you, not him. Not events as they unfolded. God gave your father a kingdom. And that 's speech, glory, and honor. And because of the majesty that he gave him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him Whomever he wished, he executed, whomever he wished, he kept alive, whomever he wished he set up, and whomever he wished he put down. But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened in pride, he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory from him. Then he was driven from the sons of men, his heart was made like the beast, and his dwelling was with the wild monkey. They fed him with grass like oxen and his body was wet with the dew of heaven until he knew that the Most High God rules in the kingdom of men. That was the point that was being waited for. The Most My God rules in the kingdom of man and appoints over it whomever he chooses. Credit where credit is due is what God was waiting for. That is power. God is the powerful one, not Nebuchadnezzar, not Lady Babylon, not but God Almighty. Nebuchadnezzar had to learn that lesson. And he got a second change. Verse 22, but you his son Belshazzar have not humbled your heart, although you knew all this. You knew this happened. You knew what God was capable of. And you have lifted yourself up against the Lord of heaven. You have brought the vessels of his house before you, and you and your lords, your wives and your concubines, have drunk wine from them And you have praised the gods of silver and gold and bronze and iron and wood and stone which you do not see or hear or know. And the God who holds your breath in his hand And owns all your ways you have not glorified. Like anybody but him. Anybody but the true God. Then the fingers of the hand were sent from him, and the writing was written. And this is the inscription that was written. Mani, Mani, Seckle, Aparsa. This is the interpretation of each word. Mani, God has numbered your kingdom and finished it. Seckel, you have been weighed in the balances and been found wanting. Whereas your kingdom has been divided and given to the Medes and Persians. That very night, king of the Chaldeans was slain. And Darius to meet received the kingdom being about 62 years old. We see from all of this where superior power truly lies. Oh, it looks like power is in our decisions. And we can't make light of the effect of good, faithful, obedient decisions. It's not like they have no value. But they are not the determining factor. And how things look is not how things are. Who appears to be in control and who really is in control are two different things. If we learn nothing else this morning, we should learn that. Ultimately, we have precious little power in determining what happens next in our lives. But we have a great deal of power regarding how we are going to face it. And that power was granted to us by Jesus Christ. And his death, burial, and resurrection and his teaching. So that was the fifth point. Superior. Wisdom or power. Six, I am and there is none besides me is a statement of superior importance. Notice how Lady Babylon is called the Lady of Kingdoms. The Lady of Kingdoms. This is signifying her preeminence. She saw herself as being the most important of all beings. From the beginning of the Bible to the end, we constantly see how we as human beings always elevate our importance. It's in us, and it will take a resurrection to get it out of us. Do you remember how many times the disciples argued about who was the greatest? And how many times Jesus had to put them in their places? The last shall be first, he would say. Take the seat of lowest honor, he would say. Love your neighbor as yourself, he would say. You must receive the kingdom like a little child, he would say. Whatever you've done to the least of these is what you've done to me, he would say. The greatest among you will be your servant, he would say. Look what Paul tells us in Philippians, Philippians 2, 3 through 11. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit. That 's all we've been talking about. Selfish ambition or conceit. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Let this mind be in you, which was in also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation Taking the form of a bond servant and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross Therefore, God has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth, and of those under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Look at the model we have here. It's the exact opposite of what our flesh tempts us to do and to be. Here is Christ, who is the greatest of the greatest. He is by far the most important human being ever born. And look at what he chose to do. His love reached out to meet our need at the expense of his very life. He sent himself to meet our need. He clung to no rights, although he had rights that he could have claimed. He clung to none of them. He had less housing than Foxes have. He gave up his privacy. He gave up the enjoyment of what the world had to offer. He gave up everything to meet our need. We have an inborn desire to be free women. We want our contributions to be recognized and appreciated. We want our motives to go unquestioned. We want our sacrifices to be admired. We want people to think the best of us. We want people to be considerate of our needs and our preferences. Ultimately, we want to be served. And if it could be, we would like to be worshipped. That's in us. That's in every one of us. That is why we cannot trust our hearts. To tell us what to do. They're inclined in this direction. Our flesh wants to replace the true I am with the me I am. If God were to leave us to ourselves, we would all be saying in one way or another, I am, and there is no one besides me. I'm it. I'm it. I'm the center of this universe. So while we can be again at the Lady Babylon here, we better be careful. It's easy to be just like them. Just follow your heart. It'll get you there. But she does not have a very good end coming to her. In Isaiah 47, 11 through 15, verses 11, therefore evil shall come upon you. You shall not know from where it arises. And trouble shall fall upon you, you will not be able to put it off. And desolation shall come upon you suddenly, which you shall not know. Lady Babylon cannot believe this. She simply cannot believe this, and she won't believe it. She's so full of her own laws of the omnipotence and importance that she can't believe her fall will happen so fast. It's not even possible in her arrogant mind. But it'll happen nonetheless. And we see God taunting her Verse 12, stand now with your enchantments and the multitude of your sorcerings in which you've labored from your youth. Perhaps you'll be able to profit. Perhaps you'll prevail. You're weird in the multitude of your counsel. Think now that astrologers and stargazers and the monthly prognosticators stand up and save you from what shall come upon you. We see that the problem with the wrong I am is I can't. The wrong I am, I can't. While its self-image is positive, it's completely fictional. Here is where Babylon's wisdom came from. It was the devil's arena. It was his textbooks. It was his influence. You notice what's ironic here? With all of Babylon's witchcraft, the devil was not allowed to tell the Babylonian sorcerers about Darius ' attack. Four sizes. Look how late how God taunts Lady Babylon here. Go ahead, he says. Stick with your gods and your beliefs. Who knows? Maybe you're right. Maybe you'll win. Even though you've already worn out yourself with the bad and constant advice thing, maybe maybe you'll pull through this time. Keep your chin up. Maybe they can stop you from experiencing what I, God, promised you was going to happen. Go ahead, give it a shot. See how it works out for you. I think God sometimes wants us the same way. It's the same way a parent might taunt a child who's acting rebellious. It's as if he is saying, Are you having fun yet? You having fun yet? This working out well for you? How is running from me doing? You get happier by the moment? Like to Jonah , he's being swallowed by the fish you can almost imagine him saying, are you enjoying your free housing? You ready to do it my way yet? Well, God is not acting with love toward Babel. No, this is the end that she's going to face. When He does it to us. It's to urge us on, to inspire us to obedience, but that is not the case here. Verse 14, Behold, they shall be as stubble. The fire shall burn them. They shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame. It shall not be a coal to be warmed by, nor a fire to sit before. Thus shall they be you with whom you have labored, you your merchants from your youth. They shall wander each one to his quarter. No one shall save you. What we see here is the failure of the wrong I am. Our I am will never save us if it's ourselves Flesh will never save us. All flesh will do is seduce us into thinking that our way is self-contained. Our way is innately good. Our way is a superior wisdom. Our way is the most powerful way. Our way is the way of most importance. And we will miss the fact that our way, the way of the fleshly I am, will lead us down the road of destruction. It is most assuredly headed in that direction, and it will not change. Do you want to see a contrast this morning? The fleshly I am promises to keep one in a position of power and comfort, but fails. Here's what the real I am can do. Exodus 3, 14. And God said to Moses. I am who I am. I am who I am, or I am that I am. And he said, Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, I am has sent me. Moreover, God said to Moses , Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, the Lord God of your fathers The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared to me, saying, I have surely visited you and seen what is done to you in Egypt. And I have said, I will bring up bring you up out of the Abhush and of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites and to the Hittites and the Hamorites and the Pharzites and the Hittites and the Jebedites to a land flowing with milk and honey. The real I am sees our flight as it truly is. The real I am moves to meet our need. He comes with true autonomy, true innate goodness, true omniscient wisdom, true omnipotent power, true importance, true glory And he promises to deliver us by his hand. He delivers us from what we don't want, and he delivers us to what our souls crave. What we long for, what we desperately need in our heart of hearts. That's where he takes us. That is the I am that is worth placing your whole faith and trust in. Now, did you discover anything about your I am last week? That was the challenge. Did God reveal to you and your reactions to others what you really think of yourself, where that stuff comes from? Have you asked others for help in discerning areas that you can trust? Others that you can trust to find the places where you trust in your own innate goodness? They can probably see it better than you can. Trust in ourselves will destroy both our relationships and ourselves. In fact, a lot of the times if you have difficulty in relationships, trace it back and you'll find Trust in self. Trust in that I am good. And good comes out of me, so that's my assumption. Trust in ourselves makes anything good much harder and anything bad much easier. It's one of the major things that holds us back in our fellowship with God and with each other. I'm convinced that it's God's will to reveal it to us if we'll simply submit to Him. If we'll simply submit to Him and call upon Him to do so. Will we? Let's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that you are the I am. And it's settled and it's solid, and we see every evidence of it from the beginning word in the Bible to the end of it. And we know that you are. We know in our heads that it only makes sense. We've got that. We see in your word that it's clearly revealed. We know that you are the I am. But we are so inclined to elevate ourselves. We are so inclined to trust ourselves. You know us. You see us. We confess that. In fact, we don't even know what to confess. Because we are even blind to ourselves In our sinfulness, in our selfishness, in our ego and pride. Lord, we ask that you work in our hearts and reveal ourselves to ourselves. Help us to tell the truth about ourselves. Not in fear, because we have nothing to fear. You've already loved us. You've already accepted us. You already know who we are. Help us to get rid of that baggage so that we can have the kind of relationship with you ultimately that we are intended to have, free of hindrances. And that we may fellowship with each other in the way that we are designed to fellowship in. Again, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your patience. We thank you for your kindness and grace and mercy. That allow us to have a relationship with Him. And in all this we praise Jesus. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay.