Scripture is so important, we hopefully if we find ourselves in this spot, we'll know right where to go. And look at what all this resolve works its way back to, the his thinking. Verse 13, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I think of this verse often to make two points about Bible study. Like when I'm teaching kids how to study the Bible, that sort of thing. The first is how often scriptures are used out of context. And this is this is one of my favorite. The other one on prayer is probably the the most Clearer, but this is a really good example too. People use this verse to describe how they can carry out all kinds of feats. I just heard it used, I don't know, this week sometime, completely out of context. Some of it's spiritual, some of it's physical, but a as our brother Pawson pointed out in the overview. For the book of Philippians. It's really talking about living within one's means and accepting that which God has provided for us. That is the context. It's interesting that many people apply this to doing something to overcome their circumstances. And that is exactly the opposite of how Paul is using it. Context is always important when we're quoting verses. The second lesson is that we always need to limit the word all to the context that it is in. This quote of Paul's does not mean that I can fly off a tall building through Christ who strengthens me But it does mean that I can face situations where I am suffering need that was created because somebody else did not fill that gap for me I don't resort to whining. I don't resort to blaming. I don't resort to self-pity for the cost I need to pay I don't get bitter. I simply do the thing that is directly in front of me. I face the difficulty. I face the discomfort. If we're going to follow Paul's lead, that's what we're learning here I face the dilemma. And I do all those things, like these things, with the understanding that the Christ who arranged my circumstances Is the Christ who arranged my provision. The Christ that arranged my circumstance is the same Christ who arranged my provision. The Christ who provided the hardship is the same Christ who provided the strength. Now let's look at the phrase, who strengthens me? We need to be careful when we say that God never gives us more than we can handle. There's truth to it, but we have to always factor in through Christ who strengthens me. Sometimes we have nothing left but to cry out to God for help because we have reached our limit. God does so graciously promise his strength when it's needed. Isaiah 40, 29 through 31 says this. He gives power to the weak, and to those who have no might, he increases strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall. But those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. We can rely upon Christ's strength and we can rely upon the strength he will give us. Are you facing a situation that you regard as being impossible to face this week? Don't be afraid to call out to God for strength. He will provide it if you need it. Now, sometimes it doesn't come the way we expect it to come. Paul says this in another place. This may be another place where Paul learned this important lesson Like he learned contentment. 2 Corinthians 12, 7 through 10. 2 Corinthians 12, 7 through 10 says this And lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure Concerning this thing, I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me, and he said, My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in weakness Therefore, most gladly I will remember, I will rather boast in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in needs, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then I am strong. Sometimes it takes the hard situations for us to receive the strength. Sometimes God wants to show off in our lives. He'll take us past where our flesh could go, so that he can receive all of the glory for our victories, our successes. Paul had learned these things He knew that Christ's resources are most visible when our resources are most absent. Have you considered that maybe that's what God is doing with you right now? Paul had to go to that school to learn what he learned. Paul also said this about strength in Ephesians 3 , 14 through 16 and then 20 through 21. He says For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory. To be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man. And then verse 20, now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundant above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us. To him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Amen. The Christian life is dependent upon the strength that God provides. The truth is that anything of value that we do is not from fleshly natured strength. But from spirit-led and spirit-empowered actions. But it's important that we don't forget this. While there are times when it is very necessary for us to pray for the spiritual power we need Paul already laid the most often used method of gaining the spiritual power that we need. If we live the way that Paul lived, We are likely to experience the power that he obtained. And he already laid out how he was living. He was living each day by faith. He was pressing on each day for the spiritual goal. If we think that we can live our lives for ourselves all day, every day, and then one day have the strength to meet some tremendous difficulty, Like we'll just pray and God will zap us with it. With Paul's kind of spiritual maturity. The things that he learned, we're mistaken. God will always meet us where we are, and we are so thankful that he does. But the more we live the way Paul lived, the more maturity and spiritual strength we will experience. And verse 14: Nevertheless, you have done well that you shared in my distress. Nevertheless, that that word threw me a little bit. Nevertheless, what's he talking about? Why does Paul say that? I think the nevertheless has to do with what Paul just said about not needing a gift. Remember, we talked about that last week. where they give him a gift and he then he goes on to tell them all the reasons why you didn't need it. Well he says, now he says, nevertheless. He just got done saying He was content. He was, in a sense, self-sufficient based on the strength that he had in Christ to face the hardship that he had as a result of not getting a gift. And that's why Paul says, nevertheless, he's saying, even though I was making it without the gift, nevertheless, it was great that you gave it. It was the right thing for you to do. You showed yourself faithful to God and loving to me by giving me that gift. You are treating me the way you would want to be treated. That was good. And it's still interesting. The situation Paul was content in, he here refers to as my distress. You sent me this gift in my distress. We would think contentment in a situation, in a distressful situation might be an either-or proposition. Either I am distressed or in a distressing situation, or I am content. But Paul was both in distress and content. Sometimes our life situations are stressful. We may find ourselves in a pressure cooker. And we'll see some of those situations in Daniel. God really knows how to set the scene for when he's going to work. Because they were under incredible pressure. And we'll see that. The trial of our faith is likely to feel like a trial It will feel hard to handle. It is distressing. It is supposed to be. But even in those seasons of life, we can follow Paul's example and his instructions. Even while we work for our situation to change, we can trust God's sovereign wisdom in placing us in the midst of that trial. Verse 15. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For even in Thessalonica, you sent aid once and again for my necessities. This is pretty amazing. Seeing that Paul has gone through a period of suffering real hunger and need What is he focusing on here? He's focusing on the love that he received from the Philippians. What would happen in our lives if instead of focusing on the things that we have been denied, the things we had to do without, we focused on that which those who loved us provided to us? Sure, we might have some legitimate gripes. We all do. And Paul probably had some legitimate gripes. If you didn't have enough to eat, you might feel like you had a legitimate gripe. But he focuses on that which was given to him, and he does not focus on that which was not given to him. We can imagine all kinds of things that people could have given to us or maybe should have given to us, but Paul doesn't focus on that. He focuses on what they did give him, and he draws his conclusion about their love for him based on that track record. He also notes that they surpassed all the other churches in their giving Again, notice, see, he doesn't focus on what they did not do, he focuses on what they did for him. And next we get to look at the real heart of the matter. And I suspect this will be even harder to apply Look at this. Look at what Paul cares most about. The status of the beloved He cares the most about the status of the beloved. Verse 17, not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. That statement is amazing. It's mind-blowing. Paul is saying that the highest priority is not that I have all the things to meet my needs. Like giving me enough food to eat. What we see here is Paul's highest focus, his highest priority. The focus of Paul's heart is not the benefit that the gift would give him. He doesn't focus on how the gift would make his life better. His focus was on the reward it would give to the giver of the gift. Paul's thrill comes in knowing that the gift that these Philippians gave would result in a rich spiritual reward. on their heavenly account. Now, is he talking about the fruit of actually giving the gift? Is that the fruit or the fruit that that gift will enable in ministry? I think it's both. Just the fact that they lovingly and cheerfully give the gifts provides some fruit. But the result of extra work that will be done in Paul's ministry guarantees even more fruit And all of it is added to the Philippians spiritual bank account. They are storing up treasure in heaven. They take this money, they collect it, they send it, Paul receives it, and it's like a heavenly bank account. That's how Paul is regarding this. As I was preparing for this sermon, I had to be honest. I don't want to be a hypocrite. I still struggle knowing how to decide, how to divvy out the money that God provides to me. And we're we're sort of all in this together. Some of you may have more closure on this than I do, but those dollars are opportunity. Now, how much should we give and how much should we spend on ourselves? No matter how you slice it, that's a matter of faith. You know, that's something that we have to chart between us and God. Using his word. I used to approach it more from a perspective of avoiding guilt. I wanted to handle my money in a way that I didn't feel guilty about. I don't know if anybody's ever approached it that way, but that and the question when phrased that way is how much can I faithfully spend on myself? I'm beginning to see that's the wrong way of looking at it. The real question is, how much reward do I want to gain? How much reward do I want to gain? And that truth is not always a pleasant one. There are pleasures that I want now. That I am not willing to forego in order to sink that money into ministries that will last forever. But that's often the decision in front of us Well, I think it's true that whatever I can enjoy with an open hand and thank God while I am doing It is not a sin. If I approach it as thank you, Lord, thank you for this gift that you have given me and this experience that you have provided me. But I wonder what I'll think of my decisions when I see Jesus. The highest question is not one of, is using this money on myself a sin? That's a valid question, but it's not the ultimate question. I think the best question is more like which one will give me the most pleasure? I think that's the heart of the matter. I can have a few hours of pleasure with a purchase thing. I can purchase an experience that will give me a little bit of pleasure. I can sometimes purchase something that will give me pleasure over a lifetime. And I can give that money to a ministry of some sort, and it will give me pleasure for eternity. That's what Paul is talking about. That's the way he's seeing these gifts. That's the way he's seeing money. The Philippians gave their money to something that would give them eternal pleasure. That's essentially what he's saying. And Paul was overjoyed about that. He knew that they had chosen wisely. Now, Paul caring more about the givers than the gift , How do you get there from here? How do you care more about the eternal rewards of the supporters than the here now benefit of the gifts that they give? I mean, having lived off of people's contributions in Youth for Christ, this strikes home. I wasn't going to be paying my bills if people didn't send their gifts in. How do you care more about what is good for those around you than what is good for you? That's what Paul's doing here. I guess it means truly seeking the kingdom of God first, seeking eternal things first. And Paul is the example in this. Verse 18 Indeed, I have all in abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things sent from you, a sweet smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice. Well pleasing to God. That's Paul's response when he receives the gift, where he says, I am full. I think he is saying, This is one of those times that I'm abounding in physical provision I'm more than I need right now. This is one of those I have much times. But he clearly is receiving it on two levels He regards it for how it will provide the needs of himself and his ministry, but he also regards it from a heavenly perspective. He tells them how it is viewed from God's throne. He uses language that would have been similar to a gift offered on the altar. The money these people gave to Paul was the sacrifice these people gave directly to God. That's what he's saying. It was an act of worship. When they had did that collection, it was an act of worship. I remember talking in one of our elders' meetings a long time ago about taking the offering. And how like I regard it somewhat as a necessary evil. You know, some task that you you need to get done. But I think it was Mike pointed out, that's an act of worship. When we put our tithes and offerings into the collection plate, it's an act of worship, and it should be in a worship service. Isn't this interesting? Paul began in his teaching about anxiety earlier in this chapter by putting his need and his circumstances as a situation that is directly between him and God. He says, go to God. Remember, uh, that's the first thing. It doesn't matter how you pray, pray. If you want to ask God something, do it. If you want to pour out your heart to God, do it. Do whatever you know thing you want to say to God, just take it to him. Well just like that, um We are content because we see everything in the light of God's sovereignty. And when Paul receives the gift. He also sees it too from a heavenly perspective, from a perspective between the givers and God. He does not see it as a gift between friends. He sees the gift as an act of worship between the givers and their God. Everything he's been talking about here in Philippians, he's taking it back to God. Ultimately, that is what all true worship is, and that is what all true love is. We don't give agape love based on the loveliness of the beloved. We give it based on the loveliness, the loveliness of Christ. I saw a quote from C. S. Lewis, but then I couldn't find it again. It was something like, no act of love is ever wasted, because its value is not determined by the response of the recipient. That wasn't exactly right, but it was the essence of it. When we really love people, the motivation for the act always follows its way back to our worship to God. Agapeg love is based on our worship of God. Paul knows this and he lets the Philippians know that God is pleased. God is pleased with your your offering. It smells sweet to him. God loves a cheerful giver. Then Paul goes on in verse 19, he says, And my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Now, the Philippians were in tough straits. They were probably giving to Paul in a way that threatened their own ability to provide for their own households. Things were not easy at Philippi. And this is what Paul has to say. Even though there were periods where Paul was hungry, ultimately those things that Paul needed to survive were provided by Christ. And Paul is telling the Philippians that those things that they most need will be provided by Christ, even if the math doesn't currently work out in their head. Now, this is not to say it all works out on this earth. God 's riches and glory reflect upon an eternal reality. So that might be where some of this pans out. But the point is, we can always rely upon God to provide for our ultimate needs. We can always rely upon God to provide for our ultimate needs. Paul is actually pointing out what kind of giver God is. When this God supplies according to his riches, we have no fear of being short-changed. God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. God created the world and it is his to freely divvy it out as he desires But in addition to that, in Christ dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and in him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge So when God supplies our needs, it consists of every kind of need and every kind of provision. We don't always get to pick what we actually need. God knows better than we do, but he promises to meet all those things that are truly needs. We tend to limit our need to that which keeps us alive on earth. What we really need is that which ushers us best into eternity. And Christ always promises to provide that, for sure. And he has every resource at his disposal. Then verse 20. Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. This statement could be at the end of every book of the Bible because it's surely what it's all about. Everything that Paul wrote was with the desire to bring glory to God and the lives of those Paul was writing to. His life was lived. To bring glory to God. His admonitions were always to bring glory to God. The greatest aim of a man's life is To bring glory to God. No effort is ever wasted if it will bring glory to God. Our every moment in life is best lived To bring glory to God. So there's nothing Paul could say as he leads to the conclusion of the letter better than the highest purpose of man to bring glory to God. Verse 21. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you, but especially those who are of Caesar's household The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Basically, Paul is saying hello to every Christian there at Philippi. There are likely some new believers if Paul didn't know. He wants them greeted as well. It's not like it's only his friends that count. He's not building his own kingdom or working to accomplish some kind of selfish end. He wants everyone in the Church of God to receive a warm welcome from Him. Whether He knows them or not. They're all kindred spirits. They're all comrades in arms. They are all in it with Him And then he goes on to say that all of Paul's co-workers are on the same page as Paul. They all want the same thing. They all get that believers are where it's at. All my friends are your friends, is essentially what he's communicating. That's how it works out in the body of Christ. If they're with me, they are for you. Period. Now it's very interesting that Paul emphasizes those who are of Caesar's household. Those who are of Caesar's household, small sentence, huge implications I think they were included because it emphasizes what God does is truly amazing. And God's plans aren't limited by our imaginations. The gospel is working its way all the way to the inner circle of the most corrupt government of its time. I would say of all time, but I have to deal with the fact that our government is endorsing the mutilation of children's body and the sacrifice of unborn. While the sensibilities of our nation may be offended at the child sacrifice of Baal, we're doing the same thing without the same kind of visibility. But we need to keep in mind that God saves the people he wants to save. God's plan was to reach deep into the devil's territory and save those he wanted to save. And that's what he always does. Maybe the Philippians would have had a real understanding of what this is really about, since they know a little bit more about the Roman government than most, because they were a Roman colony. It's also possible that some of them may have known some of these people. It's hard to tell. And maybe those of Caesar's household could have had an even deeper appreciation of their salvation Given what they were previously, and that sort of thing. Who knows? Who knows? But he includes them. And then he says, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Isn't that a great way to end any letter with a believer? Isn't that what it's all about? What could we possibly need more than grace? Well, there are several applications. I think a good application for this week could be for us to examine how Examine our giving to various ministries. It might be good for us to think about how we can maximize our reward in heaven by how we use our money now and where we draw those lines And like I said, I think that's a difficult thing. How should we use it to most glorify God, most help our brothers, and provide us the most long-term pleasure? while also balancing out the life that we've got and the resources that God's given us for our own enjoyment and giving thanks to Him in that Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you for your patience. And we thank you for the grace. That Paul wishes and offers to those that he's writing to We thank you, Lord, that it's true for us as well, and that there are so many things that while he teaches the Philippians, he's teaching the Ferndalians. We ask that you would help us to apply this wonderful, wonderful book, this wonderful letter from Paul. Help us to not allow it to escape. Our memories or our attention, and that we be brought back continually to having the mind of Christ. and doing everything that we do coming from from that perspective and to run to you quickly. in every situation that we're in, and thank you because you are so worthy of thanks and praise. We ask that you'd help us to apply this week how we use our funds and what will most glorify you. And to figure out that balance, or at least figure it out for now, and just guide us in that process. We need your help. We ask it. In Jesus' name. Amen.