Well, we're still in Wednesday, in the week of Christ's death on the cross. Christ is two days away from his crucifixion. Now, remember how we saw in the last sermon that the Jewish leadership had two goals to accomplish in a short period of time. They wanted to set the common man against Christ And they wanted to come up with a political charge that they could bring against Christ to get him in trouble with the Roman government. That's what they're shooting to do, and they have to do it quickly. And then remember also what we said about the questions Christ was being asked. That in order to properly answer the questions One must first address the assumption in the question that's being asked. I use the example of a yes-no question being posed to a person, uh the question, have you quit beating your wife yet? Most men can't answer that question with a yes or no in a way that will convey a truthful answer because the assumption in the question is that the man was actually committing that awful act Brad might remember a meeting we were in a long time ago where the ministry in this church was being brought into question. And the people who initiated the meeting were uh asking these kind of questions that were clearly They clearly held assumptions that we weren't supposed to challenge. And they were asking yes -no answer, asking for yes-no answers. And I got the chance to ask them this question, and that's the question I use to make the point. The point is that there are times you cannot wisely or truthfully answer the question the way that it's framed. You've got to readdress The assumption in the question. Well, we'll see that again this morning. Jesus will not answer their question the way that it's framed. It turns out to be a very ill-informed question. Verse 18. Then some Sadducees who say there is no resurrection came to him and they asked him, saying, Okay, now the Sadducees Only accepted the first five books of the Bible to be authoritative. There was some good in this, in that they saw themselves as the most biblically conservative. We don't usually think of them that way. I mean, when we hear Sadducee, if we've you know studied the New Testament, you think, bad guy. Well, the Pharisees relied on all kinds of books. and tradition for guidance in what God wants. So they were dependent upon outside sources, they were dependent on on the prophets and stuff. For their source of authority, where the Sadducees said, hey, I'm not going with that nonsense. Only the first five books of the Bible matter to us. So they ended up rejecting all the garbage that the Pharisees had taught and believed, the books upon books, but in one sense they also threw out the baby with the bathwater. They rejected passages from the rest of the Old Testament that clearly taught a resurrection from the dead. Here are a few passages from the Old Testament, not in the first five books. Job 19, 25 through 27 says this. As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives and at the last he will take my stand on the earth. Even after my skin is destroyed, yet from my flesh I shall see God, whom I myself shall behold, and whom my eyes will see, and not another. Psalms 16, 9 through 11. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will dwell securely. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, nor will you allow your holy one to undergo decay. You will make known to me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are pleasures forever. Psalms 49, 15. But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me Psalm 73, 24, with your counsel you will guide me and afterward receive me to glory. Psalm 139, 8. If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, you are there. And then Daniel 12. 2. Many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground will awake, these to everlasting life, but the others to disgrace and everlasting contempt. Now the Sadducees would not accept these verses as being authoritative because they weren't in the Pentateuch. They weren't in the first five books. And they therefore believe that the Pentateuch does not teach resurrection. They would take you to the first five books and say you won't find it there. And because of that, they're not going to buy into it in other passages in Scripture because it wasn't in the first five. That's what they say. This resulted in a view that allowed these Sadducees to be very proud regarding their spirituality and very evil in their way of life. It was primarily the Sadducees that benefited from the fiasco of the temple money changers and the sacrifice salesmen. Remember the ones that Jesus kicked out of the temple grounds. The Sadducees weren't loved by the populace because they tended to be bedfellows with the Roman government, and their theology allowed them to do that. Okay, so these people don't believe in the resurrection. Now think about that as you look at the question that they asked Jesus. They're going to ask a question about how a particular scenario would work in heaven. The million-dollar question is, why would a sincere person ask a question about something that they don't believe in at all? That would be like me asking a modern-day medium what my dad thinks about the next purchase of a car, my dad having died. It would be a nonsensical question because my beliefs will not allow me to accept the answer as either truthful or helpful. The fact that these men who do not believe in the resurrection are asking a question about the resurrection pretty much tells us everything that we need to know about their hearts. This question is not seeking for an honest an honest are these it it's not seeking for an honest answer in order to understand truth better. They're not pursuing truth with this question. These are not sincere seekers, and it's not a sincere question. They say, Teacher, Moses wrote to us that if a man's brother dies and leaves his wife behind and leaves no children, his brother should take his wife. and raise up offspring and his brother for his brother. Now the Sadducees are quoting the Old Testament law. You gotta hand them that. They they did quote their five books well. And it truly did teach such a thing. In Deuteronomy 25, 5 and 6, it tells us that if a brother dwells, if brothers dwell together, And one of them dies and has no son. The widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the family Her husband's brother shall go into her, take her as a wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. And it shall be that the firstborn son which she bears will succeed to the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. Scholars call this Liberite marriage. The purpose was to keep the dead brother's lineage going This would keep the resources of the tribe in the tribe. That's what it's designed for. And it would honor the dead brother by giving him a line of heirs. Now, let's take a look at the rest of the question. We're going to see an absurd situation being presented by the Sadducees here. They go on, verse 20. Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and dying, he left no offspring. And the second took her and died. Nor did he leave offspring. And the third took her, he died likewise. So the seven had her and left no offspring. Last of all, then the woman died. That's the end of the story. Therefore, in the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as a wife To the Sadducees, they think this imagined situation displays the absurdity of the idea of resurrection. Yet in the end, all the question does is displays the ignorance of the questioner. The mockery just displays the ignorance of the mocker Ultimately, that's the end result, and we can praise God for this as we look around in a world that mocks God. Ultimately, the end result of all mockery of God and God's character and God's truth. is going to just display the ignorance of the questioner. It will display the ignorance and the evil of the mocker. A person could have sincerely asked how marriage and resurrection works. That would be an honest question. It would be a sincere question to many people. It would be a logical question. And Christ may have answered it with the same truth that he reveals this morning. It isn't that the question is bad, it's the assumption that is wrong. The same's true with most mockery. There are people who mock the idea that God could be good in light of all the suffering in this planet I'm sure you've all heard that. A lot of people use that to actually mock God. If God was good, surely he would not allow this kind of thing to happen, they say. At the same time, there are those of us as Christians who wrestle with that same truth We as Christians need to have an understanding of that apparent contradiction of God's goodness and his allowance for suffering. We need an answer from God's word. So one person will mock God and the other person will question God. And they're both using the same evidence. They're both asking somewhat the same question. There's also the question of the existence of God. There's the question of creation. There are lots of questions that can be fuel for mockery or fuel for serious-minded questions. We need to be careful not to assume that all questions that are difficult are mockery. We also should be not so be so naive as to think that all questions and questioners are sincere. If we're to respond wisely, we need to learn how to discern how to best answer the questions. Jesus often answered questions by asking questions. And I think we would do very well in many situations to do the same thing. Now the Sadducees think that they have given Christ a situation that he pot he cannot possibly make sense out of. They're kind of puffed up now. They they think, well, we have we have dropped our load. You know, here here is Christ. The poor guy's gonna have to stumble with this one. They think that they've put Christ in a corner Well, let's see how Christ responds to that. Verse 24. Jesus answered and said to them, Are you not therefore mistaken because you don't know the scriptures, nor the power of God? Jesus responds to these guys and asks a rhetorical question. Isn't this the reason you ask stupid questions? Is essentially what he's saying. Isn't this the reason you ask dumb questions? Isn't the reason that you hold wrong assumptions? Isn't this the reason? Why? Two reasons. You don't know Scripture, and you don't know the power of God. You don't know Scripture, and you don't know the power of God. The word for know also means to understand. It means to perceive something and get a meaning from it. Jesus is addressing the problem of faulty assumptions. He's piercing to the heart of these mockers. He's undermining the fuel for their mockery And in the case of the Sadducees, it came from wrong conclusions, wrong observations, wrong understanding of Scripture and of God. The question to us. Doesn't our faithlessness often spring from the same source? We don't really understand what Scripture has to say, and we don't really expect God to display his power where he says he will display it. We don't know what Scripture says God will do, or we don't believe that God will do it That's what these guys were guilty of. They didn't know the scripture, what the scripture said about God, what God will do, and they therefore they didn't believe that God would ever do it. By their theology, they created a God that didn't intend something good and would not do something good. What you believe, what we believe here this morning, what we really believe about God is the most important thing about us. Everything stems from our belief in God. If you believe the truth about God, really believe the truth about God, that will cause you to live in a way that pleases God. And it will give you wisdom about life that the worldly sages will never have. And you will expect God 's power in your life to do what the world around you can never do. You will expect God to fulfill his promises in your life. And you will live in that hope. If you disbelieve what God says he will do, no matter what you say you believe, if you disbelieve what God says he will do, If you don't really believe it, you will not live expecting God to do those things that He promises in His Word to do in your life. That's the difference. These Sadducees were living hopeless, godless, religious lives. They were living for here and now because they had accepted a promiseless theology that ended up with a powerless God. They are wonderfully bad examples for us to avoid like the plague. The cure? The cure for being like that? Know and believe what God promises And live expecting for him to do for us exactly what he says he will do. That's the cure. Now Jesus takes the Sadducees to his seminary, and that's always fun to watch. He teaches them what is true. Some of it they should have known. Some of it I'm not sure if they could have known. Verse 25 Verse 25, for when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels in heaven. All right, here Jesus addresses the ridiculous scenario that they've just laid out to Christ in great detail, going into seven brothers, the whole problem they created in their minds And he essentially says that is not a problem that exists. It does not exist because one of your assumptions is not true. The assumption is that if there is a resurrection, which you don't believe, it will be just a continuation of here and now. People will not be fundamentally different. Well, praise God, they are terribly wrong. When you and I are raised from the dead, it will be to a different reality than what we are accustomed to. It will be a different structure. It will be a different environment. It won't equate with how we are used to. It will not be here and now extended. There will be a significant transformation. The thing we're told is there won't be marriage. Now, we who are married do well to consider just how jubilant we want to display this uh this point Too many amens at this point might not be well received by our current spouses. But but it's true. There is no marriage in heaven John Piper wrote a book called This Momentary Marriage. Enity talks about the temporary nature of marriage He says that marriage is intended by God to display the relationship of Jesus Christ to his church. But it is, at best , temporary. This is good news for all of us, whether we like our married relationship or whether we don't. For those with difficult marriages, everything will be healed For those with fulfilling marriages, everything will be better. We might wonder how something that is so important now can be so unimportant then. Well, think about marriage. Why is it so needed? Marriage is to a large degree for protection. Marriage should protect women from sexual exploitation. That's a large part of it. It's the nature of our world to exploit women And the most sinister thing about it in our culture is that most women have no clue that that's what's happening to them. Our culture has lost the concepts of honor and shame. Women are trained by our media to think that they're choosing to be loved when really they're just choosing to be used. Marriage is designed to keep sexual expression in a safe, loving lifetime environment. Marriage also provides a man to keep a woman safe from exploitation of other men. And marriage is designed to protect children. In marriage, the logical outcome of sexual expression is offspring, and those children are best raised in God's design for a family That's a mother who nurtures and a father who provides a platform for security. Marriage done against God's way. Our marriage done God's way provides for that. And again, the father can protect the family from outside threats. That's what he's there for. One of the reasons he's there. So the question has to be asked, what threats are there in heaven that people need protected from? The answer? None. None. Marriage is no longer needed for protection. There's no mention of births in heaven. It seems like that's what this world is for. God's preparing people in this world For the next. God is bringing people into existence in this world for the next God's primary reason, he says, for allowing this world to continue in all of its dreadful sin is for creating the next world's population. That's why time exists. In eternal life, we'll be able to enjoy the best that this life has to offer without the need for the protection of any kind. One of those kinds being marriage. Maybe there won't even be any sexual drive or expression We don't know. But we do know that all of the evils that marriage is designed to protect us from will no longer exist. We will have intimacy without fear of harm. And we don't even we don't even realize how much that's just part of our psyche. We don't even realize the defenses that we have running all the time to protect us from harm from other people. This is so very hard to imagine, but it's so wonderfully true. We will finally be safe in a world where Jesus is King. What an absolutely wonderful truth contained in this teaching of Christ. There will be no marriage in heaven. Notice it says that they'll be like the angels in heaven. This is one of those places where people have taken great liberties with the text And they come out with all kind of weird stuff. That's how you know wasn't it Clarence turned into an angel and uh Whatever that what movie is that, Brad? It's a wonderful life. I knew he would know that one. Um, you know, just weird ideas about us turning into angels. That doesn't happen This isn't intended to mean that people are going to turn into angels. Scripture tells us that we'll judge angels. Now how can you you know, be something different. There's a clear distinction between people and angels in the next slide. In one very specific way, we will be like angels in heaven. They don't get married, we don't get married. That's all it's telling us for sure in this text. That's the only similarity we can know for sure. So Christ has just undermined the idea that the Sadducees' mockery was based on. Okay, he's taken that out of the picture. He's corrected the wrong assumption. that the question held. There is not an issue of whose wife this will be, because she will be nobody's wife since there is no marriage in heaven. He's taking that care of he's taking care of that. But there's more that Jesus wants to address here. Again, rarely does anyone get away with trying to spring a trap on Jesus where they don't have themselves exposed. fully in the process. So Christ continues. He moves on from the theoretical. Verse 26. But concerning the dead now, concerning the dead that they rise Have you not read in the book of Moses? Now he's hitting them. That's the books they live in, you know, the books of Moses. Have you not read in the books that you trust? Have you not read in the books that you talk about being the all you know the all-time defenders of and understanders of? Have you not read in those books, in the Burning Bush passage, how God spoke to him saying, I am The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. You are therefore greatly mistaken. Remember what Christ had just told these guys? You don't know the scripture and you don't know the power of God. That's your problem. Now he's applying the same thing to their core position about the resurrection, what they really believed. The Sadducees laid out a scenario to trick Christ that displayed that they were wrong about marriage in the resurrection. Now Christ is turning on them regarding their whole view of the resurrection itself. He first corrected their hypothetical error. Now he's addressing the real error that they were absolutely committed to. There is nothing hypothetical here. He brings them face to face with themselves. First, Christ shows them what Scripture says. And it's so interesting, like I said, that Christ limits his use of Scripture to those texts that the Sadducees say they believe. He shows them that even with their false convictions about which scriptures can be believed, they're still wrong. They are still hypocritical to take the stance that they're taking. They're denying the scriptures they claim to be standing on. Now, how did Christ make the point? Verb tense. Verb tense. That's gotta make every English teacher here tingle. Verb tense. It was that important. Have you ever heard somebody say something like, I don't need to know theology, I just want to follow Jesus? This answer by Jesus should cause us to think twice about any kind of anti-theological mindset with that kind of that kind of thinking. These very religious guys have been pushing nonsense for years based on their limited reading of scripture And all that time, the correction to their error was right in front of them in a story that they had probably all read thousands of times. In this case, they missed the tree for the forest. They missed this isolated truth in the midst of their larger reading of scripture. In other words, they didn't do their homework on one isolated text. They did not pay attention to the verb tense in one verse. And as a result, they believed and taught error. Now, did their oversight happen because of their unbelief? Without a doubt it did. I wonder even after they heard it, how many repented of their position and said, you know, Jesus is right. I've been wrong all these years. I've been wrong about every book I've written. I've been wrong about everything I've ever taught. I need to repent today. I seriously doubt there was a great revival at that point. They were steeped in unbelief, and they were making a profit out of it, and I doubt that they changed. But the point is the answer was found in the verb ten tense in one passage. The application to make here is to never underestimate the importance of serious study of Scripture. It is very good to read Scripture. We've got to do it. If we're not habitually reading, we are we are really missing some food that we need to live by. But sometimes we really need to meditate on it and study it word by word to get the truth of what it's really saying Never belittle that process in your mind. Never make light of that process. It is important. Then Christ goes on, I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. You are therefore greatly mistaken. This is very easy to illustrate. If I say George was my dad's friend, What do you immediately understand? George was my dad's friend. The relationship was in the past. And if you knew that my dad died, you naturally understood that this is the reason it was in the past. It can't be in the present. He can't have a current relationship with my my father. If I say George is my dad's friend, what's your first thought? Well in another context you'd probably think I must be speaking of a a a different dad because it can't it can't happen. We simply would not speak in the present tense about a past tense relationship it would strike us as being very odd for me to say something like that. That's the point that Christ is making. God would not say, I am the God of Isaac and A uh of Isaac and Jacob If Isaac and Jacob were past tense, he would only say it if Isaac is present tense, if he's alive. And Jesus lets these guys know, because you refuse to do business with this one verb tense, you refuse to believe the whole truth about the resurrection. But the truth was always there. It was always there right in front of your nose, and you chose not to see it. So again, we see Jesus turn the tables on his enemies. They laid a trap for him and he exposed their error and hypocrisy. And it was all based on a language rule. How's that for encouragement to study your language? So in application, we should obviously avoid the error of the Sadducees that they show here. We should know what Scripture says that God will do. And we should live expecting God to do what he says he will do, that will protect us from the error of the Sadducees. Question is, where do we refuse to do that? Where do we refuse to believe our God, to know what God says and believe that he will do what he says he will do? Where do we call God a liar? Do we worry? Do we fear? Do we take revenge? Are we distraught? Are we impatient? Do we lose hope These are all things that are promises of God that God says we can depend upon. Where do we not rely upon God to do according to what He has promised in our lives? Another application for us this morning is found in the wonderful truth that Jesus has just laid on this crowd. And I'd like to close by reading what John MacArthur says about it, because I think it's really powerful. For believers, the truth of the resurrection is a comforting reality. The sorrow, the suffering, and sin that marks this present life will end. We will one day receive a glorified body, perfect in every way, when God transforms the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of Christ's glory. by the exertion of the power that he has even to subject all things to himself. We will perfectly love God and each other. Wow And be able to worship God in holy perfection. We will have perfect knowledge Now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, just as I also have been fully known. We will be perfectly motivated to do perfect service rendering perfect obedience. I don't even know if if we can imagine that. The redeemed will never be weary, tired, bored, discouraged, or disappointed, but will experience eternally undiminished joy. unmarred by any sadness or sorrow, because God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there will no longer be any death. There will no longer be any mourning or crying or pain. The first things have passed away. That is what God promises to do. And He will do it. We as believers should be amazingly empowered by this incredible belief. It is this that makes any faithfulness worthwhile. Our God promises to make it worth it. And what he promises, he will do. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we so thank We're so thankful that what you have in mind for us is even better than the good things we have now. The provisions that you have granted us for this life are nothing compared to the wonder and beauty and awesomeness of that which you have prepared. For us forever. Oh, we thank you. We ask that you would help us to Imagine properly according to your word. To let that that fire ignite in our hearts and imaginations. of the wonder of your glory and the wonder of being part of it for eternity. We ask that you would work in our hearts to see that more and more clearly and the implications of it. and the the short temporary nature of this life and just what you have in store for those who love you And that it would transform our minutes and our hours and our days into days of faithfulness. And hope and longing for your return. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.