Well, this is it. This is our final look at the book of Mark in our two and a half year study. By now we should have a very basic understanding of the gospel, one that prepares us to obey what Christ has said. We watched as Christ was born and he grew. Eventually he began his ministry. We watched as he selected the twelve he was going to disciple. We got to know them one by one. We watched the group dynamics of these common selfish men as they learned how to follow Christ. We were relieved at some points to realize that we're a lot like they are, or maybe they're a lot like us. They weren't super spiritual, they weren't even impressive, and they were all very different. We saw that the disciples were always kept a little off balance. They'd make suggestions, thinking themselves to be very spiritual, and they would find out that they were completely off base as Christ would respond to them. And then they would blurt out some simple expressions from the depths of who they were, and Christ would respond with great endorsement. We watch Christ disrupt everything having to do with false religion. He took on the leaders, never backing down from their threats. He told the truth to them, knowing it would cause them to try to kill him. He shut down their money machines twice. And he actually had a few opportunities where he had some breakthroughs with some of these religious big shots. We watched as Christ performed miracles, showing himself to be the Lord of the land and the sea. The demons and the angels, matter and time. There was nothing he couldn't do, and he did all things well. We listened to Christ teach, and we recognized even in our own souls that his words have authority. He taught us how things really are, as opposed to how we are so prone to see them. He taught us the meaning of true spirituality. And then, as he put his money where his mouth was, Christ took upon himself all of our sin and accepted the terrible penalty for our sin on himself. He's the only one who ever had the right to say of anything that ever happened to him, I don't deserve this. But he also could not say, I didn't sign up for this, because he did So Christ died by the will of the Jewish leadership, and it was carried out by the hands of the Romans. But ultimately, it is we who put Christ on the cross. All humanity had a part in the murder of their Creator. Because that is what we are like, apart from the grace of God. We are prone not to want a yoke on our souls. We want to be our own God. We want to be our own bosses. But Christ took our place anyway. And he calls us to himself to receive him and the forgiveness of our sins. We've gone on this wild ride as the followers of Christ heard the unbelievable reports of Christ's resurrection. The last thing they expected, although it had been the one thing they had been warned about. And then wonder of wonders, the disciples got to meet their risen Lord. They even had a few meals with them, and he taught them, and he gave them the final crash course needed to take them into the next epoch of time, the last days. This has all been accomplished. It's now been forty days since Christ rose from the dead. They had started at Jerusalem, they had gone to a mountain in Galilee, and now they're back at Jerusalem. And we'll start with Luke's account, and then we'll go to Acts, since Acts gives us more details. Luke 24, 50 through 53, and he led them out as far as Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. Now it came to pass, while he blessed them, that he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Acts tells us that they returned to Jerusalem, so it must be that that is where they were staying before they came out to this spot at Bethany. Now remember Bethany. Bethany has played pretty rich in our story. This is where Lazarus and Mary and Martha were from. Also, Simon the prior leper must have also lived around here. Bethany was over the crest of the Mount of Olives. So you would have the Mount of Olives coming down into the Kidron Valley and then going up to Jerusalem. Uh the Mount of Olives is 200 feet higher than the hill that Jerusalem is on. And up here over the top would be Bethany. So you couldn't see Jerusalem from Bethany or Bethany from Jerusalem. So that's that's how it is. The walk could be done on a Sabbath, so it had to be between a half mile and three-quarters of a mile. From Jerusalem to Bethany. Our text goes into a lot of detail to let us know exactly where this took place. It was a real event in real time, real history. Luke tells us that Christ led them from Jerusalem as far as Bethany. So they would have had a pretty energetic walk. It was all up and downhill, mostly up. And then as he stood in front of them, he lifted up his hands and blessed them. And a blessing like this would be a God's proclamation of favor upon these people. Here's an example of a famous blessing in number 6, 24 through 26. So it would likely be something like this The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. That's a blessing. You know, as people, I think we have a very difficult time having the proper view of Christ and God. We tend to the wrong extremes. I think probably every one of us tends in at least a direction of one of these extremes. There are some of us who have a hard time imagining God actually blessing us Actually conveying, speaking, conveying his love and favor toward us. And there are others of us that can't imagine him withholding his favor from us, withholding his blessing from us. These folks would be surprised that God would not bless us no matter how we've lived. The first tendency would be found in people who can easily picture Christ as Lord. But can't really imagine him in the role of Savior. We can't imagine that he would truly love us to the place where he would spend himself for us. God will deal with these kinds of people by calling upon them to believe what he says about his love, to believe. God means every word he says about his love for his children. And it may take a while to get it through our thick heads. But he does expect us to take it by faith that Christ truly does love his children and he wants to bless them. The second tendency is found in people who like the idea of Christ as Savior, but have never really grasped the concept of Christ as Lord. They believe that God loves them and has a wonderful plan for their lives, but they don't grasp the holiness of God. They don't get the idea that Christ saves people to issue in the process of them becoming obedient servants of his for their good and for cr for God's glory. God will get these people's attention often when their lives fall apart and they're convicted of their sin. Whatever the case here, here was Christ doing his last act as an inhabitant of this planet, at least for now. And what he was doing was granting a blessing upon his children. Isn't that like Christ? Doesn't that sum up his love for us? The last thing he does is blesses his children. Verse 51. Now it came to pass while he blessed them that he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. So while Christ was in the middle of blessing these people And he's got his hands up. Probably as he was still talking, he was carried up into heaven. Acts says he was taken. It looks like this is something that his father did to Christ rather than something Christ did to himself. Isn't it good to know that this same fate awaits us? We don't know exactly how it all works out. But we do know that we will be risen from the dead and we will rise. How and to where? Does it really matter? That it will happen is the most important thing. We don't need to live like those around us who have no hope. Those who don't believe anyone will ever move in their behalf after death. We have a wonderful and certain hope that Christ will move and he will move us. On our behalf. And just as the Father raised Christ from the dead and then into heaven, we too will be raised to a spot of never-ending blessing. Verse 52, and they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. The word used for worship here means literally to kiss the hand. To kiss the hand. It's normally used to show reverence, respect, or to make supplication. It's the inferior bowing to the superior. It's the showing the homage to one of superior rank. These people understood the Lordship of Jesus Christ. They understood his right to rule in their lives. And as Christ raised from their presence, they understood what it all meant. This was the Lord Jesus Christ that was raising. Their lives would be forever lived in submission to that master. We sometimes think we are worshiping God by having good and positive feelings toward God. That's how we define worship. We might start our worship first by asking ourselves, do we recognize Christ as the rightful master of every area of our lives? Do we view our lives as slaves to the dictator of Christ? Does he have the right to tell us how to think and how to live? Does he have the right to s to say do this and don't do this The kind of worship that these believers were giving starts there. That's the starting point for that kind of worship. It goes farther than that. It appreciates all of the attributes of our wonderful Savior, but it begins with respectful submission to His Lordship. That's the kind of worship they had. And look what's coupled with that worship. These people were returning without Jesus to a place that they were very familiar with. It may be the same upper room that Christ had communion with them before his crucifixion. They were without Christ, but they had great joy. They had great joy because they had seen Christ ascend to heaven and they knew where Christ was going. Now let's jump to Acts to pick up some nuances that Luke left out. Acts 1, 9 through 14, it says, Now when he had spoken these things, while they watched, he was taken up, and a crowd and a cloud received him out of their sight. Luke wrote both the Gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts, but when writing in Acts, he gives more detail than he gave in the Gospel of Luke. It's quite likely that's how he had it planned. He was going to finish up with the second book and and so he embellishes it a little there. If it were written today, one might think that he did this to sell more copies of his second book. But we know that wasn't Luke's motivation. While the disciples were watching, Christ was taken up and he disappeared into a cloud. My guess is that this was done for dramatic effect. Think about it. Christ could have easily disappeared. I mean he'd been doing that. They're used to it by now. Well, I don't know if they ever got used to it, but they had experienced it, so they knew what it was like. But how encouraging to the believers would it have been if the last thing they see of him is him just disappearing like he had before? God was doing something different here, I think, in an effort to make the point to these guys that Christ is now gone. Gone, gone. He isn't gonna pop back in like he has been When he comes back, it won't be in the center of a locked room with no one's notice secretly. No, when Christ comes back this time, it's going to be the biggest deal ever. No one's arrival will ever be more dramatic and climactic. than when Christ returns. So I think his leaving was done in a dramatic way to let them understand the next thing that happens is going to be pretty dramatic as well. And verse 10. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel. These guys are showing up everywhere. The word for looked steadfastly means that they were just staring into the sky for a long period of time. It's the air is tense, so it is once and done. They looked and they just kept looking and they just kept looking and they fixed their minds on it. Now just think about what these guys had experienced They were just fishermen for the most part. They lived the first however many years of their lives doing the routine, the day-to-day routine, probably never thinking that they would do anything more than fish. And they had seen things that no one in Earth's history had ever seen before. They had been privy to what the God of heavens was doing on planet Earth. These eleven Simple guys. They had lived at the spiritual apex of all redemptive history. Wow. Here was the one that they loved, respected, and probably feared, leaving them for the last time, at least for a while. It was the end of life as they had come to know it. It had to be very difficult watching him go. He was their security, their direction, their mentor, their philosopher, their spiritual guide, their corrector He was all that and more. And he's leaving. So there they all stand, probably looking up with their jaws gaping. And here come the angels again. Suddenly the angels are standing there as part of the crowd. Now I doubt that these fictionmen and friends ever really got used to heavenly beings showing up whenever they felt like it. And sometimes they would glow, sometimes they didn't. Don't know why. This is probably still a little bit eerie to them. Here are the men in white apparel, and they may or may not have known they were angels right off the bat. Or maybe by now they're getting to recognize them. I don't know. Verse 11, who also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. Notice that they addressed these guys as men of Galilee. Remember that all of Christ's disciples were from the Galilee region, except for Judah, or Judas, who is from Judea. So all the eleven that are left are all from Galilee. So it was accurate. Now the angel asks, why do you stand gazing up in the heaven? It 's like, what are you looking at? Remember another question that the angels had recently asked? Why do you look for the living among the dead? They're good at asking good questions. That was a mild rebuke when they asked it the first time, and so is this. This gaze that the disciples were doing was a long gaze, the kind you would have if you were losing somebody. When I read what the angel's question here was, I think of Carla when she'll ask me, don't you have something better to do? There are things implied in that. She usually asks me that when she thinks that my current endeavor may not be as important as some of the things that may be on her list. So the angels might be inferring, why are you wasting time looking at something that's no longer there? Why do you stand there looking into space? You can see he's gone Now, the angel didn't just ask the question. He gives an answer as to why the question might be appropriate. He gives them more details to base better decisions on. He effectively tells them something that they could better be doing than staring into space. And then he says, this same Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. We learn several things here. We learn where Christ went, we learned Christ's coming back, and we learned the method of his return. That's extremely helpful information for these disciples. I would think they already assumed that Christ was being taken into heaven to be with his Father. This confirms that. And they heard that Christ would return, but knowing how Christ was going to return is very useful information for them. Christ is not going to show off in one of their meetings again someday. It isn't going to be a casual event. His return is going to be very visible, just like his departure was. Now, Christ had already told these guys this before, but we know that the disciples weren't always the best rememberers of what Christ had said. And the review was probably helpful. But in Luke 17, 22 through 25, this is something probably the Holy Spirit brought back to their memory after a while. Verse 22, then he said to his disciples, The days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. And they will say to you, Look here or look there for the Messiah. Don't go after them or follow them. For as the lightning that flashes out of one part under heaven shines to the other part under heaven, So also the Son of Man will be in his day. But he first must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. Basically, Christ is saying here, You're not gonna miss it when I come back There's nothing subtle about what Christ describes here. When Christ returns, the world will know it. Matthew 24, 30. Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Matthew 26, 64. Jesus said to him, It is as you said, Nevertheless I say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming on the clouds of heaven. And then Revelation 1, 7 and 8 says, Behold, he is coming with clouds, and every eye will see him, even they who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. Even so, amen. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, says the Lord, who is and was, and who is to come, the Almighty. And then Zechariah 14. 4 prophesies that not only will Christ return like he departed, he will come back where he departed. Zechariah 14,4 says, And in that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which faces Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two. From east to west, making a very large valley. Half of the mountains shall move toward the north and the other half to the south. One thing is for sure: Christ will return I saw a bumper sticker once that said, Christ is coming back soon. Look busy. And while that was intended to be funny, the truth is that since Christ is coming back We have a lot to be busy about. We have a lot of reason to be busy. And I think that these angels were inferring as much. There is much to be done to prepare for the Lord's return. We have a mission to carry out, and we studied that last week or the week before. That's one of the last things that Christ told his disciples before he left. So it isn't like the mission is over for these disciples or us because Christ left. The truth is the crux of their ministry was just about to begin. Things are going to get very interesting very quickly. There's an obvious application point here for us. Do we expect Christ to return? Do we expect Christ to return? When's the last time we thought about that? When is the last time as we were thinking out our lives? that we we factored into that, this anticipation that Christ will return And if he if we believe he's going to return, do we live as if he will? That's that's the better gauge of whether we really believe it or not. Do we live as if we really expect the one who will reward us, the one who will bless us when he sees us, the one who loves us Better than we'll ever love our children, do we live in such a way that it makes sense, it's congruent with him coming back to take us You know, it's interesting. The most important applications in Scripture are never complicated ones. They're extremely simple. The Christian life is basically a remembering of a few simple facts and adjusting accordingly. Living for Christ's return is from cover to cover. It's fairly simple, but I don't think we'll ever end up fully applying it until he does. And verse 12. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath stage's journey. And when they had entered, they went up into the upper room where they were staying Peter, James, John, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James, the son of Alphaus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas, the son of James These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and the Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. I hope this upper room was pretty big. That's a lot of people. And these people were staying there. Women, how would you feel if you were housing all of these people? And notice who's there too. We have the disciples, and we would have expected that. And the women can't be left out. They were as loyal to Christ as loyal could be. And Christ has already shown that he likes to sometimes reveal himself through the ladies, singling out their importance in the whole scheme of things And then we have Mary, the mother of Jesus, and John is there as well. You never see the two apart after this, I don't believe. But there's a surprise here, and it isn't one that I remembered. Jesus' brothers were here as well. Now remember that Christ's brothers did not believe on him early on. They did not believe on Christ mid-ministry. Well, in 1 Corinthians we saw last week that Christ revealed himself to James. That's probably James, the brother of Christ. As a result of that, probably James believed and then so did the rest of his brothers. So they finally got the point that their brother was not just some religious fanatic. He was Christ himself. He was God in the flesh. He was powerful. He was raised from the dead. So they believed. If you're in a family where not everyone believes in Christ, never give up. You never know what God may accomplish. What we have here are Christ's closest followers. And look at them. What an unlikely group to build the Christian church upon. But here they are all together. And look what they're doing. Look how they are living. And now we'll hop back to Luke for a little bit of information as well. So at Acts 1. 14 it says, These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication. And then Luke 24, 53 says, And they worshipped him with great joy and were continually in the trump temple praising and blessing God. What we see here is what happens when God grips the life of a person. This is what happens when they have true faith. This is what happens when they love Christ and they really expect that he is going to return. Look at this one statement. These all continued with one accord. And you almost won't say. The eleven disciples in one accord? You know, I'd never seen that before You know, we had them fighting the whole time they were together with Christ, talking about who's greatest, not exactly one accord. It's like eleven accords. But uh here we have all in one accord. If you want to see evidence of a miracle, here it is All of these people shared the same priority, the same mindset. They were unanimous in their decision making It's hard enough to get that in a marriage between two people. Here it is in a church. No wonder they could all live in the same room. They were all in one accord. These people got pure Christianity at its finest. They were all walking with the mind of Christ, and they hadn't even had the chance to read Philippians yet. Philippians 1. 27 says, Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit. with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. And then Philippians two, two through eight It says, Fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. taking the form of a bond servant and coming in the liken well the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. When Christ is the Lord in the lives of the believers at Ferndale Church, we have this potential, this capacity. We too can place the good of Christ and the good of each other above our own personal interests. And we can know one thing for certain. When that happens, God is at work in those people. That kind of Christianity isn't fake and it isn't hypocritical. It's an attitude that comes about as a result of a miracle. The changed life that can only happen when God works in us and on us and through us Then it says, these all continued with one accord in prayer. They were also in prayer. They were talking to God. Why? Maybe just because they missed him. They missed his presence. These men actually knew what it was to talk to God on a daily basis. They'd done it for three years. Now they need to pray instead of just talk. Now they need to pray to ask Christ what to do next, what to do now. They had to ask Christ for guidance. They had to ask Christ for wisdom. They prayed. And churches who are serious about their mission have always prayed, individually and corporately. We still meet at our house on Tuesday evenings at 7 p. m. if at any time you want to pray together. But even if you don't want to do it together, it's vital that we're all calling out upon God. If the disciples needed Christ, we certainly need him more. And it goes on, and we're continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Now this opportunity is not going to last forever. But for now, they're going to go where God has made his presence known in the past. But it's interesting. I wonder what they made of the temple curtain being ripped. You know, as they're in the curtain, uh as they're in the temple, they're n they're understanding the significance, I think. But maybe they're thinking too in the back of their mind, I wonder how long this is gonna last. Because the temple 's not what it was before. This is not the place where God says, I am in it. I am here. You find me here. It's not that anymore. Did they understand that it was becoming in less and less a special building Maybe they did. But it was the center for worship for God at that point. That's what the temple had always been for these people. So they go back to the temple and they worship God. They worship Christ. But think about what they were probably saying while they're doing it. You know, if they're doing this out loud, if they're worshiping out loud, do you think these people could worship God without bringing up the name of Jesus? You know, there's just no s no chance of that. These followers were probably proclaiming the name of Jesus at the religious center of the Jewish nation. They're doing a work to prepare for revival, and they probably have no idea that's what's happening Remember they were told not to uh not to start preaching yet, but to wait. But uh I I I would think that bystanders were getting a message about Christ even before they began to preach. They were just being genuine with their heartfelt worship toward God, and what a wonderful thing that is. Now we can't end our study of Mark without comparing where the followers of Christ ended up. At the end of Mark, and where we've ended up. Here are a group of very divergent individuals And what has the influence of Christ, even before Pentecost, produced in them? They are continually in one accord in prayer, praising and blessing God. Continually in one accord, in prayer, praising and blessing God If someone was watching us and listening to our private conversations and seeing what we do when nobody is looking, would anyone describe us saying they were continually in one accord? In prayer, praising and blessing God, would that even begin to be how they would describe us? In one accord, in prayer, praising and blessing God How would they describe us? If it's different than these people who had just fully experienced the grace of Christ. Maybe this is a good time for repentance. It's a good time for change. It's time to begin to be enthralled again with our Savior. It's time to direct our lives into the only purpose that exists forever. What do you think? Is that a good application for us? We don't want to leave this book without ending up where the people in it did. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you for revealing to us so much in your gospels. And we get to see your heart in the in the matter. And we get to see with great clarity what you do in the lives of people and what happens when we honestly believe the amazing truths That you told us and showed us. We ask that you would break our hearts with our wickedness. We ask that you would pierce our hearts with our sin. And that we would surrender wholeheartedly in such a fashion that you live through us, and it's evident to anyone looking on, that we bear the fruit of your spirit. That we represent you well to this world who certainly needs to see you and hear you. And that we would love one another the way that you love us. Lord, we know when these things happen, they're not a result of human effort, but they're a result of spiritual change that only comes from you. So we ask that you would produce these things in our lives in a day-to-day fashion Help us to submit to master Lord Jesus Christ and live like we began this year with. As if you are still here with us, because you say that you are. Help us to live cultivating your presence Seeing you here and living in a way that will please you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.