Last week we talked about the diversity of the crowd, and we continue seeing the crowd's reaction this morning. To get the most out of this text, you've got to listen to what Jesus says and then listen to what the crowd is saying. And it gives us a better flavor of what's really happening here. Jesus, remember last week he had yelled out his invitation to everyone to come to him if they thirst. He's yelling it to them. They'll have the pleasure of true satisfaction of their thirst for God. Their souls will be filled with what? Their souls were made to be filled up. Christ is the only thing that can quench that thirst. So Christ calls out to everyone. Now, how does someone drink of Christ? The imagery is moving. Come to me, you who are thirsty, and drink of me, but what does that mean, really? What verse 38 tells us Verse 38, whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of Flow rivers of living water. So we come to Christ. And we come to Christ thirsty to be right with God, having that in us. Oh, we we've got to have this. We've got to have this. We want. To be right with God. We want peace with God. We want fellowship with God. We're thirsty to have our forgiveness of our sins. We want our sins That burden that we bear of guilt, we want that relief. And we want to escape all the ugliness that comes along with our sin. The stuff that makes us cringe about ourselves. We want forgiven of that. So we drink. And how we drink is we believe in Christ. That is how you drink in Christ. You believe in him. The next imagery is important. It tells us much about the Christian life. When you and I are parts for physical water and we get to a fountain, after we drink, when we walk away, do we have water bubbling up from inside of us? So that's coming out of her ears and her nose and her eyes. Yeah. That idea, I mean, it's silly. It's it's ridiculous. No, when we drink, we get full of water. It gets stored inside of us like a big water bottle, and then our body uses the water, we empty a water, and then we have to find another spring or another fountain or whatever. Well, Christ is telling us here, that's not how spiritual thirst works. When we believe in Christ, we don't get a bottle of water inside of us. We don't get a bottle of Jesus. We get a spring inside of us. In other words, we aren't just the container of the water that will eventually get used up and needs refilled. We become a source of water for other people to drink from. In Bible times, when they said living water, they were describing a spring as opposed to a pond. So that's what we become when we believe. The Holy Spirit is continually filling us and then flowing over to others We become so enamored over what Christ did for us that we can't help but speak to others. We can't help it. We love others, we encourage others, we show mercy to others, and it's just coming out of us as a result of our experience with Christ and His goodness. And the wonder of that relationship, we show kindness to each other. We share with others how to have their spiritual needs quenched As well, that's coming out of us as a result of what God has put into us. We become a source of the Holy Spirit in our environment. The Holy Spirit fills us, and the Holy Spirit overfills us. And he keeps doing it. And we can quench that. We can be disobedient and rebellious and we can stop that overtall. But in order to not quench it, we just remain obedient to him. Receiving of him. Obeying what he says. Saying yes. Do you see this in your life? As you look at your life and your relationships with others, do you see this? Are you constantly searching for how you can be of service to others? I mean, you just find yourself doing. Do you see yourself reaching out in ways that you wouldn't have done maybe 10 years ago? You see yourself getting putting yourself in more uncomfortable spots because you know in that uncomfortable spot you could be of help to someone else. Do you initiate conversations? Do you pray more for others than you finally used to? Service to Christ isn't so much determined by what we do as much as why we do what we do. Where you see yourself reaching out to meet the needs of others, if it's dun because of your relationship with Christ, because the overflow of that relationship with Christ, that is evidence that you believe in Christ. That's what he does in people's lives. He overflows. He takes his spirit and he runs it through us. Those are his fingerprints in our lives. Those are being places of encouragement as you see those in your life. And you look at it and you say, boy, that doesn't look like me. That's what Jesus does. He overflows his grace toward you to his grace toward those around you. And that's a beautiful, beautiful thing to behold. Now, the next thing Jesus said is a little bit tricky Verse 39. Now he said this about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive. For as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not glorified. Not yet, glorified. What's not tricky is understanding that he's talking about the Holy Spirit. What is tricky is understanding the Holy Spirit's work throughout time. In other words, was the Holy Spirit not here at all? And then the Holy Spirit suddenly showed up at Pentecost? And it would appear that way from this verse if this is the only verse we have. But we just studied this other verse, verse 63. It's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. Okay, a person cannot have eternal life without the work of the Holy Spirit. That's what this verse is telling us A person can't have eternal life without the work of the Spirit. Christ just said that. Scripture tells us in Hebrews that we have a crowd of witnesses in heaven, essentially, Old Testament saints. who are in eternity. However, that is in eternity. They they are in eternity. They're a crowd of witnesses. And they were obviously if they're a crowd of witnesses, and they're, you know, after they're dead, if they're witnessing after they're dead, well they pretty well have to be alive forever. They have to have been given life How did they get the life? They had to get the life through the Holy Spirit. How can that be if the Spirit was not yet active on the planet because Christ had not left yet? That's one of those verses that we've got to refer to the context of all of Scripture to understand. One of the things that we find helpful is in John 14, 16 and 17. And it says this, and I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be with you forever. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him. His present tense. He's talking to the disciples. You know this Holy Spirit. For he dwells with you and will be in you. So Jesus is saying in John 14 that the Spirit already dwells with his disciples. Well, how can he dwell with them if he's not there yet? He's not absent. There are many other references, and here are just a couple. Remember when Peter made his good confession, as opposed to The dumb things that he said, he made his good confession. Jesus tells Peter that he received the information from his father. Normally that would be by means of the Holy Spirit. That is how God communicates with us. Matthew 16, 17. And Jesus answered them, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonh, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you. What's the other alternative? My Father who is in heaven. Who gives life? The Spirit Again in Luke 2, 26, about Simeon getting to see the Messiah, verse 26, and it had been revealed to Simeon by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord of Christ. Again, how could the Holy Spirit have talked to Simeon if the Holy Spirit was not yet here? The Holy Spirit was active on planet Earth prior to Christ's ascension. We know that anyone who responded to Christ in saving faith had to have been moved upon by the Holy Spirit. And even the one that was saved in the Old Testament had to be moved upon by the Holy Spirit. Scripture tells us that has to be the case in everyone's salvation. So the question arises, well then what really happened at Pentecost? If the Holy Spirit was here, what really happened? And uh I found a quote from John Piper and I really liked it. He says before Pentecost, the Holy Spirit's presence was selective, temporary, and often tied to special roles or tasks. It was limited. After Pentecost, the Spirit was poured out universally on all believers. Bringing permanent indwelling, empowerment permission, and the birth of the church. That's the difference between the Old Testament and prior to Christ's ascension and after Christ ascended. I think that's the best concise explanation. So we should not think that the Holy Spirit was not actively saving people prior to Christ's ascension. But the scope of the Holy Spirit's involvement changed dramatically at Pentecost. We have been given a smorgasbord of Holy Spirit as compared to what the Old Testament believes. We have been enriched amazingly. I mean, none of us ever lived during that time, uh, obviously. So it's difficult for us to know how we would experience it differently if we were an Old Testament saint. Or we are like we are. All I can tell from scripture is we are amazingly gifted with Holy Spirit presence that You know, you read it and you think, man, we ought to really be taking advantage of this. This is a resource that we really ought to be leaning into. Alright, so this brings us back to looking at the various opinions of the crowd. Verse 40. When they heard these words, some of the people said this is really a problem. Others said this is the Christ. But some said is Christ coming from Galilee? Has not the scripture said Christ comes from the offspring of David, it comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was? So there was a division among the people. Alright, we dealt previously with the prophecy about a coming prophet. Deuteronomy 18 gives us that that reference that these people that you really didn't know how to understand it. It was actually a messianic prophecy. We know that now, but they didn't understand all of that. They couldn't have. They didn't have enough information. So here the people are saying that Christ is the prophet prophesied, and they may have been implying that's all he is. He's just that prophet. But that's something. That's a big deal. He 's the prophet, but that's all. Others were saying, no, he's the real deal. He's the Messiah we've been looking for. But then there were some who knew their scripture, and they knew that Jesus had to come from Bethlehem. And they didn't know that Christ was from Bethlehem. They knew he had to be in the line of David, and Christ was of the line of David, but they didn't know that he was. At this point, all they needed to do was ask Jesus some questions. They only needed to ask him some questions. Now granted it might have been hard to get into his presence, but I can you imagine Christ rejecting a sincere follower for asking this necessary Doctrinal point to Jesus. Jesus, where were you born? I can't imagine Jesus not telling them This leads me to believe that these scriptural know-it-alls were probably among the scoffers. They were quick to believe and then try to prove that Jesus is not the Christ. Had they wanted to follow Christ, I believe they would have been driven to find Christ and ask him these legitimate questions. They were easy to distract with something they didn't know. Verse 43. So there was a division among the people over them over him. Okay, and this it this division of the people over him, we're not told if the division was between true followers. and skeptics and scoffers, it looks to me more like there were differences of opinions. Differences of opinions. Like if if you ask a bunch of Steelers fans Who the best player was in Steelers history. There'd be a division, but it's not a spiritual one And this looks to me like the same kind of thing. It's a bunch of different people with a bunch of different opinions sitting around talking about it. Opinions don't generate, they don't grant eternal life. Your opinion about God does not grant eternal life. Faith inspired by the Spirit that drives the person to be willing to commit one's life to Christ That's how a person is saved. By grace through faith. And that faith produces results in a person's life that are commitment. Opinions don't carry any weight. You need the right one. It's a necessity, you need the right opinion, but the right opinion without life commitment is worthless. Verse 44, some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him. I'm guessing the ones that wanted to arrest him were probably the officers of the temple that we see in the next verse. They would be the only ones that were authorized to arrest Jesus. So when it says some of them, well these are guys, it's their young. Verse 45, the officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, Why didn't you bring him? And the officers answered, No one ever spoke like this man. This scene is so easy to imagine. The leaders look at the officers coming into the building, but there's no Jesus. The leaders ask, all right, so where is he? And the officers fumble around a little and say a little sheepishly, we couldn't do it. We couldn't do it. We couldn't bring ourselves to arrest it. Why? Well, there's no one Why can't this we you know if we were going out to arrest a normal guy, we'd he'd be here, you know, twenty minutes ago. But this Jesus is different. He's not an ordinary man. They actually, what they actually say is no one ever spoke like this man. No one ever spoke Spoke like this man. These officers, they were not just soldiers. I didn't know that. In order to be what they were, they also had to be scholars. They were religiously trained Levites. And they just couldn't listen to Christ and drag him in. Their consciences wouldn't allow it. That's the only reason they would not have arrested him. They could have. They don't blame their reluctance on the crowd for not bringing Christ in. They don't blame their circumstances. for not bringing Christ in. They blamed it on the content that Jesus was speaking. Basically in their minds, Christ could not say what he was saying and be guilty of what the leadership was accusing him of. They knew he was an innocent man. Now these guys are in a bind. They want to keep their jobs. It's probably a pretty good job, but at the same time, they are taken back by Christ. They don't commit, but they don't betray him either. They don't commit their lives to Christ, but they don't betray Christ either. They're sort of on the fence. Well that's not going to last long. You don't last long on this kind of offense. They're either going to need to make a costly stand for Christ, or they are going to serve the leadership's bid. They will end up being all in or all out. Life will drive us that way. God sees to it. We have the opportunity, if we aren't in Christ, to come to him. But we can't sit on a fence forever. We have got to either commit or be driven from him, and that's what's going on here with these guys. There are some jobs that are best walked away from. Now watch the Pharisees barrage against these officers. Watch the wickedness and their departure from reason here This is what you can expect from those who hate Christ. In fact, you can expect this kind of pseudo-logic from anyone who hates anything. You could call it the reasoning of hatred. Verse 47. The Pharisees answered them, have you also been deceived? Now, if the Pharisees were truth seekers, this is not what they would have said. It's like, you know, last time, you have a demon. You know, it's not useful in discovering what truth is. They would have asked, what did Christ say? Why did that affect you the way that it did? What does Scripture say about all this? Does it mash? Does it contradict? But truth wasn't the goal here. Their agenda is already set. Now these officers at this point are going to need to go by their consciences or they're going to need to fold and do the bidding of their leaders and they're going to need to do it pretty promptly. I don't know how it's done. But we need to train ourselves to follow Christ in circumstances like this. We need to make a stand quickly and firmly and always be willing to walk away or to die if called to in these kinds of circumstances. These officers should have said, I quit. Or they should have defended Christ, or they should have done something. We don't know what happened. Hopefully some of them did. But if if if we don't, if we don't learn to stand up to this kind of thing, we are going to get an onslaught of false reasoning. The leaders continue. Verse 48, have any of the authorities of the Pharisees believed in him? Okay, this is a reasoning fallacy. A logical fallacy called an appeal to authority. Appeal to authority. The argument is that we should do this thing or believe this thing because the experts do this thing or believe this thing. In this case, in the case in the text, it's the reverse side of this logic. We should not do this thing because the experts don't do this thing. The officers should not believe in Christ because the experts don't believe in it. That's the argument. And this kind of Uh uh kind of it's kind of like a reasoning that says that we should believe in evolution because so many scientists believe in evolution. It's that kind of argument. Or we should take the COVID shock. So many doctors say it's good. It's that kind of thing. This weak argument does not ask if something is true or not. It doesn't ask if something is right or not. It's just referring to other people's opinions that are, at the end of the day, of no value. It does not prove anything logically. It doesn't look at the real issue. Verse 49, but this crowd that does not know the law is a curse. This crowd that does not know the law is a curse. This is an ad hominem fallacy. This attacks the person rather than the ideas that the person holds. Again, it's of no benefit when trying to discover or uncover truth. The leaders are slamming the crowd as being ignorant and damned. Nothing is said again about what Jesus is saying. They don't want to talk about what Jesus is saying. They don't want to talk about his message. Because they know they're going to be in trouble if they do. Nothing is said about whether a specific statement Jesus said is true or false. The leaders are using their political power. Nothing else. There is nothing right about how they are approaching this. Or there is nothing sincere about how they are approaching Now, on the other hand, verse 50, Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them, Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does? Finally, one of the sincere leaders stands up for truth. That's the side we want to be on. Whenever anything like this happens, this is the side you want to be on. Nicodemus was someone who had already been schooled by Christ. Remember that? I think he was humbled by Christ. Others have different opinions of that. That's not so so significant. But Nicodemus, if he had been operating in the flesh, And even if Christ didn't didn't treat him as an equal, which I'm fairly sure that might prove that, even if Christ didn't prove him as an equal, the flesh would say, that's offensive to me. You didn't treat me like I'm important. It'd be easy for a Nicodemus to want vengeance on Christ. But Nicodemus doesn't. He says we need to go about doing the only right thing there is to do here. We've got to do the right thing. He doesn't get sidetracked into arguing about whether Christ is right or not Because he knows. He knows his his buddies here. He knows these guys. He knows they're already running down that train and they're not going to be sidetracked So he uses a different approach. Our law demands a hearing. And that's not a suggestion. If the law demands a hearing, you've got to give this man a hearing. You've got to do it that way. There's no other option. Whether Christ is right or wrong, we have to allow him a chance to present his case. The law says something. Their law did not judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what was being truly said and done The Jewish law was actually pretty good. I think we get some of our legal system from it. It assumed innocence until proven guilty. It's difficult to realize this, but there's a whole lot of places you can go in the world that their legal system is built different than that. You're considered guilty until proven innocent But not not with the Jewish system. And these leaders had zero intentions of doing the right thing. Any onlooker should have been able to tell that none of this was being done in a way that represented God's interests. They were not being God's people here. Anyone would know that they were doing what was evil and lawless for bad motives. Anyone could see that it was not being driven by a desire for justice. There was another motive at play. It wasn't for justice. Now it would have been very clear that what Nicodemus was appealing for would have been very unpopular with this crowd. He knows when he says this, they're not going to want to hear it. He probably could guess how it was going to pan out, but Nicodemus made a stand for justice, and Nicodemus made a stand for Christ here. And that's what the officers were going to need to do if they weren't going to play a part in going with the crowd and going out and fetching Jesus a couple nights later. Now, the reasonable response at this point would have been to have a discussion about what the law actually requires. But these leaders were probably fully aware that Nicodemus was absolutely right. And they weren't about to allow what's right to interfere with their plans. Fleshly motives were running everything at this point. There would be a pretense of justice, but justice would not be given free reign. Christ was going to die, that was the goal, and truth be damned. We need to take a warning from this. Be very careful in any area in your life where you begin thinking this way. Be careful to never allow yourself to think, I don't care what is right. Because I want this thing so badly. I don't care what is right, because I want this thing so badly. I don't think there's probably anyone in this room who has not violated that. There are too many things in our lives where we have said yes to, knowing full well that they were wrong to do. That's Pharisee living. That's Pharisee reasoning. That's Christ killing reasoning. It is deadly. And we need to wean that response from our lives before it destroys us. It is that that serious So this is their response. They replied, Are you from Galilee too? Oh that that's that's helpful. You know, that's really good. Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. Have you ever been having an argument and questions asked that has absolutely nothing to do with any point that's been discussed in the whole argument? In fact, it's just an insult intended to show you that you're inferior to the one you're arguing with, so you might as well give up the child. That's what this was Have you ever heard a teacher say every every question is a good question? That's the dumbest thing I ever heard. Every question is not a good question. This was not a good question. This was insincerely designed for harm. What does the interim galilee have to do with what the law requires? Nothing. Nicodemus' question is legitimate and truth-seeking. Their question is a manipulation and a scam. But they've got the power, and Nicodemus doesn't have the power, and he can't make them hold a trial. He doesn't have the power to do that. But used his voice the best he could. And there's an example for us to follow. Speak up for the truth. Speak up for right. Do what you can to prevent injustices against people. That might mean you are the one that silences gossip. It might mean you stand up for someone in a tough situation. You don't need to be successful. You don't need to turn the tide. But do what you can. Use the influence you can, use your circumstances as you can You're never going to be sorry for doing the right thing, but you're often going to regret not doing it. Now, about Galilee, these leaders were ignorant. They thought they knew more than they did. Their question was absolutely irrelevant. No, no prophet arises from Galilee. So what? Do your jobs, guys. Find out where Jesus was born. Isn't it interesting that this is a crucial fact and there isn't a single instance of anyone ever asking Jesus where he was born that I know of. If you know, let me know later. It's a legitimate question. But those who believed in him didn't seem to need to know. And those who they hated Christ, it wouldn't have made any difference to. But we fortunately know because the scripture writer told us that he was from Bethlehem. He met, he crossed all the, he checked all the boxes. Verse 53. And then they went each to his own house. I mentioned this verse last week, but it strikes me again as being so profound. I mean, you might think, well, what's so profound about going home? But I wonder if the Lord was writing this book uh in twenty twenty five in America, if if it wouldn't go something like this. I gave them the word each Sunday, and I made clear to them how they could better please me and how they could have more peace peace and joy, how they could have more of the presence in my life, how they could be more useful to my kingdom, how they could enjoy me daily more. I I gave this to them every week and they each went to their own house with little change. We're all in this together. I'm not just talking to you, I wish I was. If we were as holy as the teachings we've heard. Or read, or even taught. I better lives would look a lot different than they do. Now we can't start where we wish we were. We can't even start where we should be. We can only ever start each day where we are. What should we do to make most application in our lives, in our weeks, so that what the Lord gives us gets used during the week and not forgotten. Not put on a shelf. Not put aside so we can move on to the next thing. That consideration of how we can better capitalize on the truth that we learned and know could make a big difference in our lives. It's not even the little things done over and over again that make the biggest difference. So the going to our own houses means we're going home and we're changing. We're carrying with us that seed of change that the Lord has given us that week. Let's pray. Lord, we're so grateful that you have revealed so much to us in your word. Lord help us this day to implement a plan to apply your word that you give us weekly if we don't already have a plan. You've given us so much from your word. We have eaten such a rich smorgasbord of your food. Help us to make the applications that you convict us of while we're sitting under your word. Lord, we want to please you. That is our goal. We love you. We want to do what you want us to. We want the changes to happen in our lives that more and more and more to make us look like Jesus. Lord, we want that. Help us. Help us to obey, Lord. And Lord, help us to see the things that you've been doing in our lives. Help us to see the things that are different about us, how what you have done in our hearts overflows into the lives of others. Helps us to see that and to give you the praise because we know those changes come from you. You're the living water that we drink from. And Lord help us to be quick about making a stand for you, especially when it's for others. Help us not to waver in the middle. But help us to stand for you no matter what the price. We want to be the ones counted as followers of you, not just people with the right opinion. And Lord, we pray again for Jack and Karen and Darla and Teresa and the rest of the family. family. We ask, Lord God, that you would provide them with the truths that they need as they are facing this dark time. And uh Lord, we thank you for the assurance of salvation that you grant through your word and through your spirit, and we ask that that assurance would be a uh a solid rock that uh that while um while the suffering is occurring that they can be absolutely certain And that that that one obstacle to peace and joy can be uh be removed so they can deal with every Else in its proper sphere. We ask all these things in Jesus' name.