Well this morning we're going to look at what it means to represent Christ. Mark didn't report on this this communication of Christ in as great a detail, but Matthew did. Matthew 9, 35 through 11, verse 1. Matthew 9, verse 35 through 11, verse 1. Mark's short narrative communicates the main facts. But as we read Matthew, we get the feel for what this event would really have been like for the disciples. Gives us much more detail. So I'd like to refer to Matthew this morning, and by covering the text in Matthew, we will by default cover the text in Mark. Now Matthew starts out with a statement that helps us to understand what drove Christ to send the disciples out. We see Christ's motivation for what he does in Mark. Matthew 9, 35, it says, Then Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them because they were weary and scattered, like sheep having no shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. This is what he said before he sent them out. What this paragraph tells us is Christ's reaction to seeing people without spiritual leadership. Note where this arose. Christ was out in the field. He was working. He was paying a high price, a high cost to do ministry to people who needed it. Even if they weren't aware of their great need for it. Christ was not in an ivory tower, and he certainly could have been, who had a better ivory tower than heaven? He was not separated with distance from those that he ministered to. He was accessible to the needs of the people, and I'm sure he paid a heavy price for that. As such, he serves as our perfect example. Verse 36. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were weary and scattered like sheep having no shepherd. Then Christ looked at the multitudes. He's in them, he's surrounded by them, and now he looks at them. Keep in mind that these were the multitudes who were following him. They were multitudes who wanted his time. They wanted his attention. They wanted his power. They wanted his ministry. They were needy people who often took but rarely gave. These were the people who Christ saw. Now, how do we respond in that kind of situation? Does their need tug at our hearts when we see the multitudes around us who are sort of demanding our attention, wanting what we have? Does their need, is that the first thing that strikes us? Their need? Do we see their need and ponder how we can meet it? Or do we see their need and hear the need and get irritated? Do we want to distance ourselves from all these needs so we'll feel better and enjoy our lives more? Do we act overwhelmed by them? Do we wish that they would just go away? Do we want to delegate the need so that we can meet it at a more convenient time? Or do we just sit back figuring that someone else is supposed to meet those needs, aren't they? We are all doing something with the need that we see. And usually the most deceptive thing we do is to fool ourselves with our own sentimentality. We'll see a clear need. We'll see that there is opportunity for us to serve. There is a need that needs to be met. Even if it's just to show up and be there, we see the need, but we do nothing. And we'll talk about the need with much concern, might even pray about it. In fact We'll fool ourselves with concern, but we will not put feet to our concern. We'll not discover something we can do to meet that need, anything. And when we're done, we replace being loving with feeling loving. As if they're equal. As if they're both true. And at the end of the day, that is not love. If Christ had loved us like that, we would still be lost. If Christ loved us with sentimentality and not action, we would have no way of getting rid of our sin. Maybe I'm talking mostly to myself this morning. I know I am talking to myself. Maybe it's mostly to me, maybe not. Because I know clear instances where I could and should do better. There are places where I know of needs, but I feel that any wisdom I have is inadequate to meet that need. I feel so awkward in so many social s uh settings. And I may very well face rejection for for taking that step. It's so very uncomfortable. And after all, aren't there a lot more qualified people out there than me? And really no one is calling me and asking for this help, so wouldn't I just be intruding? Does any of that sound familiar Any of that script running through your brain? Is that what plays in your head too? Well, all that might make sense, except for the example of our leader. The example we're supposed to follow. Consider the comfort that he had with his father. Consider the discomfort he was facing coming here Consider all the difficult spots he was going to get into. And for who? People who would fail to appreciate him. Needy people, foolish people, people who were not calling on him. No, we're all left with no excuse for not putting feet to our concern, for not putting action to that which we call love. We're left with no excuse for not making the phone calls or visits that we know we should make. We're left with no excuse for not at least trying to meet some of the needs that are clearly visible to us. Now, what was the need that Christ was seeing? He was seeing people who were weary and scattered, like sheep having no shepherd. Weary. This word means to be enfeebled through exhaustion. Enfeebled through exhaustion. The best illustration I can think of to describe this is how Mike described how he felt after running a marathon. He had trained for weeks. Uh and I mean it was just something he wanted to do. There was no marathon taking place anywhere. He just wanted to run one for the satisfaction it would give him. And uh as he was training one day he felt good, so he decided to go the distance. I don't remember if it was ten or twenty miles. It was a ridiculously long uh uh run. And when he was done He was telling me he wanted to bend over into a pond to splash his face with water. But he decided not to do it because he knew if he fell in, he was so exhausted he wouldn't be able to pull himself back out. Now, that kind of exhaustion is the epitome of what our word means this morning. Enfeebled through exhaustion. That is what people around us are doing all day, every day. They're wearing themselves out in a pursuit for something. And they don't even know what the something is. They want peace, they want joy, they want a feeling of well-being, they want a satisfaction, and they chase it all day, every day, and it continues to elude them. And the word scattered. They were scattered. The word for this means scattered by force by the one doing the scattering. When we combine this with the analogy of sheep in the absence of the shepherd, we begin to see better what Christ means. We are surrounded by people who have no direction and no protection. We're surrounded by people with no direction and no protection. They're worn out because they don't know where to go to get what they need. And they're scattered because the enemy can attack them and they have no protection. They're kept away from that which they need by the devil's efforts. And remember in the parable the the devil kept, you know, scooping up that seed, the the the birds would get it before the people ever had a chance with it? That's what the devil's doing. Are you weary and scattered this morning? If so, you need to be gaining the benefit from your good shepherd. If you'll call upon him, he will answer your call. If you call upon him, he put it there to begin with. Are you worn out trying to find something that will make your life worthwhile? Have you chased dreams over and over that have only led you to despair? Do you feel like at every corner is another new danger waiting for you, waiting to tear you down more and more? That describes a lot of people in our world. We're not designed for that. We need direction. We need protection. We need a good shepherd who loves us and guides us and protects us. There is promise after promise in Scripture that that is exactly the thing that Christ does for his children. He is our good shepherd. It's ironic that we will so quickly run to anything but what we really need. We'll run to anyone but the one who really loves us. If you're wearied and scattered this morning and don't know Christ, call on him this morning. He will take you into his flock. He promises it. Now, it's understandable that those who don't know Christ would be weary and scattered. But there are far too many of us, far too many believers who would describe their own lives the same way if they were really honest. We find ourselves with the same pattern of thought as the world around us, the same pursuits of pleasure, the same entertainment, and the same feelings of remorse and hopelessness and fretfulness and meaninglessness. And the problem? We are failing to trust our shepherd. Oh, we'll call it lots of things. But it's at its heart, it's unbelief. We won't follow him willingly into the pastures that he leads us. We won't trust him to protect us from the danger to our souls. We have a shepherd, but we refuse to receive his love and protection. Oh, again, we have a million reasons we use on ourselves and others to convince ourselves that we're being smart or what we're doing makes sense. But all we do is rob ourselves of the goodness of God in our lives. This world is bad enough Why make it worse by rejecting the guidance and protection of the one who loves us? Anyway, this is how Christ saw those who were affected by lack of true leadership. And the need was clear. These people needed good spiritual leadership. This would not fix everybody's problem. Because some people simply will not receive Christ as their Lord. They refuse to do it. Some will not accept his call on their lives. But for those who will, every one of them will be rescued. So, what is needed in the end is the word of truth about Christ to be preached. Christ saw the suffering, he evaluated the solution, and the next thing he said was this. The harvest truly is plentiful, but the labors are few. Therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out labors into his harvest. First, notice how Christ saw the multitudes again. They were without protection and they were without direction, but they were also great opportunity of great work. Inside of those needy, foolish masses were people who Christ had chosen for himself. But those people would not be brought to Christ without work. We do well when we look over any crowd to see the crowd the way Christ did. He saw the masses as containing individuals for whom he would die. When he saw a crowd, that is what he saw. Sometimes I want to look at groups like liberal political conventions or a party crowd or a homosexual activist crowd and think Those people are all lost. They're they're out of God's grace. They're out of out of his his range. And I want to simply avoid that crowd that I'm so c uncomfortable with. And yet Christ probably has a harvest inside of most of those crowds. Really? What is there in any different in them than in us? There is no group of people that is not worth reaching with the gospel. So there's a valuable harvest residing in the masses. Next, Christ is essentially calling his followers to join with Christ in the meeting of this need. He told him to pray because the need is greater than the current laborers can meet. And if he looked around, he was about the only one. So you can imagine uh his evaluation. So what's the logical conclusion? We need more laborers, workers, people who will do work, people who will put feet to their concern. And how's that going to happen? It'll only be a miracle. For God to call people to minister this wonderful ministry, it's going to need a miracle. God must place that in people's hearts. So, the disciples are told, ask God to do this thing. Ask God to provide more workers. Now we might think differently on that. We might think well just a good recruiting strategy and I'll put out some kind of incentive to make this happen and reward it and all of that and and we'll come up with an organization and build it and everything will be good. Christ said, pray it into existence. That's where it starts. Think of the effect that this would have had on the twelve. Christ told them to pray for laborers. Here they are hanging out with Christ. Christ said, you pray, you pray for laborers. So they probably do. Now, how are they going to respond when Christ tells them, You guys are the ones that are selected for the job? How do you get out of that? If they meant their prayer They can't hardly back out. It also it may also help them to realize that this job is bigger than their decision to do it. God has chosen them to meet this need. This is a heavenly calling, and that's how a called minister must view his calling. True ministry is from God and about God. So we need to keep that in mind as we get to work. Now on to Matthew 10, verse 1. And when he had called his twelve disciples to him, he gave them power over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all kinds of sicknesses and all kinds of disease. So Christ called the twelve in to talk to them alone, without the surrounding crowd, and he authorized them to deal with demons and sickness. Later it it throws in death as well. He gave them power. Up until this point they must not have had it, or maybe it was very very limited. I suspect they had not done it. Now it's fully given. They'll be doing the same things that Christ was doing with the same effectiveness. Now think about this. What would go through your head if this was given to you? Say this afternoon. God tells you, okay, now I'm going to send you out, and you can heal everyone, you can cast out all the demons, you can even raise from the dead. You might think, wow, I sure am going to make a splash everywhere I go. Wouldn't it be easy to think of all the things flesh could do with this? Well, we might, but by the time Christ is done, I think all of these ideas would be washed away with the reality of the mission he is about to lay out to them. And I think that's the point. Then Matthew tells us the names of the twelve, and we're going to skip over that. And Matthew goes on in verse 5. These twelve Jesus sent out and commanded them, saying, Do not go into the way of Gentiles, and do not enter a city of Samaritans. But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Here, Christ narrows the scope of where the disciples are to go. He defines their mission parameters by geography. You're going to cities and they must be Jewish cities. Now, Christ does not forbid ministering to Gentile individuals, just as he did, but the thrust of this mission is toward Jewish communities. Christ came first to his own, we're told. And this would leave those Jewish people who rejected him without an excuse. So that might be part of the reason The other part of the reason could be only the Jews are going to understand the importance of the Messiah and the kingdom of God that they're preaching about. This would be uh out of the realm of understanding to most Gentiles, but it would be right in the realm of understanding to a Jewish audience. Now, look what Christ calls those who are they are being sent to, who he's sending these disciples out to. He calls them lost sheep. Rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Lost sheep. I'll bet that rang a bell with them, especially in light of what he just said. The scattered and weary sheep are the targets of the ministry. It could be here that Christ was telling them who would respond to their ministry and who they're really being sent for. It's not for every Jewish citizen. It's only for those who know they are lost. It's for those who feel deeply their need for God and what God has to offer. Those who are rested and comfortable, they're probably not going to respond. The self-complacent sheep will be in the crowd, but that's not your real target. The lost sheep Those who know they have a problem, they're your target. And he goes on. Verse 7: And as you go preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Mark tells us that these disciples preached that people should repent. Matthew tells us, more of a gist of the message, this message proclaims something monumental. There is something historically important going on here. There is a chance to get into the kingdom of God. That's what he's preaching. And it's the king is Jesus And they're to proclaim the rule and reign of King Jesus. Follow him. We don't know exactly what they declared. But it must have included the truth that you can't enter the kingdom by your own efforts. You're not going to get in there by some form of righteousness. You must repent of your sin and come to God through Christ. That had to be conveyed somehow in their message, even if not completely understood in all the details. But it's important to note that they were sent first to preach. Then the healings and the exorcisms would take their proper supporting roles. But do you see the importance? They were sent first to declare, to preach. The disciples were given power to heal, but they were commanded first to preach. Then they're told to, verse 8, heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out demons. Those are amazing abilities given to the apostles. They were all things that Jesus had been doing. And doing them would verify the authority and validity of Christ. Think of it. I mean if they came into your town and you had heard about this ministry happening somewhere else and they showed up under Jesus name and they started doing the same miraculous amazing impossible things here that that was being done there You would instantly associate that, that power. Now, suppose you were told from today on anyone you lay your hands on will be healed. Think of the implications of that. Think of the possibilities. Now look look what comes next. If you had the power to fix all these problems, What would likely be one of the first things to run through your mind? Can I charge for that service? That's what I think. I mean, as much as maybe I shouldn't think it, and I suspect we may all have that angle. Christ immediately gets that out of the way and he says, Freely you have received Freely give. Freely you have received freely give. Nope no invoices going out This ministry is going to be non-profit. This is this ministry is going to be free. No profit motive, no getting rich. In fact Not only will you not profit, you will need to live in utter trust of God to survive. I don't even want you supplying your own needs on this trip, he goes on to say, in verse 9 Provide neither gold nor silver nor copper in your money belts. Don't take your wallet, nor bag for your journey, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor staffs, for a worker is worthy of his food. Jesus is essentially sending them out with just the shirt on their backs. In Mark we see that sandals and a walking stick are allowed. So what Matthew is probably saying is there won't be any spares. Take exactly what you need to get there. No provisions, no extra garments. I've read that a moderately wealthy person would wear two tunics. The standard poor person would wear one. And the disciples are not allowed that second luxury. No money. No suitcase, just go. No travel plans. No arrangements. Just go. If you ever wanted a boot camp designed to help you stop worrying, here it is. If you go through this process, you're going to learn to depend on God. You have to. These disciples have resources to do a lot of amazing things, but they don't have a single thing to secure for themselves food, clothing, and shelter. Would we go out on that kind of mission? Where's food, clothing, and shelter gonna come from? A principle. A principle. A worker is worthy of his food, Christ says. And if we were there, and we heard that, what would be the next thing out of our mouth? But Jesus, what if the people we visit don't know this role? That seems a little risky. Evidently, God would oversee this operation, and that was the point. He would see to it that the disciples would be taken care of. And at the same time, the Jewish people would be required to pay the expenses of this wonderful ministry. And the disciples would learn that this principle pertains to how they would continue to minister in the future. Those being ministered to, especially by the Word of God, are to support the one who is supplying them with that ministry. Now, how about housing? What do we do for housing? Verse 11. Whatever city or town you enter, inquire who in it is worthy and stay there until you go out. I'm not sure how they do this. There's not a whole lot of detail given This is not a process that would guarantee good results. Evidently the word worthy gets coupled with the service that would be provided in the Greek. Not sure how all that works, but so essentially they were looking for someone in the city who is worthy to stay with, not just a worthy person. There may be a lot of worthy people whose houses are crammed with kids. You know, it it not everyone would fit the bill for this. The questioning seems to be asking, who would be a good Christ-honoring person to stay with while we were here? It looks like it may be an important decision, as Jesus doesn't allow for upgrading your housing arrangements. If someone agrees to allow you to stay, you stay in that house until you leave town. I'm not sure why that would be, but it would be the least offensive choice, and you wouldn't be sitting thinking, wow, I wonder if I can get a better arrangement. That house looks a lot nicer than the one I'm in And I'll bet they have better beds, you know, things like that. Doing it the way Christ said it would keep your mind free from looking for a selfish self-interested advantage. And it would also allow you to keep maximum attention on your ministry without being distracted with the details. Those are possibilities. Then verse 12, and when you go into a household, greet it. If the household is worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it's not worthy, let your peace return to you. From what I understand, this is speaking of entering households to do ministry, not to stay. And the greeting that would be given would be shalom or peace. And if the household welcomes the disciples in the preaching of Christ, then that peace that they offered, that greeting would stay upon it. That household would receive that blessing of shalom, that blessing of peace. The disciples would remain and continue to minister until they were done. That blessing would be complete. But if they wouldn't receive the ministry, then that household would also lose the blessing. And it only makes sense They're shutting off the gospel. They're shutting off peace if they're kicking somebody out. How in the world are they going to get peace? How are they going to keep peace that was offered to them? If they won't hear the gospel, if they won't receive it. Peace would walk right out the door when the disciples left, since the saving message was leaving with them. There's something to notice here. Our greatest focus in our ministries to fellow human beings should be on those who are the most receptive to our ministries. It's fruitless to try to force someone to come to Christ. It's a waste of time to spend all of our ministry focus on those who are least receptive to the words of truth. It'll serve to do nothing but harden them and frustrate you. But when you minister to someone who listens and is receptive and responds to your ministry, That empowers and encourages you to do more. It's a reward in and of itself. We need to keep that in mind as we choose how we prioritize our time in ministering to others. And that's not to say You don't take the opportunity when it comes. And in some life situations you continually have that opportunity. But we spend we're we spend our time more wisely when we prioritize it according to people's response. To God. Now, what's the ultimate response to those who will not listen to the gospel? Verse 14 And whoever will not receive you nor hear your words, when you depart from that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet. Assuredly, I say to you, it'll be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in that day of judgment than for that city. Back in Jesus' day, the Jews used to shake off their sandals when they came out of Gentile lands. This was a sign of contempt for other lands and the signifying of their uncleanness, that they were absolutely, they don't even want any dust on their feet. That was such a bad place. Well, this is what Jesus told the disciples to do when coming from a person who has rejected and scorned Christ, because that's the ultimate uncleanness. That is the ultimate uh, you know, that's the epitome of bad. For someone to reject God's son. You can bet that people would see the disciples doing this, and the onlookers would know on they would know immediately what was going on. They would understand the point. And Jesus wanted them to get the point. He was not so much interested in avoiding conflict as he was interested in clarifying positions. He wanted the rejectors to know that their rejection was noted and it's significant. So they would shake off their sandals and move to the next place. And if those people never repented, they would taste of horrible judgment from the hand of God one day. Sodom and Gomorrah taste their terrible judgment without warning from God all of a sudden. Their judgment will look tame in comparison. Do you realize that this same thing is going on today, when we declare the gospel? It's serious stuff. When we represent God's message to a human being, those who hear it and will not respond are in a terminal danger. Their rejection is winning for them the judgment of God. We need to know that as we present the gospel. Sometimes it feels when we present the gospel to a person that what we are doing has no effect whatsoever. It doesn't seem to have any significance. It's responded to as if, you know, please, you know, let's move on to the next topic because you're offending me now. Or please, you know, let's just move on to something more comfortable. But it is having an effect. It is always either saving or damning. And we don't get to pick which one. When we present the gospel, it is serving an eternal purpose. It's that important. Now, up until now, Christ has given instructions. We've seen the why Christ is sending the twelve. We're seeing the who he is sending. We see the how that they're supposed to go about this trip. But now Christ begins explaining the big picture of what's going on. Now he begins describing it from where God sits. And the picture's not gonna be what the disciples want to hear. There's no pep talk. They probably still have in mind a political kingdom with seats of power and influence. And if Christ would have started talking to, you know, you do this and I'll make sure to give you guys good seats and all these people will serve you and you'll have great spots and you'll make a lot of money. That's might might have been what they were hoping for, but they didn't get it. They probably still have in mind being some kind of big shot at the end of all this. But listen to what Christ has to say in the light of him sending these guys out Verse 16, Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of doves, of wolves. I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Jesus is not preparing them for a glory trip. He is preparing them for adversity. And he's assuring them that if they do their job correctly, they'll receive adversity. I'm sending you out like a bunch of sheep into a wolf pack. Average life expectancy in that arena is pretty small. And there's no doubt who the winning party is going to be in that conflict. Christ is telling them that this is what they can expect. So they're gonna need to be very wise and very harmless at the same time. They can't use physical force for defense. They have none of those kind of worldly resources. But at the same time, they have the backing of God. They're on a mission from God. This all requires a different way of thinking than a bunch of rough and tumble fishermen would be used to. Their way of solving the problems are going to be a whole lot different than their natural way. John MacArthur says this about being uh wise as serpents and harmless as doves. He said the basic idea is that of saying the right thing at the right time and place. of having a sense of propriety and appropriateness and of trying to discover the best means to achieve the highest goal. That's what these guys had to do. That's what we need to do in the world that we live in. We're going to stop here this morning and finish this text next week, Lord willing. But in closing, let's look at the big picture again. Here are the disciples, Christ's right hand men, and they're being sent out with amazing powers to do supernatural things. People who came into contact with these men would be healed. Demons would be cast out. Dead would come back to life. These are things that are highly valued and greatly needed in any society. So how's all this going to be received? Well, it's gonna be a mixed back. Some will think that the disciples are the greatest people that they have ever met and respond in kind because that's really what they think of Christ. Some are gonna hate their guts and want to kill them. Irrationally, no reason given. That's just how they're gonna be driven. And that is the reality of the world that we live in. That is what happens in a world that Satan has been allowed such great influence in. We must be mentally armed for living in this reality. We can't hold any illusions that say that this world is our home. We can't believe that we were created and recreated for this measly existence because we were not. Christians are not. They have a higher purpose. And that purpose supersedes everything else. Suffering is not an oddity on this planet. It is a certainty. And the more we represent God, the more suffering we are likely to bring upon ourselves. At least in terms of martyrdom and Christian persecution, Christ is sending out his best, his most loyal followers, his best. Now you gotta ask, does he love them? Of course he does. Of course we know he loves them. Does he protect them from suffering? He certainly does not protect them from all suffering. He promised them suffering. As Christians, we must have this mindset. We must, or we will use the evidence of suffering as God's lack of care for us. And no idea could be more devastating in a world where suffering is a certainty. While we were here , There is a high purpose to our living. There are people on this planet that God has called to Himself. And we are to live to God's glory and look for opportunity to bring these people to Christ. And to keep these people in Christ. As we do that, we can expect opposition But what we are doing, now think about this. What we are doing is so important That God allows suffering to continue while it is being done Think how important the salvation of God's children must be if because of it he allows the suffering. Of his loved ones to continue His lost sheep, his children, who do not yet know him, are that important to him The question comes down that we need to ask, are they that important to us? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you have a time limit on our existence on this planet, and that the clock is ticking according to everyone who comes to you. And that there is an end in mind that you will then provide the reward that you have promised to everyone who has ever followed you. We thank you, Lord, that you have allowed this sinful existence of ours to continue this long so that we could come to you. And we can't hardly hold back the continuing of it for longer. for every child of yours like us that you still have to win to yourself. So we come to you and we ask that you would place in our hearts the importance of those souls. To show us just how important it is to you that you win these people to yourself. And we ask that you would help us for your glory and for your honor to play as much a part of that as we possibly can. And to prioritize it the way that you do. And help us to love those who you have won to yourself. at the level ground at the foot of the cross, knowing that we have way more in common than we have indifference. And help us to represent you and your mission this week in our choices and in our actions. In Jesus' name. Amen.