First John is a wonderful book of hope and confidence. It contains a bold proclamation of truth, and it's solidly based upon the actual first-hand knowledge of the writer as revealed by God. The book is believed to be written by the Apostle John with good reason. He never gave his name when writing his letter, so it's a little more difficult to prove. But there's a great deal of evidence that this conclusion is an accurate conclusion. And John Stott does a really good job of presenting it in The Letters of John by John R. W. Stott. If you want a good resource, that's a good one. It was believed that John wrote this from Ephesus, where tradition said that he resided during that period of time. He clearly wrote this letter to people that he knew well. You can't miss that when you read the book. He wrote it from a pastoral perspective. Now there's something we need to understand about the environment in which John wrote this book. And this this goes a long way into understanding what the what the book is actually saying There was a false doctrine spreading uh pretty rapidly, and it was devastating in a lot of ways, and it had to be countered very powerfully, very decisively. There was to be no compromise in dealing with the people who were spreading this voice. The name of the false doctrine is Gnosticism. It comes from the Greek word gnoso, which means to know. It's interesting that John uses the word know 27 times in his short book. And every time he uses it, it's like a slap in the face to these false teachers. They have some fiction that they've drawn up, you know, that they've dreamed up, that they uh they came to in their mind John counters it with things that we as believers know as facts. The dreamers talk about what they have experienced in their minds and in their delusions. And John talks about things that he had his hands on. That he held, that his eyes saw. This book is to be a powerful apology, a powerful answer to the challenge of Gnosticism. Our brother Skrull would be proud of our recognition that John is doing powerful apologetics in this book Now we need to look at what this false doctrine said for us to understand First John and how 1 John was used to defend the gospel. And it will help us understand some of the emphasis of 1 John that might not really be evident in our world or our lives, some of the things he addresses we might be want. First, the doctrine arose from people who claimed to have a special knowledge of God. That's not the news. And there's a whole lot of people that claim to have a special knowledge of God. But they were essentially saying, we're a special lot. We have reached a level with God that you haven't quite yet reached. And you poor people just don't know the deep things that we know. But we'll do you a favor and let you in on them if you'll treat us as the absolute experts from now on on the side. This view started with a different view of God than the one revealed in the Old Testament. Now you're going to hear this and you're going to say, how can people believe this stuff as they did? Eventually, the view held that there was a supreme God who was the ultimate father. They said the creator God in the Old Testament was an evil God named Demiurge. A bunch of lesser beings sprung up from his actions and they were called Aeon. Sounds like a fairy tale, doesn't it? Then second, this youth said that all matter is evil and that spirit is good. And you gotta understand this, all matter Stuff you know, that you can touch, stuff that it takes up space. All matter is evil and only spirit is good. Therefore, naturally, a good God, in their reasoning, could not have created matter, so it must have been the evil God who created matter. Sorry, sounding pre-hoke-as. Now think about the implications of this this so-called teaching a little bit If matter is evil, all the important doctrines in Scripture are done away with. Creation The creation of matter, incarnation, God in Christ's flesh and Jesus flesh, and the bodily resurrection are all on God And the core of the gospel has been stricken. The idea that the Supreme God could be united with this with the matter. Of human flesh was forbidden in their thinking. God could not have possibly become matter, or, you know, been in matter like that. So, what did they say about Christ? Well, there were two common views. The first say that Jesus never really had a body. He had a phantom body. It seemed like a real body, but it wasn't. Paul countered that in Colossians 2. 9, where he said, In Christ dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. The second view said that there was a distinction between the man Jesus and the eternal Christ. So you have Christ slash Jesus instead of Jesus Christ. They they say that the eternal Christ came to Jesus when he came out of the water after he was baptized. So he kind of his phantom sort of entered his body at that point. And then on the cross, the real Christ get addled and left Jesus there all by himself. They say it was only the man Jesus who died on the cross, not the God-man Jesus, like we believe. The problem here is that the incarnation of God into man is a core doctrine That is one of those things they are fighting words. You can't give on that point. Jesus Christ was holy man and holy God, and we ask how, and we say we don't know. We just know he was. Without it, we really have no forgiveness of sins. And John will make a strong defense of this. Now, there were two applications of this false doctrine, and both are dealt with from time to time in scripture. Sometimes we may look at a strong rebuke in 1 John and wonder what it was directed to. Because we don't have anything in our lives that really applies to that. It doesn't seem to be striking us where we live. But it was often Gnostic practices that he was attacking. The one logical application of a Gnostic mindset where matter is evil is to go monastic. They would remove themselves from the world and the pleasures available in this world. They would do things to remove themselves from any enjoyment or pleasure or satisfaction that you can have in a fleshly body. They argued that we must spend all of this life mortifying flesh. And what they mean by it and what the Puritans meant by it were two different things. We must punish it. Human bodily flesh is evil and we must undo it. Paul and John both argued against such an approach in the Christian life. In Scripture, the negative references to flesh, when you read the word flesh, it's not talking usually about flesh and bone. They're not references to skin and bones, but to the mindset that derives from us in our godless state. That's flesh. As opposed to that which comes from the spirit. That spirit. The second method Is the one, the second method of applying this Gnostic heresy is one that I think we're in far more danger of. These people separated soul and flesh. The reasoning went something like this. My soul is back. Or I'm sorry. My soul is spirit. Spirit is good. My flesh is matter. My flesh is bad Not real hard, but well. Therefore it does not matter what I do in my flesh because it's not my soul that's doing it. I like that. I mean there's a part of my sinful state that likes that that way of getting off the hook, but it's it's evil to the core. And they they conclude that there really is no such thing as sin. When you read about the sin of the Nicolatians in in uh Revelation And I believe it might be mentioned somewhere else as well. , That was their doctrine. John radically and dramatically opposed that mindset, as did Paul. Now, how are we in danger of that? I mean, surely we would never write that down as our doctrine. Well, have you ever evaluated your life based on your good intentions? Instead of your behavior. Have you ever evaluated your life based on what you intend rather than what you do? We say, I intend to pray, I intend to read scripture, I intend to stop looking at pornography, I intend to stop worrying, I intend to whatever, whatever it is that is In our lives, and I intend all these things, therefore I'm okay even though I never do it. That is not the system. That is the brand of Gnosticism. In 1 John, we'll find no comfort for that kind of thinking. 1 John will only be useful to us to the degree that we'll be brutally honest with ourselves about ourselves. We must confess our sins. He starts out pretty early in the book with that. We must confess our sins, and that means defining them and discussing them openly with God and whoever else we must We must evaluate our heart motives toward each other to see if they're truly loving or hateful or whatever. No excuses, just truth. We're in as much danger of Gnosticism as these people were. It threatens our souls as much as it threatens theirs. Or threatened theirs. Whenever we separate our behavior from our evaluation of spirituality, we're falling into the devil's trap, no matter what label we might put on. So, how are we living today? How do you live this week? Obediently or disobediently? God focused or self-focused? By faith or by sight? By the spirit or the flesh? I think we get the idea. First John is a book for us First John is a book for us. Now, that's sort of the negative side. We'll get to some very positive aspects of it very soon. But there's something else I wanted to emphasize. You'll notice while you're reading through the book a couple of things that might strike you. First, it seems to ramble I don't know if you've noticed it as you've been preparing it, but it it seems to ramble. John was an interesting writer. John is Paul was very systematic and logical. He moves from A to B to C, building as he goes. And he's fairly easy to outline if you know where to put the parentheses. Luke was even more logically minded. He was way easier to follow. These are writers that appeal to certain kinds of minds. I think John, however, was more of a relational person, more of a feeling kind of person. He was probably easier to listen to than Paul, even when he was harder to follow. John kind of surplus. He's not methodical. It seems to me like the kind of advice a mother gives to her kids when they're leaving on a trip. You know how it is, mothers. You ask them if they have everything. And then you remind them how much soap to use in the laundry And then, oh, you need to check the oil and make sure to keep your cell phone charge. Are you sure you have your cell phone charger? And yeah, watch the speed limit sign in this town. And remember to carve leak soil. And you know, it's all loving. It's all wonderful. And it 's a it's a beauty to behold. And it's useful and sometimes necessary, but it does not create a systematic order and it's not really expected to do stuff. It doesn't have to. It accomplishes what it's what it's intended John is lovingly addressing these people in an effort to rescue them from great error. And he does it with his full heart. So he circles back a couple of times. That does no harm at all to the meaning and direction of this letter. I think he would have been the kind of pastor that everyone who is really following Christ would want. At the end of the day, you not only understand that love is important, you would feel loved. I think that's the kind of guy is. Second, it's doctrinal, it's very doctrinal, and in fact, it's kind of suprime doctrinal With Paul, you know when he's supporting a major doctrine because he treats the topic doctrinally. He makes it the topic. He'll say, now I'm discussing this. In 1 John, it's like you're surprised at the end of the book how many doctrinal things you understand. You thought you were learning about joy and about confidence and about the dangers in Christian life. And here you realize that you've also learned about the incarnation and atonement and bodily resurrection and justification and sanctification. One of the points Martin Lloyd Jones made was interesting as well. He mentioned that it's perceived by Christian kind of thrown in there, so doesn't spollow the outline for all, but He mentioned that it's perceived by Christians that when sometimes bad happens, when something bad happens that requires action, it's the most It's the most spiritual person who says, let's pray. Okay, that's how it seems. It seems like you know, that's the most spiritual person when something happens, they say, well, stop, let's pray. But uh Martin Lloyd Jones says that in reality often the scriptures direction is different than that. It's let's think. Let's first think. This book does not give us an out on the issues that we have to deal with in real life It directs them head-on and it instructs us how to think correctly about them. Have you ever considered how short the Bible would be if the core issues in our lives were to be fixed? With a supernatural that from God. Okay, so that true spirituality is saying, God do this, and then God does it, and everything's done It would be something like this. Uh the the scriptures would say, love Jesus, love his people, pray that God gives you discernment about false doctrines. Goodbye. You know, because really, if that's how everything works, we wouldn't have to rely on so much content. We wouldn't have to think so much. We wouldn't have to know so much. The Gnostics were depending upon that kind of an idea of God that they had drummed up for what they would not do for themselves. And they were the ultimate succors. They would not go to the Word of God. They would not depend on the Word of God. They depended on their experience and the things that came to them from so-called God. They would not do the hard work of sanctification, and they probably were not saved to begin with. Our sanctification is largely involved in painting. Our lives are being transformed of one thought at a time, one idea at a time, one scriptural truth at a time, one moment at a time. And the Holy Spirit is doing his zappings all the time that we are involved in that process if we are being submissive to God. That is where the Holy Spirit's movement can be dependent upon in your life. That's the primary zapping that we're told to be dependent upon. We're told to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. That works its way into everything else in our lives. John, as much as a people person as he might have been, demanded that these people he loved think. He was directing them to think rightly. And he gave them solid stuff to think about. And it's beautiful. It covers everything. It covers thinking about your life and your thoughts and your actions. It covers thinking about the world that we live in, that we we can't escape. We're not supposed to escape. It tells us how to how to think about the environment we're forced into and what what this environment we're in is really made of It gives us that insight from God's perspective. And it tells us what God's Word says every step of the way. But it leaves it up to us to believe it and to apply it. That's the call in 1 John. That's the Christian life. These people lived in spiritual danger just like we did. They were tempted to be faithless, just like we're tempted. They were prone to lie to themselves, about themselves, about their past and presence, just like we are They had relational difficulties, just like we do. And John reaches out to them to help them live the real Christian life in the real fallen world. And that's what we need. So we need every word of this, just like they did. Now, the final point in the introduction. What is the book for? What is the book for? This book is very nice because it was kind enough to tell us. 1 John 1. 4. You might want to write these down. 1 John 1. 4. And these things we write to you that your joy may be full. 1 John 2, 1, these things I write to you so that you may not sin. 1 John 5 13 These things I have written to you that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God. Alright. It was written that our joy may be full, that we may not sin, that we may have assurance of salvation, and that we may continue believing in the real Christ. So we have the four reasons that the book is written. Logically, then, we can assume that if we will appropriate these words in our lives. We can come out with the intended results. Is that logical? That's what it's written for. First, that our joy may be full. You know what? We're going to have to revisit the topic of joy. We'll be looking at that in two weeks. We're going to have to understand what this is promising us. I mean, it's nice to be promised some, but you've really got to know what it is that's being promised. I believe that that is actually the book's primary purpose. is joy, that we may have joy. Everything is kind of a subset of that. We'll see if that's true as we go through. Do you want your life to be full of joy? I I suspect that that's not a hard question for us. Why yes. Yes we all do. We we really do want our lives. to be full of joy. Do we want our lives to be such that we have a profound effect on others because no matter what life does to us, we have an unexplainable joy. that others are at least curious about or maybe you belong to have. I want to. I think we all want to. This book is going to explain to us how to have it. Is that exciting? I mean, it is to me. I hope so. I think those are the things we should should be excited about. I I want to be full of joy. I think I live with a person who could tell you that the person she lives with is not always full of joy. Joy is evident sometimes, but not always, and at least I don't think anywhere near what it can be First John is describing joy, not just a little bit, not just once in a while, but joy to the full, maximum joy. That's cool. Second, 1 John 2. 1. These things I write to you so that you may not sin. So, if we appropriate 1 John, we should no longer sin. We'll see in 1 John enough to know if we think we're going to reach some kind of sinless perfection in this flesh, we're just wrong. We have the equation wrong. We'll always fail to hit the mark of perfection and every miss is a sin. So it's not like we're going to be in this life and reach that level. That's not it. But we never have a single reason to choose to commit a sin that we know is a sin. And that's largely what he addresses. And that's the goal. Avoiding willful sin. Any excuse for willful sin is as much a sin as the sin itself. And 1 John is going to take away our excuses. Are we wrestling with a sin that keeps getting the best of us? Well then, 1 John is the book for us. It's written for this purpose. In its pages is the answer. So I think we've got a lot of good fuel coming toward us for our fight against sin. 1 John 5. 13. These things I've written to you that you may know that you have eternal life. Do you ever struggle with knowing if you're a believer or not? This book is written to help us know the verdict on that question. We either are a believer or we are not. And there are strong evidences to help us to know which is which. The problem with something like this is that there are sure to be people who are confident that they're believers, and they are. There are people who are not sure that they are. who are sure that they are, who are sure that they are, and they are not. There are people who are not confident that they are, but they are, and there are people who are confident that they are not, and they are not. We're going to fall into one of those four, and sometimes we swap back at first fourth. First John is written to help us to sort all of that out. I want to hold out to you, if you are not confident of your salvation, you can be. That's it wouldn't have been written. For our benefit, for us to know, if it can't be known, it can be. That is definitely an option being helped out to us God's intention is not to use our uncertainty about our salvation to get us to do a bunch of stuff that he once done. That is how the devil runs his business. But that is not how God runs his. Our God wants you to be confident that Christ truly did take the punishment for your sins and that you will never be punished for them. And that you already possess eternal life. And he wants you to obey from that platform of confidence, that platform from assurance. And the last part of 1 John 5. 13 is that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God. Do you want something to spur you on in your Christian life? Do you want something driving you in your belief? Do you want to be a stronger believer tomorrow than you are today? Do you want to make sure that you endure in the faith? 1 John is written for that. If we get it down deep in our souls as we study this text, it is sure to have that kind of effect in our lives. Wow. How many things in life promise to give these kinds of results Full joy, victory over sin, assurance of salvation, and an aid in perseverance in faith Looks pretty good to me. I think maybe we've come to the right place for our continued study. And do you know what we'll find? It all starts and ends in the first three verses. Everything else is an application of the truth that's in the first three verses. It's all about who Jesus Christ really is and what he really did. And yet he really, really did walk in our shoes. Another way of looking at the book is by what it shows us. First is we know that we are of God. A believer must know that they're truly different than the unsaved inhabitants of planet Earth Do you know that? What is it that you can point to in your life and say, by this evidence, I know that I am different than I was born, and that God has done supernatural things in my life. We should all have things like that. So first, we know we are of God. Second, we know the truth of this world. I love the Bible because it's more true about describing the world than even the newest news headlines. The Bible describes the symptoms and the underlying conditions that cause the symptoms. John won't miss words about the world that we live in in this book. He will display it with a great deal of accuracy. It's dark, it's bad, and we can't fix it. First, or the third thing, we are shown how to relate to the world that we're in. It's wonderful that we are given jobs that are not impossible to do. We are not supposed to reform the world structures. It's not our job to make an evil world good. But we are to do what we can where we can to have an influence for eternity. This book is a very practical book. It deals with us where we really are. We're sinners and we need a way to deal with our daily sin. We need an encouragement to honor Christ the way he deserves to be honored. We need to know how to deal with each other and with this world, and we desire to live in a way that this world simply cannot understand. And that is what this wonderful book of 1 John is already offering us. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you for leading us in this direction, for this We ask that you would use it in a powerful way in our lives, that we cannot walk away from these words that you have given us until we have received the promised results. That you have offered in your word. Help us to submit to you at every step of the way every thought, every word, every sense. And that you would be glorified in our body of believers. We would look supernatural. In a way that up till now we have been blessed on. We pray for your movement and activity in our lives, and we pray all for the glory of Jesus Christ. In his day, there is