I still don't feel real comfortable. I feel that what I ended up with is kind of disjointed. Um I pieced together from a lot of very good sources, but it still feels kind of disjointed to me, so bear with me in that sense. As far as I can remember, the last time we studied this book was in 1988. A lot has changed. Perspective, Ronald Reagan was president. I was 32 years old and had a little four-year-old daughter. John and I were busy going to gym night. Jonathan was a baby. Mike was coaching at Bishop Walsh, and Tucker had learned that when you see golden arches, it meant French prize. As I said, a lot has changed in those 36 years. What has not changed at all is the truth of this word. whether it's 1998, whether it's today, 1988 , AD 88, this word is from the beginning. And uh there's a lot of stability in that. So let me begin again as always, and I again I apologize, I hope my voice holds out I've had a little trouble with this for the last couple weeks. But let me begin again, as always, by reminding you that this will not be a sermon. It's an introduction and as such not intended to preach in the classic sense. That is not to say that it will not be edifying, informative, and educational. I certainly hope that it will be all those things Let me also say that as I mentioned, I'm borrowing from some pretty heavy hitters here. Uh G. Campbell Burton John MacArthur, R. C. Spro, Watchman Me, and from Mike, from Mike's notes from 1988 that John or that Diane has carefully preserved. So if there is something incorrect put out here, it is likely from my composition and compilation of it, not from the information itself. But I want to start with something that this is from me , not from these experts. John said something at the end of the sermon last week that struck a chord with his reference to my introduction that was coming up. examining the word. We know how the book starts. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God and the word was God I don't know if I've ever shared this with anyone. I don't even know if I've told Diane this. But this book had a tremendous impact on my spiritual life. It was instrumental to me in coming back to what I had committed to previously, but had drifted away from. And that's the very essence of what this book is about. bringing us back to belief in Christ. Nearly fifty years ago I was a young man who had somewhat fallen away from God, but I met this young lady and we started seeing each other And I learned that she was involved in this thing called Bible quizzing. And I was amazed, blown away, that she was quoting from memory this entire book. In this book of John. Her commitment to it, her passion for it was instrumental to bringing me back to the gospel that I might believe again. That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing I might have life in his name. It was and is such a witness. Her desire to bury that word in her and others' hearts remains today, and I'm thankful for that So to you young adults, you had to do all those memory verses. To Eda and Wyatt, you have to learn them now. To our younger kids who will be coming into their own her into her class, Lord willing, uh in a few years, it may seem a burden to have to learn that word every week But sometime, somewhere, for some reason, that word is going to come back to you at a time of need. So get over it, boys. So I end the commentary and back to the point. As I studied this the last several weeks, it quickly became apparent that there is no way I'm going to cover the immensity of what is to be gleaned from this book. in an introduction, even in summary form. In fact, there's no way John is going to capture everything in his sermons on this book. You're not going to cover it all in your personal study. But the good news, and this is good news, is that you can cover enough to keep you busy indefinitely if you choose to. As Mike said in his introduction to this book back in 1988, and I'm quoting, you see the limitation, the hindrance is ourselves. We can only receive, only benefit what we have room, space, capacity to receive. A bucket cannot contain the ocean. A bucket cannot diminish the ocean, but a bucket can be full to overflowing with the ocean. But not if it's half or three-quarters full or full of dirt instead. We don't have the capacity to take in the full ocean of knowing and applying this book. But we can fill ourselves fully. And there's plenty here to fill our buckets G. Campbell Morgan said of this book, and I'm quoting again, this is unveiling Here we meet exactly the same king we met and crowned in Matthew, the same servant we saw and trusted in Mark. The same man we observed and longed to be like in Luke. It is indeed the same person, the same face, the same love, the same love-lit eyes, an awful purity. The same regal authority. The same unobtrusive humility. Sometimes I think in reading this gospel that I feel the touch of the flesh of Jesus more really than in Matthew, Mark, or Luke. Yet from the first and sublime words with which it opens to the simple and wonderful declarations with which it closes, I know that I am in the presence of an unveiled person. The mystery of Matthew, Mark, and Luke is solved for me when I read John. This gospel accounts for that note of authority which sounded in the manifesto and which breathed in power through the invitation. Come to me, all that labor, and I will give you rest. R. C. Sprao begins his introductory remarks, authenticating the title, author, date, and occasion. the literary features and the primary themes. He actually goes into more detail than that, but for my purposes and for time's sake, uh I will touch on these, uh what he mentioned about these things. I'm not going to try to give an outline of the book. I have no d idea if it would fit how John R. John may outline it. But I will break it up into a couple of bigger blocks. The first is the prologue , which is chapter 1, verses 1 through 18. The second details the public ministry and the ultimate rejection of Jesus, ultimately leading up to his arrest and crucifixion. That's from 1, verse 19 through chapter 12. The third, chapters 13 through 17, related Jesus' ministry to the disciples in the upper room, preparing them for what was about to take place. Chapters 18 through 20 cover Jesus' arrest, crucifixion, and resurrection. And then finally, chapter 21 is somewhat of a postscript. So back to R. C. Sproud's explanation of the title. He said this. Many scholars believe that the autographs or the original copies of the four Gospels did not bear a title, but with the opening lines of each of the synoptics, which are Matthew, Mark, and Luke , identify the contents of those documents in various ways. For instance, the opening of Mark implies that it contains the good news in written form. Matthew echoes Genesis in speaking to the genealogy of Christ. Luke places his orderly account alongside other accounts of events attested by eyewitnesses and ministers of the Word. John, on the other hand, opens with a majestic prologue that speaks to creation, but does not specifically characterize the document as a whole. The prologue, which has said verses 1 through 18, does, however, begin with the Word, who was with God. In the beginning, was God, and through God, is definitively revealed. Hey Diane, could you possibly get me a glass of water? The second century church father Aranius characterized this book as the proclamation. and the teaching of the gospel and the document known as the Muratorian Canon. States that this is that of John. The earliest complete manuscripts bear the simple title, According to John. What is fairly certain and points to John is that the author was a Jew, speaking of Jewish customs, festivals, and beliefs. His detailed geographical knowledge suggests that he was a native of Palestine, and appears he was an eyewitness of the events recorded here. So although the author doesn't specifically identify himself and is therefore considered anonymous, it contains strong hints about authorship. Thank you. There is the mention of the expression, the disciple who Jesus loved, rather than by name. The author is identified as bearing witness. His presence at the Lord's Supper shows that he was one of the twelve. But it was not Peter, Andrew, Nathaniel. Willp, Thomas, Judas Iscariot, or the other Judas, since they're identified by the author in the book. James would have died too early. to have written it. So that prop process of elimination narries the field quite a bit. It almost seems to me that John purposefully didn't want to specifically identify himself by name, but rather by his identity with Christ. I got the sense that John did not want to draw attention to himself. This wasn't about his notoriety or his status or his superior superiority. This was about the Christ. the word come down to us, made alive that we may believe. So as far as authorship, I don't think there's any question, there's not any real debate any legitimate debate about who the author was even though he is not specifically identified It is generally accepted as far as date and occasion of the book being written, when it was written and why. It is generally accepted that the book was written near the end of John's life. And by the way, uh he was the only apostle to die of natural causes. Uh somewhere between 90 and 100 A. D. John MacArthur's Bible commentary says this concerning the author and date, and I'm quoting. Although the author's name does not appear in the gospel, early church traditions strongly and consistently identify him as identified him as the Apostle John. The early church father Aranius, who I mentioned a moment ago, was a disciple of Polycarp, who was a disciple of the Apostle John. So pretty strong connection there. And he testified on Polycarp's authority that John wrote the gospel during his residence in Ephesus. when he was advanced in age. Subsequent to Irenius, all the church fathers assumed John to be the gospel's author Clement of Alexandria wrote that John, aware of the facts set forth in the other gospels, and being moved by the Holy Spirit, composed a spiritual gospel. So there seems to be very little doubt, as I said, that that John was in fact the author. The book of John differs from the other Gospels in a number of ways. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, as we said, are the synoptic gospels because they include many of the same stories. Often in similar sequence and similar sometimes identical wording Um this would be like eyewitnesses reporting from their own unique ex uh uh perspective about the same event. John 's gospel differs from those synoptic gospels in several ways. It covers a different time span. It goes into greater details on theological matters. But the major difference lies in its overall purpose. That the readers May believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. That's found in John 20, 30 and 31. And I I believe that to be the uh the center of this book, the the primary uh focus of that of this book is that verse Again, that readers may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. Mike pointed out way back when that the word belief occurs over 100 times in the book of John. That's significant. Far more, more than twice the number than the other three Gospels combined. So over a hundred times. So as we're going through this, as John is is preaching it as you're studying, as you're reading Look for that word to pop up in the context in which it in which it appears. Um and I think you'll find that it is uh uh Central to what the book is about. Some theologians theologians, uh such as Watchman Knee, asserted that there was a congruence of the New Testament development. uh in which Peter established, founded, and began the New Testament. Paul built on it and expanded it. And John, being the last word, the last of the apostles, called them back to believing, back to their roots, back from error and heresy. It may be worth noting, I don't know, this is just I'll throw it out there. It may be worth noting that John is the last of the Gospels. First, second, third, John, the last of the epistles, chronologically, and Revelation, of course, the last book of the Bible, all written by John. As I said, he was the last man standing. But it may be uh may be some significance in that uh he was the last word on uh a number of fronts. In addition to the primary theme of calling us back to believing, the book goes into great detail regarding who we believe, establishing Jesus as the Christ, the Son of God. John, and again our John, this gets confusing because we have John talking about John, who's also going to be talking about John the Baptist. Try to keep your job straight here. So John, R. John, raised the rhetorical question last week about whether Christ was Lord of the law or confined under the law. To me, the Apostle John kind of verifies what our John was saying and teaching. As R. C. Sprall wrote, Jesus shares in the Father's deity. He made the universe. Chapter 1, verse 3. He is one with the Father, the great I am. While emphasizing the Divine Son, the only God , chapter 1, verse 18, is equal to the Father. That we find that in 1030-33. The gospel also stresses that the Son is in submission to his father, intent on doing the will of him who sent me. MacArthur said this. John's Gospel is the second that contains a precise statement regarding the author's purpose. Again, that's found in 2030-31. He declares, these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and the believing you may have life in his name. The primary purposes, therefore, according to MacArthur, are twofold. Evangelistic and apologetic. John composed his gospel to provide reasons for saving faith in his readers, and as a result, To assure them that they would receive the divine gift of eternal life. The apologetic purpose is closely related to the evangelistic purpose. John wrote to convince his readers of Jesus' true identity as the incarnate God man, God slash man, whose divine and human natures were perfectly united into one person who was the prophesied Christ and Savior of the world. End of quote. So as I see it, to break it down to its smallest explanation of purpose, this book is written to tell us to believe. why to believe and who to believe and then goes into great detail presenting the case for why he is worthy of believing in. All that we might have life in him. Now there are several signs described in this gospel. that Jesus performed, uh performed by Christ, that also established his worthiness. And let's just go through these. I know you know all these, you have heard these. uh repeatedly, but these several signs, there are seven. He changed water to wine And again, this is establishing Jesus' authority for everything that John is claiming him to be. But he these seven sides are indicators of that. He changed the water to wine, the wedding in Galilee. Jesus, his mother and disciples were invited to that. When they ran out of wine, Jesus told the servants to fill the jars with water. And when it was served, it had been changed to wine, and not only wine, but the finest wine they had ever had. And in so doing, he manifested his glory, and his disciples, it says, believed. Officials, son healed in four forty-six through fifty-four. Um also at Cana in Galilee, the same place as the wedding I just mentioned. The man, the official, came up to Jesus and said that his son was dying, and Jesus said, Go, your your son will live. When the man got back to his son, they found that he had been healed and that it was corresponding to the time when Jesus said, Go, your son will live. And the man believed. The son was healed, and the man believed. Again, there's that word. The lame man healed. uh where he healed the man at the pool at uh Beth Seda again because of his belief in what Jesus was telling him when everything else had failed. when his sitting by the woo by the pool waiting for somebody to put him in uh had not happened. Um but he believed in what Jesus told him and he was healed. Feeding the five thousand in uh chapter six. The boy had the five barley loaves and the two fish. And then they fed everyone and there were leftovers. Then immediately after that, um in that same context, the blind man was healed. I'm sorry, the walking on the water is immediately following that. I skipped one. He walked after the disciples' boat and rescued them. Again, an opportunity for them to believe Who he said he was. The blind man healed in chapter nine. He spit in the mud We've talked about this. Did he need to spit in the mud and make spit make you know, make mud out of dirt and do all those things? Could he have just Said you're healed and you're healed. For whatever reason he did that. Uh but the uh it adds to uh him uh believing in what Christ was was doing. And told him to go wash in the food of uh Solomon that he could see The Jews didn't believe what had happened to this man and they cast him out. But he came back to Jesus and and Jesus said, You believe what I what I've done, and he did. Again, that word belief. And finally, the seventh, Lazarus, raised from the dead in chapter eleven. Lazarus died. Jesus was very grieved by this, but he told his disciples, I'm glad I wasn't there, so that you will believe. And after four days , Jesus came to uh where Lazarus was was laid down and brought him back to life. But again, notice how often that word belief is is used Further establishing Christ as Lord and therefore worthy are the seven I am statements throughout the book, what Jesus claims about Himself. And G. Campbell Morgan had some notes on this. I'll uh kind of throw those in. Again, there are seven of these. If you're into numerology, there are seven of these as well. Jesus said , I am the bread of life in six thirty-five. G. Campbell Morgan said of that, that it was sustenance by holiness. The bread of life, sustenance by holiness. In eight twelve, he said, I'm the light of the world, illumination by holiness. In chapter ten, verse seven through nine, I am the door, safety by holiness. In chapter ten, verses eleven, I am the good shepherd. Supply by holiness. The resurrection and the life in chapter eleven. Triumph by holiness. I am the way, the truth, and the life in chapter fourteen. Progress by holiness. And finally, in verse 15, I am the true line. Fellowship by holiness. So again, I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world. I am the door. I am the good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. I'm the way, the truth, and the life. I am the true mind. That's a lot of big statements. They all happen to be true other Again, as I said, this is somewhat disjointed and I'm not uh I I hope that you could follow along a little bit, but in Conclusion, I don't know if it was intentional on John's part, again, our John, or coincidental, but I think it may be significant to see that the book we just concluded And this book we're about to start have at least this in common, this similar function. Paul was reeling in his flock, the Thessalonians. Back to their first belief. Back to their ribs. Back to their first calling. John, having the benefit of being the last does likewise, calling his readers and us back to believing, back from error and heresy. But I think we would do well to pay attention to what is stealing us away from believing and acting out that belief. Let us remain uh vigilant in watching out for what steals us away. Diligent in learning and applying this word that was from the beginning, and jealously protective of our brothers and sisters as we all fight that fight And that we remember and believe without wavering that God so loved us that He sent His only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. I'm going to pray in closing, and then I've asked John to close this morning with a song that I thought was appropriate. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the word.