What I was going to have Brad read this morning is like from chapter thirteen, verse one, to I think fourteen, the middle of the chapter. But uh I relented at the last minute and Just limited it to what I'm going to speak of this morning. But the text really is a big text. It's one of the it's the longest answer that Jesus ever gave to a question. So anyway, uh Mark 13, 1 through 9. This is one of those texts that make me wish that you had a full-time pastor. We are embarking on some end times preaching here. And true scholars all over are all over the page on what they think these scriptures mean and how they apply. And much like what we faced in our Book of Romans study, it's difficult to come to a conclusion on this passage without having a solid understanding of the Book of Revelation. And it's difficult to have a real understanding of the Book of Revelation without having a thorough understanding of the Old Testament. So you can see why it's quite a challenge to enter this text. I can only tell you that I'll do the best I can do with the time that I have to do it. And it will not be a deep understanding of end times from this passage. But I think we can do justice to the passage for our application purposes and for some understanding. Now we're still on Wednesday. of Christ's last week. We have a lot of record of what happened on this Wednesday of Christ's last week. He's been teaching in the temple courts all day. He's been wrestling with the uh With the Sadducees and Pharisees and the rulers and uh winning. And now they're walking out of the city, and the district the disciples draw Christ's attention to the amazing temple building. Now we need to keep in mind that this temple building is the center of Jewish worship of God. So in their mind, it is the center of worship of God in the world. It is probably a sign to the Jewish people that God is still with them. They look at this and they say, This temple, isn't this amazing? God is with us. He did this work. They probably saw its presence as something that was very spiritually significant. So when the disciples talked about this structure, They were probably talking in an admiring and an awe-filled kind of conversation. The conversation would have been a very positive one, uh a thankful one, even in a praiseful and reverential tone. It might might be how we talk about our building when we finish it. Um we need to understand that to realize we have to understand this context for us to realize How the disciples would have received what Christ said next. They say, Teacher, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here. And Jesus answered and said to him, Do you see these great buildings? And of course, you know, they would be saying, Yeah, that's what we've been talking about. His next sentence, not one stone shall be left upon another that shall not be thrown down. The disciples are saying, look at the workmanship here, look at the beauty of this building, look at its magnificence, look at the amazing thing that God has done for his people. And Jesus says in essence, look at this future trash heap. This statement about the temple was a death blow to their nationalistic view of life. These buildings represented what the disciples hoped Christ would come in and take over. This was the system they wanted part of the leadership for. They wanted to be running this ship. Well that the temple was the nation of Israel as far as they were concerned. Jesus is not only not impressed with this beautiful building, not only does he not build on what they're saying, He tells them by what he says that this building will have no significance in the lives of future followers of God. And Christ describes in physical detail exactly what would happen to that building. He knew the devastation that was to follow. He knew how devastating that day would be. And this building, which took so very long to build, in fact it wasn't completed at the time of this writing, this impressive wonder of man's architecture would be completely destroyed It would have even been hard to imagine that something like this could happen. It would take a tremendous amount of work to accomplish this. This statement may have taken the disciples' breath away, literally. It was that kind of conversation. It would have been that big of a shock to their systems to hear what he just said. So after that, the disciples walk a little while until they get to the Mount of Olives. So from what I understand they would have walked out of Jerusalem and then back up on a hillside that overlooks Jerusalem. And um so they're probably sitting down over this looking over the city and the temple by now So we aren't surprised to see that after the disciples had probably talked about it some privately, that they approached Jesus for more information about what he had said. Peter, James, and John and Andrew were questioning him privately. Now notice that Peter didn't try to correct Jesus this time. It's always to see a little bit good to see a little bit of success. He doesn't say no, Jesus, this will never happen. He's at least learning that whatever Jesus said will happen will happen Now, he still doesn't believe that about himself yet, but that's coming. But he does seem to believe it regarding every other topic that Jesus talks about, finally. Now, Matthew gives us a little more detail in what the full set of questions entail. So we've got the Matthew and the Mark passages pulling together here. Their full question was, tell us when will these things happen? So he has just said that the temple is going to be torn down. They're asking, when will these things happen and what will be the sign of your coming and the end of the age? And then Mark says, tell us when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things will be fulfilled. So we've got to look at both of those and pull them together to understand what they're asking. The disciples understood that what Jesus said had something to do with a bigger timetable of when Christ would come into power. They knew he was going to come into power. He was the Messiah. But they could not figure out how. They understood he would take over someday. But why would it why would he tear the temple down? I mean why would the temple they didn't know. They couldn't understand how that time frame was going to work and we can't hardly blame them for that. And Jesus doesn't seem to be frustrated with them on that point. Now, some believe that these two questions are essentially a rephrasing of one question, with an understanding that the destruction of the temple would happen at the same time as Christ's coming into power. But that wouldn't have to be the case. It could have been two separate questions, with one relating to the other. It could be like asking Jack, when will the electric work be done in the new church and when can we begin meeting there? You know, they're two questions, separate questions, but they're related to one another. Notice their first question. When? When will this be? What day will this be? What calendar date will this be? What year will this be? We see that Christ never answers that question. He does not say when. He never gives a date and a time. He even says that he doesn't know at another place. We've got to wonder at this point why? Why does God not give a time for this important event? Have you ever experienced this in your own life? You're facing a trial or suffering or a difficulty, and you pray about it, but the trial, the suffering, the difficulty, it just remains. And it just seems to go on and on. And you ask God for relief. You ask him to put the time frame on it that you have in mind, which is usually right now. God, it would be really good if right now you fixed this. Right now would be a great time for you to end this, Lord. We ask, when will this relationship of mine get better? Or when will this child of mine repent? Or when will this pain of mine subside? And we get no answer. Well, I think James gives us the answer to it. He says that the trial of our faith, the time we spend believing and trusting God, even when it looks like believing and trusting God doesn't work out so well. The testing of our faith produces patience. The waiting produces something in us that is necessary and important for us to live. As it is in our personal lives, so it is in the life of the church. These guys were to live by waiting, and we still are to live by waiting. So they're not given a date. Now, suppose Christ had given them a date. Suppose he had told them the temple is going to be torn down in AD 70, and I will be coming back. in January one of twenty eighteen? What would have happened? What happens when you know what date your uh your paper is due? It's gonna get done the night before, you know. That's what we would have done if the Lord would have told us what date he was going to return. We'd have started getting ready in 2017. We would procrastinate. Christ often does not want us to know the timetables. Those are his, not ours. It's for him to plan. It's for us to trust and obey. That's how he likes it. If we have a problem with that , We have to over learn how to overcome that problem because that's how he is. He wants us to trust him. Okay, so Christ doesn't give a date. What other clue do you get from that? Well, Christ wouldn't give a date. And if he doesn't give a date, we would do well to quite quit trying to figure it out. If Christ didn't give it, we don't need it. And if we don't need it, we would do well not to look for it. And for those who do have a date figured out, We can ignore them. Whatever date Christ's return will be, we can be sure it's not going to be the one announced by the next paper book uh seller or writer or charlatan. Now the first question was when? The second question is about the indicators of Christ's coming. When is it imminent? When will I know that it's getting close? They ask, what is the sign of your coming in the end of the age? And Mark says, when when will all these things be fulfilled? So we have the sign of Christ's coming, the end of life as we know it, when everything is taken over by God, and these things being fulfilled. It looks to me like they want signs to know when the temple will be destroyed, as well as signs to know when Christ will take over Israel. Jesus' answer and prophecy about the end times is normally understood in one of four ways. And this is this is important for us to understand as we're looking at this because I'm gonna mix a couple of different opinions and odds are there's only one of them that's closest to being right. So we need to study ourselves to determine what it is that we believe about how to understand the end times. But anyway, first, some believe that everything that Christ is prophesying will take place and be done in 70 AD. So they would be saying what Christ said here in this passage, it was finished when Rome tore down the temple. That's called the preterist view. These people believe that Christ returned in one sense already in AD 70. They point to the nature of the question that the disciples ask. And what the disciples would have understood in the answer, and they uh they have some unusual historical evidence for natural disasters and oddities that happened during this period of history. There was some really weird stuff going on, depending on who you read. They also believe that the book of Revelation describes what happened during that period of history. R. C. Sprohl is probably one of the most popular scholars right now that holds this interpretation. I personally don't think he's right. But it's very interesting reading, and he is far smarter than me, so I gain a lot by reading it, and I suspect we all would. So anyway, the preterist view. Everything is already done. The historicist view. The historicist view interprets the symbols in the prophecies in the book of Revelation. and matches them to to this the symbols to events that have happened during the course of history. So they see Revelation as referring to history and future of the church. as foretold with symbols. The symbols can often be understood by ways that they were used similarly in the Old Testament For example, invading armies in the Old Testament were often likened to locusts. So the locusts described in Revelation as interpreted by the Old Testament are invading armies. So uh Mike leaned heavily on the historicist interpretation of Revelation, although he never committed fully to it. So to understand Revelation as a historicist, one would have to thoroughly understand the Old Testament. Okay, so we have the preterist The historicist, then there's the futurist. The futurist view. This view holds that the book of Revelation should be interpreted literally This is the view most of us have grown up with. Most of the popular TV preachers hold largely to this view Their interpretations can get pretty spectacular. They have a tendency to turn locusts into helicopters and the like. The biggest problem I have with the complete futurist view is that the book of Revelation was written in a known style called apocalyptic. That style was understood by the hearers of it to use symbols that the readers would have known how to interpret. It seems to be cheating good interpretive rules to take a style known to be symbolic and then to try to suddenly make it literal. It would be like taking all the physical descriptions of God that were given in Scripture to find out what God looks like. We draw him then on paper as having wings and a right arm that's bigger than his left arm. Uh things like that by taking things literally that are not intended to be intended to be taken literally. Uh another good example is that uh uh an example of of something having symbolic meaning that everybody understands is if if we saw a cartoon and there's a uh an elephant on one side and um um a mule on the other and they're pulling a rope between themselves. If we saw a cartoon of that, we would probably understand that to be the struggle between Democrats and Republicans. Somebody from another culture looks at that and they think that's the silliest thing I've ever seen. But we understand its meaning immediately That's how apocalyptic writing is. It's like you've got clues into what it means, and then you understand what it's saying by those clues. So anyway, um That's a struggle that the that the futurist view, in my opinion, doesn't do as good with as it could. But that is not to say that the futurist view is wrong. I tend in that direction. And the last view is the idealist view. This essentially reads prophecy as being like a poetic story The idealist view would say that Revelation is describing the battle between God and Satan in poem in a poem, essentially, or in idealistic terms It's like a fairy tale. And I don't think that's likely because that sort of interpretation would give us no preparation to understand where we are in terms of history. Christ gave the signs that we could watch and understand in concrete terms, at least somebody could. And the idealist view does not allow for that. So with all that said, I'd like to read something John MacArthur says. He's a futurist, but what he says also would have some backing to a historicist view. And this is a little lengthy, but I it was extremely helpful to me, I hope it is for you. As Matthew's account indicates, the disciples' question was bigger than just an inquiry into the coming ruination and carnage at the temple. So John MacArthur has taken the view. This question wasn't just about the destruction of the temple, so you can't expect the answer to be just about the destruction of the temple. Okay, he goes on. They wanted to know about the end of the present age. The disciples, like other first-century Jews, envisioned only a single coming of the Messiah. But God intended that the Messiah to come twice, once as a suffering servant, and again as the conquering king, with an extended period of time elapsing between the two events. In order to help them understand that reality, Jesus gave his disciples a detailed reply to their question. In fact, the response found in Mark 13 and the parallel passages, Mark, Matthew 24 and 25, and Luke 21. constitutes the longest recorded answer given by Jesus to any question that he was asked. Clearly the Lord intended it as a vitally important truth for his followers to grasp. Verse 5 marks the actual beginning of the Olivet Discourse, in which Jesus explained what would take place throughout the world. With a particular emphasis on these events that will immediately precede his return to earth. Having already predicted the imminent demolition of the temple and its operations , Jesus shifted his focus to the distant future. Now that's MacArthur's opinion. He's saying after verse 2, he's jumping way into the future. It's not necessarily so, but that's what he believes. Some interpreters who deny that there will be a future earthly kingdom insist that everything Jesus foretold in the Olivet Discourse was fulfilled in AD 70, around the time of the temple's destruction. But such a concept is untenable for a number of reasons. First, the fact that Jesus used the figure of birth pangs indicates that he was speaking about the end of the church age, not the beginning. After all, labor pains do not occur throughout the entire pregnancy, but only at the end. Since the destruction of the temple occurred early in church history, it happened in A. D. 70. The figure of birth bangs could not apply to that event, because it's been 2,000 years after that. Second, the Lord indicated that the gospel must be first preached to all nations. Verse 10. That's something that clearly had not occurred by A. D. 70. The third reason MacArthur gives is that this this has to be about the future, is that Jesus spoke about the abomination of desolation. And we're going to be talking about these things one at a time. But abomination and desolation and the ultimate desecration of the Antichrist in the temple during a period just before the second coming. That event did not take place in 8070. And even the people who have the view that says that it took place in 8070 can't tell you how. And in fact, has not yet occurred. Fourth, the Lord also spoke of a time of tribulation such as not occurred since the beginning of the creation which God created until now and never will. Verse nineteen. Those words, he says, cannot refer to the destruction of the temple in AD seventy, since they speak of a time when the calamity on earth will be worse than it has ever been in all human history, even during the time of the flood. Now I'm not sure he's right about that, given that it was a a a Horrendous disaster what happened to the Jewish people. Maybe that was the worst suffering that's ever happened. We don't know But anyway, finally, Jesus identified heavenly signs that would accompany the end of the age, including the darkening of the sun and moon and the falling of the stars from heaven Obviously, such cosmic catastrophes have not yet taken place. When they do, Jesus warned that those alive at that time should recognize that he is about to return. And this is an interesting take on this verse. He says, as he explained, the generation that experiences these end-time events will be the same generation that is alive at the second coming. That's how he gets away with that passage that says that this not g this isn't gonna happen, uh that where this generation doesn't see it, he says this generation isn't the generation that he lived in. He's talking about the generation that experiences these things happening. Anyway, meaning that the final cataclysms on Earth will occur within the span of a single generation. Since nothing remotely like a global and cosmic upheaval of the magnitude described in the Olivet Discourse occurred in 8070, nor yet in Earth's history The specific fulfillment of these universal judgments must still be future. I think that what he says here is something we really have to wrestle with. Again, he's pushing a futurist view. It would also fit some with the historicist view, but it would blow the preterist view out of the water. All right. I'm not sure that Mr. MacArthur is right about his idea that none of what Christ said had to do with AD 70 and the sacking of Jerusalem But I do think he shows how not everything that Christ predicted could have happened and been fulfilled before AD 70. At least some of it had to be pointing toward the future. Now let's start looking at Jesus' answer. We won't be able to look at at all of this this uh today, but we'll get started. Verse 5. And Jesus, answering them, began to say, Take heed that no one deceives you. For many will come in my name, saying, I am He, and will deceive many. Josephus tells us that this exact thing happened after Christ and before AD 70. There was just a swarm of false messiahs. A lot of them arose. And in fact, the destruction of Jerusalem was due to the influence of one or more of these false messiahs. They're the ones who incited the people to rebel against Rome. Now, could this be one of those dual-fold prophecies that Jesus is predicting something and it happened actually happens twice? I think that is highly likely. That is the easiest way for me to understand this. Jesus is saying this is going to happen in the future. It happened, some of it happened in AD 70 and before. And it it's going to happen very similarly at the end of time. It always amazes me how we are so shocked and so taken back By the things that Christ said were sure to happen. Know what I mean? He told us for sure, for sure, there will be tares with the wheat. There are always wolves with the sheep. There will always be false with the true. We know it will happen. Christ promised it would happen. Why do our worlds fall apart when it does? Surely it's disappointing and discouraging when we find out a person we believe to be true isn't true. And it should upset us. I mean, love would require that. And surely we hope for better for those we love, but really should have come in such a shock that what Christ said was sure to happen happens. Of course it will happen. False and true always live in the same neighborhood. There are only two things to clear up that problem. Persecution and final judgment So we're gonna have deceivers. They'll claim to be Christians. They may appear to be a way better Christian than we are. After all, it wouldn't take much. We know ourselves. And we aren't all that wonderful, are we? When we really see ourselves for what we are in the mirror. So it's really easy for a pretender to come across as being way superior to us The deception that Christ is speaking of here is a little easier to spot because this guy's saying, I'm it. I'm the Messiah. I'm the one. Salvation is through me. Our red flags would pop up all over the place if somebody walked into our church this morning and started saying that. For us, the deceivers who offer another superior path of spirituality Are greater dangers to us. So the warning that we take heed that no one deceives us is still very valid. We aren't likely to be deceived into following some false messiah yet. But we are highly likely to be deceived into following another method of spirituality, something that comes in an experiential package that makes us feel good. That is always a danger. Now, these false messiahs, they'll increase at the end until the Antichrist steps in as the best of the false messiahs. It's like they were all uh pretenders, but he's the real thing. He's the real Antichrist, at least if you buy into the histor or the futurist view. Then verse 7. But when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, don't be troubled, for such things must happen, but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. I hope we're getting this. This is the world future that God promises. He promises it. It will happen. It will not in any way get any better for extended periods of time. There will not be world peace until we are under a world leader who cuts a deal for peace. according to the futurist view, and even then it will be very temporary. If you watch the news at all and you think about the implications, you see that nations are desperate for a savior. Nations are desperate for a savior. The world's citizens want a savior. We as humans want someone who can provide for us , can keep us safe. can provide food for our table, can keep our borders safe, can keep our globe from heating up too much, and on and on But we're like the song says, looking for love in all the wrong places. Global conflict is going to only do one thing, increase It will escalate until it is so bad that we as a world would rather welcome the devil himself to lead us than to put up with ourselves for one more day. That's the world future we're headed to if the futurists are correct. Christ promises it. Now, in the midst of that conflict, what does Christ tell us to do? He said, okay, it's going to get worse. It's going to be more and more and more wars. Now what to do? Do not be troubled. Do not be troubled. Read the headlines and do not be troubled The word means don't be troubled in mind. Don't be frightened. Don't be alarmed. Now let me ask you, is that a command or a suggestion? Because if it's a suggestion, we can do with it whatever we want. But it appears to be a command. If the God of the universe tells us we have no reason to be troubled in mind or alarmed when world conflicts continue If he tells us not to get bent out of shape, even when acts of terrorism begin hitting the US, what do we do? Do we get bent out of shape anyway? And act like God really doesn't mean what he says. God really isn't able to control this environment. God really isn't able to take care of us. Or do we choose to trust him with our precious selves? Really? We either trust him or we don't. And life proves it. What is it with us? So this conflict is going to escalate, but that isn't proof of the end. It just proves we're moving toward the end. I found this online, and it's, you know, I can't vouch for the sources. I certainly don't have time to to make sure that everyone is correct, but these appear to be valid sources. Out of 162 countries, 151 of the world's nations are currently involved in some form of conflict. Even more depressingly, this said, the study from the Institute of Economics and Peace shows that the world is getting progressively less peaceful since 2007. And there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines and troubles. These are the beginnings of sorrows. Now we're getting somewhere. As a matter of curiosity, I got online and searched for the earthquake frequency. What I saw was a chart beginning in 1973 where there were 5,000 earthquakes In 2005, there were 30,000 earthquakes. Search for it for yourself if you like. You'll see pretty much a steady increase A steady increase of earthquakes. And people say they can't believe the Bible. I also did a search for famines, and the results weren't as easily graphed, but it's clear that there's a lot of famines worldwide. So Jesus made it clear there's going to be a lot of bad stuff going on across the globe. God does not intend to end suffering. Yet. It will surely escalate as the end time approaches. So there'll be external hardship and disaster. Now, don't you find it interesting that those things that the Bible uses as evidence are those Those things that people use as evidence that there is no God is actually evidence that the Bible is true. How many times have you heard it? How could there be a God and allow all this suffering They can see that God's word is right. They just don't like the author. God is not going to limit or eliminate suffering on this planet. There is a purpose for it. A God who allows suffering is not tenable with most people's understanding of what God should be like But he is. What else will happen? It says, but watch out for yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils, and you will be beaten in the synagogues. You will be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them. Okay, so spiritual deceivers will increase Warfare will increase, earthquakes will increase, famine will increase, and what else? Persecution of Christians will increase. What Jesus tells these guys had to be very helpful to them personally. They were told what would happen to them in their lives, what they were soon to experience. As well as anyone else listening who followed Christ who would have known what was coming. The first source of persecution was going to come from the Jews, from the experts in religion. They would first do to the Christians what they had the power to do. They had the power to beat somebody. So that's what they were going to do to these Christians. But they didn't have the power to kill. Politically, they didn't have the power to kill. For that, the leaders would need to deliver them to the civil leaders. And that was going to happen. A very clear example of this was Paul. It probably happened to the other disciples as well, but we aren't given the details. When we read this, we expect what it will say next because we've we've read it a bunch of times. So when we read this, if we if we're familiar with Scripture, it doesn't grip us. The way it would have the time it was first heard by the disciples. But for these guys, hearing it for the first time , this would have been difficult. These guys are following Jesus with in the back of their mind thinking we're going to be the powerhouse people. I'm going to be right and left on Jesus' power seat. Not only weren't they going to be in power, not only wouldn't they be calling the shots, the big shots were going to use them as the whipping boys. That's what Jesus just said. Christ was telling them that they would be persecuted, they would be beat. Every fleshly reason for following Jesus Christ had just flown right out the door. All hopes of being the big shots was gone. The Jews will punish you, is what he was telling them, and then the Romans will punish you. Why For the only reason worth dying for, for the gospel message penetrating every level of society. Christ is going to use his servants as his messengers to these lost people. And some of them would respond. The odds aren't going to be good. But God never seems worried about the odds. I I heard recently that uh the dice of God are always loaded. I always thought that was funny. A loaded dice always ends up where you want it to be. The dice of God are always loaded. He will use us, he will use people as a witness. Do we see our lives that way? And we get up every morning and we have a determination about our lives, whether we know it or not. Do we see our lives that way? Do we see our lives as for God to spend to get his word wherever he wants it? Well, that's what they are. If we're Christians, that's what we've signed up for. We are blessed to have such a wonderful purpose in living, in breathing. I've been watching the news. The famous celebrities seem to be dropping like flies with drug overdoses. Not that that's new. But why? Why? They have everything And that's just it. They have been given everything that the world offers and they have found it wanting. You know, they have been given everything that the world offers and it doesn't satisfy their souls. It doesn't give them what they need. It doesn't give them purpose. It doesn't give them a reason to breathe. They don't have anything worth dying for, and they don't have anything worth living for. We do. We are ambassadors of Jesus Christ to this lost and dying world. And they will eventually, if not, now, kill us for that trouble. That is what Christ promised to his eleven favorite guys. We aren't likely to get any less Now we're just a little way into our text, but we can see for sure that Christ is going to return. And when he returns, he is going to separate the sheep from the goats, the believers from the unbelievers. It's very important that you have responded to Christ's call on your life before this happens. It's vital that you understand that the death that Jesus suffered, he suffered in your place. He was taking upon himself your sin on that cross. He was taking upon himself the wrath of God for you and I. And now you are called to believe in Christ. You're called to respond to what Christ did by saying, Yes, Lord, I trust that what you did on that cross on that day counted for me. I believe that your sacrifice was adequate for my salvation. And I trust you this morning with all of me. I surrender to you the lordship of my life because you have bought me at a tremendous price. Forgive me of my sins, and I am hereby turning from them to you. That's what it takes to be right with God. That's what it takes to be prepared for his second coming. Have you ever done that? That is the business that cannot be left undone. Securing your soul in the love of Christ is the most important thing that you can do on this earth. Christ is coming back. Are you prepared? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your wonderful word, even when it tells us awful things. We thank you, Lord, that you are preparing us for your presence. And our home is not here. This is a terrible home. with all the awful things that are going to happen to it. Lord, we thank you for your orientation that we'll see more of next week. All of this suffering is being allowed to take place because you have not yet filled your kingdom with all the people you want in it. And that's it. And that your children are that important that you allow this This world to continue to tick off its minutes in the awfulness of what human beings do to each other Because you want more people to spend eternity with. We don't know why. But we are extremely thankful that you do. We ask that you would help us to see how we can Live more for your purposes and less for ours. And that if we hadn't given our lives to you and surrendered to you and received your gift for our life Of salvation, that we would do that this morning. We ask all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen.