Had no no business talking to. Most Jews would have condemned him for what he did. The woman was surprised that this Jewish man would even speak to her, and even more surprised that he would drink out of her utensils. Now, she may have been suspicious based on all of her previous transactions with men. She may have even thought that Jesus was hoping to take advantage of her somehow. That was likely from what she was used to. But we see in this text that she was hearing things from Jesus that made her think twice. He was offering her living water. Now she probably understood that as being spring water, because that's what they called spring water, slipping water. So she couldn't see how it was possible that Christ here in the middle of this, you know Desert kind of country would be offering her water and he had nothing to dip it with. Was he in some way greater than Jacob, who needed to dip the water from the well? And Jesus is here without utensils and he's offering her water. Who did this Jesus think he was? Was he just talking gibberish, or what 's going on here? And then Jesus started talking in ways that were shocking to her senses. He's taking her by surprise, and we get to verse 13 and 14 where he says. Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I'll give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. Now this woman, like Nicodemus, is faced with either taking this statement literally or figuratively. And just like Nicodemus, she takes it the wrong way. It's a lot like us. She responds as if Jesus is offering her indoor plumbing. Sure, Jesus, I want this water that comes to me every day, so I no longer have to come here and draw it. That's where we begin this week in verse 15. And the woman said to him, Sir, give me this water. I'll take that. So that I'll not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. I don't particularly like coming here in the middle of the day to draw water to begin with. This woman didn't get it at first, just like Nicodemus didn't get it at first. Jesus is offering this woman new birth. He's offering her salvation. And she can't get past the natural. She wants to get water like Americans get water. She wants to spig it in her house. She completely missed the point Jesus was making, just like Nicodemus did. But Jesus wouldn't give up on her. Just like Jesus doesn't give up on us. Praise God for that. So Jesus says this. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. What's going on here? What is going on here? Jesus was just talking about living water. Is he abruptly changing the topic now? Is he talking about something else now? And I used to always think that he was, but I was wrong, I think. He's still talking about water. Her water. He's still talking about the stuff that we look to to satisfy our souls. Jesus is asking this woman about her water. He's saying, let's talk about your water now. Tell me about your relationships. Tell me about how you're going about your life. Tell me about what you live for. Tell me about what it is that you hope in to save you and complete you and give you meaning and give you joy. Tell me about that. That's your water. How's that working for you? Go call your husband. Jesus knew her heart. He knew that she was chasing a pipe dream in an effort to find meaning and happiness. He knew that when he gave this command, he he was aware of the whole thing. He was going to show her that her water is faulty. Her methods of living were not working. They were not satisfying. And he knew what her next sentence was going to be He knew the truth about her. She was using her sexuality to find meaning, to find identity, to find all of the things that only Jesus could give to her. She was drinking the wrong water. Verse 17 the woman answered her, I have no husband. This is incidentally the woman's shortest answer in the whole conversation. It's the longest story, but it's the shortest answer. It was probably the biggest story in her life. It was the best story at describing her life. The story that best described her life, she had the least to say about. Jesus had gotten to her. There was nothing to say. And I'm pretty sure she did not want this line of questioning to continue She was probably not proud of her choices and they did not work out well for her. Now look at this. All of her natural strategies for living could not give her the solid foundation she was looking for Chasing her dream put her in relationships where she was just being used, at least to some degree, we get evidence of. She was gaining none of the security that marriage would provide She could not gain what she needed by her strategies. She may have worded her answer differently. She could have said, I do not have a man who is committed by an oath to take care of me until I die. I have no husband. How sad a state that this woman was in, how disappointing it must have been to her This is the story of all of us when we allow ourselves to chase our meaning and value apart. From Jesus Christ. This is us when we think we need something more than we need Christ. This is you and me. What is there apart from Christ that you think in your life that you must have in order to be happy? That's really the question Do you think that you'll find your water in your spouse? Give up now. He or she will only disappoint you If you're looking for the water of your soul in that person, you'll expect too much of them. It's not their fault they can't satisfy your soul. It's not their fault. They are not Jesus. Carl often quotes Ruth Bell Graham, and it's a great quote. She said, It's a foolish woman who expects her husband to be to her that which only Jesus Christ himself can be. Always ready to forgive, totally understanding, unendingly patient, invariably tender and loving, unfailing in every area Anticipating every need and making more than adequate provision, such expectations put a man under an impossible strain. Look at our culture. Men and women give themselves to each other in a sort of idolatry, looking for meaning, looking for security, looking to be loved in a way that only Jesus can do. Nothing is new. Nothing has changed. The woman said, I have no husband. She's she's really saying, my water is not water. My pursuit of meaning has failed. I am parched. Jesus brings it to the surface. Jesus says, you're right. It's not working. Jesus said to her this. You're right in saying I have no husband. You you've had five husbands, and the one that you're with now, he's not your husband. What you're saying is true. Wow, five husbands. This woman is broken. She is somehow sabotaging legitimate relationships, more than likely. And you can pretty well know that if all of your serious relationships are subject to the same failure, the same disappointment, the problem is not with other people, it's with you. And this woman might feel like she's being true to herself by making these decisions to abandon these relationships or whatever is happening, but it's just evil, it's just foolish. It isn't working and it's never going to. She has to know that she has broken God's law in her pursuit in finding what she thinks her heart needs. She knows that the relationship she is now in, living with a man, is violating God's law. But it's all she has. She's clinging to straws in her search for meaning. She has to have this man to be someone. She has to be desired to feel okay about herself. Needs like that. We don't know exactly what they were, but those are typically it It's interesting how Jesus frames this. The man you have now is not your husband. She has a man, but the man doesn't have her. She's in a performance-based relationship. There's no vow, there's no commitment, and when she stops treating him the way he wants to be treated, he is free now to dispose of her. That is the relationship that they're in. She has to keep coming back to the well that will never satisfy her thirst. But Jesus has seen her. Jesus has exposed her. Jesus has seen through her. Has this ever happened to you? Has Jesus ever revealed you to you? Has he ever called you from your pursuit, from something you were convinced you needed to be happy, to be satisfied, to be fulfilled, that only led you to harm? Where were you looking for love in all the wrong places? Maybe they were legitimate relationships that you expected too much from. Maybe maybe you thought that they were the love that you were s was supposed to save you. But they're not Jesus. They're not living water. Your water thirst will always expect more from the relationships than what those relationships can provide. They will disappoint you and you'll think it's somebody else's fault, but it's not. A spouse cannot be our water. The kindest thing Jesus can do when your heart is set on anything other than Jesus for your water is to break your heart. The kindest thing he can do is cause failure. Only then will you give him your attention. We know what we're like. Only then will your heart cry out to him to give you what only he can give you. This woman is the picture of all of us when we don't look to Jesus for the deepest satisfaction in our souls. We are her when we look to something other than Jesus to satisfy our souls. She has been caught, she has been seen, she has been known. Now what will she do next? What's a human prone to do? Let's change the topic. And that's exactly what she does. Verse 19, the woman said, Sir, I perceive you're a prophet, having nothing to do with the conversation they were in the middle of. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is a place where people ought to worship. I read this quote in my study It's much more comfortable to discuss religion than the face one's sin, and that's what she did. Have you ever been having an evangelic an evangelistic discussion with someone when who you think probably is not open to talking about their souls, and they suddenly change the topic? Do you ever feel relieved? I know I do. I I don't like to admit that, but I do. Now l like you think Well now I don't need to continue these efforts to tell them about Jesus because they don't seem interested. They've given me a clue that they're no longer. Well, Jesus didn't do that here. She wants to talk about religions. She wants to talk about anything but her soul. And she's pretty good at diversion. She's probably practiced at avoiding any conversations about her sinful history, and she's probably good at saying truths, but not saying all the truths that are going to lead somebody down that road. So she compliments Jesus. She says, well, Jesus, you clearly know things without being told. So you must hear directly from God. You must be a prophet. Well, I have a question for you. Samaritans have their temple and Judeans have their temple. What's the right thing to do? What is God's ought to here? What's God going to tell us? Where should I worship? Now is she asking because she suddenly wants to do everything right in her life? I don't think so. While this is a very good and valid and important question, and it's probably sincere, it is not the core issue in her life Being religious at the right building is not nearly as important as having your soul drink at the right well. Being religious at the right building is not nearly as important as having your soul drink at the right well. Jesus has a masterful response here. He answers the question and gets immediately back to the water issue. Jesus said, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. Now Jesus' answer had to be a big surprise to this woman. But we're used to Jesus when he's dealing with people, then he gives them lots of surprises. Up until now, this was the core question that separated the Samaritans and the Judeans. And she thinks she's talking about the core issue here, which which temple is the right temple? What building should I be getting to? Where is it that I get right with God? That's been the vital question. And Jesus says, very soon that will be the most irrelevant question you can ask. Wow. What? How can this war between Jews and Samaritans suddenly just go away? What's the explanation to that? This woman is probably in the same state Nicodemus was in when talking to Jesus. Her mind was blown. She's completely taken off guard. Everything she thought about religion was wrong So Jesus continues, verse 22, you worship what you don't know, we worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Now, Jesus actually answers her question here. For this current moment, there is a correct answer to the question that you just asked. If you want to know where you should worship, where is the place that God authorized? It's the Jerusalem Temple. Now the Samaritans only accepted the Pentateuch as their scriptures. So their scriptures didn't give them the place that the temple should be built. The Jews, for the most part, accepted the whole of the Old Testament. There's some variations. But this told them, the rest of the scripture told them where the temple should be built. So the Samaritans worshiped in ignorance. That's what Jesus is saying. The Jews worship based on the truth of God's revealed word. So you worship what you don't know, we worship what we do know. And it has to sting when Jesus says salvation is from the Jews. Jesus is saying what God says matters. And it does not matter how sincerely you are worshiping based on a lie, it's still a lie. The worship of God at a temple, not of God's choosing, is a sham. Jesus doesn't hesitate to lay out that objective truth. But where this woman chooses to worship is not the core of her problem. He'll begin leading her to what she needs in the next sentence. But let's take a moment to consider this. Salvation is from the Jews. Salvation is from the Jews. That's an important statement. Where does salvation not come from? Anywhere else. When Jesus says that salvation is from the Jews, it's true in at least two ways. First is that the revelation of the promised Messiah came to the Jews. The Samaritans refused to believe most of the scriptures that actually revealed Christ and prophesied Christ, so they had no advance notice. Romans three one and two says, What advantage then has the Jew or what is the prophet of circumcision? And he says, much in every way Chiefly because to them were committed the oracles of God. So they they w the Jews received what God had to say Verse 3, for I could wish that I myself were a curse from Christ for my brethren, my countrymen according to the flesh, who are Israelites, to whom pertain the adoption. the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God, and the promises, of whom are the Fathers, and from whom, according to the flesh, Christ came, who is over all, the eternally blessed God. Amen. So God's Revelation of Christ came from the Jews. And secondly, the Messiah, Jesus Christ Himself. Came from the Jews. He was a Jew. So when we look for salvation, we have to find it coming through the Jewish people. This undoes much of what cults and other world religions preach. If salvation comes from Joseph Smith of the Mormons, Jesus is lying here. If it comes from Buddha or Muhammad, Christ is lying. If the Savior came from Korea, as the Moonis used to say, Christ was lying. That might be before most of your time, but We live through that. Sun Young Moon, I think, was his name. But anyway, we know that Christ was not lying. Salvation came to the world through the channel of the Jewish people. Verse 23, but the hour is coming, and now is here when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him. So, what's the difference between worship in the past and worship during and after Christ Well, the difference is at the very least that worship of God is not limited to worship in a specific temple. It was interesting. That's what Sunday school was going over. Something is being opened up here. If we look at the Old Testament, the law was largely focused on external behavior. There were the Sabbaths, festivals, ceremonies, sacrifices, attendance at the temple, laws restricting murder. Stealing, lying, adultery. You watch a person's life and you can see if they did that or not. This was extremely helpful when you needed to run a country People had to conform their behavior to this law. That's a good thing. And for a large part, you could tell by looking if they were doing it or not. You could catch them if they weren't. You could see it. It was behavioral. Now, along with this, were some commands intended to let worshippers know that this external conformity to the law was not enough. The Tenth Commandment forbids coveting. Coveting is clearly a heart issue. You can't catch a person coveting. You can catch them with what they do with it, but you can't catch them coveting. And then there are many rebukes against the Israelites for not sharing God's heart in matters. They were arrogant, they were proud, they were tricky, they were conniving. True worshipers, even in the Old Testament, exhibited many of the New Testament traits. There's always been a remnant of true believers. But since Jesus, there has been a shift for how those worshipers are to worship. The external conformity to a set of rules limited to the Jews and proselytes is no longer the focus once Jesus shows up. Now the focus is on a heart that has changed, and the behavior that results as a result of that changed heart. Now, the teaching is largely on internal attitudes, not external behaviors. Believers are expected to have a changed heart and to live accordingly. And as they live out their lives with this changed heart, their lives will conform to Jesus' teaching about what this looks like inside and outside. And don't most of our problems that we struggle with, aren't they inside ones? Just getting the outside behavior right is less of a focus now. It has to happen. It's important. But it happens from the internal change. In the past, someone might watch a person and they'd know if they were Jewish by external symbols. Just as you might know a Muslim by the woman wearing veils and the man praying three times a day. Well, they know Christians are Christians by their love for one another and by their attitudes that fuel their actions They have a congruent heart and action. That's what Jesus wants in his followers. Their focus is more on their relationship with Christ than anything that anyone can see about them. True Christians who get the real idea of what's going on are concerned about my relationship with Christ that drives every single bit of my behavior. So the real worshippers now will be the ones who worship from their hearts, with the core of who they are, from the inside of who they are, driven by a miracle of regeneration And that is worshiping in the spirit. At least it's my understanding of worshiping in the spirit. And truth, we need to worship in the spirit and truth. Truth means that they're no longer worshiping in shadows and symbols and things that point to Christ. Now they worship in the truth about the the Father revealed in the person of Jesus Christ. Now we have the truth. It was walking with us. It was walking on this planet. Now we know that history. Christ said, I am the truth. Christ is the mystery revealed of how Jew and Gentile can worship together without a wall of division. Christ is a way that the Samaritans and the Jews now can worship together. Christ provided for his followers to now be supercharged compared to what they were in the Old Testament. Just like John was the greatest man before Christ, now every Christian is greater than him. We are fully enabled by the work of Christ to actually worship God the way we were designed to worship God to in spirit and in truth. Our hearts are prepared to worship on the inside, and our object of our worship is now with perfect clarity. When we saw Jesus, we saw the Father, an exact representation, a mirror image. We are worshiping in our spirit To the truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him, it says Well, that's interesting. Notice that it does not say that people are seeking the Father to worship him. What unregenerate humans do, apart from God's intervention, is to seek their own water. This woman was an excellent example of what humans do on their own. They create idols. They run after stuff. That's what we do. No one can come to Jesus except that Jesus calls them to himself If God did not do the seeking, no one would come to Christ. But He does seek, and all that He wants come. Verse 24, God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. Okay, God is spirit. This just emphasizes that worship is not limited to that which is only human. You and I are not spirit like God is. We are flesh and bones with a spirit. You cannot see God the Father And if you did, it'd kill you. He exists in the realm of the unseen. So that is how our worship is. Our worship happens in the unseen world and it manifests itself visibly. If you see a picture of an ultra-Orthodox Jew, you can identify him as one. If you see a picture of a Muslim woman, you might be able to identify him as one. But if you see a picture of a Christian, you have no idea. Their worship is not external. It is in spirit and is based upon truth. In spirit is how we worship, in truth is what we worship. Jesus Christ. In spirit is how we worship, in truth is what we worship. Jesus Christ. Verse 25, the woman said to him, I know that the Messiah is coming, he who is called the Christ, and when he comes, he'll tell us all things. Okay, so here's the woman. She has been revealed. She has a water problem. She has a thirst problem. She then turns the conversation to the right external practice of worship. Changes the topic to what's the right way to worship? Jesus lets her know that while technically the Samaritans have it wrong and the Jews have it right, it's going to soon be irrelevant. Because where of worship is going to move from temples and external practices to the heart. And the what of worship is going to be to the complete fulfillment of everything the Old Testament looked forward to in the truth of Christ. So the woman responds, and she must understand that Jesus is talking about something that's sensational. It has a huge It's a huge change of how things are now. And what he's saying probably has something to do with the Messiah. You can understand why she would think that based on what she's just heard. So she's thinking Messiah, Messiah Well, the Samaritans' expectations, I didn't know this. Samaritans' expectations of the Messiah were that they would tell him or they would tell them all things. That's different than the Jewish expectation. The Jewish expectation was more that the Messiah would come in setting Israel into its proper place and come in power and political power and might and strength and all that. Where the Samaritans actually got this part right They thought that Jesus would come telling them stuff. And they needed a lot of stuff to hold them because they weren't listening to half the Bible. So you can understand why they would think that. And in reality, Jesus has come in for both, kind of in stages, they wouldn't have expected that. Nonetheless, this woman tells Jesus This is what I know about religion. The Messiah is going to come and let us know exactly what's happening. He knows it all, and he'll tell us all, and he'll tell us what we need to know. And at this point you can almost hear the heavenly drum roll in the background. Building and building and building and building. And this next statement is the crescendo. It's earth shattering. Here is an immoral woman sinfully wasting her life chasing water that never satisfies her. And Jesus singles this woman out. Jesus schedules this meeting ahead of time. And he shows up. And he violates all the cultural protocols in order to talk to this woman, who probably no one else would talk to. And he doesn't punish her for giving evasive answers about her sin. He tells her about the phenomenal changes in how people worship that are in the process of happening. And then he gives the punchline of all punchlines. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. I am the Messiah. Jesus tells her, you are standing in the presence of the most significant event in human history. You are viewing God with us This is our Jesus. This is the Jesus who showed up at our well one day. And we may not have realized it. Some of us came to Christ quite young. We didn't realize much other stuff. But we were just like this woman, living our lives without God and doing our best just to get water. Whatever we thought we needed. And he offered us real water. He offered us himself. And he changed our hearts, so now we want him. We may have funny ways of showing it at times. But down deep we are driven by a desire to be right with God, to know God, to fellowship with God, to serve God. He made us want his water. He made the appointment. He made the offer. He showed us himself What an absolutely wonderful Lord we have. Now we have, if we are in Christ, if we have believed in Christ, we have new hearts. Our spirit has changed, and who we worship has changed. I almost can't wait for part three of the story of the woman at the well. This is such a good story. It's the story of how Jesus Paul calls people like you and me. So, what is your thirst this morning? What are you looking for to give you what only God can give you? What is your thirst? You can usually tell easiest by how disruptive and disappointing it is when you don't get it. That's how you find out what you're thirsty for. Or the price that you're willing to pay in order to have it. Where's the most turmoil in your life? Is it because you're looking for water there and there is none? It's worth it's worth looking at. Let's close in prayer. Lord God, we come to you. And we know that you