Remember last week we discussed the reasons for Jesus being deeply moved? I looked more this week to see if there are any clues about Jesus about Jesus' ongoing attitude during his last days that would explain it to us a little better. And all of these passages All of these passages happen just a few days after Jesus raises Lazarus. And the next chapter in John, we see Jesus say in John twelve, twenty-seven Now is my soul troubled. Same word again. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. So Jesus is upset, same kind of upset. Why? He's looking forward to toward looming events in his life. He sees what he must do and he knows what it's going to cost him to do it. And he's troubled about that. Then in Matthew 21, we see a very unusual interaction. We're not going to go much into it this morning. But Matthew twenty one eighteen and nineteen it says and in the morning as he was returning to the city he became hungry And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but leaves, and he said to it, May no fruit ever come from you again. And the fig tree withered at once. Now we can't make too much of this, but we know from other passages that this was not the season where Jesus could expect tree on this fruit I mean fruit on this tree. So might this suggest what kind of mindset Christ was in at that point? And then after Jesus' so-called triumphal entry, Jesus cries again. And again, it's not over something that is good, it's over people suffering the judgment of God because they would not believe. In Luke 19, 41, it says, And he drew near and saw the city, and he wept over it, saying, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace. But now they're hidden from you. Your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side, and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you, and they will not leave. One stone upon another in you because you did not know the time of your vis visitation. So Jesus is upset again. He's upset at the at what is in store for these people who should have responded to him, who should have believed in him, but they rejected him. And then it happened again in Matthew 23, 37 through 39. And this is all within a few days of each other. He says, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not. Willing. See, your house is left to you desolate, for I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So when I put this all together, I think what I presented last week was close to the truth. Jesus, in the last days of his life on earth, is getting worked up He's getting agitated about the unbelief of Jerusalem and the slow growth of his followers. He's dreading the turmoil that he's going to need to go through to rescue these people from their sin. And all of this is weighing heavily on his shoulders as he's looking at the cross. Well, those around him Those around them are just like us sometimes. We just keep going through the motions of our lives, having no idea of the enormity. of what was going to take place in the next couple of days in Jesus' life. Now let's look at our text. Verse 38. Then Jesus deeply moved again, same word, deeply moved again. Turmoil building up just like waves crashing in the sea to get worked up, he came to the tomb. So I think whatever was happening in Jesus, it just kept building. And he is now face to face with the reminder of where he's going to be in just a few days. I think he's the only one in that whole crowd who understood why he felt the way he did. I think he felt very isolated. I bet that those around him were wondering at his odd responses. To this his friend's death. He's worked up, he's agitated, he's irritated Why was Jesus so worked up? Why was he not responding like everybody around him? He goes on, it was a cave, and a stone lay against it. And Jesus said, take away the stone. We had mentioned previously that Lazarus was probably fairly wealthy in order to have a tomb. So Jesus requested the stone be removed. Now, Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. This is definitely one of those passages where I prefer the King James translation. It says, Martha said, Lord, by this time he stinketh. But this time he's stinking. Then that capture it much better. So Martha's saying, Jesus, you might not want to do that. He's stinking And I think that what that's one of the hardest things in being around Jesus. I think it would be for all of us, would be to restrain yourself from giving Christ advice Or informing stuff like in your mind Christ is acting like he might not have thought this through. He he doesn't really know what he's doing. That'd be a hard habit to break. I would think it'd be especially hard for a woman, but that might be unfair. And now I think what Christ what Jesus says next conveys more of an attitude that I've been describing last week and this week. I think it's more of the same Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? So Martha says, Don't do it. And he said, Didn't I tell you? It's almost as if Christ is saying, Martha, watch what I'm doing. Do you think I'm stupid? Do you think really I'm doing this so I can check out the stonework? I've mentioned resurrection a couple of times now, and I've warned you of what I intended to do. Remember? I connected belief and resurrection. Why not? Now rise to the occasion, Martha. Believe. I think that's that's the attitude that he came at it with. Note also that Jesus says, if you believed You would see the glory of God. If you believed, you would see the glory of God. Everyone there is going to see this miracle. But only faith sees the glory of God in the miracle. Everyone will see the miracle. But only faith connects the miracle to the glory of God. When Jesus healed ten lepers and only one came back to thank Jesus, all of them experienced the miracle. But only one was permanently affected by it because of his fate. Only one of it connected it with the glory of Jesus Christ and who Jesus Christ was and what that means to me and that I must respond to this man. Faith connects what God does with the who that actually does it. Faith causes us to have an awe of God reflected to our powerful and loving Lord. That's what faith does in light of a miracle. So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that you sent me. Now that's an interesting prayer, isn't it? For one thing, you don't see Jesus working up a frenzy here as if the dramatics of his prayer is what will move his father to move on his behalf. I've heard some people pray that way. It's like they really need to work things up. Well, nothing of the kind here. This is a remarkable prayer of faith. Jesus doesn't even ask anything. When Jesus says, thank you that you heard me This could mean that Jesus had already asked for the miracle to be done earlier and his father has heard him and Jesus knew that. Or it could mean that the father heard what Jesus said he would do. And Jesus knew that this was in his father's will, and that the father would do it, because the father heard Jesus say that he was going to do it. It could be either one of those. But either way, Jesus knows that he's doing his father's will. And since it is the Father's will, Jesus knows there is no chance in this world that his father will not do what he asked. Because it is in his will. You and I can pray this way regarding promises that are given to Scripture, to Christians in the Scripture You and I can pray this way based on promises that are made to Christians in Scripture. And I believe there are also times when God gives some divine guidance to some believers, that they are given an inside understanding that this thing is going to happen, and they can pray according to that. Uh uh that's less provable and I don't rely on it as much, but at the same time we know it happens. But uh we sure cannot pray this way about everything that we think that God might do or should do Those requests better fit the heading of Thy Will Be Done, like Mark often puts it in There's another interesting thing about this prayer, and it's not prayed primarily for Jesus or for his father. It's prayed on behalf of the listening crowd. That's unusual. Jesus wanted a couple of things understood here. First, that Jesus was completely submissive to the Father's will. So he's praying to display that to the crowd. And second, that if it it it is the Father that's doing these miracles. So it connects Jesus with his Father, with in relationship to his father, that he is in direct contact with his father, that the Father and He are one And that is why this is happening the way that it's happening. Evidently there's a there is a precedence for us to speak to God, to pray in such a way that the crowd listening will be directed to the glory. I hadn't really thought about that before. Clearly, not all prayers are being done in a prayer closet. We can see that for sure. Uh remember when we went through the Sermon on the Mount and Jesus said, Go pray in your closet. Well, obviously That is talking about a specific kind of prayer at a specific kind of time. He's not saying across the board, don't ever pray in public. So uh and note what the end goal of this prayer was. Like most everything else else in John, it was so that the crowd would believe in Jesus. So the crowd would believe in Jesus And more specifically that they believe that Christ was the one that was sent by his father. The communion between the Father and the Son is unbroken. Everyone is safe to follow Jesus. That's the message. As he 's praying this. That's what he wants everyone to understand. And remember that John is a book of belief. It's the belief book. It's it was written so that you may believe. That's the intent of the Book of John. Okay, verse 43. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. Now we read that and we don't get it Like, you have to see the movie. You know? It's one of those kinds. Here is drama. Christ yells. Probably at the top of his lungs he yells More literally, too, what Christ said is Lazarus, this way out. This way out Now I I actually love this thought. I didn't think of it. I came across it and I just loved whoever thought of it. Do you know why Jesus started the sentence with Lazarus' name? It's so all the dead bodies wouldn't come out of the ground at the same time. What an oops that would be. Jesus says, come out, and people all over the globe come out from the dead. That is the kind of power that Jesus Christ had. Now, I I wouldn't claim this is a point of doctrine. It's just kind of something interesting, but it's certainly possible. Jesus better put a limit to the party he'll be part of after this miraculous event. The next time Christ does it, there won't be any name restrictions on the names of those who will be risen from the dead. The next time Christ does this, everybody comes out. Some will be raised to everlasting life. They're going to a party. And some will be raised to destruction. And they'll be headed towards suffering. Now, Jesus may have yelled to be a direct contrast, like instead of speaking it calmly, he may have yelled to be a direct contrast. Contrast to the sorcerers and magicians who lived in the world of whispers. Like sorcery tends to be not the kind of thing you yell out about, but it's all Intrigued. Jesus doesn't have any of that. He yells it out. And we can imagine now. Every eye is on Jesus. In verse 44, the man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. And Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. There is so much of the story that is not told here. First, Lazarus would have been wrapped up in burial clothes. Okay? So from what I've read, they would have been loose enough to allow movement. But certainly not a smooth walking motion. And Lazarus' face would have been covered as well. So this zombie-like creature would come out of the tomb stumbling and hopping, probably. You know, it's not like some graceful walking else. It it it's it's like a a woman has a real tight skirt on, I think. You can't just move around, you know, it's you gotta make your way. He could not have seen where he was going And it's no wonder that Christ said, Lazarus this way out. All Lazarus had to go by was voice. He had to head toward the sound because that's all he had. And then Jesus immediately commanded that they rid Lazarus of his grave clothes. So even the bystanders get to get to play a part in this. And I think that's not that's not a coincidence They were brought in to help him out of these clothes to touch him and to realize that's the man. That's a real guy There's no hocus pocus going on here. He is alive. So they saw up close and personal that Lazarus was who Lazarus, you know, the same one that died, he came back I hope we get to see the replay. You know, I want to see if there are people who read for the hills when Lazarus comes out of that grave. I mean, it it it had to be the spookiest thing you ever saw in your whole life. And when we read it, it's impossible to catch all the drama that must have happened in that moment. And what about Mary and Martha's reunion with Lazarus? Would that not have been wonderful? I That had just been breaking down. Yeah, that would have been amazing. I was at a funeral yesterday, and oh how the tone of that funeral would have changed if the person came back from the dead. You know, if you set up in the in the the box. Maybe there'll be a replay function in in Eternity. I hope so. I want to see this. And look at this story, John jumps right ahead to what comes next. Jesus knew this would be the result. And it probably it's probably some of this knowledge that had Jesus getting worked up all through this time. Verse 45, many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did believed in him. Many of the Jews believed in him. That's exactly what Christ prayed for. That's what we're seeing here. Now, we know in the book of John, sometimes it talks about people coming to belief But it's not saving belief. And sometimes they come to belief, and it is saving belief. And we don't know which is which here. It was probably a mix of both, but the fact that the Pharisees had fear of people believing in Christ. is a very good sign that there were some legitimate followers now that came from seeing Lazarus raised from the dead. And there's something else to consider here. Sometimes we think that, well, man, if we could just make it so evident that Jesus is who he says he is, if we could control the environment to such a way that people could see That Jesus is who he said is everyone would come to him. Well, if controlling the environment and creating an impression in the surroundings to get people saved would get people saved, everybody here should have gotten saved. You'll never have a more gr uh uh e explicit environment that displays the glory of God in Jesus Christ. But we know that getting saved, that saving faith always takes A miracle. Saving faith isn't something that a human generates. It always takes a miracle. Raising Lazarus, if Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead was not suitable to give people a saving faith We should not think that anything that we can do could produce that result either. A miracle by itself is not enough to convert a person's heart. In the parable, uh Jesus even said, Even if someone were to come back from the dead, that wouldn't convince them. A miracle by itself is not enough to convert a person's heart. That miracle has to be received by faith, and faith is a gift of God. Verse forty six, but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what the what Jesus had done. Now let me ask you this Can you imagine being there and seeing Lazarus come from the dead And this being your response? This is the most miraculous miracle seen in the creation of the world. And what's their first thought after having experienced it? Let's go tattle to the Pharisees. Hideous. Let's go let Jesus' deadly enemies know that Christ just raised someone from the dead. We need to up our game if we hope to kill Jesus now. That's essentially the message. These people were cold-hearted unbelievers both prior to the miracle and the second after it. It made no difference in their lives. Some people seem immune to experience the glory of God. But then we see next the Pharisees hear about this and they all run to Jesus and they repent for their evil attitudes. No. Not at all. Not at all. Verse 47. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. Okay, this official meeting begins with the question. What are we to do? What are we to do? Jesus answered that question. He already answered that in John 6. 28. He said to them, What must we do to be doing the works of God? The people said that to him, and Jesus answered them, This is what you are to do. This is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has sent. That's what they are to do. But they're not going to do that. That's what every man must do. That's the command to every human being. It's not complicated. Repent of your sin. Recognize and admit that you deserve God's eternal wrath. Because of our own sinfulness. Turn to him and say, Jesus, what you did on the cross That's what counts. What you did on the cross, I want to count for me. What you did on the cross, I am surrendering my life to you in faith for what you have already done for me. I believe that your sacrifice on the cross took upon yourself all of the sin and guilt and wrath that I deserved from God. You took it upon yourself. And you died in my place. That's what we are to do. What are we to do? That's what we are to do. Here are the representatives of the Jewish religious system, and the one thing they are sure not to do is the one thing that they are called to do. Now look at what they're afraid of. This man is performing many signs, they say Well look at this. They don't say this man appears to be doing many signs through trickery. They don't say that. No, Jesus is actually doing miracles, and they know he is doing miracles. And they're agreeing that he is doing miracles, and it's the miracles he must die for. Then they say, if we let him go on like this. Now think about that. You've got the Son of God Performing miracles that not a single one of them can come can do. And they say , if we let him go on like this. If we let him. First notice, they actually believe they can stop him. They really have no idea who they're dealing with. If they knew the truth, they should have forgotten about the Roman government, because the Roman government was the least of their problems. The Romans were nothing compared to what Jesus could do to them. He could have called ten thousand angels. And we see in the Old Testament one angel destroyed thousand people. So No, I think I think they should have been worried about Jesus, but these leaders overestimated their ability and underestimated Christ's ability. Second, what was the general understanding that the Messiah was going to do? Now we are if we if we miss this on a multiple choice question, we're in bad shape. You know, we they understood the Messiah was going to whoop the Romans. That's what they all thought. Now look at the reasoning of the Pharisees. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. Well that's odd. Jesus is showing every sign that he's the Messiah, and as such, if everyone believes in him, the Romans will come and Christ will whoop their butts. You know, that should have been their attitude if they believed what they said they believed. If they believed in God and believed in prophecy, they would have had to at least think that's a possibility They could have said, let's get behind this and trust God to save our nation from the Romans But what we see here is that God's interests were not on the leadership's list of priorities. What was important to these priorities? They tell us our place. And our nation. I thought the leadership of the Jews was God's place. And I thought it was his nation. But not to these leaders Jesus had already told on these leaders. They were frauds, they were pretenders, they were politicians, and the worst of them functioning under a religious robe. They were not about to lose their place. They were not about to lose their nation, even if it were God Himself, if He i if they had any say. That's the mindset. That's the Jewish leadership's idea of ruling, and it is demonic and it is self-serving. Then a prophecy arises, and look at this closely. This is like pregnant with meaning. It's a reasoning that comes from the pit of hell But God uses it to pronounce the most significant event in all of human history. Let's take a look. Verse 49. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them You know nothing at all. You know nothing at all. Well, Josephus, the Jewish historian, said that the Sadducees were very offensive. Proud people. They were just arrogant and rude. Nobody liked dealing with them. That's what we see from Caiaphas. We would expect that these self-serving people to respond with no regard for anyone but themselves, and that's what they do. Caiaphas arrogantly states, you guys don't know anything You know, you can almost hear it, um, hear it said. And then Caiaphas goes on, and this is the important part. Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people. Not that the whole nation should perish. Now, certainly Caiaphas thought he was being wise and bold. He was a take-action kind of person, pull yourself up by the bootstraps. He was not gonna just let things happen. He was gonna make things happen. Now how mighty he may have seen himself here, how powerful. So he's saying, Come on, boys, we aren't powerless. We have power. And this is what we need to do. In order to keep the Romans from destroying our nation, seemingly, because there is no God to protect the Jews from Rome, it's better that we kill Jesus. Caiaphas is presenting them with a false either-or dilemma, like there is no other solution. And that's where he was wrong to begin with. Alright, this false dilemma probably hid his seething hatred for Christ, because he sees that Christ is everything that he is not. But what Caipus did not calculate is that if Jesus is the Christ, and they kill the Christ, the Son of God, their only Messiah Then who's going to protect them from the Romans? The Romans actually did destroy the temple and most of those in the city thirty years later. It was awful. It was one of the most A uh brutal massacres in all of human history. It was terrible. The Jews killed the Messiah. And they were left with no deliverer. Oh how proud Caiabus must have been at uh of himself at this moment. And look at the sovereignty of God here, and that's a real point I wanted to bring out. This quote from Caiochus: it came from bad motives, it came from immoral reasoning. It came from a murderous, godless heart. And it prophesies the biggest reconciliation between God and man that is possible. Verse 51 says, he did not say this of his own accord. Well he it sure seemed like it. If you were to ask Caiaphas, did you say that of your own accord? He said, Yes, I did, and I'm proud of it. Well that's not what that's not the inside scoop. That's not what we what we learned from Scripture. He didn't say this of his own accord. There was more going on here. But being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. And not for the nation only. Only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. That's wonderful. The office of high priest was an office of spokesman for God In Numbers 27, 21 and in 2 Samuel 15, 27, we see that the priesthood was regarded in the Old Testament as having a prophetic element to it. So the priests were in some ways prophetic. Now what Caiaphas said and meant as a human being Was very different from the meaning that God intended for the prophecy to have for all eternity. So while the evil words came out of an evil person with evil intent, God brought them forth in Caiaphas to fulfill the role that he had in mind for these words. God essentially prophesied through the high priest this coming salvation that Christ was just about to bring. Think about that You see the sovereignty of God in the actions of the wicked. The sovereignty of God in the actions of the wicked. Everything serves God's ultimate plan. God is never powerless over the actions of even the most wicked of his creations. Here we see the most satanically inspired statement being used as the most wonderful heavenly prophecy. God is amazing. Never despair that evil appears to win. Our God is in control. Always. And it did not just and it was not just for the nation of Israel. It's a good thing, or we wouldn't be reading this this morning. We'd be out doing something else. Christ's death would gather Jew and Gentile together under Christ across the whole world. Ephesians goes into great detail of all of us, how we are all brought together, Jew and Gentile. Wonderful book. Wonderful reading. Verse 53, so from that day on they made plans to put him to death. Okay, we all know that the process of granting justice has to first be by considering evidence to determine guilt or innocence. Everybody knows that. If found guilty, we then apply a sentence. They have it backward. We see here that the verdict is already assigned The verdict and the punishment are already assigned. There's not going to be any justice. That's not a way you can get to justice. The trial that's to come is simply play acting So we already know that Christ isn't going to get affair here. Christ knew it too. And Christ was regarded as a criminal of a crime deserving death even before the trial was ever called. Verse 54, Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with his disciples. Okay, so Christ has to keep himself alive for a bit longer. So he carries out a strategy to do that. Oh, stay out of sight. So he keeps himself out of the limelight unless he's in a crowd that is so much for him that the leaders can't take action because it would be so politically uh uh um Wrong for them. It would be disastrous for them. And they were very much political creatures. So Christ is now very very careful. He only goes places where he knows that he's going to be safe. Verse 55. Now the Passover, the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify. themselves. Think about that. To purify themselves. Here is the country purifying themselves before God. In preparations to kill God in the flesh. That's scary. Let that sink in. That is how far a human is capable of self-deception. This is why we need to continually cry out to God for God to search our hearts and to show us our wicked ways. Because man, we're sneaky. Even when we don't try to be. The evils that we are capable of doing, especially in the name of religion, are mind-boggling. We're always worse than we think we are in our old nature. That's why we're continually told to walk in the Spirit. running everything past the words in the Bible, to check everything out. In verse fifty six they were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood at the temple, What do you think? They will not come to the feast at all? Well it's common knowledge by now that the leadership has a price on Christ's head. So the common man is asking, what do you think Christ is going to do about this? Think he'll stay hid? And nobody really knew. They were just speculating. Then verse 57 , in closing, now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was. He should let them know so they might arrest him. Look at that. This is the rule from those supposing to represent God. And God's will to the Israelite people, to the Jewish people, if you know where God's Son is, you are now legally obligated to betray him to us. That's what they're saying. And if you don't, we will punish you. Well, I can assure you I don't know all the ins and outs of civil government, but that's as bad as it gets To kill you because you stand for Jesus. Or at least to punish you. To punish you for standing for Jesus. Hundreds of the words in Psalms show themselves to be true in Jesus' experience right now. Enemies are everywhere, and they've surrounded Christ and they're seeking his life, just like David talked about so many times in Psalms. And what for? What horrendous things spurred the leadership out on this fevered bitch to kill this wicked person? Well, Jesus said, come out And Lazarus came out. Let's pray. Lord, search us. Search us Lord, Lord, show us any kind of this this treachery that lives in us that we see in our text this morning. Lord, if we see someone who's more faithful to you than we are