It's good to be back. Remember where we were in the story? You have to look back a couple of weeks. One of the twelve, Judas, had been looking for a way to betray Christ in a private environment. He's been looking for this since Sunday night, and it's now Thursday. This is helpful in understanding the instructions that Christ gave to the two disciples assigned to get a room prepared for him and for the Passover. Now, it was the first day of the unleavened bread when they killed the Passover lamb. A lot of skeptics of the Bible compare John's version of this, of the events, against Mark's, and they say, just like we thought. The Bible is not true. There's a contradiction here, therefore, the Bible is not true. The question redu reduces down to how could Christ celebrate the Passover meal on Thursday night? When the Passover lambs were killed on Friday. John 's and Mark's accounts seem to contradict each other. Mark says that Christ was eating the Passover meal. But John 1828 says that after Christ had been captured, which is after this event, the Jewish leaders wouldn't defile themselves by going into the Praetorium. Because they wanted to eat the Passover meal later that day, and they couldn't if they were unclean. So how can this be? You've got the Passover meal and then these guys not wanting to defile themselves so that they could eat the Passover meal. How can the same event take place on two different days? But as always, there's a reasonable explanation. I don't know the historical verification for this, but some scholars cite evidence that it was the custom at the time for two groups of people to calculate time differently. The people from the northern areas like Galilee, where Christ was from, calculated a day beginning at sundown and running to the next sundown. The people from Judea believe the day began at sunrise and ended at sunrise. So for the Galileans, Thursday night would be the same day as the unleavened bread For the Judeans, Friday night would be the same day of the unleavened bread. This had a huge benefit for the temple workers because it broke the sacrifices of the lambs into two shifts. into two different days. It made the workload much more manageable. The northerners celebrate the Passover on Thursday night. The Southerners celebrated the Passover on Friday night. And that would solve the problem. No contradiction. Verse 12. Now on the first day of the unleavened bread, when they killed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where do you want us to go and prepare that you may eat the Passover? So Thursday night, the night prior to the day the lambs were sacrificed for Passover, but still in that 24-hour period, the disciples asked this question. Where do you want us to go and prepare that you may eat the passo? My first suspicion as I look at that question Knowing what we know of the disciples is that they were probably more interested in where they would eat the Passover meal than where where Jesus would. But nonetheless, they knew how Jesus did things, and they must have figured out that he had planned to do this. And at least they weren't telling Christ what to do. And they were willing to do the work to prepare for this event, and it did take some preparations. Then in verse 13, and he sent out two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him. We find from Luke 22, 8 that the two that were sent were Peter and John. No surprise there. They seem to be the most trusted of Jesus' inner circle. Now, I had never considered this before, at least I don't remember thinking about it, but it makes a whole lot of sense. When we read this, it's easy to wonder. Why didn't Christ just tell these guys, go to Reuben's house at 1035 Wood Street and tell them I'm ready for the Passover? But Christ did nothing of the kind. I always assumed that it was because the instructions were supernatural. Christ simply knew everything that was needed to make these arrangements without having to plan anything. And so he knew who would do what and and could predict it. And certainly that could be the truth. But there's something else to consider. How could you give instructions to two disciples in the presence of twelve disciples? And give the two disciples instructions that were exceedingly clear and easy to follow, and yet not give the other ten any idea of where this was going to be. It's kind of like how we used to spell things in front of our little children because we knew they couldn't read yet. You know, we were trying to convey a message without letting other people know it. Well, think about that. Follow a guy and ask about a room. Well, there is no chance in this world that Judas could sneak an address to the religious leaders by the instructions that Christ just gave them. It would be impossible. And I think Christ did it this way because he didn't want anyone messing up his last moments with the disciples. And he knew what was going to happen. He knew if he gave this information. In a way that Judas could could decipher it and get it to the religious leaders, this night was history. Now, evidently The man carrying a pitcher of water is not something they would have overlooked. In their custom, only women carried pitchers. Men carried wineskins. So for us it would be almost like telling the two disciples to look for a guy wearing a dress. You know, it would be that strange. And I think it's safe to say even in our weird world we would still notice such a thing. It would stand out. That's what the guy with the pitcher would have done. He would have stood out, and this guy was probably a servant. My guess is he didn't like this assignment that he was given But anyway, in verse 14 it says, Wherever he goes, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with my disciples? Again, we don't know if this was pre-arranged or not. Christ could have easily done so. He also could have just as easily predicted the behavior of the people. Now notice the opportunity that the master of the house has. He's using his resources to provide a place for one of the most important meetings of all time to take place. Never think that your resources are not important. This man had exactly what Christ needed when Christ needed it. And he was willing to use it for his master's service. Here's a very good example to follow, and an encouragement, I think, to us all. Sometimes we think that the resources that God has given us aren't all that significant. We look at ourselves even and we say, I'm not all that special. But that isn't true. Even our simple presence in a time of need can be the thing that a person desperately needs. The resources don't always have to be tremendously special or great, but usable. We can rest assured that God has given us things that are needed in His service. The resources that he has given us are not a mistake. We just need to keep our eyes open and our ears open. And find uses that God has intended for our resources, whether they be personal gifts, or whether they be financial, or whether they be our time. Now, notice too in here that the disciples weren't to represent themselves. They were doing Christ's bidding using Christ's credentials. Had they said I'm Peter or I'm John, they wouldn't have gotten anywhere. They wouldn't have gotten the room. But when they referred to Christ by saying the teacher, now the door opens right up for them. That's similar how we're to minister. We're to minister in Christ's name, in Christ's stead. That's the only way that we're sure to have Christ's authority. Verse 15, then he'll show you a large upper room furnished and prepared, there make ready for us. John and Peter were to do exactly what they were told, and they were told exactly how it would go This large upper room was probably a room furnished with a rich carpet and anything else that was needed to celebrate a Passover meal. There were many rooms like this. That the owners would rent out during this time of year, and since travelers would need a place to have their Passover meal, it was a good business. Verse 16, so his disciples went out, came into the city, and found it just as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover. How long have you been a Christian? When did you receive by faith the work that Christ did for you? When did you uh make that decision to follow Christ? When do you remember expressing your faith in him? Now, based on your reactions to life this last past week, How would people around you answer this one question? How much do you display that God really knows what he is doing in arranging your life? By watching your life, how would they say how much you you really believe God knows what he is doing? Was our reaction in the face of things going wrong or things that could go wrong? One of, God 's got this. He's in control. He's got the details ironed out I just need to trust him and take care of the things that he has placed in my lap to do the best I know how. But I trust God. I'm not I I I'm not in any way out of control here. God is in control. I trust him. Or are our reactions one of dismay and fear and fretfulness? As if God has no idea what he's doing in my life. It's out of control. I'm at a loss. I don't know what to do. It's panic mode. As if we cannot trust God with the details of our lives. This is not to say that life should be a breeze if we trust Christ We certainly find ourselves in difficult circumstances that we have to determine what we need to do, and that's not always simple or easy, and sometimes it's stressful. But our lives must display a difference if we really believe what we say we believe about the sovereignty of God. The sovereignty of God When we really believe it has all kinds of implications and applications in our lives. The difficulty with most of our lives is that we really don't believe in the sovereignty of God We believe it on paper, but we don't believe it in life. We see in our text this morning that Jesus truly does have the details worked out. We don't know how, and we often don't know why. But things do not happen outside of God's control. Maybe we should put plaques on the inside of our doors going outside to say That says, God's got this. God's got this. So we're reminded before we enter the chaotic world that God really is in control of all those details. The disciples went out, and how did they find their situation? Exactly like Christ said it would be. That's how our lives are. Exactly as God knows they will be. God never has to react to a situation. Sometimes we feel like we have to, but God doesn't. He already knows everything about it before it happens. We may not like how he arranges our situation, and I don't think we're called to immediately like it. Any more than we will like how an earthly father requires us to do our chores. But God has it. God is in control of it. There is no need to panic Then the disciples went about their work of preparing for the Passover. In the evening he came with the twelve. Now as they sat and ate, Jesus said, Assuredly I say to you, the one who eats with me will betray me Now, eating the Passover was a huge deal. It was a major event in the life of any Jewish person. And all of it was rich with symbolism. It would normally last from just after sunset to as late as midnight. Luke 22, 15 tells us that Jesus earnestly desired to eat this meal with the twelve. He earnestly desired to to be with these guys for this period of time. There was this was something that Jesus really wanted. I think this tells us something about God. It was very important to him. Given what he was about to face and the humanness of Jesus, it's no wonder. If nothing else, sometimes it's just good to be with friends. Also, Jesus is about to turn over Judaism. The symbol of a coming deliverance will be exchanged with a symbol of completed deliverance. We're going to go from the Passover to the Lord's Supper. The Passover was about to be fulfilled with the Lord's Supper. Now, this dinner would have been eaten while the disciples were reclining on the floor with pillows to support them. Their heads would be toward the table that was in the middle, and their feet would be farthest away from the table. Most of the paintings I've ever seen of the Lord's Supper are just wrong. There's nothing like that. When we read Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we might get the idea that this time that Jesus spent with the disciples was a quick event. But when we combine it with John, we understand it it was very lengthy. He did some serious teaching. This is what happened during the meal. We're going to expand from Mark and take it from what we learned from the other passages. Jesus washed the disciples' feet. Jesus confronted Judas. They ate the Passover meal. Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper, and then Christ taught a great deal in John chapters 13 through 16. And this is your homework for this week. Make sure to read John 13 through 16. And keep in mind that Jesus was teaching this in this environment, in this text. So that's John 13 through 16. Next is the order of the Passover as it was celebrated at Christ's time. First, it began with the prayer of thanksgiving for God's deliverance. Then there was a cup of wine, and that's the first of four cups that would be served. Now, authors argue about the strength and the amount of alcohol consumed, but then we would expect that. Then there was ceremonial washing of hands. This was to show the need for holiness and the cleansing from sin. It may have been at this very point that the disciples begin to argue about who is greatest. Poor Jesus. Jesus responded by washing their feet and teaching them about servanthood. Then after this was the eating of the bitter herbs. And they are bitter. I was celebrating the Passover with people from Ashley's Church, and at this point I misunderstood the directions I didn't know what I had in my hand, but I I put it all in my mouth. Turns out it was a chunk of solid horseradish. I cried more at that service than one would have expected. Amazing. The bitter herbs were to remind the Jews of the bitterness of slavery to the Egyptians. Along with the herbs, flatbread would have been handed out with a thick paste made from ground fruit and nuts. The first two psalms of the Hellel Psalms 113 to 114 would be sung at this point, and then another cup of wine would be drunk. Then the head of the household would explain the meaning of the Passover. So this is what would have been transpiring. through this event. Then the roasted lamb and the unleavened bread would be served, and the head of the household would wash his hands again and then distribute the food. And when they were done eating, they drank a third cup of wine Then they would sing the rest of the hellel, Psalms 115 through 118. Odds are that our verse 18 happens when the disciples are dipping the bread into the paste. Now, as they sat and ate, Jesus said, Assuredly I say to you, one of you who eats with me will betray me. Verse 19, and they began to be sorrowful and say to him one by one, Is it I? And another said, Is it I? He answered and said to them, It is one of the twelve who dips with me in the dish. This is the first they heard that it will be one of the twelve who betrays Christ. They heard that he would be betrayed. But this is the first time they heard it would be one of the twelve. Now, I've met people who uh who would tell me that they just can tell if a person is true or not. It's like they they and they they'll tell me that they always get it right. They have that gift. But I I don't trust those perceptions. Here is a guy who fooled everybody. When posed with a mystery betrayer, none of these guys could figure it out. They knew it was one of them, and they still couldn't figure it out. In hindsight, they saw falseness, but they couldn't see it in real time. Christ promised that false will always be scattered with true It's always going to happen. He promised it. So when we see it, we need not be dismayed as if all is lost. Now these disciples were really stricken with Christ said. The word for sorrowful means they were profoundly pained. You know how it is you hear news and it just hurts your heart. That's what this kind of news did to these guys. It hurt them. And they finally, finally, have quit trying to correct Christ. Peter doesn't say here, oh Lord, you're just imagining this. No, each in turn says, is it me? They've probably just been rebuked for arguing about who's the greatest for what? Third time, fourth time. Slow learners. So it would not be hard for them to imagine that they have other unknown faults that they might be equally unaware of. When I read this, I I think of the story of our kids, and I I I think I may have told this story again, but it's so fitting, I can't let it go. One time at our house, one of our four kids had done something undesirable I don't remember what it was, but uh there was clear evidence of a crime. And there were limited participants in that crime, so we knew it was inside of our household. So Carla began to interrogate them from oldest to youngest. And the three oldest denied any wrongdoing. And Suze being the youngest began crying. She couldn't imagine that any of her siblings would have lied about such an important thing, so she assumed that she had to be guilty of it. even though she had no recollection of doing such a thing. That's the kind of thing that's going on here. The disciples that committed the treachery knew full well the disciple that did it knew full well of his guilt. He knew he was the one. But the rest figured they were as likely as any other to do this thing by mistake or by weakness. Do you realize this is the first recorded time that the disciples actually recognized that they might be capable of greater evil than they had imagined? Success. You know, that had to be at least a bright point. This is the first time they said, Lord, am I the sinner you're talking about? Am I the evil one? How far these guys had come, even though we know they still had a long way to go. But we see progress. They're not nearly as full of self-trust as when they started I believe their example here is a very good one for us to follow. We should all ask the Lord what evil we carry in our hearts. We should all ask the Lord what he wants to change in us for his glory. We should all ask the Lord, is it me? Who would do you harm in some way? And how is it? What is it about me that you need to change God will reveal those kinds of things if we'll just sincerely ask them. It is certainly in his will, in his revealed will, in his promised will, for him to give us that kind of wisdom. So these guys were shook up that there was a traitor in their ranks. Up until this time, it was these twelve against the world. This was a place of safety. They could rely on each other, at least they thought they could, and now suddenly they learned that they could not. There was evil inside of the safety net. This shook up their world more than most of the earth-shaking things that Christ had said. David also experienced this turmoil. This is what he had to say about his advisor, Ahithophel, who sided with Absalom when Absalom rebelled against David. Psalms 55, 12 through 14, it says, For it is not an enemy who reproaches me. Then I could bear it. Nor is it one who hates me who has exalted himself against me. Then I could hide from him But it was you, a man my equal, my companion, and my acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together and walked to the house of God in the throng. Have you had times when your world turned out far different than what you expected? When people you trusted sold you out. Then you know how these guys were feeling. It's an ugly, devastating feel. There was a devil in their midst It's always so sad to find out things like this. And so it should be. But it's also sure to happen. Then Jesus told them that the one he dips in the dish with is the traitor. But somehow they missed it. This they didn't get that it was Judas, but we can bet that Judas got that it was Judas. We can bet that Judas understood at this point. Christ knew exactly what he was doing. He understood that he was found out. John 13 tells us that John asked Christ who it was, and Jesus said that it was the one Jesus would give a morsel to. Then Christ tipped the morsel and gave it to Judas. It says that after the morsel, Satan entered into Judas, and then Judas said, Jesus said, what you do, do very quickly, or do quickly. And the other 11 still didn't understand. Even John didn't get it. We need to keep this in mind. Very, very bad can look very, very good. Verse 21. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. Here again, we have the sovereignty of God set against the responsibility of man. Did Judas have to betray Christ instead of believing him? Did Judas have to betray Christ instead of believing him? I think it depends from where we see it. It's yes and no. From above the clouds and below the clouds. Above the sun and below the sun. It was ordained that it would happen, and Judas was chosen as the one to do it. So it had to happen. But can Judas cry foul at this point? No. Judas made the choice. Judas did what Judas most wanted to do. So Judas was fully responsible for what he did. If Christ would have taken Judas into a side room and begged Judas to reconsider, it is likely that Judas would have would have come to the same conclusion and done the same thing. And Judas would have done exactly what he did because that's how Judas had inclined his heart. There were prophecies that needed to be fulfilled by a human that had to happen. Judas could not have messed that up. If Judas would have chosen another route that he was free to choose, there would have been another person to play this role But these are all hypothetical conditions that are above our pay grade. They're not things we can really answer. We can guess at Whether Judas had to do his act of betrayal or not, he was going to. He wanted to, and if you'd have given him a million choices, this is a choice he'd have made. And because he chose it, he deserved the punishment that went along with it. And if there was a choice for Judas to never exist or to face the punishment that he would soon incur on himself, it would have been far better had he never existed. Scripture is very clear about this severe judgment. Hebrews 10, 29 through 31 says this. Of how much worse punishment do you suppose Will he be thought worthy who has trampled the Son of God underfoot, counted the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing? And insulted the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And again, the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. Judas had seen the miracles. Judas had heard the teaching. Judas had tasted true spirituality firsthand. He had the best discipler in the whole world, that the whole world has ever had He had the best leader. He had a perfect leader. Perfect. None of us has ever had one of them. But he rejected it hands down. He had trampled the Son of God underfoot and counted the covenant of Christ's blood as something worthless. And for that he would pay. How about us? We too have tasted the good things of God We've enjoyed the fellowship of his saints. We've heard good teaching. How do we treat Christ with our lives? Do we worship him with our lives? Do we stand up to the temptation in our lives and say no to them for Christ's sake? Or say yes to the things that we know that we should do? Do we face the trials with the attitude that Christ commands us to have? Will we love his people because Christ loves them? Will we hold out the gospel to those who don't know Christ? Or do we choose different paths, sinful paths, selfish paths? Are we looking for an excuse to reject Christ or betray him? There's much wisdom in waiting in line behind the disciples when they ask, Lord, is it me? Is it me who would do such a thing? It's good to recall the psalm that Tom read several weeks ago as our call to worship in Psalms 139, 23, and 24, where it says, Search me, O God. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxieties, he says And see if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Often we view our trials and difficulties from the wrong perspective. We view them as a bad thing that has arrived in our lives, often we think, for no reason at all. But often they're blessings because if we look at our responses to trials carefully, We can see the weaknesses in our faith and our belief. We see our flaws. We see what's wrong with us from God's perspective that we would have never seen without them. Hard times reveal what we are, and that's often why they're allowed. And we need to see our weaknesses. They're dangers to us Trials are often to us like sparring is to a boxer. A fighter spars with another fighter in order to find out where he's weak and to fix those vulnerabilities so his opponent cannot exploit them. The fighter is willing to suffer pain in order to learn that lesson. God provides some trials to accomplish the same thing in our lives. Maybe we're going through them right now. Satan looks to exploit our weakness. He wants that. That's his will for us. He wants to use our weaknesses to destroy us. He wants to use our lusts or our fears or our ambitions or our physical desires to destroy us. He wants to have us do things in moments of weakness that will lead to our undoing. But God gives us an armor to protect us. First, we need to believe we need the armor. Our response to day-to-day events is the evidence. That God so graciously gives us that we do need that. We need to examine our lives without excuses. We need to take good hard objective looks at how we respond to hard things in our lives. Are we responding by believing God and trusting God? Or are we responding in the flesh? We've got to avoid the Judas response that we see. We've got to avoid that like the plague. We need to make sure that we are not trampling the blood of Christ by living faithlessly or rebelliously. Trials provide the most basic truths about who we are. We have got to tell the truth about ourselves. In the face of how we respond to the trials in our lives. Those trials can be a precious gift of God to us if we will allow them to teach us the lessons that God wants us to know. Lord, we thank you. We thank you again for giving us insight into your walk on this planet. and into the workings of true ministry and the the presence of false in the midst of true We ask that you would help us to avoid the Judas problem. That you would help us to tell the truth about ourselves to ourselves as you bring it to light by the trials in our lives by our day-to-day circumstances. We thank you, Lord, that you do not want us to go Unaware of those parts in our lives that could be used for our destruction. But that you are continually intending for us to be built up in your word and in faith. as we replace the lies we believe with the truth of your promises. We ask that you would help us in that process this week. Help us to see ourselves as we are so that we can repent accurately and wholly. And that we can put on your armor and withstand the fiery darts of our enemy. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.