This morning, we're going to look at Christ's second in-depth conversation with a lost person. One of the first things to notice is how very different both of these conversations go. The first conversation was to a man who was a well-educated, wealthy, spiritual leader who lived in great danger of self-righteousness. This man knew the scripture, he knew it inside and out, and he viewed himself as someone you would go to if you wanted to know God better. In their society, Nicodemus would have been in the top rungs of influence and importance and respectability Most would have seen Nicodemus as uh being as being far more important than they were. He was the kind of guy that you would dress up for if you had a meeting with him. You know, he was the kind of guy you'd want to show respect in that culture. The second conversation, vastly different, our text this morning, brings us to a person on the other, the very other, end of the spectrum. First, she was a woman. Women were not shown the same degree of respect that men were in the Jewish culture On top of this, the woman was not the kind of woman who had a solid family, having a husband and children established in the community. No, when Jesus found her, she was living in a state of immorality. And in those communities, everyone would have known it. And on top of that, she was a Samaritan. We'll talk about that in just a minute, but the point is that the Jewish children were taught to despise their Samaritan neighbors. To us, it would be a little like uh any contempt we might have for false doctrines, doctrines that we believe to be very wrong, very uh misplaced about true spirituality. Maybe we might think of Jehovah's Witness or Mormon, you know, that kind of doctrine. Except that the problem with the Samaritans wasn't limited to their doctrine. The whole heritage of the Samaritans was despised by the Jewish people. They hated the people As we study this text this morning, we need to keep in the back of our minds the contrast in Christ's approach in these two people. What was the same and what is different? So as we're going through that, think about that. What was different in his dealing with Nicodemus? What was the same in in his dealing with Nicodemus? Okay, so we start into our text. Now, when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John Although Jesus himself didn't really baptize, but only his disciples did the baptizing, he left Judea and departed again for Galilee, and he had to pass through , Samaria. Now, my first question is, I wonder how we heard what the Pharisees were saying amongst themselves. I wonder if Nicodemus may have told Jesus in a second conversation that we're not told about what was going on in the inner circle. We don't know. But the problem was Jesus' team was outshining John's team. And we've discussed that a lot up to this point. It's possible this was a problem because Jesus didn't want to stir up any trouble between all of these men who were both doing a wonderful work. But I don't think that's the problem. I think the problem and why it's stated this way is that Jesus is clearly gaining in popularity Before this, John the Baptist was the only man in the Pharisees' sight. They were the only threat to religion as it stood. And the leaders were watching him closely. But now after Jesus drove out the temple, and there were probably rumors circulating about him making wine out of water. Now Jesus is becoming the focus of their concern. While it's not just John the Baptist anymore, it's Jesus, and Jesus is getting more and more focused. Jesus is the new threat, surpassing even John the Baptist. The reason I think this was the problem , this was the problem, is based on how Jesus dealt with the problem. He removed himself far from the eyes and the jurisdiction of the Sanhedrin He headed north to Galilee. This shows that he was trying to get away from the Pharisees, because the Pharisees were in Judea. That's where he was baptizing. Now he goes up getting closer to where John is baptizing. Now verse 4 is interest. And he had to pass through Samaria. He had to pass through Samaria. Why? Why? Most Jewish people chose to bypass Samaria when they were heading north. They hated the Samaritans so much they would cross the river Jordan. Well, it it's like this. You have Jerusalem. And then up here you have Samaria, and up here you have Galilee, and over here you have the Jordan River. Well, they would get this far, they didn't want to touch foot in Samaritan soil. So they would cross the river, go up the Gentile side of things, and then cross back on over once they got past Samaria. So um Christ chose to schedule according to his heavenly priorities. Jesus had to pass through Samaria because he had an appointment with this woman that God chose from the beginning of time. Christ chose to schedule according to his heavenly Father's priorities. And sometimes the priorities that God has can seem pretty odd to us. Is this woman the kind of person you would plan a whole cross-country trip around? John says Jesus had to What kind of loving God that is? What kind of loving God that is This would be a good place to look at the the history of uh the Samaritans to see why the Jews hated them so much We see in 2 Kings that the northern kingdom Israel was carried away to Assyria by the Assyrians. As you read the prophets, you know you always find out the prophets are in the Old Testament are divided into two sections during that period of time. Some are ministering to the to the Jews in Judea, some are ministering to the uh Israel, uh the land of Israel and the northern kingdom So anyway, they were captured by two different groups of people. And uh the king of Assyria sent men from Babylon and a few other Gentile lands to the settled to settle the Israelite cities, the northern kingdom. So Assyria is sending people, they they deported uh m many of the Israelites and now they're sending in Assyrians to repopulate and mix. And the remaining Israelites intermarried with these foreigners. And we know that was specifically forbidden, but they did it anyway. And then the idolatrous worship of the Gentiles got mixed in with the worship of Yahweh, of the God, the one true God. And eventually, though, the worship became more and more specifically toward Yahweh alone. Now, when the Judeans, the southern kingdom, returned to Jerusalem, Remember, they were taken by the Babylonians. But when they returned, their highest priority in Judea was to build the temple again. And the Samaritans by that time who had been living there uh mixed mixed in uh and you know uh uh questionable as to whether they're uh truly Jewish or whatever, the Samaritans come down and offer to help the Judeans to build the one true temple And uh they got snubbed by the Judeans. And they said, we don't want your help because we we don't like who you are. So the Samaritans built their own temple at Mount Gerizim. Up in the Samaritan land, the northern area. So then the Jews later went over and destroyed that. So you can see the reasons for the deep-seated hatred between these two groups of primarily Jewish people. Ecclesiasticus , this is a non-biblical book, referred to the Samaritans as the stupid people living in Shechem. So we get an idea of how they were viewed. And when the Jewish leaders wanted to deeply insult Jesus, they called him a Samaritan in John 8 48. And the animosity definitely went both ways. One of their villages refused to receive Christ, one of the Samaritan villages, because Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. So they wouldn't even let them hang out. Uh Luke 9, 51 through 53 tells us about that. So that helps set the stage for us this morning. The Jews hated the Samaritans, the Samaritans hated the Jews. And to add to this, men often did not speak to women in public in their culture at this time. And even Jewish men, this blew my mind, even Jewish men would not often speak to their wives in public. At least that's what I read. And uh this is re this reminded me of a cigarette advertisement in the seventies, I think it was. Uh women you've come a long way, baby. You know, it's it's like uh Jesus has really exalted the the role of women in in our uh in our day in our church. So I think this prepares us for our story. Verse 5: So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, so Jesus, weary as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well, and it was about the sixth hour. Now, Jacobs Well still exists. It's about a half mile from the town now called Askar, but used to be called Sikar. And the well is deep. It's it's a hundred foot deep. Now for us that's not deep because we use equipment, but back then they hand dug the thing. I would not have wanted to be the guy down the hole at 100 feet, but whatever the case. Spring water was often referred to as living water, and this well was was filled by spring water So it was probably good water. So Jesus is walking in the heat of the day and he gets to the well. And the disciples leave him at the well to go into town and get some food. So Jesus just stays at the well. Now the disciples didn't know it, but Jesus had an appointment to keep. We might want to note here, too, also, that Jesus was tired. This is a small point, but we need to keep in mind Jesus had as many physical limitations as most humans. He too had work to do even when he was bone-tired. So, mothers and fathers, you may find comfort in that. Now, the sixth hour means that it was noon We see in Genesis 24, 11, the cool of the evening was usually the time that women went to the wells to get their water. So evening time was traditionally the time that women went to get the water. Naturally, it would be cooler. Verse 7: A woman from Samaria came to draw water. This woman is coming by herself. There's no one else there. She is coming for water in the heat of the day. Why might that be? Well, think about this woman a little bit. We're soon to find out she was working on her fifth potential husband. Based on the fact that Jesus hones in on this fact in a negative fashion, I think we're safe to assume that this woman was practiced in immorality. She had made it into a lifestyle. Five husbands is a bit much. Unless she was only marrying 90-year-old men, this is a pretty telling factor about her as a person Now, women, how would you feel about a woman working with your husband who has gone through four husbands and was living with the fifth guy? What would you think of her? When a woman is willing to capitalize on the worst impulses of a man to get what she wants, she's likely to bring out the worst treatment by the other women. It's rare that a person responds well to another person in the same game who refuses to go by the rules. The woman who violates these rules should know that they're going to bring upon themselves some wrath by other women. And it's interesting to me that men tend to instinctively know what kind of men other men are. And women tend to instinctively know what kind of women other women are. I I think that's a generality But it would be hard to imagine this woman being the kind of woman that would be welcomed into the woman's breadmaking club. If you can see where I'm headed with this. Now, have you ever avoided going somewhere or doing something because you knew who would be there and you just didn't want an encounter with that person? Well, I I suspect we all have. I think this woman had that kind of relationship with most every woman in the village. And the choices that she made in order to be with all these men pretty much invited their suspicion and disregard of her Her reputation would have been bad, and she had earned that reputation, and at some point she just likely gave up. Figuring that she would never be accepted by the women based on the choices that she had made. So noon was the time she could get her water in peace. She didn't have to deal with the mess. I think this is absolutely wonderful. And you might think, well, why? Have you ever thought these thoughts? I have made my bed and I will always have to lay in it. Have you ever thought I am destined to remain what I am? Have you ever thought I have ruined my life by my choices? Well, if we haven't thought that, we are surrounded by a world who has. So what's so beautiful? Jesus came to that town at that time for that specific woman He went out of his way for this woman that no one would have gone out of their way for. Jesus never picks righteous people to save. He picks sinners like us. Now, whether our sins are ho -hum or blogworthy, he picks people like us. We are never beyond the reach of God's grace, no matter what life choices we have made Now, what does Jesus do with this woman who is clearly a social outcast and a woman living in blatant immorality? Do you know that verse that tells us to avoid the appearance of evil? It's interesting to me that Jesus did not apply that verse here the way that we might think it should be applied. Now most men looking on from a distance talking to this woman would likely project their own evil desires on this situation and and assume that Jesus had evil intentions But Christ could care less. He could care less what anyone else thought. He is willing to allow his reputation to take a hit for this woman. Love knowingly does that sometimes. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. You know what this would I mean, we read that and uh it's easy to bypass it and think, well that's you know, that's interesting. He asked for a drink, he was thirsty, that makes sense. You know what that would have been like? It would have been like you or I meeting a man dressed up like a woman in Walmart with the I love you Satan t-shirt. And asking them if they would please reach us something on the shelf over here. To simply start that conversation would require us to cross a couple of discomfort barriers. Jesus was crossing all kinds of barriers when he even said that statement that completely took this woman by surprise. Jesus was doing something with a loving motive that no one else would do unless they had a bad motive to do it. Notice that Jesus did start the conversation. He created an opportunity. And Jesus used his environment. This woman came prepared for dipping water out of a well. And Jesus didn't. So he was telling her to do something for him that she was equipped to do, and he wasn't. Apart from her being a woman, A Samaritan and a social outcast, this would be perfectly normal to do. But under these circumstances, it was not And even then he didn't ask a question, he gave a command. And then verse 8, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. I I guess this is saying that Christ had no one else to provide this service. And that would have been obvious. Then verse 9, the Samaritan woman said to him, and this is where we're gathering all of this information from, how is it How is it that you, a Jew, ask a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For Jews have no dealings with Samaria, and most men are not going to be talking to women in public. And it's interesting here too that the Greek word for dealings here means use the same utensils. It's a specific word. So John explains that Jews would not use the same utensils that a Samaritan would use. And I think this explanation really helps us in this context. This woman looks at Jesus and asks a very good and pertinent question. It would have been the elephant in the room, anyway. So she gets it right out in the open. How is it that you a Jew are asking not only a woman but a Samaritan woman for a drink using my utensils I don't get it. What are you after? Why are you doing this? No one does this. What's happening here? You can almost see what's going on in her mind. This is probably a woman who has learned to mistrust men And she is probably asking this question inspired partly by her curiosity and partly couched in her suspicion. What are you up to, Jesus? Why are you doing this thing that no good Jew would ever do? What's up here? Verse 10, Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Well, remember when Jesus was talking to Nicodemus, he started off with a shocking statement. You must be born again. This took Nicodemus completely off guard. We covered that, and I think it came out more and more. That Jesus' intention was to take him off guard. Well, Jesus tells this woman, what I'm asking for is really not the biggest surprise here. Who I am. That's the biggest surprise in this conversation. If you knew who it was, he's saying it is it remarkable that a Jewish man would ask a Samaritan woman for a drink out of her utensils? That is nothing compared with the fact that I am the gift of God. If you understood how remarkable that is. You would stop thinking about me violating all these social norms. You'd be begging me to give you what only I can give you. I asked you for a drink of regular water. What I can give you is living water. Look what Jesus does here. I think it's really important. It's been really enlightening to me in terms of evangelistic conversations. He takes the topic that they're talking about and he expands it to a spiritual reality. Now he knows right off the bat they're not going to get it. But he's not content to leave it on the surface. Jesus could have had a nice, unoffensive talk with Nicodemus about theology. Jesus could have had a nice talk with the Samaritan woman about life in Samaria. But that is not what Jesus lived for. He used these conversations to direct people to eternal things. He made shocking statements that would direct the conversation in the way that was best for that person that he was speaking to. Maybe part of the problems that we experience in sharing the gospel is we spend so much time building bridges with people that we never cross. An appropriate prayer, I think, when we're talking with an unbeliever, might be: Lord, show me what I can say to direct this conversation that I am having right now to you. Show me what I can say that will shift the direction of this conversation to this person 's need for you. Show me how to do that. Right now, what you did with Nicodemus and the Samaritan woman, I need your help. I want to follow your will. I want this person to have the chance to hear about you. God answers prayers like that. Now, when Jesus talked about living water, this pro this woman probably thought he was talking about spring water She's so she's a bit confused and okay now you're talking about giving me water. Y you don't you don't have the stuff. And she's probably knocked off kilter here, but okay, she continues, verse eleven. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well 's deep. Where are you going to get me this living water? Is there something I don't know here? Okay, Jesus, even if you're telling me the truth, I don't see how this can happen. Does that sound a little like Nicodemus's response? How am I supposed to be born again? Right. When Jesus throws out these shocking statements, it leaves others off guard, and they really don't know what to say. They're just puzzled, which gives Jesus even greater opportunity with them. Now, what she says next is interesting. Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself as he did his sons in livestock. She seems to think that Jesus expects that he can provide this living water without dipping into the well. That seems to be the understanding. And she's saying, well now when Jacob was here, even he had to go into the well to get the water. Do you think somehow that you can do what our father Jacob couldn't do? Do you think you can give me water without a bucket in this dry land? Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. Jesus is really saying, yeah, without a doubt, I am far greater than Jacob. Why is that? Well, the water I give doesn't just quench temporary physical thirst It satisfies spiritual soul thirst. It satisfies that thirst that keeps us like like mice running on that wheel, spinning that wheel but never getting anywhere It quenches that thirst. The water Jesus gives us is better than the water Jacob gives us because the needs of the body are not as important as the needs of the soul. The water Jesus offers quenches the soul's thirst for good. The water Jesus was offering was the salvation of her soul. St. Augustine said this: You have made us for yourself, and our heart is restless until it rests in you. A person of faith has a heart that pants for God. We read that in our opening scripture. We have a heart that pants for God. We must have Him. And when we have Him, we have found our proper home, our proper rest, the water for our souls. Malcolm Muggeridge was a very famous reporter in England who turned to Christ, and he says this about living water. He says, I may pass for being a relatively successful man. People occasionally stare at me in the streets. That's fame. I can fairly easily earn enough to qualify for admission to the higher slopes of the Inland Review. I think that's the IRS in England. That's success. Furnished with money and a little fame may partake of trendy diversions That's pleasure. It might happen once in a while that something I said or wrote represented a serious impact on our time. That's fulfillment. Yet I say to you, and I beg you to believe me: multiply these tiny triumphs by a million. Add them all together, and they are nothing. Less than nothing. They're a positive impediment measured against one draft Of that living water Christ offers to the spiritually thirsty Malcolm Muggridge got it. He understood it. He knew what what he was talking about with this living water. The Old Testament had this to say about living water. Jeremiah 2, 13 says, For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me. And how does he describe himself? The fountain of living waters. God is saying, they have forsaken me, their living water, and hewn themselves cisterns, holes in the dirt And not only are they holes in the dirt, they're broken cisterns that can hold no water. I remember speaking on this passage many years ago. In fact, Jeremiah got his name from that study. The Jews had given up the one true God, not only for a whole, but for a whole and a whole By their own efforts, they came up with plans to quench their spiritual thirsts, to meet their spiritual needs, but their solutions were faulty. But God, on the other hand, was a fountain of living water, just as Jesus had said. And then later Jeremiah says this in Jeremiah 17:13, O Lord, the hope of Israel All who forsake you shall be ashamed. Those who depart from me shall be written in the earth, because they have forsaken the Lord. And how does he refer to himself? The fountain of living waters. So again, the Lord refers to himself as the fountain of living waters. And then we look at the New Covenant verse in Ezekiel 36, 25 and 27. It says Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from your idols I'll give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I'll take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I'll put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statues, and you will keep my judgments and do them. Notice how these are all tied in with water. Well, look at just one more. Isaiah 44, 3. I will pour water on him who is thirsty and floods on the dry ground. I will pour my spirit on your descendants and my blessings on your offspring. This is the water that Jesus was speaking of. Anyone who knew Scripture would have known this. He is not promising to do indoor plumbing for all of Sikar. He's talking about salvation that comes only from Jesus. And he says this: whoever drinks this water. Just like the pole in the desert that a person had to look at to be healed when he was talking to Nicodemus, here is water that must be drunk in order to have its eternal effect. There's always a condition in salvation. A person must believe in Christ. They must look to the pole. They must drink the water. They must attach their faith to Christ. Then once they drink, once they express faith, they receive this eternal benefit. And he continues: the water that I will give him will become in him. A spring of water welling up to eternal life. We can't help but think of the call that Isaiah makes to his listeners, and we'll close with this. Isaiah 55, 1 through 3. Ho everyone who thirsts, everyone who thirsts, everyone who longs deeply for something that will fulfill them. Come to the waters. And you who have no money Come buy and eat. Yes, come buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend money for what is not bread and your wages for what does not satisfy? That's a call on to all of us. Why do you keep looking for sustenance of your soul, those things you need most deeply, somewhere other in Christ. Listen carefully to me, and eat what is good, and let your soul delight in its abundance. Incline your ear and come to me. Hear, and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, the sure mercies of David. This morning I urge you to take a look at your life. Is there something you're chasing in such a way that anyone looking on at your life would say that you are desperate for it? That you must have it and you can't survive without it. You cannot be happy without it. And you would give anything to have it. That's your water. That's your water. Is it Christ? Or is it something else? What is it that sends your life into a tailspin? What is it that gives you the peaks of pleasure in your life? Are those things inside of Christ, from Christ, found in Christ, received from Christ? Are they a replacement of Christ? An attempt other than that. You're digging your own cisterns. Are they from receiving the living water of Christ, or are we looking to the dried-up cisterns made with our own efforts and made up on st of stuff on the w in this world? Satisfaction of our deepest yearnings only comes from our relationship with Christ. Any other pursuit will just leave us thirsty and dip in more and more frantically to get what we feel we must have. Christ has made us for himself, and our hearts are restless until we rest in him. Let's close. Dear Lord, we ask this