Of God's creation. It's been pretty impressive. The uh the mountains and the scenery in Alaska are are quite amazing. But with with all that said it is always good to get back where I belong. So Our last sermon in John, which seems long ago, ended on verse eighteen. Remember that Jesus told these leaders that he and his father are both working. And essentially Jesus was saying that due to who he is, the Sabbath law did not apply to him. And the leaders knew exactly how to take that statement. So they want to kill him. And now they have two crimes that they can accuse Jesus of that carry a death penalty in the Jewish law: blasphemy. And Sabbath breaking. We find those laws in Numbers 15, 35 and Leviticus 24, 11 through 14. Now, imagine being a disciple of Christ and watching this. Jesus makes a statement that states very clearly that he is God. The disciples or the disciples may have hoped that is all that Jesus would say, that it would end there. They knew immediately what all this meant. Jesus was inviting the rulers to either declare war on him or receive him as the Messiah. He was given them no middle ground to stand in. And then he goes on in the rest of our text to make his claim so crystal clear that no one listening could have misunderstood. What he was saying. He was blatantly making himself equal to God. The disciples would have known at this point that Jesus was making himself a target And if they stick with Jesus, they're a target too. Now there are a lot of so-called scholars out there who think that Jesus really didn't proclaim himself to be equal to God. And they say that this is a belief that came Up later in Christianity when his followers came up with that idea. But that's simply not true. Jesus very clearly claimed to be God, and now both his followers and his enemies are gonna need to do something about it. It. Jesus in these few statements removed any middle ground. Now, blasphemy and Sabbath breaking are not the only things that the rulers would accuse Jesus of. Most of them showed their hand and escalated their hatred of Christ. That's the kind of environment that Jesus was in and that's the kind of response he was getting. They accused Jesus of being a Samaritan in John eight forty-eight. They accused him of being demon-possessed in John 7. 20 and 8. 52. They accused Jesus of being insane in John 10. 20. They accused Jesus of illegitimate birth, John 8. 41. one, they attributed his great works to Satan, Matthew twelve, twenty four, and they even after Christ rose from the dead, the leaders said that Christ was, and this is from a historical record, they said Said that Christ was a transgressor in Israel who practiced magic, scorned the words of the wise, and led the people astray. That was the official position of the Jewish leadership. So it's not difficult to see where the leadership casts their lots. And for the 12 disciples, 11 probably eventually were killed in Christ's service. I like how John MacArthur broke this down in this section of John, and I was sad to hear of his passing this week. I'm glad he wrote a lot of books. He'll still be with me and us, I hope. But uh it helps to put a framework in our minds for what Christ was saying He says that in verse 17 and 18, Christ is declaring that Christ is equal with the Father in his purpose. Christ is equal with the Father in his purpose. In 19 and 20, Christ is equal to his Father in his works. Christ is equal to the Father in his works. In verse 21, Christ is equal to his father in his sovereign power. He's equal in his sovereign power. In verse 22, Christ is equal to his father in his judgment. He's equal in his judgment. And in verses 23 and 24, Christ is equal to his father in the honor due to him. Christ is equal to his father in the honor due to him. Well, we already dealt with verses 17 and 18 in a previous sermon, so we'll start with 19 and 20. So our our second of John MacArthur's points is that Christ is equal to his father in his works. Verse 19, so Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, the son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing, and greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel. Now remember what we learned about truly, truly, when Jesus says truly, truly, he is saying, listen closely, listen up. Hear what I'm about to say. I'm about to say something of great importance. Now, everything that Jesus said was important. So when he says it truly, truly, you know you better pay attention. And usually those words come right before Before Jesus blows the minds of his listeners. Then he says, the son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing, for whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. There's so much crammed in our text today. It's the kind of passage that invites us to come back again and again and to plum its depths. We need to see something here. Jesus is doing two things here. Jesus is declaring himself to be equal with God. But at the same time, he is entangling himself with the Father so that they are not acting at all independently. So he's declaring himself to be equal with God, but working in conjunction with God as well. Jesus is not declaring himself as this as a separate God. From his father, neither is he saying that he and his father are the same. He is saying that the father and son are one in purpose, one in unity They share the same mission, but have different parts to play. Where it says the son can do nothing of his own accord, another way of saying that would be on his own initiative. And I think that helps us understand it. The son can't do a different plan than the father. The son can't do a different plan than the father. We're not told why he can't do otherwise, but I think it's due to his nature. Because they are who they are, they can do nothing else. They're limited to carrying out their shared nature. That's how I see it. We might think of this like wild animals that behave distinctly as they do because of what You have to be careful with this analogy, but a dog barks, uh a duck quacks, a cow moves. Because of what they are deep down, because of what they are made to be. Well Jesus and the Father share a common nature and they cannot act contrary to who they are. And that's kind of a odd thing to think about. People ask, is there anything that God can't do? Yeah, God can't go against his nature. He tells us that God can't lie. It is impossible for God to lie. Now that's a little difficult for us to grasp, but he can't Because he sticks to his name. God is what God is, and he will not be otherwise. I think that's the why of Jesus' actions. The Father and the Son are going to do exactly the same purpose. Because they share the same nature. He can't do other than what he is. Then Jesus puts in words that would be very clear to his listeners. He puts it in words. The son is doing what his father does, and the only way that he could know what his father does is for the father to show him. That's the familiarity that the Son has with the Father. And again, if you're a listener, if you're a Jewish leader, you're knowing how to take this. And also, if you think about it, the only one who could do what the father can do would be the father's equal, someone with the same power as the father. Verse 20, for the father loves the son and shows him all that he himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him so that you may marvel. The father shows his love for his son by the father revealing to the son all that the father is doing The Father shows his love for his son by the Father revealing to the Son all that the Father is doing. The word for love is a continuous tense. It's also philale love, the familial love. So the father continues to show the son. What he is doing. This is telling us also that if Jesus is doing what his father is doing , We can watch Jesus and know more about the Father. There's so much in these statements. Jesus is the exact representation of the Father. We see that other places in Scripture. If we see what Jesus does, we know what the Father is doing. D. A. Carson brings out this point. He says this marvelous disclosure of the nature and character of God utterly depends in the first instance, not on God's love of us, but on the love of the Father for the Son, and of the love for the Son for the Father. Text and greater works than these will he show him so that you may marvel. Jesus is about to reveal these greater works that he's talking about. Christ is going to raise the dead, and Christ is going to judge the world. These leaders will get to see the first in their lifetime and the second in their next life. It's like Jesus is telling his enemies, you ain't seen nothing yet. You ain't seen nothing. Maybe Jesus is telling his enemies this so that some of them might be convinced when Jesus fulfills his own prophecy. Maybe they'll realize that he really is the Christ. He really is who he says he is. And we continue in the text. Our third point. Christ is equal to his father in his sovereign power. Christ is equal to the Father in His sovereign power. Verse 21: For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life So also the Son that gives life to whom he will. Now the Jews understood that God alone is the source of life. Only God gives life. In 2 Kings 5:7, it says the king of Israel at the time received a letter from the head of the military officials of the Syrian army requesting that the king cure him of leprosy. And he the king said this, am I God to kill and to make alive? So he's ascribing the power of God to the power of life. The king understood that giving life was only in God's realm. It wasn't in his. Jewish tradition held that only God held these three keys. These three keys, the key of rain, the key of the womb, and the key of the resurrection from the dead. So there were it was a common understanding among them. God gives life and that's it. So the logic here is simple. If only God can raise the dead, and Jesus raises the dead, then Jesus is God. Pretty simple logic that they couldn't miss. Now Jesus here is likely talking about both spiritual And physical life, because both are true of him. Both God the Father and God the Son are at work bringing people to God through Christ. Okay, the fourth fourth point. Christ is equal. to his father in his judgment. Verse 22, for the father judges no one but has given When Abraham was pleading for Sodom with God, Abraham said this in Genesis 18 25, Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as the wicked. Far be that from you, shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? So God is ascribed to being the judge of all the earth That's how Abraham saw it. But now Christ declares that he has that duty. Second Thessalonians 1, 7 and 8 say, When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, Inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. So this is very clearly Jesus doing judging. And again in Acts 17, 31, it says, because God God has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. Again we see that Jesus is the judge. Therefore, Jesus is God. It's very clear that the Father has assigned judgment to the Son. Can you imagine what this would have been like for the Jewish leaders to hear this? Here's this guy that's human that they know a little bit about who's been walking the streets And he's standing in front of them saying this stuff, telling them that he will be the one in eternity to judge them as to where they're gonna spend their eternity. If they could have seen Jesus through spiritual eyes in their lost condition, they should have shook in their sandals. That's what they should have done. They should have begged Christ at that moment, save us. We were lost. Save us. And maybe some eventually did, but probably not on this day. You know , if and when you and I envied the wicked We need to keep in mind, this is their end. They will lose everything. And note these specific Jewish leaders, if they didn't repent, they are going to be standing in front of this very same Jesus who they mocked and hated. I would not want to be those guys. Nor would I want to be any person who has rejected Christ. It's interesting here that Jesus warned them, but with all the power that Christ had at his disposal, he did them. No harm. Our fifth point. Christ is equal to his Father in the honor due him. Verse 23, that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Okay, let's look at this first phrase, that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. The Father wants Jesus to do the works that only God can do, and perform the judgments that only God can do, so that Christ will receive equal honor. As the Father. That's what the purpose is here. Now, these religious leaders would be thinking that any claim to honor that Jesus would make would actually be a dishonor to God. That is how they would have processed it. It would be blasphemy in their minds, 'cause this again is a man It would be Jesus claiming to have the attributes of God. It would be man making himself out to be God. That's how they would see it. And that would be a dishonor to God, if it were anyone but Jesus. Christ was the only exception to that rule because he was fully God and fully man. Christ was not diminishing the honor due to God by claiming it for himself. He was simply sharing what was equally his. And it's an honor that the Father wants him to have. The Father doesn't grieve that his honor is being stolen, like we see in so many of the Old Testament passages when idolatry was in play. No, it's an honor the Father wants Christ to have. And again, we need to step back and consider the powerful impact this would have had on the religious leaders. If Nicodemus was among these leaders, he's getting the second dose of Jesus' truly trulys. And there's no casual, friendly conversation to be had with Jesus by these guys anymore. There is no peer-to-peer discussion to be held at night with Jesus. What Jesus is saying demands that they take a hand. They must approach Jesus to submit to him as Lord or reject him outright. D. A. Carson also said this. In a theistic universe, such a statement belongs to one who is himself to be addressed as God, or to Stark insanity The one who utters such things is to be dismissed with pity or scorn or worshiped as Lord. If with much current scholarship we retreat to seeing in such material less the claims of the Son than the beliefs and witness of the evangelist and his church The same problem confronts us, the same options confront us. Either John, who's writing our book, is supremely deluded and must be dismissed as a fool. Or his witness is true and Jesus is to be ascribed the honors due God alone. There is no rational middle ground Like we have said so many times, Jesus is either a liar, a lunatic, or Lord And John, by stating what John states, is either a lunatic or a faithful witness. There aren't any options for any other categories. Jesus goes on. Whoever does not honor the son does not honor the Father who sent him Now the religious leaders here are in a bind, and it is it is the same bind as every human being. They thought that they could honor God and hold Christ at a distance, at least. or want to kill him at most. They think they have God in a bag somehow. They own a piece of him. But Jesus says, nothing doing, guys. You don't get to pick. It's a package deal. You either bow your knee to both or you reject both. There is no third choice. You worship God and you worship me. Paul wrote very clearly that this was the Father's intent in Philippians 2, 9-11. Well he says, Therefore God has highly exalted him, Christ, and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. That's a that's a A posture of worship. And every tongue confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord. That's a confession of Lordship. To the glory of God the Father. It doesn't dishonor God the Father, it is to the glory of God the Father. As we face every person And as we look in our mirrors, it's helpful to remember this. This person will one day meet Jesus. Face to face. That will happen no matter what their current opinion is. It doesn't matter what they've said. It doesn't matter what they've done. It doesn't matter if they believe in him or if they don't. Every human being will face him. We do well to prepare everyone as much as we can for that meeting. For those who do not know Christ, we appeal to them to cast their faith and their lives on Christ as God in the flesh for the salvation of their souls. For those who know Christ, we appeal to each other to give our bodies as a living sacrifice to the Lord who died to save us. so that we'll receive a richer reward as at his appearing. And we go on in our text. Verse 24 Truly, truly I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Again, we have a listen up, I have something to say, from Jesus. Truly, truly. It's interesting how Jesus puts this. Whoever hears my word and believes my Father who sent me. Jesus is letting us know here that what Jesus says is what the Father endorses. They're never in conflict at all. What Jesus says is what his father says. If you hear what Jesus is saying, you're hearing what the Father is saying. That's pretty intense. And that word that you're hearing from Jesus carries the full authority of the creator of the universe. That word is the difference between life and death. If you hear and believe Jesus' words, if you hear and believe the Father, you will have eternal life. Now this belief is the true kind of belief. We see in scripture other kinds of belief where people believe sort of, kind of, kind of like the demons believe. But this is the true trusting God belief. It's a belief that banks one's life on what Christ did. It's that kind of belief. That person who believes does not come into judgment. In other words, the judge will not pronounce that person guilty. No, that person has already passed from death to life. Already. It's not just waiting, it's already. If we're in Christ, our pronouncement of having our debt paid is already made. We have not yet faced the future judgment, but we already have new life in us. We only await the new body and the changes that will be made as we enter eternity. It's truly as good as done. It's signed, sealed, and delivered. Ephesians tells us in Ephesians 1, 7 and then 11 through 14, it says, In him we have redemption through his blood. We have it now The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. In him we have obtained past tense and inheritance Having been predestined, past hence, according to the purpose of Him, who works all things according to the counsel of His will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of His glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promise of the Holy Spirit. It's all past tense. This all has happened. It is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. I was recently on a cruise ship headed for Alaska, and when we went through the line, we did not fear that the person at the counter would look at us and say, you're not tall enough to get on this ship Or you are not attractive enough to get on this ship. Or we we were intending to leave you on this ship, but we found out some things about you we don't like, so you cannot come on our ship. No, we had tickets purchased. ahead of time that granted our passage. It would have been illegal for them not to allow us on the cruise because the ticket was paid for. That is the assurance that we have for our eternity and our entry into eternity with Christ. It has been purchased if we are in Christ. If we have the Holy Spirit, we are going to make that passage. Christ purchased the ticket. We know we have it. We have Christ's promise of it, and we have the Holy Spirit as evidence of it. If we are believing Christ's words and living by Christ's words, Not perfectly, we always have to caveat that. Not perfectly, but fundamentally. If what Christ says determines what we do, because we have trusted our lives to him. We never need fear the outcome of judgment. Now, if your life is being lived in continual rebellion against what God says, there is reason for concern. That is not the picture of the resurrection power at work that Christ produces in the life of one that he has given his Holy Spirit to. We can't play games with that hoping for some technicality where we don't live for Christ, but he still has to let us in We don't want to play those games. The just shall live by faith, Scripture says. Faith without works is dead, Scripture says Our lives have to display that we are in Christ for any of us to have any kind of confidence of our salvation. If we're living in rebellion, we have reason for great fear, great trembling. We should repent right now. If there is any sin that you are living in, now is the time to repent. We should not live in the uncertainty on what will happen on that day of judgment. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the Lord in judgment. But if we believe in Christ, which is displayed by our direction, and I was like that. Our brother with Campus Crusade, he he brought that up. Our direction is more important than our speed. If we believe in Christ, which is displayed by our direction By one of growing worship and obedience to Christ. If we trust him every day with more and more of our lives decisions, we can be absolutely confident that we have the ticket in hand that was purchased by our Savior and Lord Jesus. So in summary, Christ is equal to his Father in his person, in his works, in his sovereign power, in his judgment. And in the honor due to him. Let's pray. Father, we thank you