It's looking at Jesus setting Nicodemus straight. Jesus was content to let Nicodemus in his father's hands as the Holy Spirit worked on him. Then Jesus goes about his duties. Now we find Jesus and his disciples stick fairly close to Jerusalem on the Jordan River. And John goes north into the area of the Samaritans, and they're both baptizing. And both are probably doing the same kind of baptizing. It's a baptism of repentance. Preparing the way for the Messiah, preparing people's mindsets and their hearts to receive the Messiah. John 4, verse 2 tells us that technically only the disciples of Jesus baptized. Jesus did not. But you could easily say that if Jesus was leading the enterprise, that he was, by extension, baptizing. Now look at verse 23. It says, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized. Now remember. This is John the Baptist, who was being replaced and overshadowed by Jesus. John could have easily gotten the wrong attitude about this. How do you feel when the importance of your ministry or your job or your task is demoted? What do you feel when someone thinks they can come and do a better job than you? And technically this order was coming from John's boss. It isn't hard to imagine lots of bad attitudes that could have been in his heart. But look at our friend John the Baptist here. This man is impossible to knock off stride. This is how he looks at it. God told me to baptize. I have water. People are coming. All is good. That was his mentality. God told me to baptize. I have water. People are still coming. All is good. Isn't that refreshing? What ministry has God given you to do? Do you have the resources needed to do it? Then be like John the Baptist and do it. That's really a good application for us from our text so far. There will always be things that our flesh can find to keep us from actually doing what God told us to do. By God's grace, we need to overcome those obstacles and do what we were given to do, as if we are doing it for Jesus Himself, which seems to be John's attitude Whether others think that what we're doing is important or not, if we know that it is the job that God has given us, we know it's important because Christ is important. Verse 24, for John had not yet been put in prison. Why did John include this? It's very clear that John could not have been baptized if he were in prison. So probably John the Apostle included this to let his readers know that he was covering a part of Jesus' life. That was not included in the other three Gospels. Now remember, the other three Gospels had been put out years before John's. John's was the last one. So John is reporting on the time between Jesus' temptation and John's imprisonment, and none of the other gospels covered that territory. So that's why John says what he says. Verse 25. Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification. This is where our text, I think, starts to get really interesting This is a bit odd. I have yet to understand how the issue of purification relates to what happens next. But somehow it did. One likelihood, and I think it's the most likely of the likelihoods, is that the disciples of John were drawn into a situation that they were not qualified to speak to. These guys weren't theologians. And when they enter into the world of being theologians, they're kind of stepping out of their league. These guys were dunker helpers. And that's very important. It's a very important work for a very important dunker. And maybe they wanted to see themselves as being more important than they really were. Maybe that got them to thinking, hey, why are we being treated like we're second rate? And Jesus and his guys get all the credit. Maybe the Jew treated them in a way that left them feeling belittled. Maybe they were embarrassed, and that set them in a mood for a fight. We don't know what happened, but we can see the attitude that came out of whatever happened. They went to John the Baptist in verse 26, and they came to John, they said to him, Rabbi , He who is with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, look, he's baptizing, and all are going to him. Now immediately, what's that sound like to you? Notice they don't even talk about the issue they were dealing with before they went to John. This is like a person having a bad day at work and taking it out on their spouse or their kids. Or having a bad day with kids and taking it out on the spouse. It's flesh as usual here. I think this text is designed to show us two things. The Baptist's disciples' bad attitudes and thinking. And the Baptist's good attitudes and thinking, and to contrast the two , it's not difficult to figure out which one we're to follow. So look what they say. Rabbi, he who was with you across the Jordan. Think about that What? Did they get amnesia all of a sudden? Did they forget the name of Jesus? The very common name back then? Not likely. Right from the start, their attitude is showing up. They're so irritated they can't even use Jesus' name. I think these guys are envious of Jesus and his disciples. And these guys have already lost the battle before they even start talking. We can do that too. I'm sure we're familiar with times when that has happened. Do you ever enter a conversation knowing that your attitude is so bad that you would do well to preach the gospel to yourself before saying a word to anybody else? Well, this was one of those times, and they didn't. So then they go on. Look, he is baptizing, and all are going to him. The wording is interesting here. Again, it gives them away. All are going to him. All are going to him. Now keep in mind, they're standing there baptizing people All are going to him. That was obviously an exaggeration designed to make their point. But all they needed to do was look around and they would have seen some who were not going to him And who were they? Chopped liver? You know, John saw that, but they didn't want to. Do you ever use the words always and never in an argument? You always do this, or you never do this. It's the same kind of thing. They're obviously not true, but they're used to increase the effect of one's complaint. That's a lesson to avoid from the disciples' life. Now, but what about John the Baptist? Have you ever ministered to someone who is operating from the flesh? If you listen to them and submit to what they're saying, they're going to draw you into their bad attitudes. Well, in this case, it looks an awful lot like I said before, envy. These disciples want what Jesus' disciples are getting. And they want John to be as upset about it as they are. They want John to side with them and to re-resent the success of Jesus. And if they can draw him in, he will then be on their side, and it will strengthen them in this bad attitude. It's like if you'll agree with us, it'll help us to justify this bad attitude that we have. It's similar to gossip instead of dealing with a person. Haven't we all been guilty from time to time of drawing others into our frustration with someone else, or our revulsion of what someone else has done, or any misplaced attitude? I know I have. And I didn't intend evil. I just didn't do the proper business with it when it appeared in my heart. Maybe I didn't even discern it as evil. Sometimes it has to bear some fruit before we can properly label it. Well, the disciples of John put out the bait to John, but John didn't fall for it at all in any way. Remember Paul, how he had to deal with the same sort of thing at the Corinth, the Corinthians? In John 's case. his friends were creating as much trouble for him as his enemies, and so it was true of Paul. Remember how some people on with Paul they were cheering, they were on Paul's cheering section Against Peter and uh uh uh uh could be the other guy's name. And others were in Peter's cheering sexton, and they were cheering you know against Paul. Apollos. Somewhere in Apollos' cheering section, and they're against both of the others. Their po personal loyalty Had been twisted into evil purposes. Something that is generally a pretty good trait, was used in a very negative way. But John here doesn't trip up just like Paul didn't. And here comes our example to follow whenever someone is trying to pull us into their wrong John answered, and this is extremely profound , a person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven. Now, in this case, he's talking about it from a positive sense. But anyway, here's the foundation for all proper human perspective. Do you want to know the first thing to consider when you face a difficult situation or a person here on earth? The first thing to ask is, where did it come from? How did it get to my life? Where did it come from? And the first answer is always, it came into my life. Through the filter of a loving Heavenly Father that only wants the best for me. It came into my life through the filter of a loving Heavenly Father. That only wants the best for me. Suze is in the hospital with Fiona right now. Where did that situation come from? It came through the filter of a loving heavenly Father who only wants what is best for them. That is where we need to start in our thinking as we're dealing with our situations. A problem at work, a problem at home, a problem with your kids? Your parents, your spouse, your friends, your church, your finances, your flesh All of them. What we are given comes through a heavenly sieve that takes out anything that would ultimately harm our souls and allows anything that will make us more like Christ. Many of our bad attitudes grow because we refuse to start by choosing to trust our sovereign loving God. When the cause of your attitude is the refusal to trust God, the attitude will not be corrected until we circle around to the root of our problem. How many of our internal problems are a result of outright refusing to accept our circumstances from the hand of God? How much time do we waste essentially telling God that he doesn't know what he's doing? Worry, resentment, self-pity, anger, envy, they're all essentially a statement from our lives that we do not think that God knows what He is doing. What situation are you struggling with this morning? Do business with this. Do you trust that God had your best interest in mind when He allowed this thing into your life? Start there. You might find once you resolve that issue, the rest of the things are far easier to deal with. I thank God, brothers and sisters, that our God has placed us all in this body to help each other in this real day-to-day struggle that we call life. We're fighting the flesh, we're fighting the world, and we're fighting the devil and these kind of things every day regularly. It's so good that Christ has given us such good company. Maybe sometimes we need to make better use of our resources. Verse 28, you yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. That's a very nice way of John telling his disciples. I told you guys this. And you know I did. You repeated it back to me in your initial question. You bear witness. You remember me saying it. And what did I tell you? I am not the main character of this story. I have a part to play, and it's important as far as it goes. But I am not Jesus. As I was putting this together, I was thinking of Brad and Diane when they were in the Jesus play at Cherry Blade Can you imagine going to the director and saying, Jesus has more scenes than I do? You know, I'd like you to rewrite this play for me. That's how absurd the disciples of John are being. They were wrapped up in self. They wrongly associated a different role with a greater importance. That's what the devil has used the feminist movement to do. They want us to think that because the world doesn't think raising your kids for Christ is important. That you should win a role that the world does think is important, like making money. John 's disciples didn't realize that being the best dunker they could be would make them as important as they could be in God's plan. Do the duty God has given you. That's how you maximize your contribution to the kingdom. John got that. John got that to the core. He has water, he has people, he is happy, and he's properly important. The most important thing we can do is carry out the role Christ has placed us in. Raise your kids. Do your occupations. Witness to the people around you and be open to Christ, expanding your reach as he sees fit, and changing those responsibilities as he sees fit. John completely understood his place. Maybe he wasn't the kind of person who struggled much with that kind of thing. I mean a guy walks around in in what was it, camel hair? You know, he's probably not all that concerned about impressions and and making a name for himself. There are some people this kind of thing doesn't appeal to them very much. We don't know, but we cannot find a better example of someone who is content to do their job as assigned. Next, John lets us in on how he thinks about the whole situation. And he's probably had plenty of time to come up with this imagery. Maybe he was just waiting, waiting for the chance to explain it to his guys in the perfect time. And it's a perfect explanation. Verse 29, the one who has the bride is the bridegroom The friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. Can you imagine going to a wedding and the best man tries to make the wedding all about him? Everyone would be aghast. I'm not terribly socially adept, but even I know you'd be making a big mistake to do such a thing. When you celebrate the wedding, all attention goes to the bride and the groom. And not only that, imagine if the best man is bummed out and sulking because he's not the center of attention. You'd think that person is clueless. They must not have a speck of love in their whole body. It's appropriate that if you love the groom, you must be pleased at what the groom is pleased at. Your role at a wedding is to share in the joy of the couple. John is telling his guys, this is how you gotta look at it, guys. You're looking at it all wrong. This is how you gotta look at it. This is the right perspective. You cannot make this about you. It is about Christ. And when you get that right, sharing in the groom's happiness is the greatest happiness that you can have. John says, therefore this joy of mine is now complete. This is how you and I should see any ministry, or actually our whole lives, for that matter. The spotlight is not to be on us. And as much of it as it is, we should be pointing to Jesus. We don't preach or teach our words. We preach and teach Jesus' words. This is not our church to do with it as we please. It is Christ's church, and we should strive for it to please Him. Even our bodies Nor are time or talents or money are ours Greatest joy in our lives comes from giving God the greatest glory with our lives. Our greatest joy in our lives comes from giving God the greatest glory with our lives. John got it right. He received a mission from God. It was to point to Jesus. When he got notoriety, he didn't view that as an asset to hold on to. Like I deserve to be a big shot, because look at the price I've paid for it. He didn't regard it as a right. He didn't feel entitled to it. He saw it as a tool To glorify God. And as long as he had it, that's what he would use it. The notoriety was transferred to Christ It didn't upset John because when he had the notoriety, he knew what it was for. John never thought that the purpose of his ministry was for the dunking ministry to get bigger John somehow kept self out of the equation. He never bought into this idea that he was entitled to anything based on his years of service, the sacrifices he had made, how special he was as a minister. No, he was a wonderful example of avoiding all of the self-traps in living for Christ. He was a masterful steward. When John had much, it was to be used for Christ. When John had little, it was to be used for Christ. Maybe much of the misery we have in our lives is because we get this wrong. When I think that my life is for me, I get miserable When I think the situations in my life should bring me my fleshly desires, or whatever it is in my heart that I most crave. I'm going to be disappointed. My happiness, then, is situation dependent. And that's what the disciples of John were thinking. They appeared to be thinking that they should be receiving more status. And that they thought that would make them happy, make them feel satisfied. But when I think my life is for Christ, I can always have joy because nothing will keep me from living out my purpose. Even if I were to be completely mistreated, I can still live out my purpose for Christ. There's no situation that comes from God's hand in which I cannot give glory to God. Through suffering, through good times. Being thought much of, being thought little of, makes no difference. We can give glory to God in every one of those situations I realize that it's not my job to determine which circumstances I should or should not have. That's a hard one to get over. When we give up the idea that I I think I know what I'm doing It's not my job to determine which circumstances I should or should not have. It serves no good purpose for me to determine what God should or should not give me. John the Baptist is our hero in that regard. He got this right. So we've seen the proper perspective on life situation is to realize whose hand they came from. The proper perspective on ministry is to live for the pleasure of the central figure, who is Christ And this is a helpful application. If you want to face situations wrongly, believe what you tell yourself about your life. If you want to face situations wrongly, believe what you tell yourself about your life. If you want to face situations rightly, believe what God tells you about your life. John goes on. 30, he must increase, but I must decrease. Jesus said this, and calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them. If anyone would come after me, let him, and we can probably all remember what he says, deny himself. And take up his cross, cross is something you die on, and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. How do you see your life this morning? When you get up in the morning and you look at your life and the day ahead of you, how do you look at that? What is the sieve you run that through, the lens you see that with? What is your life for? What is your life for? When I looked at home in Eliasburg, and I've used this illustration before, I hope. A little differently, but anyway. I was tearing down a shed in the backyard. Does anyone remember that? And I had a lot of nails to pull. And I was using my brother's wooden-handled framing hammer. I if you don't and you're anyway our carpenter, you will know the point. I'm pulling out these nails and I'm going to town and and I keep thinking I'm gonna break this hammer. And sure enough, at one point I snapped the handle. And I knew I had to tell my brother, because it was his. And that's bad enough. So I felt all innocent because the hammer had a claw on it to pull nails, and I figured there was something wrong with the hammer. Didn't know there was something wrong with the user Uh I I still remember telling Butch, and he looked at me in a manner that was less than pleased. It was a look that he had practiced many times with me. And he simply said That is not what it is for. That is not what it is for. I was using a tool that had a good purpose, and I was using it for the wrong purpose. And naturally it destroyed the tool. How much of our mis misery and discontent in our lives is because of this? My life is given to me for me to use for the glory of God. That is what it is for. Nothing more, nothing less. Christ must increase. I must decrease I must take up Christ's cross. I must deny those fleshly desires that so long to take over and make me the center of the universe. I must lose that life By so doing, I will gain my life. I will gain my life the way it is supposed to be. I'll find a greater joy than I could ever find by any other means And I know how hard that is for us to believe. It's so counterintuitive to our self-talk. It's so counterintuitive to our seamur and our perceptions. Our steamers will deny this all day long. It will say that is not the way you get happy. It seems like it cannot be true. And we think if I don't look out for myself, who will? If I don't fight for my rights, who will? But what Christ said was absolutely true. The more we die to our own flesh and our own rights and our own entitlements, and the more we live for Christ's advancement, the more joy we will experience in our lives. John saw that Christ's agenda was being advanced as a result of John's work, and that was the source of his joy. He's looking at that bride or at the groom and he's saying, Yeah, man, this is great. I am so happy for you If his joy was based on anything else, he would have been bummed out. Because everything he was doing was losing l losing uh steam. But John saw it all clearly. Christ is the centerpiece. Christ is the focus. Christ is the goal. I am expendable for his good. Just as he was expendable for my good. Imagine the applications in our own lives. If your spouse treats you in a way that you don't think elevates you as much as you think he or she should, ask the question: how can I best glorify Jesus in this situation? How can I best display the new life that He has given me? How can I make Him look good by what I choose to do here? How can Christ increase here? That's just one example of a million. Or when I'm around those who have yet to believe in Christ, how can I use my words to not so much get them to like me, but to have them consider the worth of Jesus? If they like John, this John, they've gained nothing. But if they see Jesus, they might get everything. That's what's at the heart of our text this morning. Oh, let us pray that God moves us moment by moment in that direction in our lives. Temptations that we face, that God would enlighten the eyes of our hearts to see the great love that Christ has for us. May we see His glory. May we see the great advantage we gain by laying down our lives as we anticipate the glorious inheritance we have waiting for us. May hope grip our souls and empower the selfless living we are called to do. Let's pray.