Before we start on our text, I'd like to jump back to verse one for a second. I was listening to a sermon by Daniel Sisler. And I heard something about the word that I thought was worth adding on. This could well happen until we're end we end John, because there's so much to be said. But anyway, the word in verse one is not only good enough to just create everything, that in itself is impossible in our frame of reference. I mean it's hard for us to wrap our head around, but that's what he did. But no, not only did he create everything, this word is great enough to recreate sinners. And that word became known to us. The word who speaks things into existence in Genesis 1 now comes near to us. Remember when the word called out in the garden to the man Adam in Genesis 3. 10. He called out after the man had created cosmic Treason. After Adam had had sinned the sin. The man had sinned the only sin he was capable of. He chose to take the only thing that was off limits to him. And the word in Genesis 3. 9 calls out to the man, where are you? Where are you? That word now reaches its fullness. The word not only calls out the lost humanity, but now the word comes near To those sinners and rebels. This word is now meant for all peoples in all places. It is the word to a lost world. Our word speaks and respeaks. Our word creates and recreates. Okay , let's prepare to look at our text. And here's the setting. Four hundred years. Four hundred years. That's how long it had been since the people of God heard the Word of God. At least any fresh word. There had been prophets throughout Israel's history, but for 400 years God was silent, at least silent regarding speaking his word to the nation. For us, that would be 1624 to 2024. In 1624, Virginia became an official crown colony with Jamestown as its capital. That would be like going from then to now without hearing from a prophet. God appeared to have nothing to say to his people that he had not already said. The next thing he was going to do was do something. And then John the Baptist appears. And John comes into the scene much mu much like many of the old prophets of old did. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. We're going to start this study by jumping ahead. We are going to spend a lot of time looking at who John the Baptist was, but we're going to begin by looking at who he was not. We'll look at the contrast between John the Baptist and Jesus. William Hendrickson points this out. Christ was, remember we talked about was, Christ was from all eternity. John came Christ is the word, the logos. John is a mere name. Christ is himself God. John is commissioned by God. Christ is the real light. John came to testify concerning the real light. Christ is the object of trust. John is the agent through whose testimony men come to trust. In the real light, even Christ. So those are the contrasts. Many think that the Apostle John wrote much of what he wrote about John the Baptist in such a way because Even in John's day, there were still disciples of John the Baptist, who never got the full story. They were like some of the Ephesians who hadn't heard the gospel of Christ. They only knew the teaching of John. Remember we read about them in Acts 18 How Apollos showed up in Ephesus preaching the baptism of John. And Priscilla and Aquila took them aside privately, which was kind of them, and straightened them out. Well, it was probably also in the city of Ephesus that John wrote this gospel. And it's possible there were still remnants of John's disciples that did not want to elevate Jesus above John. So John deals a death blow to that misunderstanding. He shows us with great clarity that Jesus was greater than John. In fact, John's ministry was 100% designed to point us to Christ. Whatever you thought of John the Baptist, he was not the Messiah. So John was sent from God. John was to be the end of God's silence. Now, Israel had lots of prophets, but I don't know of any whose arrival was itself prophesied by another prophet. I couldn't think of that. John's arrival was, and I think it's unique in that. Matthew 3. 3 says, For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah saying the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. So John the Baptist was sent. In that his coming was prophesied as a forerunner of the Messiah. His being sent is also prophesied by Malachi as the Elijah-like prophet who will come before the great and terrible day of the Lord. In Malachi four, five and six we read, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Day of the Lord. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse. Which Luke again emphasized when he says in 117, he will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. So John was sent, and that his arrival was predicted by Scripture. He was also sent and that his arrival was miraculous. Barren mothers do not have children. Luke 1:7, but they had no child because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both well advanced in years. John was clearly sent in that God announced his coming to individuals. We don't have that everywhere about the prophets. Luke 1, 8 through 17 says, so it was that while he was serving as a priest before God in the order of his division According to the custom of the priesthood, his lot , fell to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And the whole multitude of people was praying outside of the hour of incense. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zecharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him, which is common when people see The Angelic. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. And you shall call his name John, and you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink He will also be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb, and he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. He will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. So he arranged for Zecharias then to prophesy his coming. In Luke 1, 67 through 79, it says, now his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied. Saying, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. And he has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, who have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. To perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our lives. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the highest For you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercy of God with which the day spring from on high has visited us, to give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. So John was also sent at precisely the right time to prepare for Christ's arrival on the scene. Luke 1. 80 says, so the child that grew and became strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his manifestation to Israel. John was sent by God in ways that no other Old Testament prophet was sent than for a very specific purpose. When John showed up and began preaching, he really stirred things up. Mark 1, 5 through 8 says, And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him And were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. Now, John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey And he preached, saying, After me comes one who is mightier than I, the strap whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untouch. I have baptized you with water. But he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. So when John the Baptist began to preach, God clearly used his preaching to move people to repentance. And you think about it, he must have really had a huge impact for all the people that we read about in the New Testament being affected by him, many of them being Christ's own disciples. Those that God was preparing for Christ's coming were first drawn to John. There they would be convicted of their sins, and God used him to get people to look to God. They began expanding Expecting Christ's coming. It's like John was a drum roll for the coming of Christ, and it was getting everyone's appetites ready for this. They were baptized in a baptism of repentance. And this was different than the baptized displaying new birth in Christ. And we need to keep that in mind. But John, I guess we're always looking for an example to follow. Here, John was an example to follow in that he was fearless in calling people to repentance. You look at some of the people he called to repentance, and it ended up shortening his life, and it's so it was meant to be, but uh John rebuked Herod for taking his brother's wife. He called Herod to repent. And this boldness in calling people for repentance ended up getting them killed. But even that was the process of John becoming less And Christ becoming more, which is what John said all along, he probably just didn't expect it would work out exactly the way that it did. Jesus said that John was the greatest man born up to the point of Christ's birth Matthew 11, 11 says, Truly I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he That leaves us with some questions. I struggled with this one for a while, and there's as many answers as there are commentators. But how is John the Greatest And how is John the least? How is John the greatest? And how is John the least? How is this true? How is he the greatest up to this point? Well, think about all the other prophets. None of the prophets were prophesied. None would serve such a pivotal role in the salvation of God's people. The best they would do is call people to call upon God in repentance. But they were calling them to do so in the old covenant. They were calling them to obey the covenant law. They were called to offer their sacrifices of animals in their best effort to have their sins forgiven. Now John, John's at a pivotal point. There's never been a prophet in the spot that John was placed in. He is right on the verge of the salvation work of Christ. But he preceded it. He was not preaching that Christ's blood is where our righteousness is found or where its own men happens. So John is the greatest because he is right there pointing to the salvation that's coming in Christ. To God's final and complete answer to the sin problem. He can point to the person, but can't point to the method. He's pointing to Christ, but he can't yet explain Christ's ministry. I think John is in the kingdom of heaven, like it says uh Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven. I think John is in the kingdom of heaven. If he's not, how could he even be a believer? I don't think it's possible that John is not a saved by faith person So where it says the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven cannot mean that John was not in the kingdom of heaven. The following was said of John Luke one fifteen, for he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. It's very clear that John is an exceptional minister of God and person of God. He must have had faith in here prior to being born, which is unheard of. We don't understand this. We just read it. But it's true. He will be filled with the Holy Spirit from his mother's womb. It looks like John was saved before he was born. That's odd. I'm sure there are other ways of looking at this, but this appears to me to be the most obvious meaning. That would make him an exception. That also would make him greater than any other prophet that preceded him. So it's impossible for me to think that John was not in the kingdom of heaven, even from birth. The kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven are used interchangeably in Scripture. So John was the greatest, and I think the emphasis is up to this point in the kingdom of heaven. I believe he was the greatest because he was so close to Christ's work on the cross that he could almost taste it. He was teetering on the edge of the new covenant of Christ's blood for our sin. He was right there. His life screamed, come to Christ, come to Christ. Nothing is more important than that. So that's what made him the greatest prophet ever born Because John the Baptist had the most important message ever proclaimed up to that point. So what made him the least? What made him the least is everyone else greater than him? Think about it. Even if his ministry was completely effective in a person's life prior to Christ coming on the scene, for the next few years it would still be calling people To offer sheep for sin. Their repentance would be framed in the old covenant that they were living in. They would be getting prepared for the new. But they were experiencing the old. He could see the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world, but he could not yet apply it. He could not yet explain it. The curtain was not yet ripped from the top to the bottom, being God's statement: the old covenant is over. The new covenant has begun. My belief is that John the Baptist was the last Old Covenant spokesperson. The fact that he poured his whole life into pointing others to the Messiah is what made him greatest. The fact that he could not articulate the gospel and call people into the new covenant salvation in Christ's name is what made him the least. From the time of Christ until now, we look back and we point people to Christ. You and I, when we're talking about how a person can be right with God. We can lay out the salvation that Christ provided through his death, burial, and resurrection. Every New Testament believer gets to tell the world the rest of the story that John didn't know. John the Baptist could not tell that story. This is what we say now. John the Baptist could not have said it. Ephesians 1, 7 through 10 says that in him In Christ we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will. John didn't know that yet. The mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ, as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. We proclaim that message. That's greater. So let's go back to our text, 1 John 6 through 13. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. Why did John write his gospel? And I hope we know that, that all might believe in Christ. Why did John the Baptist bear witness about the light? That all might believe through him. Both Johns were shooting for the same target. Now, just to make it perfectly clear to any of the followers of John the Baptist, verse 8, he was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. John was not the word, not the life, not the light, but he had the most important job of any human up to that point. To point to the light. To bear witness of the light, to herald the light. That's what we do The word for witness is an interesting word that the Apostle John uses more than anybody else. Witness. It means a legal witness. Like a testimony in court. It's honestly and clearly telling about one what one has himself actually seen. We testify. We witness. Verse 9: the true light which gives light to everyone was coming into the world. The true light which gives light to everyone. The word for true is not so much true versus false, but it's more like true versus most true The most superior truth, the most magnificent and clear truth, it's it's What is most real and most genuine? It's the ultimate truth, the perfect truth. Now, this true light gives light to everyone, and we've got to ask how. Because we know from all the other passages that people live in darkness and they don't seem to be lit up. What what's the deal here? What's he mean? Well, when the sun shines, does it shine on everyone who's standing outside and doesn't happen to be in the shade? Yeah, of course it does. Does it shine on a blind person? Yeah. Does it help the blind person see? No, not at all. It gives light to him, but that light accomplishes nothing because he's blind. Christ was like the sun shining. To those who could see, he lit up everything. He gave perfect clarity. The way that God was known without question when they looked at Christ. But to the blind, The light was given, but it was not received. Their blindness never stopped Christ from being the light. Christ has always been the light. The light was given. No one could ever say that the light did not shine. If there's any blame, it's on the human condition of blindness, not on the absence of light. John was giving witness to the light that was to come when Christ began his ministry. Verse 10, he was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world didn't know him. That's the world of humanity. Christ was in this world. He spoke. He was visible. He did great acts that should have convinced all onlookers of his true character Yet these people living in rebellion against the God that made them did not know it. Did not know him. They did not recognize who he really was. Now, it's bad that this cosmos, that's the word used, this world in rebellion against God and largely ignorant of God, did not know Christ. Should have been obvious to them, but the next line is even more tragic. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. Where it says his own the first time in verse 11, the word's neutral. So it's not talking about people. That was odd. I didn't had no idea that that was the case. It's talking about territory He came to his land. He came to his country. And his own people, now that one is referring to people, and his own people who lived in his own land rejected it. They didn't receive him. Now receive could mean take hold of, obtain, or grasp. As we move to verse 12, we see that receive him and believe in his name is describing the same thing It's two ways of saying the same thing. Receive him, believe in him , same thing. It's impossible to receive Christ and not believe in him, or to believe in Christ and not receive him. Receiving him is more than just a mental offense. The demons believe in him in that sense. And the demons receive him in that sense. It's holding on to for dear life. That's what it's talking about. That's the kind of receiving. It's like It's like grasping, the kind of grasping you would do if somebody threw you a life jacket and you were drowning. So God's people in God's land did not receive Christ. They didn't hold on to him. They didn't grasp him. But some did. Some did. Verse twelve, but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name. So we see, you know. It's uh two ways of saying the same thing. He gave the right He gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Those who do receive Christ, those who believe in Christ, due to who Christ is and what Christ did, we now have the right By being in Christ to become the adopted children of God. And that's the message that John the Baptist did not have yet. This is the rest of the story. And look how these adopted children are reborn, are born into this new family. It says, not of blood. Not of blood. They aren't saved because of some bloodline that they can trace their lineage to. That doesn't matter at all. That's not how you get in. Along with that, it does not come by natural birth at all. So there's nothing that humans can do to make it happen There's only one way that it happens. God makes it happen. That's what John's saying. John is here painting a picture that he will describe more fully throughout this whole book. Our salvation is of God's origin. Our salvation is of God's will. That's what it says. Does a believer make a human decision to respond to God's call on his life? Of course we do. If someone wakes you up in the middle of the night, you choose to open your eyes. You may not choose, you may choose to get out of bed, but you didn't choose to wake up. That was done to you, whether you like it or not. That is how this is described. Yes, we must receive Christ. We must believe in Christ. We must But the becoming a child of God doesn't happen because of that choice. It happens as a result of God's choice. We are born of God and we believe and receive Christ. Christ, by his work, earned the right for us to become his adopted children. This is interesting. I think encouraging. Chosen people have more than an opportunity to be a child of God. It is theirs by right. Christ has earned for you a right when you receive Christ. You have the right to be God's child now. The Father is obligated to give this to you because of the work of Christ. And the Father, it's not like grudgingly, well, I have to, I guess. The Father is in full agreement with the Son in this. The Father is not stuck doing something he doesn't want to do. The whole purpose of Christ's coming The whole purpose that Christ was sent was to enable this adoption as sons into a family that will live with Christ forever. You don't need to fight for this right to be upheld by the Father. It was the Father's will from beginning, from before time began. To provide this right to you through Christ. You and I have such a great gospel. We have such good news. In this Thanksgiving season, may we pray for opportunities to proclaim this good news to people that we may be in contact with that we aren't normally and who don't normally hear it. And may we spend time meditating on how wonderful it is that we can enjoy this truth that even the greatest Old Testament prophet couldn't see into. Lord, we thank you for laying out so much of the inside scoop that we may not have gotten from the other gospels, but we get it from from the enlightenment that you gave to John. And uh we ask that you would help us to to recognize Just the enormous of the change that was going to happen on a cross. He asks that you help us to incorporate this good news into everything that we think, into everything that we say. And that we would become people who are shining this light all the time everywhere simply because we can. And we have it. And we praise you that you gave us the right, through Christ, to be your child. We thank you for all these things in Jesus' name.