Okay, the text this morning is Mark three, sixteen through nineteen. Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter, James the son of Zebedee and the and John the brother of James, to whom he gave the name Boanerges, that is sons of thunder. Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James the son of Altheus, Thaddeus, Simon the Canaanite, and And Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him, and they went into a house. This week is our final look at the twelve apostles, at least in depth. We're going to be looking at them for the rest of the book of Mark. We look today at Judas Iscariot. Iscariot. And as I said a few weeks ago, Judas's name was a perfectly good one until he had it. Nobody's really trying to get that name anymore. It means Jehovah Leads. Judas, Jehovah leads. That tells us something about what his parents may have expected for their child. They probably hope for their son to follow Jehovah's leading. The word Iscariot tells us the place that Judas came from. He probably came from from Karyoph Hezron. That is Ish is, I believe, Hebrew for from, and Karyoth is the name of the town. So Ish Karioth, which is translated as Karyah. This was a little town south of Judea. So Judas was the only apostle who was chosen from outside of Galilee. Since Judas was from outside, none of the other disciples would have known much about him. They all probably knew a lot about each other. You know, when people grow up with each other, it's often difficult to hide what you really are. Your brothers and sisters know about those things probably better than anyone else. An outsider chosen by Christ himself would likely get the benefit of doubt on most issues. Because if you think about it, the other eleven would have known Christ chose this guy. We didn't know him, but Christ chose him, so he must be qualified for this. Whatever that qualification is, so they got a benefit of the doubt. Judas' father was named Simon. John 671 tells us that, and that's a very common name. And Christ's call of Judas was not recorded, but it's clear in Our text that Christ selected him. We're going to cover a lot of scripture this morning to paint a picture of who Judas was. And let's start here in John 6:60. It says, Therefore, many of his disciples, when they heard this This said, This is a hard saying. Who can understand it? When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples complained about this, he said to them, Does this offend you? What then if you should see the Son of Man ascend where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life, the flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit, and they are life. But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe and who would betray. Him. And he said, Therefore I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father. From that time many of the disciples went back and walked with him no more. Okay, so Christ had just Said some dramatic things, some costly things, some things that took away a fleshly motive for following Christ. He knew that he had a lot of people following him for the wrong reasons. So he was culling the herd. Then in verse 67 Jesus said to the twelve, Do you also want to go away? But Simon Peter, naturally, Simon Peter, answered him, said, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. Also we have come to believe. even know that you are Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you the twelve? And one of you is the devil? He spoke of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, for it was he who had betrayed. Being one of the twelve. Okay, so Christ said this early in the book of John. It's obvious that he knew what Judas would do when he picked Judas. There's no change of plan, there's no big surprise, there's nothing that Happened that Christ didn't know was going to happen when he picked Judas. It was prophesied that it had to happen. Christ knew this and he made his choices accordingly. Here's one of the prophecies, Psalms 41, 9. Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up his seal against me. John 13, 18 is where Christ quoted that from the Old Testament. And here's another prophecy of the betrayal Prayer. Psalms fifty five twelve for it is not an enemy who reproaches me, then I could bear it, nor it is it one who hates me who has exalted himself against me, then I could hide from him. But it was you, a man. My equal, my companion, and my acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together and walked to the house of God in the throng. Another prophecy is found in Zechariah, Zechariah 11, 12. Then I said to them, If it is agreeable to you, give me my wages, and if not, refrain. So they weighed out for my wages thirty pieces of silver, and the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter, that princely price they set on me. So I took the thirty pieces of silver. pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the Lord for the potter. Matthew twenty-seven, nine through ten quotes this prophecy in the Old Testament. So we got to ask the question, how does this work? Judas chose to follow Christ. If you'd asked Judas how he got here, he said, Well, I chose to follow Christ. He even stuck with Christ after a large number of followers deserted Christ. If you'd asked Judas if he would ever be betray Christ, it's likely that Judas would have said, No, I will never do that. I'll never betray Christ. Judas was making choices. He probably thought of himself as a good Jew, a good follower. He probably thought of himself as a loyal person. When Judas heard Christ say what he said in John 6, he more than likely looked around with the rest of the twelve and wondered who this devil was. Judas was doing nothing here but following his own natural impulses and desires and evaluating himself based on his own perceptions. He had a reason for following Christ, and for the time being, it seemed like a good ide Good reason. He probably expected Christ to perform according to Judas's wishes. He wanted Christ to take over the rulership of the land, like any self-respecting lover of Israel would. And since he's the Messiah. Messiah, after all, Judas expects that that's exactly what he's going to do. And when that happened, Judas would reap the rewards that he was after. Now that's probably what is running through Judas's mind, the end game. Something to learn here. We pointed out many times in this study that the disciples were just normal human beings, and we find that comforting, at least I do. The thing to note here is that Judas is too. Judas is just a normal human being. What Judas is what Judas displays is not how evil a person can become. What he displays is how evil we already are by birth. Judas simply displays who his spiritual father is. That is all. He displays what religious, so-called Christian people all over the globe display when God does not live up to the their expectations. They choose self over Christ. And they betray Christ to have what it is that they really want. There's not as big of a gap between The mindset of a person who lives to please him or herself and what Judas did to Christ is what we would like to think. Judas made a decision to follow Christ. Along with that, Christ made a decision to select Judas to be on his team. He made this choice fully knowing what Judas was. But we'll see through his story that Christ regarded Judas as being responsible For his actions. How can that be? Someone had to betray Christ. This had to happen. So if Judas had chosen to be the one, or if Judas was chosen to be the one. How could Judas have avoided being the one who betrayed Christ? He was chosen for that position. How could he have not betrayed Christ? Wasn't God sovereignly destroyed? Determining the actions of Judas? There's a quote by Spurgeon that's extremely fitting here. We've talked about this topic a number of times over the years, and he sums it up about as well as I know how. He said, if I find taught in one part of the Bible that everything is foreordained, that's true. And if I find in another scripture that man is responsible for all of his actions, that is true. And it's only my folly that leads me to imagine that these two truths can ever contradict each other. I do not believe that they could ever be welded into one upon any earthly anvil, but they certainly shall be one in eternity. There are two lines that are so nearly parallel that the human mind which pursues them farthest will never discover that they converge, but they do converge. And they will meet somewhere in eternity. Close to the throne of God, whence all truth does spring. We cannot figure out how our wills mesh with the sovereignty of God. We only know that it's true. We're completely responsible. We are held completely responsible by God for every single thing that we do. And God ordains, in some fashion, at the same time, every single thing that we do. We don't know how, but we're told that it's true. So Judas was doing exactly what Judas wanted to do, and God was seeing to it that he did exactly what needed to be done. And at the end of the day, Judas was morally responsible for his personal betrayal of Jesus Christ, an event that had to happen. Now, we need to keep in mind that Judas was with Christ every day. He heard him preach. Places where other disciples were convicted. Places where they came face to face with their own sin. Judas somehow sidestepped his own moral condition. Judas was was making choices, and they were bad choices. He was following Christ for something that Christ was never going to do for him. And at some point that was good enough reason in Judas's mind to do the evil deed that he did. We've already seen that the disciples all expected to get some kind of reward for what they were doing. In fact, Christ tells them some things about that. Matthew nineteen twenty-seven, then Peter answered and said to Christ, We've left everything and followed you. What what will we get? So Jesus said to them, Assuredly I say to you, that in the regeneration, when the Son of Man sits in the throne of his glory, you who have followed me will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Israel. And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my name's sake shall receive a hundredfold and inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last and the last first. We see it in other passage as well, in Luke eighteen, twenty eight, Peter said, See, we have left all and followed you. So he said to them, Assuredly I say to you, that there is no one who has left house, or parents, or brother, or wife, or children. For the sake of the kingdom of God, who shall not receive many times more in this present time and in the age to come eternal life. Jesus had told all of his disciples that there would be a payoff. But it was not the payoff of a political revolution. He never says that. It was not the payoff of a here and now political kingdom. It was something much bigger and much better. But it's only bigger and better to those who have a heart for it. This is much like the disappointment of those who are following Christ today with the belief that Jesus will give us health and wealth and happiness. That's why we follow him, we'll find ourselves in Judas's when Christ fails to deliver as expected. Mike often said that the only reason to come to Christ is our sin. Any other reason will Proved to be deceptive. John 12 gives us some great insights into Judas. John 12, verse 1. Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus, who had been dead, whom he had raised from the Lord. from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him, and Mary took a pound of very costly oil of Spitner, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil. Then one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, who would betray him, said, Why was the fragrant oil not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor? Well before we get too focused Son Judas, we need to realize that he was not alone in the sentiment. Matthew 26 tells us that all the disciples were saying this. Matthew 26, 8, but when his disciples saw it, they were indignant. Indignant. saying, why this waste? Look at what this woman is doing. Look at that waste. For this fragrant oil might have been sold for much and given to the poor. I tend to forget when I read about Judas that this was not just Judas saying it. But the difference is, we know the motive that Judas had in saying it. And it was not the same as the rest of the disciples. John goes on to say, this he said, this Judas said, not that he cared for the poor. But because he was a thief and he had the money box and he used to take what was put in it. But Jesus said, Let her alone. She has kept this day this for the day of my burial. For the poor you have with you always, but me You do not always have. Now a great many of the Jews knew that he was there, and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. But the chief priest plotted to put Lazarus to death also because Because on account of him, many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus. Evidently, this truth about Judas, that he was a thief and pilfer in the money box, was not known early on. Somehow they discovered that Judas was still. stealing from the till. So you can imagine how much Judas would have liked seeing the money spent on this perfume coming into the money box. He's probably figuring out his percentage of it while he's looking at it being poured out. This would have been a golden opportunity for a thief, for somebody looking out for only their own interests. This must have been the straw that broke the camel's back for Judas, because it was very soon after this event that Jesus or Judas did the following. Matthew tells us this in Matthew twenty-six fourteen. Then one of the twelve called Judas Iscariot went to the chief priest and said, What are you willing to give me if I deliver it Christ to you? And they counted out to him thirty pieces of silver. So from that time he sought opportunity to betray Christ. And then Luke tells us in Luke 22:3 : Then Satan entered Judas, surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered among the twelve. So he went his way and conferred with the chiefs. Chief priests and captains how he might betray him to them. And they were glad and agreed to give him money. So he promised and sought opportunity to betray him in the absence of the multitude. And then Mark tells us in 1410, then Judas Iscariot. One of the twelve went to the chief priest to debr betray him, and when they heard it they were glad and promised to give him money, so he sought how he might conveniently betray him. Conveniently betray him. That's uh irony. Now, if you were to talk to Judas at this point, and you could have gained his confidence, you would have probably heard a lot of benting about how Christ was not living up to Judas's expectations. You would have heard from Judas how Judas Felt betrayed by Christ. He gave Jesus a year and a half of his life, but Jesus, even with his supernatural ability, would not do the things needing done. He would not overthrow Rome. He would not put his followers in Political positions. He wouldn't even do the things that would win the respect and admiration of the people in high positions of the religious hierarchy. What a disappointment. Judas by now has convinced himself That anything that he does is warranted by the disappointment that Christ has proven to be to Judas. Judas may have even thought that his best chance of accomplishing what he was after was to sell out Christ. He may have thought that when the Roman soldiers come to take Christ, that Christ would not allow such a thing. He Christ would be forced into a war against the Roman government. This would have been a war of that Christ could not lose, at least in the way that uh that Judas is looking at it. So he may have even justified his betrayal of Christ. It might have been he was thinking in ways we typically do, I'm doing you a favor, Christ. He may have even ascribed noble motives to him. Oh, don't we often camouflage our own evil motives that way? Don't we often Easily see our own actions in the best light, even though they're as wicked as they can be. Doesn't our own self-centeredness distort our proper evaluation of ourselves? We so easily Easily deflect the blame from what we do to what others have first done to us. And soon we're justified in ignoring even the worst of sins committed blatantly by us. Because our focus has been rearranged. Flesh is always deceptive. Self-focus and self-love can fool even the smartest of people. Let's look at more of Judas' story. John John 13 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, that he should depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. And supper being ended, the devil having all Already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God, rose from supper and laid aside his garments, took a towel and After that he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. And then he came to Simon Peter, and Peter said to him, Lord, are you washing my feet? Jesus said. answered and said to him, What I'm doing you don't understand now, but you will. And Peter said to him, You will never wash my feet. Jesus answered, If I don't wash you, you have no part with me. Then Simon Peter said, Well wash all of me. And Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only his to wash his feet, but is completely clean, and you are clean, but not all of you. For he knew who would betray him, therefore he said, You are not all clean. There are a couple of things to notice here. First, no one knew the betrayer was Judas. Judas worked so hard at pretending to be a sheep that no one could tell that he was not a sheep. Sheep. They simply had no idea. All of the resentment he had, all of the bitterness that he felt, all of the hatred that he had, it was all hidden under a proper Christian facade. The second thing is that. That Judas had such a hard heart at this point that nothing could reach him. This amazing act of love done by the Creator of the universe, the one worthy of worship, this act had no effect whatsoever on this creature's soul. Judas was unable to be reached by any love or any kindness. The very sad thing is that this is not at all unusual. How many times do we see in Scripture just how hard-hearted we as humans can be? And oh how smart we think we are, and oh how justified we think our actions are. But they're nothing but sinful rebellion. Rebellion. We prove ourselves in that state to be just absolute and utter fools. Then going on in this text, in verse 12, So when he had washed their feet, taken his garments, and sat down again, he said to them, Do you know what I've done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. And then he goes on, verse 18: I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but that the scripture may be fulfilled, he who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me. Now I tell you that before it comes, that when it does come to pass, you may believe that I am He. Jesus does not want his true disciples to be taken by surprise here. And you think about the dynamics, and it would be easy for them to think the wrong thought. He doesn't want them to think that Christ's plan has been overcome by an unforeseen evil force set on stopping him from what he intended to do. No, Christ wanted his disciples to know that this is what had to happen. This is what had to happen. The evil thing had to happen. The result of this evil had to happen. All of it was a question. According to a plan, and the plan was going off without a hitch. Mark 14, 18 says, Now as they sat and ate, Jesus said, Assuredly I say to you, one of you who eats with me will betray me. And they began to be sorrowful and say to him, One by one, is it me? And another said, Is it me? He answered and said to them, It's one of the twelve who dips with me in the dish. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it was written of him. He states it clearly. I have to die. It has to happen. Just like it's written. But woe to the man by whom the Son of Man is portrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. Again, we see the responsibility of man and the sovereignty of God. Christ had to be betrayed. Someone had to do it. But the one who chooses to do it will face torment that he never counted on. It'll be so hideous that the person would have been better off to have never been born. Christ had to be betrayed, but Judas was not forced to betray him. It was because Judas freely chose to betray Christ that he would face the penalty for doing so. Verse 20, most assuredly I say to you that he who receives whomever I send receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit and testified and said, Most assured. Most assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me. Then the disciples looked at one another, perplexed about what he spoke, and there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples whom Jesus loved. It was John. Simon Peter, therefore, many of the people who were not. To him to ask who it was of whom he spoke. And then leaning back on Jesus' breast, he said to him, Lord, who is it? And Jesus answered, It's he who I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it. And having dipped the Bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. Now, after the piece of bread Satan entered him, then Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly. But no one at the table knew what reason he had said this to him. So this was a private conversation. conversation that he was having with John. For some thought, because Judas had the money box, that Jesus had said to him, Buy those things we need for the feast, or that he should give something to the poor. Having received the piece of bread, he then went out. Immediately and it was night. We simply must absorb how well many hypocrites will fit into the true family of believers. All of us have known People that we thought were true believers, but we find that they were actually wolves in sheep's clothing. We cannot be naive about this. We have been warned by Christ and by his duty. disciples and by the New Testament too many times. We have to remain alert. And we need to constantly build up each other and warn each other. The devil does not advertise his presence. He tries to cover it up with a good story and a good act. And he's very, very good at it. Only two people in this group knew what Jesus was capable what Judas was capable of. Jesus, I mean Judas Judas and Christ. Judas and Christ. And here's the rest of the story. And while he was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, with a great multitude with swords and clubs, came from the chief priests and elders of the people. Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying, Whomever I kiss, he is the one, seize him. Immediately he went up to Jesus and said, Greetings, Rabbi, and kissed him. But Jesus said to him, Friend, why have you come? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and took him away. At this point there's no longer any cover. Judas's pretension of love for Christ is seen for all that it is. It was self serving hatred For this man that he said that he loved. The fact that he betrays Christ with a kiss is simply a revelation of everything Judas has done up to this point. His pretension of love was just a cover for a display. Despising, seething, disappointment, and hatred. Now, what happens to Judas? He pulled off his plan. He gained his selfish advantage from what he had done, just like he planned. His plan went off perfectly. Without a hitch, he has his money, and he has seen Christ taken in by the Roman guard. He has seen all those other apostles, probably which he did not care for at all, scattered like birds on a road when a car comes by. Judas saw all the power that he had. He saw what this plan had accomplished. And how well did that sin satisfy him? Matthew 27, 3. Then Judas, his betrayer, seeing that Christ had been condemned, was Remorseful, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, saying, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. And they said, What's that to us? You see to it. Then he threw down the piece of silver. pieces of silver in the temple and departed and went and hanged himself. But the chief priest took the peat silver pieces and said, It's not lawful to put them into the treasury, because they are the price of blood. And they consulted together and brought with them the potter's Therefore that field has been called the field of blood that is dead. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the value of him who was priced. Christ, whom they of the children of Israel priced, and gave them for the potter's field as the Lord directed me. And Acts one hundred eighteen also adds on this Now this man purchased the field with the wages of iniquity, and falling headlong he burst open the field. in the middle and his and trails gushed out. That's talking about Judas. And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem so that the field is called in their own language Akeldama, that is field of blood. There's a whole month's worth of sermons in this content, in these two passages. The religious leaders could kill the Son of God with no consequence in their conscience at all, but they were too scrupulous to put blood money into their coffers. You think about that. Amazing. Amazing the blindness that these self-righteous hypocrites have about right and wrong and good and evil. But that's what you expect from fallen man. But that's not the point of this morning's focus. Is it possible that Judas did not think that Christ would be condemned? Is it possible that Judas was trying to force Christ's hand to take over Christ? over the Roman government's rule. Did he have a plan that when he saw that it failed, it dawned on him what he had done. And then his human sense of right and wrong kicked in to the point that he was in despair. I think that's very possible. We don't know. For sure, but it sure makes sense with his reaction, with how he responded. Whatever the case, we know that Judas did not have true faith. He was remorseful, distinctly remorseful. There can be no doubt of that, but he was never repentant. He never called upon God for forgiveness. He wanted the religious leaders to give him some sense of closure, but they pretty much said that's not their problem. Judas was never a child of God. He had never submitted his heart to Christ. He chose to follow him, but he never submitted his heart to him. And as a result, he never did what Peter did. He never truly repented of his sin. sin toward God and receive the forgiveness of God for that sin. So his human remorse, his human failure, his human disappointment in himself drove him to a point of insanity. It tortured him to the point that Taking his own life was better than living. He ended up like the pigs that he had seen dive off the cliffs rather than live with the demons inside of them. What a sad story. What a sad end. What a lie. Opportunity and what blatant pride and self-love. After having looked at this for a while, there's something that seems to me to be an unavoidable application. And it's about something that's alarmingly. common. Even those of us who call ourselves Christians, even in those who think that they would never betray Christ, because nobody really starts out thinking I would betray Christ if I had the opportunity. Well I can't say nobody, but it it'd be a rare thing. It narrows down to the question: what do you expect that God will do for you? What do you expect that God will do for you? That was the source of Judas' problem. He got that wrong. Judas expected that Christ would do something that Christ had no intentions of doing. And when Christ did not fulfill Judas' expectation, Judas felt the right to do the evil thing that he did. What do you expect from Christ? What do you expect from Christ? We're given a lot of promises about what Christ will do to a believer and in a believer and for a believer. But if what you expect is something that Christ has not promised to you, you're in a great deal of danger. Because when Christ does not fulfill your expectations, you will feel justified in your rebellion against him. Think back on your lives, those periods of your life when you rebelled against Christ. And a lot of times you can trace that back to some way to Christ did not meet up to your expectations. Something that he allowed in your life that you just thought he he could not. You did not expect that. What do you expect from Christ? Do you expect him to make your earthly existence happy? That's dangerous. His earthly experience was not happy. Why should yours be? It's not what he promises. Do you expect him to give you a spouse? say that will treat you the way you want to be treated. That's dangerous. Many people in Scripture had spouses that were less than supportive. That's not something he promises. Do you expect that you will be spared personally Tragedy. Really? Look at Christ's own mother. She watched him crucified at age thirty-three. We are not promised to be spared from losing loved ones. We are not promised from being spared any number of bad things that can happen to us. Our unbiblical, unrealistic expectations of God are hidden time bombs waiting to explode on our faith. They are dangerous. Judas proved his own utter lack of faith when Christ did not live up to his expectations. We are given as believers great and precious promises. Over and over we are given them. But we we must learn to be content with them. What God has in store for every believer is absolutely amazing, earth shattering, it's it's incredible. But for the most part, it's not here and now. We must trust him for it. Will we trust him for it? Will we be faithful in the here and now even? Though the here and now does not have much payoff in the here and now. Will we believe that Christ will make it worthwhile? Judas wouldn't. Judas had no faith. He had an unrealistic expectation. of Christ and that expectation drove him to the point of utter despair. Will you trust Christ? Will you face whatever it is you're facing in your life, trusting that obeying Christ in this situation is the best thing you can do. Trusting Christ will pay off in the end, even if it never seems to pay off in this life. Will we believe that? Had Judas had that kind of faith, he would not be the most despicable character in all of human history. Judas had lots of reasons for what he did. His story would probably be emotionally compelling, but it was simply incarnate evil. At the end of the story, Christ is worthy of a Our trust, our belief, our faith. Do we believe it? Will we trust him enough to obey him now? Let's close in prayer.