The more time I spend in this passage, the more it opens up. And there was much more here than I would have at first thought. The process is much like how we looked at the good eye. That Jesus had mentioned earlier. And we started, well at least I did, I started with a vague understanding, but the more we look at the text, the clearer it becomes. And that's always a good thing. Our text is so difficult because judging is referring to something that is both a good thing and a bad thing in Scripture. And the Greek words are very little help. The same word is referred to as good and bad, sometimes as commanded, sometimes as forbidden. So we're told not to judge, and we are told to judge And we've got to determine what good judging and bad judging both are. But there are far more clues to the meaning in the text than I would have first guessed, and we talked about that a little last week. Look at what we know from the text and what we have looked at already. On the surface, it looks like this might be saying that all judging is bad judging. But we know that not all judging is bad judging. Scripture commands us to judge. This means we've got to determine what kind of judging we should do. And what kind of judging we should not do. And Jesus here is focused on the should not. From the text, we have these clues. There is a kind of bad judging that we can avoid in order that we can avoid having the bad judging done to us. So it is avoidable. The bad judging is avoidable. The bad judging is not something we want done to us. While we may be tempted to do it to others, in fact, I can most assuredly say that we will be tempted to do it to others, we do not want it done to us. Every human will face the final judgment, so this verse can't mean that we'll avoid that kind of judging. Whichever judgment we use will be the same kind of judgment used on us, somehow, in some way, both good and bad So we should hope to receive the good kind. We should live to avoid the bad kind. And it appears to have degrees. measure. The more we use it, the more it is used on us. The bad kind of judging looks at things wrongly. In our text, it looks at the sins of others and ourselves wrongly. And in the 1 Corinthians text on the Lord's Supper, it looks at fellow believers wrongly. Hypocrisy is part of the wrong judging, where we use one standard to judge ourselves by and another to judge somebody else by. The bad judging requires pretending to be something that we are not. Through all of this, And those are all clues from the text. Through all of this, a very helpful question arises. How do you hope to be judged How do you hope to be judged? How is the way you want to be judged? These are the questions that give us clarity to what good and bad judging are. How do you hope to be judged? And in our text, it appears that Jesus is warning against an attitude of superiority. Where your sin is a big deal, but mine's not. Your sin needs dealt with, but mine doesn't Your sin is a verdict on your personhood, but mine isn't. In the 1 Corinthians text, it appears that people were judging some people as being more important than others More worthy of consideration than others. But in both instances, we see a scale of value placed on people In our text, the judger thinks he is superior to the judge. In the 1 Corinthians text, the people arriving early to the Lord's Supper viewed themselves as more important. than those who would come along later. We see an arbitrary scale of value placed on fellow believers. I believe this leads us directly to the answer to the question we're asking. And we will find it in the answer to this question, where does a Christian receive his value? Where does a Christian receive his value? When we answer this question, I think we'll find the difference between proper and improper judging And we'll be able to use it in any situation. Where does a Christian receive his value? And the answer is so simple. You and I receive our value in the gospel. You and I receive our value at the cross You and I did not attain our value. We did not merit our value. We did not earn our value. We did not even have an innate value that God responded to us Because we're so favorable, God just had to. You know, there's nothing like that. God was not enamored with our virtues so much that He died for us. He was not inspired by the wonderfulness that is us. That is not how Scripture paints the picture. Now we begin, or we began as enemies of God. Very few people have less value to you than your enemies. The departure of an enemy does you far more good than their existence. No, our value was granted to us on the day that Christ died for us, coupled with the day that Christ brought us to himself. 1 Corinthians 6. 20 says this, for you were bought with a price. You were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. 1 Corinthians 7. 23 says, you were bought with a price. Do not become bondservants of men. Acts 20, 28 says, Therefore take heed to yourself unto all the flock, among which the whole made you overseers , for the church of God which he purchased. with his blood. Ephesians 1 13 and 14, in him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of his glory. So are you seeing what I'm talking about? I do not know what intrinsic value human beings have. We were made in the image of God, so that is something. And God commands that we treat fellow human beings differently than all the animals. He commands that we treat them well, whether they love him or hate him. We are fearfully and wonderfully made, if we're told. So there must be some innate value. But it is hard to tell in Scripture where that begins and where that ends. But we can know for sure that we were not saved by God because of anything good about us. The Old Testament example that makes this clear is when God told Hosea to marry a woman. who had either already or was sure to in the future commit parlatry. After she committed adultery, Hosea placed a value on her by the price that he paid to get her back. Now anyone looking on would have called him a fool. He placed value where there was none, evidently And that's the picture that God intended for us to get. This story is to help us to understand that this is the kind of God we have. He pays an astronomical price for people like us, people who have already proven that we are not worth the price that he pays. Now, it's important for us to get this. What is the worth of every single born-again Christian? What is the worth of every follower of Christ? We are worth the life of Christ. Why? Because we're innately that wonderful? No, we are worth the life of Christ because that is the price he ascribed to us. He, like Hosea, said, I will ascribe and pay this price to buy my bride back. He ascribed to us a value we could never and will never be able to deserve. And it's because of that event that all believers now see all of life through the eyes of the gospel. Because it's the gospel that ascribed to us our value. I did not or could not earn it. You did not or could not earn it. And so, what is this lens of the gospel? How is it that we see life through the event of the gospel? Well, first, it certainly is not to skirt over sin. Like so many quoters of Jesus' words, uh Seem to think it is. That is definitely not the case. The gospel, in fact, lays out sin in its stark reality. And praise God that it does If we did not know we had this moral cancer, we would never be driven to the bloodbought cure of the cancer. No, the gospel lens lays out that we were all equally enemies of God. God saved no friends. We all equally deserved his condemnation for the sin state we were in and for the sins that we committed, and that is all part of the gospel lens. Then God initiated a change. He made blind people see. He made dead people live. He woke us up to the reality of God. Romans 8 says, In whom he foreknew, he also predestined to conform to the image of his son that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called, whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. We see that this salvation is all about what God has decided to do and is doing. The gospel lens sees all of salvation as being about the glory of God. It sees all of our efforts, all of our successes, all of our failures in light of this bigger picture. It recognizes that every believer is saved by the same grace and due to the same love. The ground truly is level at the foot of the cross. We are all equally indebted to our Savior. The price he paid for each of us was exactly the same. This gospel lens leads to a kind of judging that is vastly different than every other worldly method. In fact, it can look insane to the world. We might look at times like we're doing things for which there appears to be no selfish interest. And why would anyone do such a thing? This gospel lens will cause such a thing. The gospel looks at every other believer as being just like we are. We see ourselves through the gospel. We see each other through the gospel. We judge ourselves by the gospel. We judge each other through the gospel. In our 1 Corinthians text, where people were guilty of wrongly discerning, judging the body of Christ, fellow believers, this was true because they had forgotten the gospel. They had forgotten that Christ values them all the same. There is no room for entitlement. There is no room for lack of love and consideration. Why? Because Christ has placed a value on them all. Christ loves them equally. And if we love him, we will love them. That's the gospel lens. Then let's apply this to our text in Matthew 7. The gospel lens is not going to cause a person to be hypocritical. There are lots of things that will, but the gospel never will cause a person to be hypocritical. One cannot understand and believe the gospel without being humble. There is nothing pride-inducing in the gospel. Everything that had to be done was done by somebody else. There is not a single Christian who has a single self-induced virtue about them that caused God to choose them. The very definition of the word grace precludes that. So, through the gospel lens, we judge ourselves. When we see sin in ourselves, the gospel compels us to call it what it is, confess it, and ask forgiveness for it. That's how the gospel sees things. When we see sin in others, the gospel compels us to be both humble and loving. We want to help. We want to be of any service to a fellow believer. But it's not because we're in any way better. The same exact price was ascribed by our Savior to each of us So there's no need to establish any kind or maintain any kind of superiority, like I can come to you because I'm better than you. In fact, it's fiction to think that any of us are higher up the food chain than any other. In the Christian life, there is no food chain. We may not be equally obedient, we may not be equally peaceful, but we have all been assigned the same value, and we were all saved from the same state of sin by the same grace. The hypocrisy of the helper in our text is what gives it all away, I think. Why in the world would one feel the need to play act when you believe the gospel? The only way that could happen is if you stray from the gospel. I don't need to prove to you I am less of a sinner than you are. To help you. Nor do you have to do that for me. That's stupid. It's evil. It required Christ's blood to save me. It required Christ's blood to save you. This is one more sin. When we're dealing with those things. Why in the world would I want to throw myself into this story as if there is something special about me? As if there is something superior about me. The gospel isn't built around me, it's built around Christ. Now flesh, flesh tempts us to elevate self all day long That's our default position. We want to make ourselves look better than someone else. We want to compare ourselves to someone else so we feel better about ourselves. That's stuff that's running in the background. We can expect it. So it's understandable, but it's foolish and it's evil. Do you see where it says hypocrite? First remove the plank from your own eye, and then you'll see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Do you see how removing the plank gives clarity of vision? I believe the plank that this man has and is exhibiting is not just a bigger sin Than the splinter. I mean, obviously, a moat is a bigger thing than a splinter is. I believe it's a damning way of seeing things. It is departing from the gospel and replacing it with a fleshly lens, a lens other than the gospel, a lens other than grace. The plank is a non-gospel lens. And Jesus is saying, before you'll be of any use at all in the kingdom, that sinful way of looking at things has got to go. If you were saved by the gospel, you got to live by the gospel. You've got to minister the gospel. If you were saved by grace, you've got to minister by grace. If God loved you and gave himself freely to meet your need, you must love others and give freely of yourself to meet their need If you never merited your salvation, there is no need to pretend that you're worthy of it now. And if you never earned your salvation, there is no need to start acting like another person can and should You see what I mean? When Jesus says, do not judge, he's basically saying, I believe, never view anyone apart from the gospel. Judge yourself by the gospel, judge your brother by the gospel. Then look at this. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you This is to me the hardest part of this whole passage to understand. I don't understand exactly how it works. I believe that it does, but I am not exactly sure what that looks like. What lens does God judge us through? Is it not the gospel? Does he not see that as the process that he used to adopt us and make us his children? Does he not regard us differently than our fellow worldlings because of the gospel? Does he not free us from condemnation because of the gospel? Does he not see us exactly as we are, just as we see ourselves through the gospel? So when we judge ourselves through the gospel, we're using the same standard that God uses to judge And that's a good thing. We know that's a good thing. And if we fail to judge ourselves properly, if we hang on to a sin, God will judge us according to the gospel. He will treat us as a child he is about to spank instead of an enemy that he is about to annihilate. Praise God. But the spanking will be real. We might all know a little bit about the fact. He will teach us a lesson if he must. He will show us what it's like to be judged wrongly. Remember what he did to our Corinthian brothers. They were sick and dying. If they were going to use non-gospel judging on their brothers, God was going to withhold his gracious fellowship on their lives as well, and there would be negative negative consequences. They were going to pay for this way of living, this way of judging. So in some way that was happening, what Jesus is saying here, that they were getting a taste of their own medicine. When we live by the world, we avoid those disciplines. Or when we live by the gospel, I'm sorry. When we live by the gospel, we avoid those disciplines. When we live by the gospel, we receive the grace that we also extend. When we extend grace to others, God does not need to discipline us like He did in 1 Corinthians. Sometimes He needs to correct us, sometimes we need teaching. Now, think about how the world judges. Think about how the world assigns value. Think about maybe your life before you knew Christ even. How you evaluated the people around you, how you saw them, how you thought of them. Look at how even our flesh assigns value on a bad day when us comes out. That is the wrong judging. That's what we're not supposed to do. Fleshly judging says You are more valuable if you are pretty, if you are smart, if you are talented, if you are rich. If you are personable, if you are skilled, if you are useful, or if you have any greater personal benefit to me in any way, you're valuable. We ascribe an arbitrary scale and then we respond accordingly. Some people are more important than other people when we see life that way. Look what Paul said in 2 Corinthians 10, 12. He said, For we dare not class ourselves or compare ourselves with those who commend themselves. But they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. You see the point? They're striving for superiority, for importance. And this is not something the gospel would ever cause. They were judging with human standards, comparing one human to another as if there is something good to be gained by that. That is totally non-gospel judging. Jesus was continually dealing with this fleshly impulse in his disciples. It had to be frustrating for him. Matthew 18, 1 through 5, at that time the disciples came to Jesus saying, Who then is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? As soon as the question's out of their mouth, they were always looking for the top spot and trying to prove that they deserve the top spot. Because they were superior to the others. Then Jesus called the little child to him, set him in the midst of them, and said, Assuredly I say to you, unless you are converted, They needed converted and become his little children, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Therefore, whoever humbles himself as his little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one little child like this in my name receives me. Christ intentionally chose Someone who had no status and would assume they had no status. In his illustration. The child was probably the person in the audience who least thought he deserved a place in leadership. And that exemplifies what seeing life through a gospel lens will produce. Here's an example. Matthew 23, 9 through 13. Do not call anyone on earth your father, for one is your father, he who is in heaven. And do not be called teachers, for one is your teacher, the Christ. But he who is greatest among you shall be your servant, and whoever exalts himself will be humbled. I think that's the principle that we're talking about. He who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. He who does good judging Will be exalted. He who does bad judging will be humbled. This is what the gospel thinking will produce. It's a logical byproduct of the gospel. It isn't some great act of proudly working hard to be humble. You know, it's not like man, I gotta be humble. I'm gonna try real hard to be No, it's just opening your eyes. See in the mirror As it really is, and seeing through the reality of the gospel. And if you exalt yourself with the wrong kind of judging, that same standard will be used against you to humble you Just like Jesus says, he who exalts himself makes himself superior, he will be humbled. And next comes the great contrast. The masters of the wrong kind of judging, the experts at it, the poster children for bad judging. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for you neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. The Pharisees see it all wrongly. And as a result of their way of seeing, they are never able to help someone remove their spleen. Their beam and their eye is deadly. Let's look at another example. We won't read the whole text, but it's found in John 8. We find a woman caught in adultery Now, very clearly, these men viewed themselves as being superior to this woman. They viewed themselves as being much more worth saving than this adulterous woman that they got pegged They judged her as worthy of condemnation, but they were hypocrites. They had a beam in their eye, and this woman had a splinter in hers in comparison. Now, naturally, that's not how they saw it. But that's how they were. So Jesus writes something in the dust. And almost certainly what he wrote exposed their hypocritical thinking, their hypocritical living. It showed them their improper judging somehow. It showed them the beam in their eye. And I think it was listing details of their sins that would have shown that he knew what was going on. He knew what they were doing in their real lives, but that's all a guess. Anyway, he knew their hypocrisy. And Jesus said this, John 8 7. So when they continued asking him, he raised himself up and said to them, He who is without the sin among you, let him throw a stone at her first. That's another way of saying, watch out, or you're going to be judged by the same standard that you are judging. It's a great example of it. The point he was making was not that one should never tell a person their behavior was evil. The point in the story is never to make adultery perfectly acceptable and beyond any reproach or rebuke. Something we cannot judge as evil, nor should we ever address it. That is not the point in the story. But these Pharisees saw themselves as superior, thinking they did not deserve condemnation, but she did. And it's interesting that the oldest and wisest saw the point the quickest. I always thought that was funny. They saw that they need to give up this witch hunt right now because they were proving themselves to be co-witches. They could not maintain a rational argument in this fight without convicting themselves. They could not press their case without being convicted themselves. So they left. And Jesus said to the woman, Never let anyone tell you what is right and wrong for you. They don't have the right to tell you what is right or wrong for you. You have your own truth. That is right for you and you need to go buy it. Obviously. Obviously, that is not what he said But that's what our wacky world thinks, and that's what they're trying to wrench out of Jesus' words, how disappointing it must be for them. He said, Neither do I condemn you, go and sin no more. Jesus judges her sin in the sense of discerning it, calling it what it is. He calls what she's doing sin. It's not okay, and she needs to change. He does not say, well, you're fine as you are. No. She could not keep doing what she was doing. Adultery was a sin. There is no other truth than the Word of God. And when we speak the Word of God, we are speaking the truth. That is not a problem. The truth judges between right and wrong, and that's a necessity. We depend on that. Jesus, though, was withholding condemnation. He was not withholding judging, but he was withholding a condemnation. He was withholding his final judgment and giving this woman a chance to get her sins forgiven. He withheld condemnation so she could experience grace. She was getting a second chance. Now we don't know if she cashed in on it or if she continued to sin. But Jesus gave her a chance to respond to the gospel. Now it's revealing to see what he says in chapter 8, verses 14 and 16 as it goes on. Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I bear witness of myself, my witness is true. For I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from and where I am going. You judge according to the flesh. And yet if I do judge, my judge is true, for I am not alone, but I am with the Father who sent me. You see the problem with the Pharisees judging? You judge according to the flesh. You use the wrong authority and you use the wrong standard. You see it through the lens of flesh. You won't see it through the lens of the gospel. That's your big problem, Mr. Pharisee. You got the technical sin verdict, correct? And you wanted to pronounce her condemnation right then and there, but you would not apply that same standard to yourself. You wanted to see this woman's sin is damnable, but you wanted to see yours all differently. You didn't want to compare the same standard to you because after all your flaw is tiny compared to this woman. Had you seen this woman through the eyes of the gospel, you would have said, I understand. I understand what she's doing. 'Cause I I do stuff just like it. Maybe my sin Maybe it's not as notorious. Maybe it won't do as much situational damage. But it's the same stuff. It's equally damnable. It is equally evil. So the gospel then says Please let me help you. Please stop doing what you're doing. You're harming yourself, you're dishonoring Christ. If you saw what you were doing clearly From the light of eternity, you would not want to be doing this. And how do I know? Because I'm right there with you. I'm saved by the same kind and volume of grace. That you need to be saved by. That's judging through the lens of the gospel. That's the right kind of judging. That's the judging we are called to do. Next week we're going to look at Galatians 2. And your assignment is to read it this week in light of Matthew 7. Read Galatians 2. In light of Matthew 7, and I think you will see the same thing that I have seen and we'll be reading out next week. Let's close in prayer