Have you ever tried to get the details of something that happened from several different people? Maybe it was something that happened among your kids if you have kids. That's always interesting. There are some people that take a week's preparation to get to their point. They circle the airport so many times you wonder if it's ever going to land. And then there are others who reduce the story to a sentence, and you don't need to waste any time with details that don't relate. Well, Mark wrote like the second kind of person. His gospel is the shortest, and it's very short on details. Given that Christ's death on the cross is so very important, we don't want to skimp on the details this morning. We've been trying to look at this story with a view to what all the gospel writers say, but sticking mostly Most closely tomorrow. This morning we're going to look at the seven things that Jesus said on the cross. And again, we need to set the scene. Jesus is as stressed as a human being can be, physically, spiritually, socially, and emotionally. It's possible that there have been humans who have been more stressed in one area or the other than Christ, but no one has ever had had such a full onslaught as Christ is experiencing Spiritually, he took upon himself the weight of our sin. He had never experienced guilt before. He had none of the defenses for handling it like we do. And now all at once he has the weight of the sin of all believers for all time upon him. Emotionally, he has experienced separation from his father for the first time ever. Christ held tight communion with his father continually, and now his father has turned his head. Socially, Christ had all his followers flee him. He knew that Peter denied him with great vehemence. There was no human being who could console him. Their help was very little help. And physically, Christ is just barely hanging on. This strong carpenter who was accustomed to carrying around timber and who spent much of his life walking, Is now so weak that even the Roman guards can see that it's impossible for Christ to even lift the 40-pound beam that needs to be carried to his crucifixion spot. His blood loss and scourgings and beatings had left him barely making it. And then he was hung on the cross. We can't imagine anyone in a more stressed condition. This is the situation that Christ is in as we look at his few last quotes. So we'll begin with the first. Luke 23, 34, then Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. And they divided his garments and cast locks. Now, we need to be very careful what we do with this quote. If this is all that Scripture had to say about forgiveness, we would get a very wrong idea of forgiveness. Do you see anywhere in Scripture where God grants saving forgiveness, where he grants true absolution of all sin? to a person who doesn't ask for it and probably isn't even aware of their sinful condition. I know of nothing of that sort being promised in Scripture. Okay then, was Christ saving the souls of those who are crucifying him? We don't see any evidence of that at all. Well then, what does it mean? What kind of forgiveness is Christ appealing for here? It meant something. Well, as always, we need to look at the context. The Roman guards at this point were in the process of dividing Christ's garments. Now think about this. What were these Roman guards who had put Christ on the cross really guilty of? These guys were just showing up for work and doing another day's work. In many cases, when they did their work, they were probably carrying out justice that's appropriate for civil governments to carry out They do yield the sword, and they they yield it to use it, to to you know, cut off crime and and wickedness. So normally, when these soldiers obeyed their commands, they may have been doing some good, and they would have a real difficult time in knowing whether they were or whether they weren't. And we can't know if these were some of the same men that were mocking and beating Christ either. Maybe they didn't play a part in that. I believe that what Jesus is asking for here is that the Father would not hold these Roman soldiers guilty for this one particular sin. They were not the ones guilty of putting Christ on the cross, as far as, you know, who inspired it, who saw through uh that it got it got done, even though they were the pawns used to carry out the task. We've already looked at the guilty parties Pilate, Herod, the Jewish leadership, and the Jewish crowd have already been seen as the ones guilty of Christ's conviction. In fact, several of them took it on themselves. They admitted it. They said, let the guilt for this be on us. And they did know better. They did, they did know what they were doing. They knew of nothing else that Christ was not guilty of a crime worthy of death under the Roman legal system. So they did know what they were doing. In fact The truth is, you and I who believe in Christ have more of a part in Christ's death than any of those Roman soldiers did. Who would never come to a saving knowledge of Christ. It was our sin after all that put him on the cross. And if they never came to Christ, it wasn't it wasn't them. If if we're in Christ, our guilt put him there He had to die for our sin if he was to save us. So it could not be said of the four parties, you know, the the religious leaders and and uh the other who were responsible for putting Christ on the cross. that you could say they did not know what they did. They did know what they did. But it could be said of these Roman soldiers that they did not understand the miscarriage of justice that was happening at their hands. I think the prayer is very specific for a very specific act. I don't believe these Roman guards all came to a saving faith at this point. We don't see any evidence of that They were not all atoned for at this point. They were simply not going to be held guilty for this specific sin on this specific day because they were ignorant of what they were doing. With that, we can't get the idea that Christ was a person who was so sympathetic to the human condition that he would hand out forgiveness willy-nilly whenever he felt sad for somebody. And we can't get the idea that we're being like him when we want to do such a thing, or that that is the Christian way of living. Forgiveness is the most expensive thing in the universe. The penalty for sin must always justly be paid. It cannot and will not be overlooked under the absolute justice of a just God. Justice is an attribute of God. God is just. We cannot think that God grants blanket forgiveness to anyone who has not come to an awareness of their sinfulness. and has not asked God to forgive them. The wording may not always be perfect or clear that people use to describe it. Their theology may not be very well developed. Maybe they only know a piece of it that they initially respond to, and they have to come to the realization of other parts of it as they go. But even the thief on the cross had to confess his unworthiness and appeal to Christ's grace in order to receive his forgiveness. Forgiveness never came to the mocking thief on the cross, but it did come to the one who asked for salvation. We Christians are in the business of forgiveness. We had better understand what it means and how God forgives and how we should represent His forgiveness. So, Christ on the cross was looking out for the good of the Roman soldiers that were crucifying him. Just imagine that. He did not want his father to hold this particular sin against them. They may still go to hell under the weight of the sins that they've already committed and under the weight of the sinners that they were. But this particular sin should not be in that list. I believe that's what he's talking about when he prays that prayer. Then Luke 23, 43, the next thing he says, and we dealt with this some last week, and Jesus said to him, Assuredly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Jesus was doing evangelism on the cross, even as he was doing the most evangelistic activity that's ever been done. Even in the shape he was in, he was doing this. And that is absolutely amazing. He cared about this man being crucified next to him, even though this man, as we explored last week, had never done a single thing for Christ and never would. Christ is our perfect example here. Oh, that we would care for those around us, even in our extreme distress, the way that Christ did. Then John 19, 26 through 27 is our third reference. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. And then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour that disciple took her to his home. Now, Christ did this. Wasn't it Christ who said this in Luke 14, 26 and 27? Christ said, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. And whoever does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. We look at that and it should, if we haven't considered that, it should give us pause to wonder. How can both of these things be true? How are they congruent? Well, we always do our best to interpret the Bible by the Bible, not our experience or any bright ideas that we might have. We don't go into what, we're not going to go into what these verses that Christ said do mean, but we can very clearly see what they do not mean. Here is the Son of God carrying out the most cosmically important tasks of all human history. He only says a few sentences on the cross. He says seven things. But one seventh of his conversation had to do with taking care of his mom. I kind of hope all my kids listen to this sermon. Yeah, I see all the mothers smiling. Christ Christ 's widowed mom was probably fifty years old. She had other children to take care of her. We don't know why Christ didn't choose them for the task, but he didn't. Maybe he knew that John would share the proper priorities. John had it straight. He understood Christ's mission. His brothers and sisters at this point probably did not. They didn't come about the proper understanding until later, from what we see. But ponder this. Christ held taking care of his mother as a high priority. Even even high while he hung on the cross. It's not like he wasn't, he didn't have important things to do that day. If that's true, how important should taking our fam care of our families be to us? 1 Timothy 5. 8 says that the man who does not care take care of his family is worse than an infidel. And the word for infidel means those who reject Christ. So it's pretty bad to take the name of Christ and then act in a way that's worse than those who reject him. And that's what happens when a man doesn't take care of his family. That's the point. The application here is pretty simple. We need to take care of our families. Whatever responsibility we have, we need to carry out. Even when you yourself are in distress , sometimes probably caused by your family. That is what we need to do, and that's our example to follow. I was always impressed by what Mike did after Russell died. He didn't want Mary to be alone, so he arranged for somebody to always be there, kind of whether she wanted it or not. And uh I watched and thought, that's how it's done. You know It was good. Here's the third thing that Christ said. Matthew 27, 46. And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, And this this is what the little Greek guy says on the computer program, Brad, so you might want to take notes here. Eli, elie, le ma Sabhaksani. That's it. I practiced that a long time. Eli Eli Lama Sabhaksani So that's what he said. About the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying that, that is, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We assume that Christ is giving voice to his great agony of separation from his father here. And it's true But as we heard this morning in a couple of times, which is is very good, it came from Scripture, Psalms 22. 1, that uh The Tom read, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my groaning? Jesus was quoting Scripture when describing what he was describing. It's interesting that much of what Christ said in his ministry was actually stated in the Old Testament. The more you read the Old Testament, the more you see that. That it just reflects a lot of the things that Christ said in his ministry. He was talking Old Testament by being the representative of the New Testament. Basically, Christ thought Scripture. There's a quote from Spurgeon I'd like to read. He says I would quote Bunyan, John Bunyan, as an instance of what I mean. Read anything of his, and you will see that it's almost like reading the Bible itself. He read the Bible till his very soul was saturated with Scripture. And though his writings are charmingly full of poetry, yet he cannot give us pilgrim's progress That sweetest of all prose poems, without continually making us feel and say, why this man is a living Bible. Prick him anywhere. His blood is Bibline. The very essence of the Bible flows from him. He cannot speak without quoting a text. For his very soul is full of the Word of God. I commend his example to you, beloved, and still more the example of our Lord Jesus If the Spirit of God is in you, he will make you love the Word of God. And if any of you imagine that the Spirit of God will lead you to dispense with the Bible, you are under the influence of another spirit, which is not uh the spirit of God at all. I trust that the Holy Spirit will endear to you every page of this divine record, so that you will feed upon it and afterwards speak it out to others. I think it's well worthy of your constant remembrance that even in death our blessed Master showed the ruling passion of his Spirit, so that his last words were a quotation from Scripture. I speak a lot. So do many of you. But how fluidly do words of Scripture come out in our speech? I sometimes talk to people about their souls. So do many of you. But what do we say? Our ideas, our understanding. I think Tom's message from months ago would be pretty good to apply here. We fill our minds with all kinds of nonsense Why not use our time better? Why not hard code scripture into our thinking? Yeah, I guess it's a discipline to memorize scripture. But really, what are we doing that's better or more important than that? We know that it can't come out of us if it doesn't go into us Now, let's look at what else Christ said, or what he said here. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The word for forsaken means to leave behind, to desert. I think of the time when Carla and I drove home from Brad and Diane's house thinking that our parents had already taken our children. And when we got home we found out that we were guilty of abandoning them. Fortunately they were among friends and were no worse for the wear, nor did they know or care that they had been left, but nonetheless they were deserted. Have you ever been truly deserted? Have you ever been truly deserted? Have you ever had someone you absolutely trusted and depended upon depart from you? Maybe when you depended upon them most. It reminds me of the 70s song I I heard recently. It's You Left Me Just When I Needed You Most. How did you feel when that happened? If that has happened to you Well, here's Christ. He took on this project to come to the planet, to Earth, to save its inhabitants in conjunction with his father's plan. Here is Christ in his greatest agony, and his agony is compounded because in Christ's condition, God found Christ repugnant. Christ had taken upon himself all of our sin that God so hates, and he didn't like it any better because it was on Christ. Can you imagine the agony of that? Take any abandonment that you have ever felt. And multiply it. No wonder Christ cried out. There's nothing worse than the abandonment of God the Father. It's unfortunate that so much of our world doesn't even mind being abandoned by God. In fact, they seem to prefer it. They want no relationship with Him. They do not want His inclusion in their lives. Think about this. Christ experienced this separation, so we would never need to experience it again We were born separated from God. But now as Christians, if we are Christians, we do not have to spend a single moment separated from God. With what Christ did for us, how do we regard the things that cause distance with God so lightly? Two things come to my mind, others may come to yours. Why would we ever choose sin when we know that it will distance us from God? Christ paid so much. So that such a thing never needs to happen. But we choose it willingly sometimes. Why would we do such a thing And the obvious answer is because we want to. But how foolish a decision, and how thoughtless, and how careless, and how inconsiderate To the one who died to see, the one who was separated from God, so we don't have to be. The other application I think is prayer, at least for me. Why do we pray so little when Christ paid so much for the privilege? I think that's worthy of some serious consideration this week. It's our duty to pray, but oh what a privilege it is to pray. It's kind of like evangelism. It's our duty to do it, but what a tremendous privilege it is and how much was spent for that privilege to be ours. It would be like buying the most expensive thing that you can and giving it to somebody and they they put it in the garage Alright, let's move on to the next quote from Christ. We'll actually include two in this verse to show them in their context. John 19, 28 through 30 After this Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a hyssop, and put it to his mouth. So then Jesus had received the sour wine. He said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. So the next thing that Christ said is, I thirst. The following is a quote from somewhere, I don't know where. The fulfillment of the scripture may well be from Psalm 6921, where it's written that They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. And that's a fulfillment of Psalm 6921. And then it goes on, because they then took a jar full of sour wine and stood there, so they put a sponge full of sour wine on his branch and held it to his mouth. So Christ appears to have said what he said in a direct effort to fulfill Scripture. That seems to be the only function that it served. He says, I thirst, they hand him this stuff. He doesn't take it, they take it back. I don't know how much there is to glean from that, but it was evidently a detail that had to be covered. Maybe there's more. If you find it, let me know. And then next is the sixth thing that Christ said. In John 19, 30. It says, So when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. Do you remember back when uh Christ what Christ said when his mother chided Christ after they had left Christ in Jerusalem, talking about being abandoned? And uh then they returned back there to find it. And they said, Why have you done this to us? It's kind of odd how we always take those things personally. And this was Christ's response, Luke 2. 49. And he said to them, Why did you seek me? Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? I must be about my father's business. Those were the first recorded words of Christ. It is finished are very nearly the last words of Christ. And they fit together perfectly. Christ had to be about his father's business until his father's business was finished For Christ. The work for finished was accomplished. Christ accomplished what he had set out to do. The endless lamb sacrifices were finished. The need for the priest to represent man to God and the prophet to represent God to man was done. The separating curtain to keep man from God was about to be ripped from top to bottom The character of God had not changed, but the way that man interacted with God had changed. The old way was finished. Now it's only Jesus Christ who is the way, the truth, and the life. Now it's salvation by grace alone, by faith alone, according to Scripture alone. No more blood of lambs. Christ was the Lamb of God. He had taken upon Himself the sin of everyone he would ever save, and He was about to die in their place. He had fulfilled every prophecy. Now it's simply a matter of dying. How wonderful those words should be to us. Christ finished everything that we needed for our salvation. Now we can come to him simply trusting that his death in our place for our sin is enough. It is accomplished, it is finished. God is satisfied with what Christ has finished. With what Christ has accomplished. And next is the last quote of Christ from the cross. Luke 23, 46. And when Jesus had cried out with a loud voice, he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Having said that, he breathed his last. Did you know that this too is a quote from the Old Testament? How perfectly God had prepared his true people for the Messiah. He told them he was coming, he told them what he was going to say. There were plenty of people who were not ready because this kind of Messiah was not something they were really interested in. Well, not that they couldn't have known it was Christ, they had every evidence. But they even if they knew that it was the Son of God, they didn't like it Psalms 31, 5 says, Into your hand I commit you my spirit. You have redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. What we see in Christ this morning is that which we should emulate. We should copy Christ's example here. Christ knew the misery he was going to face We often don't. But the example is the same. Let me quote a bit more from our fellow Baptist Spurgeon. He says, let us cheerfully entrust our souls to God and feel that they are quite safe in his hands. Our spirit is the noblest part of our being. Our body is only the husk. Our spirit is the living kernel. So let us put it into God's keeping Some of you have not done that yet, so I invite you to do it now. It is the act of faith which saves the soul. That act which a man performs when he says, I trust myself to God as he reveals himself in Christ Jesus. I cannot keep myself, but he can keep me. And by the precious blood of Christ he can cleanse me. So I just take my spirit and give it over into the great Father's hands. You never really live till you do that. All that comes before that act. All that comes before that act of full surrender is death. But when you have once trusted Christ, then you have truly begun to live. And every day, as long as you live, take care that you repeat this process and cheerfully leave yourselves in God's hands. Without any reserve. That is to say, give yourself up to God, your body, to be healthy or to be sick, to be long-lived or to be suddenly cut off. Your soul and spirit. Give them also up to God, to be made happy or to be made sad, just as he pleases. Give your whole self up to him and say to him, My Father, make me rich or make me poor, give my sight or take make me blind. Let me have all my senses or take them away. Make me famous or lead me to be obscure. I give myself up to you. Into your hands I commit my spirit. I will no longer exercise my own choice, but you shall choose my inheritance for me. My times are in your hands. Now dear children of God, are you always doing this? Have you ever done it I'm afraid that there are some, even among Christ's professing followers, who kick against God's will, and even when they say to God, Your will be done, they spoil it by adding in their own mind, and my will too. They pray, Lord, make my will your will, instead of saying, make your will my will. Let each one of us pray this prayer every day. Into your hands I commit my spirit Spurgeon goes on to say, I like it family prayer to put myself and all that I have into God's hands in the morning. And then at night to just look between his hands and see how safe I have been. And then say to him, Lord, shut me up again tonight. Take care of me all through the night watches. Into your hands I commit my spirit. What Spurgeon describes here is the divine trust for which we are all created. We rob ourselves of all kinds of things when we will not give it. We think we're being smart, but we're just being dumb. We're stupid not to obey and trust the God, who has shown us over and over that He and only He is worthy of absolute trust. He has told us that he and only he will never leave us or forsake us. He and only he knows our needs even before we ask. He promises to meet our needs. No matter how foolishly we might wrongly ask for things, he will meet our needs His love is never ending. This morning we have a wonderful example of someone who believed Christ. He's one of the best examples in Scripture of people who lived a godly life How do we know? Well we know by what came out of him when he was squeezed to death. This guy was a deacon. Now a deacon was a position of leadership, but it was servant leadership. He was a table waiter. He wasn't a Peter. He wasn't a Paul. He was someone with a ministry that anybody could do. But look at this man and understand that this is what we can be. This is what we can do. Acts 7, 59 through 60. And they stoned Stephen as he was calling on God and saying, Lord Jesus. Receive my spirit. Then he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. And when he had said this, he fell asleep Do you get this? Do you understand it? Stephen caught the disease of Christ-likeness. Stephen had stones thrown at him. He knew he had done nothing wrong to deserve this particular penalty. Oh sure, Stephen knew he was a sinner deserving death from God's hand. But he had done nothing to be stoned by the Jewish leadership. And look at what oozed out of him. Christ oozed out of him. He called upon Christ to do what Christ had called upon his father to do. At his death, he asked Christ to receive his spirit. Which we know that Christ was certain to do. He does that to everyone who calls upon him by faith. When we as believers call out to God to save us, When we call out to him to take our salvation to completion, Christ is certain to do that. He's the author. And he's the finisher of our faith, according to Hebrews 12. 2. He will finish what he started always. Then Stephen called out to God to not hold this particular sin to the people who are committing it. I don't know if God answered this prayer or not. But it's notable that Stephen emulated the Lord even in this He was not even holding a grudge against those who were killing him because he assumed that they were doing it in ignorance, I guess. Wow. What an example to follow here. Stephen had caught the disease of Christ. He understood it. He lived the life of grace. He emulated Christ even in his unjust murder. Oh, that we could learn to trust Christ with our lives. That's really the essence of the last thing that Christ said: trust. Yes, simple trust. That's the core component of the Christian life. To trust God. With our lives. That's the apex of Christian living. It isn't fancy. It isn't complicated. It's the most childlike of virtues. But it's crucial and it's full of faith. Do you trust your life with Christ? As it is right now, in your life as it sits, are you trusting your life with Christ? Can you say from the depth of your heart, Jesus, into my hands I commit my spirit? Let's close by singing number 373