Disciples are coming from. Peter, James, and John had just come down from the mountain where they had seen Christ transfigured into his glorified state. He was talking to Elijah and Moses, and Peter suggested that they uh they set up shop on that real estate. Let's all build houses and start an organization. And God speaks and verifies who Christ is and gives a possible rebuke that they should listen to him, is what God said. Listen to him. It came out of the cloud. Then they came down off the mountain to find the disciples failing in their attempt to do an exorcism. And all of those things are running through the disciples' minds. They're taking this all in as they go. They're trying to process it. They're going about their work. And none of these guys have been glowing examples of success. But had we been there, and had we been excluded, you know, in the disciples' group that didn't go up the hill, had we been excluded from going up on the mountain with Jesus, how do you think we might have felt Well, how do we feel when we're not included in an event or when people forget to invite us or when we're excluded from some sort of attention or promotion? We don't have to think long before we can find something similar in our own lives that we can compare it to. And then what do we do with those feelings? Well, if we follow our intuitions and impressions, we're soon on the road that says, I deserve better than this. I should have been in that group that went up the mountain. Who do they think they are overlooked overlooking grand and glorious me? I mean, we'd never say it that way, but that's often what we think. Well, that's the scene of our story this morning. Verse 30, then they departed from there, all of them together, and they passed through Galilee, and he did not want anyone to know it. For he taught his disciples, and he said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and after he is killed, he will rise the third day. But they did not understand this saying, and were afraid to ask him. It's important to note here that Christ was now taking active steps to limit his ministry to just his disciples. His focus now is on teaching the disciples. He has to get them a long way in a short time. So he's pouring as much energy into teaching them as he can. Now Luke adds something that Mark does not say. Luke says that Christ said, before he said he, you know, the Son of Man must be betrayed. Luke said to Christ, let these words sink into your ears. That's what he said. Let these words sink into your ears. This is similar to what God had spoken to Peter, James, and John in the cloud when God said, listen to him. Now Jesus is saying, listen to me Hear what I'm saying. Do business with what I'm saying, guys. Be intentional about it. You've got to do business with this. That's that's the and the the mentality that Chrysler comes across with. Well, have you ever trained a kid not to listen to you? Or I guess an animal would be the same thing. It's really easy to do. You just keep talking, but you never hold them accountable for hearing anything that you've said. Then, if they disobey what you say, let them off the hook because they probably didn't hear you. And make sure that you tell them all over again what you told them the first time. That is how you train a kid not to listen And if you spend any time in a Walmart, you'll know that our culture has mastered that art. Well, we as adults, we don't get a free pass here. If God has spoken, we are accountable for hearing what He has said. We are responsible for intentionally considering what has been said and putting feet to it. We do well to teach our kids to hear us. The disciples were failing to hear. And we'll see the ante keeps going up until they finally do hear, until they finally listen, until they finally do business with this. The disciples were responsible for their failure to hear. And so are we. Every time we read Scripture, and we need to let these words sink into our ears, into our minds. Now, what should they hear? The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and after he is killed, he will rise the third day Anybody have any trouble understanding that? I mean, those words are pretty clear. Jesus is telling the disciples about what is already in play here. It has already started and it's not going to change. This is going to happen. Right now, the betrayal has already begun. And when it's complete, they're going to kill Christ. That's the end that is coming. The word for betray is also translated deliver The word is usually used in a legal sense. So the mindset would be here that Jesus is saying he will be in a legal proceedings where he will be legally betrayed, where he will be legally delivered over to death. Then after that, Christ will rise from the dead, and it will be three days. Now, Moses and Elijah understood this As Jesus was talking to them up on the mountain, they understood it. The angels sent to minister to Christ in the garden understood this. The Father understood this, but no one else seemed to be able to grasp it. There was not a single human alive that we know of for whom Jesus would meet their expectation. That ought to teach us something about our intuitive expectations regarding God. You know, the things that we just think God ought to do because we think them. They're often frightfully inaccurate. We've got to allow the Word of God to reshape our minds as to what we expect from God. Now, what comes next is interesting. But they did not understand this saying and were afraid to ask him. Now think about this a minute. What were the disciples not afraid of in the past? Half the time they'd ask questions that would just simply incriminate themselves. You know, they weren't afraid to ask the stupid questions. They would reveal themselves continually in the questions that they would ask, but they weren't afraid then. What were the disciples afraid of now? They weren't afraid of Jesus, you know, I'm sure that they respected him. I'm sure he had their respect And Peter knew what Christ's stern rebuke felt like, because he was, you know, he had received that several times, but they were not afraid to ask the question because they were afraid of Christ. Well then, what were they afraid of? The only thing that you can reduce it down to is they were afraid of the truth. I read in one commentary where it said this, you know, based on the facts, they understood enough to be afraid to ask to understand anymore. Their problem was that they did not want to know the answer. They were afraid of the answer. How many questions do we have that we don't ask because we really don't want to do business with the answer? For instance, this is just an example. We come upon some money. We wonder what we should do with it. Are we going to pray asking for guidance when we already know what's important to God? Are we going to seriously ask that question and then do business with the answer, knowing quite well what it might be? Or will we just quietly decide what we want to do and then go about our business? How about our problems with our thoughts or our behavior? Will we bring those things into the attention of someone we trust to help us to do what God wants us to do? Or will we come up with reasons why that isn't a good idea so we can just quietly go about doing what we want to do? The problem with the disciples was not that they were stupid. It wasn't that they were afraid of their master. The problem with them is the same thing we struggle with in ourselves. When we know God's will, we will have no excuse for not obeying it. So we would prefer at times Not to know it, because not knowing it is easier. They were afraid that if they asked the question, they would get an answer they didn't like. That's what the disciples were guilty of. What about us? What part of God's will are we playing games with? What part of our lives do we not want to know what God's directives are for us? That point is often where our next opportunity for growth will be. That's the part of following Christ that we avoid and find unpleasant But when we surrender, we end up finding peace and joy. Now, on to the second section of our text. We know what the disciples are not thinking about. Now we'll see what they are thinking about. What question are you afraid to ask God? Leave it with that. And then verse 33. Then he came to Capernaum, and he was in the house. He asked them, What was it you disputed among yourselves on the road? But they kept silent on the road, for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. Now they're at Campernium, and they're probably at Peter's house. So they finally get to relax. But before they get a chance to settle in, Jesus asks them a question, and undoubtedly they did not see this coming. So, while you were on the road, guys. What was it you were arguing about? Isn't their response interesting? Silence. These guys aren't known for silence. But they kept silent. One of the biggest and simplest indications that something is wrong is that we instinctively want to keep it secret We fool ourselves a lot. We justify things in our heads as if they're okay and we have a perfectly good reason for doing them, but for some reason we don't want anyone else to know about it Sure, there are other reasons for keeping things hid, like propriety and keeping confidences and doing other people good rather than harm. Sometimes too much information is not good for them. But very often the fact that we want to keep something hidden is a good indication that we know it's not good. Here the disciples know that their conversation was not good. The motivations that they were displaying were not good. But their egos were so involved in it that it was too seductive to stay out of it. It just sucked them into that conversation once it started So when Christ asked the question, he got silence. It's similar to the answer we get when we ask little kids something like, what happened to the candy in the candy jar? Silence. So what were they arguing about? They were arguing about who was the top doc, who deserved the best position in the group Who was going to get vice president? Who was going to get Secretary of State? Who was going to get dog catcher? They were doing what we see in every day's news in the presidential campaign process. People are jockeying to be number one. What we're looking at is pride in motion. These guys are portraying their real selves. They want what they want and they think they have a right to have it. So they're laying out those natural abilities they own as having some merit for status. I should be it because I'm the best spokesman, or I should be it because I'm good with figures, or I you know, it it's that mentality They're comparing flesh to flesh to see which is better, which is superior, which wins merit. Now there are two ways of looking at this Pride is good or pride is bad. Our world preaches a doctrine every day that says that the problem with human beings is that they don't think highly enough of themselves. They don't believe in themselves enough. They don't like themselves enough. They don't have high enough self-esteem. They should take more pride in themselves. Our culture essentially preaches that the answer to the world's problem is found in mankind's pride. The answer to the problem is in pride. Or another way of saying that is pride, or another way of describing pride is self-worship, is a good thing. Well, next we're going to see what Jesus says, and naturally what he will show us is that not only is pride not a good thing, it is the enemy of everything spiritual. But before we go to what Christ says, consider this. Jesus was in the process of mentally preparing himself for martyrdom at this period in time. He was preparing himself to give up every right that he had on this planet. The disciples, at the very same time period are preparing to receive everything that they can get their grubby little hands on in this earthly kingdom. That disparity is not going to end well. They have a long way to go. Verse 35. And he sat down, called the twelve, and said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all. Notice it says he sat down. The wording here seems to imply that this was to be a formal teaching time. The disciples were likely used to this kind of thing and they they knew how to take it. He was sitting down to teach them a lesson. And they also probably knew that they had a course correction coming their way. So he starts, if anyone desires to be first, if anyone desires to be first Well, today, even in the church world, if you want the best pastoral job, or you want to climb the denominational ladder, or you want a cushy teaching job at a seminary or Bible college The first thing you do is get seminary training. Being first is contingent on that. It's odd that Christ didn't say anything like that. As soon as Christ said, if anyone desires to be first, everyone there would have been paying complete attention, because that's what they all wanted. They wanted to be first. They wanted good cabinet seats in the new administration, and that's how they'd have heard it. You know, how can I have the how can I have the best job here? What what do I need to do to be first? That's what I want. I want first. How do how do I do it So Christ is talking about something they want. Now we know the the punchline. So we have the opportunity to view this from a different perspective. Do you want to be the best servant of Christ that you can possibly be? That's how we can hear it. Because that is essentially what Christ is describing. So we can gain a great deal by paying close attention to his answer. So if you desire to be First in God's kingdom. If you really want to excel in that environment, if you want to be the poster child for the kingdom of God, we're going to hear from Christ how you do it. If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all. Well, that had to be depressing to them. That's not what they wanted to hear. Now, to best understand this, we need to keep in mind the context. These guys want the top seats of power. They want the seats of prestige and influence. They want what any aspiring person wants. Circumstances more to their liking. Now Jesus focuses on their pursuit of status and shows them what it takes in God's kingdom. It is exactly backwards from a worldly kingdom. This is not the way to climb the corporate ladder at IBM or Monsanto. He shall be last of all and servant of all. What does that mean? What does that mean? Last of all and servant of all. We see from this statement two things. We see position and we see activity. Position and activity. The position one must take in order to be the greatest is the lowest position. The last, the word the last means the last in a series of places. So in the corporate ladder, one would look at the CEO and then work his way down to positions and he would end up with maybe janitor. The lowest in this example would be the janitor. But we can't confuse this to mean that Christ is talking about positions that we sort of take by default For example, the firstborn son is the position of the most status in the Jewish household. I mean if you're born firstborn son, you can't exactly unborn yourself. You know, you are it. You're in that position So the firstborn son isn't excluded from being the last in the way that Jesus means it. That's just one example. There are many. Jesus is referring to a position one has the power to choose for himself. He's talking about choosing the last position. He's talking about a regard of oneself that sees everyone else as worthy of wholehearted serving. There's no one we're above, essentially, is what he's saying. There is no person in our regard who is beneath us. There is no one who is less important than me. That's last. Let's look at that in Philippians 2. 3. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit. That's exactly what the disciples were doing. Selfish ambition and conceit. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Here we see what proper self-esteem is. We should place others' importance above our own. Better, the word better means to surpass in rank, in authority, in worth. Essentially, it's to view others with the idea that I am expendable for their welfare. I can be spent for their benefit We aren't talking about lying to ourselves about other persons' talents and abilities. This doesn't mean that we've got to believe that they're better at us than doing any number of things. That may not be true, but we must believe that they are worth the sacrifice of us for their benefit. That's what it means. That's what last means. And how does that flesh out? What does it look like? Well, Paul lays in front of us the perfect example of someone doing exactly that thing. Note that Paul talks about the one who is truly without doubt. the greatest in the kingdom of God. In Philippians 2, 5 through 11. We started with Philippians 2 verse 3. Here's 5 through 11. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus who being in the form of God did not consider it. Interesting. This is the same word used for esteem in our passage. Who being in the form of God did not or I'm sorry, in in verse 2, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearances man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him. He became last. God has highly exalted him first and given him the name which is above every name That at the name of Jesus every now and knee should bow of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. When Jesus was talking to the disciples, he knew what he was talking about. He wasn't just saying, you do this, but I'm going to go do something completely different. Because he had already undertaken the project of being the most expendable human being on earth while the most worthy. Christ displays perfectly what he means about being least. Christ never pretended. Anything. He never pretended to be less. This wasn't a game where a person said demeaning things about themselves that they know aren't true, so that you will then in turn say something encouraging to them and they get their strokes. That's simply a lie in a game. No, Christ saw himself as being the Son of God. He had no no problem understanding his identity and the importance of his identity. He saw himself as being the best example of a Christian that would ever live. He knew that his sacrifice held great value. He never said otherwise. So he's not talking about any kind of false humility He is talking about a regard of others to where it is worth it for us to sacrifice for their benefit. So the CEO doesn't need to exchange places with the janitor. Smart people don't need to pretend to be stupid. The apostles didn't need to pretend that they should be the ones that were serving the tables. They understood there, but they needed to focus on the Word of God in prayer. Someone else needed to serve the tables. That's not how this mindset is to be applied. No one needs to pretend to be anything other than what they are. But they're to have a mindset. Every single one of us is to have a mindset. That says that the person next to me is worthy of me sacrificing my life for were to have the mind of Christ. That's the position That we're to assume. And then look at the activity that always accompanies that mindset. He shall be last of all and servant of all. If you see yourself as last of all, you can't help but accept what follows next logically. If other people are worthy of my sacrifice, I should be serving them to meet their needs. They're more important. Their need suddenly takes on great importance in my life. A brother's seen need suddenly takes on an urgency about it. It's no longer something I can just overlook and think, oh, they can take care of themselves. I'm pressed by my own logic, by my own belief into action. And this whole mental framework is centered back on the person of Christ. It finds its way back to Jesus Christ Himself and our worship of Him. My fellow body members may not hold some intrinsic value that's great simply because they were created, simply because they came out of their mother. They hold value because Christ has assigned value to them. He has said that they are important because they are his and he died for them. They'll have any number of quirks about them that we find disturbing. They may irritate us. They may even do us harm. But if Christ loves them, That shows us where to put them in our esteem. We're to esteem them higher than ourselves. So service naturally flows from regarding people as Christ regarded them. Look at how he served us, the ultimate service he gave to us. Christ was essentially saying that the greatest in the kingdom of God has no one that he will not serve, because there is no child of God who is not worthy of serving. Because he has assigned them that value by dying for them. This truth demands a great deal of thought and application in our lives. Really? How do we really regard our brothers and sisters? How do we really regard each other in this room? What comes out of our mouths? What are our immediate responses in our dealings with each other? Why? You know? Do we regard them as someone worthy of our sacrifice? Really? Even the ones that irritate us? You know, do we really see them that way? Because that's what Jesus is talking about here. Okay Moving on. Now notice what he what we saw about pride already in the lives of these disciples, trying to be number one. Pride was putting these men against each other. They must make the other lose for them to win. There weren't two spots who could be number one. So you had to bump somebody down to get you to get your spot Pride sees everything through the God of I. It evaluates another's worth in regard to what that person can give me, can add to me. And that pride destroys relationships. It will never build them up. It destroys them. It causes people to take their ball and go home when they can't have their own way. It causes people to note everything as an unforgivable offense that does not loft up their importance in some way. It makes people touchy and easily miffed. Instead of regarding others as worthy of our sacrifice, it regards us as being worthy of their sacrifice. If you look at the places in your life where you're having conflict with other believers, and sometimes with just other humans. And and this application is hitting me a little hard this morning or this morning due to the week that I've had and some of the encounters that I've had with other humans When you look at that and you see conflict, what you'll often find riding underneath it is pride. You're disappointed that this person does not regard you as highly as you regard yourself or you want to be regarded. And you're likely trying to make them pay for that slight. Pride is the opposite of humility. Next week we're going to focus on humility that Christ is portraying and preaching about. But today we'll finish out with a quick look at the nature of pride, just a few verses. Pride is always a major obstacle to love. In 1 Corinthians 8:1 it says, Now concerning the things offered to idols, we know That we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up. Knowledge makes you proud, but love edifies Here we see again the opposite of what Christ was talking about. Humble love will build others up. But what does knowledge do? It puffs up it puffs one up to where he thinks he is the one who should give be getting the attention. He is the one who should be getting the praise. You know, look at my bright ideas, look how good I am. You know, you ought to be, you know, spending your Lavish attention on me. And then 1 Corinthians continues, and it it goes on to the love chapter. And it shows us what happens when we don't have the mindset Christ was talking about, but when we're proud. It shows the things we commonly do that are motivated by pride. And what happens if they're not done in love? That's essentially a lot of what uh the love chapter is telling us. We might speak in tongues. We might have wonderful spiritual gifts. We might have self-sacrificing acts of kindness and devotion But where there isn't love, where we're not doing this in the right mindset with the idea of us serving Christ through serving each other, where there isn't love, that effect is going to be sour. And then it shows us the opposite of that in the rest of the passage, and it describes what happens when we see ourselves from Christ's perspective and we respond accordingly. It shows us how love acts. In the in the love chapter. And uh let's look at a few more. Proverbs eleven, two. It says, when pride comes, then comes shame. But with the humble is wisdom When we're the center of our lives, that'll be the result. We are going to experience shame. If we're Christ, we look back with nothing but regret for the times that we've responded in our pride. But when we see ourselves as God sees us, we'll act wisely and we'll be glad. Proverbs 13:10 By pride comes nothing but strife But with the well-advised is wisdom. Here again, we see the fruit of pride. It is strife. It only makes sense. Pride attempts to cause those around us to best serve us. Pride people around us don't really like to be shaped that way, especially too if they're motivated by pride. So strife is the natural outcome. I want them to serve me, they want me to serve them But those who are taking their marching orders from God, there will be wisdom. They'll be seeking better ends. Then Proverbs 16, 18 through 19, Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. Better to be of a humble spirit than the lowly, and to divide the spoil with the proud. Who of us have not experienced this firsthand? We begin to get too big for our britches. We start thinking of ourselves as God's gift to this church. or God's gift to our family, or God's gift to my spouse. And pretty soon, bang, we have a big fall that brings us back to the true perspective of who we really are. It's far better to see ourselves as small servants to a great servant or a great savior. When we see ourselves from that perspective, we can we stay out of a lot of trouble. It's better to just carry on our duties in an unassuming fashion than to try to get into the middle of the stuff that all the world is chasing for. That's essentially what this verse is saying. And then finally, 1 John 2, 15 through 17, it says, Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and The pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world is passing away in the lust of it, but he who does the will of God abides forever. The pride of life is not from God. This self-esteem religion is a false religion. Our culture's worship of self-esteem is not from God. Building lives in which we are the center of them is not from God. And living for what this world has to offer is not from God. We can't have a self-based life and a God-based life at the same time. We can't live in our pride and humility at the same time. One gives way to the other. It has to. We have a tendency to think that most of our relational problems are the other person's fault. I think that's probably safe to say. And sometimes they are But we do well to look at our lives and ask ourselves, what really bothers me about this? What really bothers me about this interaction? And track it down. And often we'll find, just like James, that we're having trouble because others are not giving us what we desire to consume in our lusts. They're not treating us like the kings or queens of our lives and like we want to be treated. And instead of us seeing them as a person worthy of our service and sacrifice , We are expecting them to be doing that service and sacrifice for us. In short, our pride destines us to have continual conflict. Maybe it's time for us to get off our thrones and call our pride what it is, and then maybe we'll bear the wonderful fruit of humility. And as we look around and consider, what is my life for? And Christ said, if you want to be the top dog, see everyone is worthy of your service and sacrifice. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the richness that it brings to our lives. And the clarity that it shows us how easily we can go wrong and uh the perfect example to follow We thank you that Lord you just you didn't just speak about servants and sacrifice, but you showed us the perfect example of it. And we ask that you would help us to view each other the way that you want us to. And the way that you showed us to, and that we would do serious business with the ways that we allow our flesh to determine how we are going to think and act toward each other. We ask that you would work this work in us so that you will be glorified. In Jesus' name. Amen.