Remember how last week we looked at the men from Emmaus Road And we had an eight-point outline that I borrowed from Mike's sermon on the topic. We had already covered that first Jesus reveals himself in the everyday routine. Second, Jesus enjoys a sense of humor. And third, Jesus uses the opportunity to instruct. We hope to cover the rest of these this morning The fourth is Jesus brings clarity to the sincerely confused followers. Jesus brings clarity. to the sincerely confused followers. The fifth opportunity to fellowship with Jesus Leads to greater opportunity. Opportunity to fellowship with Jesus leads to greater opportunity. Sixth, an encounter with Christ stirs up passion. An encounter with Christ stirs up passion. Seven, the results of a sincere encounter with Christ. the results of a sincere encounter with Christ, and eight, the difference in the resurrected Christ The difference in the resurrected Christ. Now we'll be covering these one at a time, so if you missed anything, you'll have another chance. So let's jump right into point four. Point four is Jesus brings clarity to the sincerely confused followers. Verse 27 of our text is, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, Christ expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Last week we watched as Christ rebuked these believers. He said their problem was that they were slow to believe what the Bible said. Isn't it beautiful that this did not disqualify them from being corrected? Again. Doesn't that give us hope Gives me hope. As long as we'll humble ourselves, as long as we will admit that the problem between us and God, the problem between what we are and what we should be is us As long as we're willing to confess that it is we who are the sinners, Christ will continue to teach us, even after our greatest failures, and sometimes because of our greatest failures, we are most willing to listen. These two hikers had a misunderstanding of Scripture. It isn't that they didn't believe Scripture at all. They believed what they wanted it to say, not what it really said. They believed some of it, but they didn't believe all of it. They liked the parts that fit with their worldview of the Jews being God's people politically. And that God was going to redeem them politically. They liked that. What they didn't focus on is that all humans Jews included are by birth rebels against God. That didn't appeal very much to them. Their greatest need, the world's greatest need, is spiritual. And the greatest gift would be spiritual redemption, not political redemption. Christ didn't come to fulfill their political aspirations. He came to meet their spiritual need. There's a lot for us to learn here. All of us can create a long list of things we expect from God that He has no intentions of fulfilling. And he's not going to apologize for that oversight. He won't say, My bad, I I missed that Think about this. What unrealistic expectation of Christ do you hold this morning? What unrealistic expectation of Christ do you hold this morning? Where are you expecting God to do what he has never promised to do? I can guarantee you one thing. That expectation is going to be a source of disappointment and discouragement and even anger or dismay until you surrender it to the Lordship of Christ. It needs to be called what it is. That expectation needs to be defined. It is a lie. And the Word of God has to correct it. God does not promise to do a number of things we might expect Him to do on this planet. He doesn't promise to make us rich. I think by now probably most of us have come to grips with that. He doesn't promise to keep us from suffering. He doesn't promise to fix everything that is wrong with our spouses and children. He doesn't promise to make spiritual victory quick or easy or even permanent in this life. What makes you miserable? Why? Trace it back. Why does it make you miserable? What are you wrongly expecting God to do? Find that thought and take it captive and replace it with what God does promise to do. That's the ministry Christ was doing to these two hikers this morning. It's that simple. He was taking these followers' messianic expectations. And he is replacing them with the truth from God's word. These guys appear to have been sincere. They were wrong, and they were humble. That's not all that bad amiss. So all Christ needs to do is show them the truth, they will respond to the truth, and then they'll move on. That's Christian living. Oh, that God's ministry to us would be that easy. It doesn't take much. Just a sincere desire for the truth and the humility to accept it as we need to. When Christ was done with these guys, their frustration and gloom turned to joy. That's what happens when we allow our expectation of God to repla to be replaced by Belief in the promises of God. Now on to point five. Opportunity to fellowship with Jesus leads to greater opportunity. Verse 28. Then they drew near to the village where they were going, and he indicated that he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening and the day is far spent. And he went in to stay with them. Just kind of a side point. Where was he going? You know, Jesus said he was gonna continue. But where was he going? We know that he fully intended to be with these guys for what it's worth. Follow these hikers and what you find is what they are oozes out of them. What they are oozes out of them. That's how life is. What we are finds expression. When Christ joins these guys, who are they talking about? Jesus. While he walks with them, they're learning about Jesus. Now comes a normal break point. This stranger says he wants to continue on. Now, these guys had an easy out here. If they wanted this conversation over so they could move on to do what they really wanted to do next, here's their chance But that's not what they do. They want it to keep going. Who they are comes out here. They want to continue to talk to this man because he seems to know a lot They started with an obsession with Christ, and everything they do wants to prolong this fellowship. They are doing what spiritual people do. They didn't have spiritual things relegated to a calendar and a day of the week. Their lives were absorbed with knowing Christ. So when the fellowship with this spiritual expert seems threatened to end, they prolong it. They find a way to keep it going. Odds are that these guys needed to be to work the next morning. And as we continue with this text, we're going to find out it's probably late afternoon or at least mid-afternoon when they when they get home. But it doesn't matter. They want more, and it's worth anything to them. They want to have this fellowship. They want this relationship. They want this information about Jesus. And it's worth anything to them. When all we want is Jesus, Jesus is what we will have. When all we want is Jesus, Jesus is what we have. The question comes down to what do we really want? Really want. Not what do we say we want or what we know is the right answer to the question, what do you want? But what do we really want? Would we have prioritized the discussion by this man like they did? Remember now that Jesus was doing all the talking. He was treating these guys like they were novices. It isn't like these guys are getting a chance to show off how wise and spiritual they are, or how much knowledge they have, or how in the know they were. Jesus was talking and they were lapping up what this stranger is saying, like it's water in the desert. What is there in our lives that we pursue like that? What is there that when we get a little of it, we simply have to have more of it? What are we scanning every environment we walk into for? And we all do it What are we hoping to see so that we can gravitate toward it? There's a general truth in human behavior. People do what they want to do. We pursue what we want most. When I met Carla at Rockford In a few weeks, it was very clear what I wanted. I wanted to marry that girl. And anyone looking on would have had no trouble understanding the facts. The things I thought about, the things I said, and the things I did took on a congruence that showed that I was not going to stop until she either told me to hit the road or she said I do. That's how we are about the things that we really want. Well, not everything we want has a guaranteed result, but when we want God, when what we want is God, there is a guaranteed result. James 4, 7 through 10 says, Therefore submit to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, he will draw near to you. That's what it says. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Lament and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. Luke 11, 9 through 13 says it. So I say to you, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks, finds, and he who knocks, it will be opened. If a son asks for bread from any father among you, will you give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will you give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if he asks for an egg, will you give him a scorpion? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? When we look back on periods of our lives, or when we look at our lives right now, and what we find is a life that is not consumed with God. It is not God's fault. There is no excuse we can use other than God is not really what we want most. We find that we're double-minded. We want the world and we want God. But when we're double-minded, we always gravitate toward the here and now. According to God's promises, when God is what we want, God is what we get, it is only our fault that we remain ignorant of or distracted away from the things of God. These hikers wanted more of Jesus. And what'd they get? They got more of Jesus. They started with a little fellowship, and they ended up having more fellowship and a greater revelation of who Christ really is and what he really wants. Had they not pursued him at this point, they would have never understood that they had just seen a risen Savior. Next point. 6. An encounter with Christ stirs up passion. An encounter with Christ stirs up passion. Now it came to pass as he sat at the table with them that he took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them. Then their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished, and he vanished from their sight. And they said to one another, did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us on the road and while he opened the scripture to us? So, here is Christ. He still has not revealed who he is to these guys. He has taken possession of how their minds perceive him. He ha he has remained psychologically cloak. It's kind of unusual, but it it's kind of like a science fiction movie You know, kind of the Star Wars where they they uh suggest into other people what they should see and what they should do and they do it and they see it and they're not aware of what's going on. Well, remember the circumstance here. These guys are showing the stranger hospitality. They probably had to come home because they had to work. So now they're eating after their long hike. Two hours probably. That's three and a half miles an hour. That's about what a person when they're pushing it can walk. Now, I wonder if these guys ever ate with Christ before. I think it's likely that they did since they were intimately aware of what was going on in his inner circle. So Christ took the bread and he prayed over it and then Christ gave it to them. Now, why would Christ choose this moment to reveal himself to them? I think it's in revelation or in relation to communion along with that common act of eating together. Christ told the apostles, this is my body that is broken for you. Take and eat. And maybe these guys knew that happened. All we know for sure is that they finally saw Christ for who he really was. You know, a lot of people know facts about Christ. They've read truths about Jesus. They may not, or they may even understand those truths. But until Jesus reveals himself to you through his spirit and his word, you never really know him. In our story, Christ first revealed himself through the word. Then Christ opened the hiker's eyes to see the stranger's true identity. And then Christ was gone. Wow. You talk about a mind-blowing experience now. These guys are never, ever gonna forget that moment And then 32, and they said to one another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us on the road, and while he opened the scriptures to us. The word for burn here means to set fire to, to light, to glow, to burn, to greatly move. This is what happens to Christians when they come face to face with truth. This is what happens to Christians. when they come face to face with truth. Tell me, is this not what happens to you when you read the Bible And I don't mean every single time, and I don't mean every single instance. But do you not find this general thing happen to you when you read Scripture? The Holy Spirit grips you with the truths held in those words. Your world opens up in front of you, and the mundane humdrum gives way to the eternal reality. You see God from a new perspective. You see Christ from a new perspective or a renewed one where you're reminded what really matters. You see day-to-day life from a new perspective. And what happens? There's a fire in your soul. You can't explain it, but you know it's there. The word burns a hole in your heart. It warms your soul. That's one of the best evidences that you're a Christian. This doesn't happen to those who don't know Christ. They may have lots of experiences, but the truth, as clearly understood from Scripture, does not warm their hearts Pleasant thoughts, nice ideas, little ditties they can pull from it, possibly. But not the guts of the truth of who God is and who we are and what he has done for us. I like this quote. Understanding Bible knowledge can lead to a big head, but receiving Bible truth and walking with the Savior will lead to a burning heart. I'm not one to lean on the experiential. I know the dangers of that. I always try to test what I feel against what God says. But at the same time, I know there are times in my life when I have experienced God's truth. And I know it because my heart burned. Now, you may experience it your own way. You may describe it your own way. You will probably feel it your own way. Your experience may be nothing like mine But for whatever reason, when this happens to me, I end up crying. And it's been it's been that way as long as I can remember. It's stupid, I think. And I I don't like it. But that's how it is. I would often cry when Mike would preach. And it's not just how long he would preach that I would cry about it. But the content of what he was saying. It would strike a chord. It would hit it would hit my heart. I remember going to a Keith Green concert and I cried through the whole thing, I think. And at the time, the Holy Spirit was working on me. My heart burned within me. I didn't even like the piano or Keith's voice, but my heart was on fire as I listened. And there are still times when I listen to solid preachers and the same thing happens. As believers, we're wired that way. And again, not the same, not the same experience But something in our souls just connects. When we come across clear declarations of the glory of Christ Our hearts burn. And praise God for that. That's evidence of your salvation. Our passion is stirred up when we come face to face with the reality of Jesus Christ. There's something different about that truth. It does something to us that nothing on this earth does. Do you not feel the same thing when you read your Bible? Does it not leave you with the feeling of, why don't I do this more? Doesn't it give peace to your soul? Doesn't it touch the deep things inside of you? That's what the Holy Spirit does to believers when they come in contact with truth. Now, some are more feeling-oriented, some are more thinking-oriented. That's not really the issue. It's that it compels you. Our passions are stir in the best way possible. Now, the next point: the results of a sincere encounter with Christ. Number seven, the results of a sincere encounter with Christ. So they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord is risen indeed and has appeared to Simon. And they told about the things that had happened on the road and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. Now, to me this is almost funny These guys had just walked seven miles, two hours, presumably, because they had deadlines to meet So they're kind of going home. They have to go home. They have to go home now. They can't stay any longer. They've waited as long as they can. They walked at seven miles. They left Jerusalem in the middle of an ongoing mystery with data coming in by the minute by the minute. So the reason for returning home when they did had to be pretty important to them. Now they pack up within an hour and they're back on the road. I assume that if they had cell phones, they probably would have just made the call. But they didn't. So they had to walk another two hours after supper in order to report what they had just seen. Now, what they had seen wasn't exactly a minor event You think about the importance of what these guys have just seen, and it's amazing. They didn't know all the what eyewitness reports coming back to the disciples. They didn't know that there were continued reports of Jesus dyings, or at least several of them at that time. But what they did know is that they have seen Christ. And they now have a very clear understanding of the purpose of Christ's incarnation, death, burial, and resurrection. That is huge. And they got it from the source, and they got it from the Old Testament. These guys have Amazingly important information. And it's likely that some of the stuff that Peter preached later came as a result of them reporting what Christ had told these guys It was a big deal. Now, that's about the most important New Testament news a person can imagine. Now, I wonder how they felt when, before they could even get to tell their story, the others were saying, Oh, the Lord has risen indeed and has appeared to Simon Can you imagine walking two hours to think that you're gonna lay out this most amazing of news and find out somebody's beat you to it. Were they disappointed? That would be as human as human could be. We don't know. Maybe they were glad because really the story they're about to tell would be very hard to believe if there weren't some other stories verifying the truth of it Yeah, yeah, we saw Jesus. We didn't know it was him, walk with him for two hours, we finally saw there was him and he was gone. Yeah, right. They were already having trouble believing all their stories The results of Christ's talk with these hikers was that first they held what they heard in highest priority. They were not willing to let this truth go through the night without telling other people about it Second, they were certain that Jesus Christ was Messiah and Lord. There was no doubt about it anymore to these guys. They believed that Jesus had risen from the dead. They believed the true purpose of Christ's birth, death, and resurrection, and they got it. After having talked to Christ, these guys were true blue New Testament sold-out believers. They did not even consider the inconvenience of a two-hour walk toward evening after being already tired from traveling. as something worthy of notice. That's what happens when people really come into relationship with Christ. When they truly encounter Christ, things are changed. I think it's interesting that the hikers made mention of the breaking of bread as they were talking to the disciples. They bring out the point of the breaking of the bread. I think that held a significance to them based on Christ's Last Supper, and I think that would have held a significance to the disciples as well. These two hikers have had a sincere experience with Christ. They went from those who were skeptical of core doctrines. To those who were absolutely convinced of the truth of the core doctrines, we understand now as core doctrines, they wouldn't have at the time. They went from guys returning home in dismay To those walking to Jerusalem in joy and victory and excitement. They went from the gloom of defeat. to the joy of victory and they ne they were never going back to from where they were. This experience had changed their lives. Now let's look at one more point. I left it out as we passed. Maybe you can guess what it is. Verse 8, the difference in the resurrected Christ. The difference in the resurrected Christ. Verse 31, then their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished from their sight. Now suppose you had the power to hide who you are, show who you are, and then the power to disappear. Suppose you wanted to have the most fun and the most dramatic effect What would you do? Doesn't it seem like it would be great fun to have someone recognize who you are and as soon as they do disappear? That strikes me as being pretty much fun. Really, what great purpose did it serve? Christ was bringing knowledge and bringing joy to his followers. He was using a dramatic effect to do it. And he may have been showing the lighter side of his humanity in doing it. And really, is there anything wrong with that? I mean, if if that shakes our understanding of what Christ is like, so be it. It isn't like he was avoiding his responsibility. It isn't like he didn't put first things first. It isn't like he didn't get the job done. He had already carried out the hardest part of what he had to do. Along with whatever fun this may have been, we also learn something about the resurrected body here. Christ was no longer limited to what a human flesh and blood body could do. This is one of the things that I think Randy Alcorn may be wrong about in his book about heaven. I don't think our resurrected bodies will be as much like our present bodies as he does. 1 Corinthians 15, 42 through 49 says, So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. It's sown in honor, it's raised in glory. It's sown in weakness, it's raised in power. It's sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body, and so it is written. The first man Adam became a living being, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. However, excuse me, the spiritual is not first, but the natural and afterward the spiritual. The first man was of the earth made of dust, the second man is the Lord from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust, and is as is the heavenly man, So also are those who are heavenly. And as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly man. It looks to me like our bodies will be something we are familiar with. It will be a body similar some ways to what we have now. We'll be able to recognize each other, we know that, but it will be different in that it will have capabilities that our present bodies don't We'll be limited to be in one place at one time. That appears to be a limitation that Christ Himself had at this point. But we may be able to move from one place to another in ways that we have never imagined Christ was able to walk just thinking, with my cars, that's going to be a real blessing. Christ was able to walk with his disciples. But at the same time, he could disappear from one location and reappear at another. He could show up inside of locked rooms without going through doors. And he was able to ascend up through the clouds without an aid of an airplane We really don't know what it is that God has in store for us in that regard, but we can know for sure it is always worth the wait. It is always worth what it costs. It's worth any price we're forced to pay. And we can see from Christ's resurrected actions that we will not spend eternity sitting on a cloud strumming on a harp. I don't know anyone who wouldn't call what Christ was doing after his resurrection real fun. Heaven is not being designed for imaginary people. It's being designed for real people like us. We can rest assured that it will have the best of what this life has and more. How it will be good, we don't exactly know. That it will be good. We are promised by the greatest keeper of his promises that ever existed. For application, first I hope we're all remembering in 2017 that Christ is with us. I hope we're applying it to every thought and every action. intentionally carrying that out through our days, thinking through everything that we're tempted to do or want to do And imagining that Christ is here because he is. I hope we're seeing the fruit of that effort this week. This morning we have lots more that we can apply. We can apply that we only have as much of God in our lives as we really want. Are we satisfied with where we stand? If we want more, we need to do something about it. We need to use the time God has given us to pursue Christ in a relationship with Him. Christ will reciprocate, He promises, over and over again. We can focus on prioritizing opportunities to fellowship in Christ in ways that stretch us and make us grow, like these guys did. Remember how these men would not let go of Christ. They scheduled their lives around this opportunity to learn and grow. We can commit to reading the word more so our hearts will burn more That's a good state to be in. There's no shortage of ways that we can apply ourselves to know and serve Christ better this week. It's closing, prayer. Lord, we thank you again for the the wonderful stories that you have included in your word. Stories that that uh Are easy to get excited about. We thank you, Lord, for the drama. That you introduced into this story. And just how excited these followers of yours would have been to understand that they were. They were right to have hoped in you. Help us to understand the same thing, that we are smart. When we trust and hope in you, when we follow you, when we seek you, that's what we're made for. We ask that you would help us to Take captive the thoughts of the ways that we expect from you, those things that you haven't promised. And help us glean the things that you have promised and stake our lives upon them. We ask that you would help us to be like these guys whose hearts burned. from having been with you, from having heard what you had to say. And help us to become addicted to your word. That we can't let it go without it filling our minds and our hearts. And most of all, Christ, we ask that you would use whatever it takes To have us glorify you more, to be more like you, to represent you better, and to please you in everything that we say and do. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.