Have you ever been frustrated with how hard the Christian life is? Have you ever read scriptures about all the things that Christ accomplished in your salvation? And wonder to yourself why your life doesn't always feel like all of those wonderful things are true. You read about a new heart, but you struggle with old heart issues. You read about victory, but you experience defeat. And you wonder why. Am I really even a believer? If Scripture says all these things. We're going to see some things this morning that I think will be encouraging. We'll see a real struggle that goes on in the reality that we can see, that is driven by a reality that we cannot see. And I'm not saying any of this to give us excuses for failures. There really are none. But the Word of God is going to show us this morning that the struggle is real and it is to be expected Verse 1. In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Beltehazar, and the word was true, and it was a great conflict, and he understood the word and had understanding of the vision. This is one of those passages where understanding the historical context helps us to understand the meaning. In the first year of Cyrus, the Israelites were given permission to return to Jerusalem. So some did. And they accomplished setting up enough in the temple so that they were able to offer sacrifices. But that was all. The city was not secure. The city had no walls. And the temple was not rebuilt. They were just offering sacrifices there. And then persecution broke out, and the Israelites had enemies on all sides Now imagine yourself as one of the people returning to the promised land from Babylon. God's promises are on your side Jeremiah said that the Jews would return to their land. So they're probably expecting to go back to Jerusalem and have everything fall into place for them. After all, this is God they are serving. Can he do anything? Doesn't he want all this work done? Well, if so, shouldn't he make it easy These people might begin to think maybe we have it all wrong. If God doesn't make it easy, maybe we're wrong about what God wants. Or maybe there's no God at all. Have you ever doubted God's sovereignty or God's goodness or God's love for you because he placed you in very difficult circumstances? Well, that's the situation that the people of Israel are in in the third year of Cyrus. They did that which they thought God wanted, but God doesn't seem to be doing his part. This is way harder than they expected a spiritual obedience to be. There was far more opposition to the will of God than they had envisioned. Obeying God was, well, frustratingly hard. I want to encourage you and me from God's Word this morning. Just because something does not come easy Does not mean that it's not God's will. Just because we need to pour more effort into it does not mean that God is not in it Just because your flesh and the devil and the world oppose your growth in Christ at every point does not mean that you are outside of God's will. That you haven't reached that spiritual sweet spot where all of this becomes easy. It's okay that it's hard. While Christ's yoke is easy, that doesn't mean the struggle against our enemies is easy. One of the great obstacles to our success in the Christian life is a wrong expectation about what a spiritual walk will be like. We're always swimming upstream. There are always forces intended by our enemy for our destruction. We need to expect it. We need to stop crying foul when doing what Christ said to do seems impossible at times to us. We need to have faith in Christ and in what he says and not in what we see and what we feel. The temple in Jerusalem and the walls around the city needed to be rebuilt, and they would be rebuilt. That was promised. But the people doing the work were a little handicapped in their progress because they had to hold a sword in one hand and do masonry working with the other. Can you imagine how difficult that would be Does your life ever feel that way? We do well to embrace this as the will of God instead of freaking out because it's still very, very hard. Now we're told in verse 1, a word was revealed to Daniel. I'm not sure how to understand that. I'm guessing it is the vision revealed in chapter 11, but I'm not sure. He's received some message. And the word was true, and it was a great conflict, and he understood the word and had understanding of the vision. So evidently, whatever vision this was, he understood it. Maybe this message was about the struggle that the returning Jews were facing in doing what they needed to do. It regarded a great conflict, and that is certainly what they were facing. to uh Jerusalem were facing a great conflict. But whatever the case, Daniel understood the vision, and it drove him to mourn and to fast. It really looks like he was mourning the slow success of restoring Jerusalem. I don't know that for sure, but it 's reasonable to think so. He knew it should be restored, but it was not being restored. At least not very quickly. Then verse 2, in those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks. I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all for the full three weeks. On the twenty fourth day of the first month, as I was standing on the bank of the great river, that is Tigris. So evidently the period that Daniel was mourning and fasting covered the feast of the unleavened bread, but ended on the last day of the Passover feast. Daniel gave up luxury foods for three weeks. I've heard of people doing this Daniel fast. It seems to work for losing weight, but that was not his what he was giving it for. He didn't eat meat, he didn't drink wine, and he didn't use any lotions. And that may have been quite a sacrifice living in the hot, dry climate that they lived in. I I think these lotions were probably pretty helpful for 'em. And uh and keep in keep in mind, Daniel's an old guy now. So uh That's what he's doing. How much how much is our worship worth to us? How much is our worship of God worth to us. How often are we so absorbed with what that which God cares about that we're given to we're driven to give up some of the blessings that He has provided us with In order to become more absorbed with that which is central to his heart. That's what fasting is about. It's a self-denial in an effort to focus on that which is more important. Daniel determined to do this thing in an effort to participate in the repentance over his people He wanted to see God's will be done. And it was more important to him than enjoying those fleshly comforts that he had become accustomed to. It appears that fasting, that fasting and caring about what God cares about are closely related. They're closely tied together. The more deeply we care about those things that trouble God, the more we allow those things to affect us. And the more they affect us, the less important our luxuries are I don't like making that connection, but I don't think it can be avoided. When's the last time you or I fasted because of our obsession with God's holy will? Why is that? I mean, maybe for you, it was last week. It certainly wasn't for me. The first century church assumed that fasting was a normal part of their spiritual walk. How about us? It's a worthy question. Verse 5: I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen with a belt of fine gold from Ufaz around his waist. His body was like burl, his face like the appearance of lightning, his eyes like flaming torches, his arms and legs like the gleam of burnished bronze, and the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great trembling fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves So I was left alone and saw this great vision and no strength was left in me. My radiant appearance was fearfully changed. That's interesting. He viewed himself as having a radiant appearance that he lost that just strikes me as odd, and I retained no strength Okay, so Daniel looks up and he sees someone that looks like a man, but this man was obviously spiritually different from a normal man. He looks in ways like Jesus has described at times But angels sometimes have these kind of descriptions as well. In Ezekiel, in particular, we see some dramatic descriptions of angels that are similar to this. I think this angel is most likely Gabriel, whom we have already met. And I'll refer to this angel as Gabriel, but keep in mind that is not a certainty. It might not be. When we're dealing with spiritual things, we can't always make a lot of sense of some of them. Like what when you enter where God is. Stuff stuff gets strange to us. Daniel alone could see this vision, but those around him were very aware that something was happening. Something spiritual was happening. Something dramatic was happening They didn't know what, but it scared them enough that they ran and hid like rabbits. Now, sometimes I watched guys like Joel Osteen and Stephen Fertig to see the extremes of unbiblical preaching And often these guys speak in such a way that you would think that Christ and them go fishing on the weekends. But we see here in Daniel a guy a million times more familiar with true spiritual revelations And Daniel has trouble holding it all together when he comes face to face, not with Christ, but with a mere angel We really need to be careful to keep a proper balance with the boldness that we can have to approach God's throne in prayer, which is amazing. And the understanding of just how frightening the God we serve truly is. When we think we can get overly casual with the presence of God, we need to be careful. God is three times holy. The invitation to enter in his presence with his favor is astounding. It is amazing. And fortunately, we don't have to experience his frightening presence when we come before him in prayer. He invites us in, and we are loved by him, and we know it. But if God showed up in person, not that he has a body or anything, but he showed up like he did for Moses on the mountain. We find ourselves on our faces with an experience of being in the presence of someone who initiates fear in us by his very existence. That is the God that we pray to. We don't have enough of that in our day. But look at all the men of God, men whose faith surpasses ours, we assume. And when they stand in front of an angel or Christ, they fall on their faces. To be God-fearing is actually a very, very good thing. If we live in a way that we fear God properly, we are living in a way that is very, very wise. Daniel pretty much lost all his strength when he came before this angel. And the angel, in this case, did not portray himself in such a way that he would be confused for a human being Sometimes they did it, we've we've read about that. But not this time. Verse 9. Then I heard the sound of his words, and as I heard the sound of his words, I fell on my face in a deep sleep with my face to the ground. And behold the hand touched me and set me trembling on my hands and knees. I think it's Alistair Begg said something about its uh Not not an opportune time to fall asleep take a nap. You know, that's not what not what happen not what's happening here Daniel seems to have passed out as soon as the angel started to speak. But the angel, I assume, touched him, and Daniel ended up on his hands and knees trembling. Verse eleven. He said to me, O Daniel, man greatly loved, understand the words that I spoke speak to you, and stand upright, for now I have been sent to you. And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood up trembling. I doubt that Daniel saw himself as a man greatly loved of God. I mean, to hear that is is amazing. He will be told that at least three times in last last chapter in this chapter. God is letting him know I think we can assume that Daniel doesn't see himself that way because the angel kept telling him that. You would think that if that's how Daniel already saw himself, the angel wouldn't have bothered to say it. I find a lot of comfort in that. Maybe you do too. We're given the promises of God, given good theology, but sometimes we wonder. What about my failures? What about my shortcomings? I mean God sees all that stuff. I never give God all that he deserves. Is God really just kind of putting up with me? It's like, you know, I'm in his family, he can't get rid of me, you know. I guess I guess we'd have to invite him to Thanksgiving, that kind of thing. Do I really have a relationship at all? But then we see in Scripture that every child of God will be received by Christ with the statement, Well done, my good and faithful servant. That's that's pretty cool. I mean, it'd be easy for us to think. Well, he might say something like, Well, at least there were a couple times he didn't screw up. But it's not. It's well done, my good and faithful servant. That is how he is going to see his children I wonder how many will be shocked to hear that statement. Will it be everybody? I want to be someone who is a good and faithful servant, but there are so many times when I am not. I suspect Daniel, although maybe a better example of our faithfulness or faithfulness than we are, I wonder if he felt the same thing. Gabriel, are you you sure you have the right guy? Are you sure I'm the man that's greatly loved? But sure enough, Daniel was. I think it's really interesting that Daniel didn't just perk up and stand bold before the angel, like toe-to-toe. When a human encounters spiritual beings and receives direct spiritual information, it generally has a dramatic impact on. It isn't something you just shake off. Daniel sure didn't. And those people who speak of spiritual things casually really might not know what they're talking about. Holiness is scary. When we're in the presence of holiness, we find ourselves small and at a loss. That is consistent in Scripture. If someone is flippant when they speak about God, there are attributes of God they may not be considering. Now, I'm sure Daniel was impressed with the fact that Gabriel was sent to him by God. Think about that. This is really important stuff that Daniel was involved in. I mean, I think it's safe to say that none of us were ever sent an angel With a message directly from God. It was so important that God sent Daniel, some of his top-end angels. There are very few people in the history of the world who have had that kind of a status. So Daniel mustered the strength to stand, verse 12, then he said to me, Fear not, Daniel, for For from the first day that you set your heart to understand and humbled yourselves before God, your words have been heard, and I have come because of your words. The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, but Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I was left there with the kings of Persia. This is one of those passages you read and you say, what? What's going on here? This is one of those mysteries we see and we're left puzzled by it. We're given a glimpse into the world of angels and demons, but we're not given very many specifics. Gabriel tells Daniel that three weeks ago, when Daniel started praying, Gabriel purposed to come visit Daniel. We can safely assume that this is what God wanted Gabriel to do. It was on that day that he was given the assignment. And notice it was Daniel's words that were heard. Never assume that the words of your prayer do not matter. God heard Daniel's words. These words in a human language triggered a response by God. The words were heard and caused an assignment to be made to Gabriel But Gabriel couldn't break free. I think this shows us some of some things about spiritual battle and about angels The angels must be subject to some of the same limitations we are. They're subject to time. They're not omnipotent. They're not omnipresent, for sure. They too must fight. The angels must struggle. And allow this to sink in. That struggle of the angels is God's will for the angels' lives. God 's will for the angels' lives involves struggle. Surely God could stop the enemy from opposing him anytime he wanted. Just like he could stop all of the forces against our faith if he wanted to. But he allows it for some purpose. It pleases God to allow the angels to experience some of the frustration that we feel in the struggle against evil. We're not in this alone. Just consider this. Following God is not only hard for us, it's even hard for the angels. It even serves some purpose in their lives to be part of this struggle Now, most scholars think that the prince of the kingdom of Persia is probably a demonic being, maybe the devil himself. Others think that the actual human king of Persia was simply resisting what he knew he had to do, and an angel had to stay there until he did what he had to do. That seems a little far-fetched to me. I personally think it was demonic. I think it was the demon in charge of that people group. It looks like Gabriel was there alone doing battle with the Prince of Persia and he couldn't break away. But then God sent Michael so that Gabriel, I assume, could leave and meet with Daniel. There are a whole lot of things we don't understand about angels. They face struggles like we do They're probably not battling against the world in the flesh like we do. They're struggling against the devil and his legions. But the struggle ends exactly when and exactly how God wants it to. We don't understand God's timing. We don't understand God's plan. But we do understand the general concept of his sovereignty. He rules and the battle stops when God says it stops. We never need fear that the angels will lose and the devil will win Even though it's a struggle, even though there's a fight, we never need fear that. Verse 14: and came to me, and came to make you understand what is to happen to your people in the latter days For the vision is for days yet to come. This is nice to know. Gabriel tells Daniel why he came To make you understand what will happen to Daniel's people in the distant future. So whatever vision this was that he saw and understood, the angel's saying, it's not for now. This is not so much for Daniel's sake, as for the sake of those in the future that he this is stuff is being revealed. Verse 15 When he had spoken to me according to those words, I turned my face toward the ground and was mute. And behold, one in the likeness of the children of man touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth and spoke. I said to him who stood before me, O my Lord, by reason of the vision pains have come upon me, and I retain no strength. How can my Lord's servant talk with my Lord? For now no strength remains in me, and no breath is left in me. Again, one having the appearance of a man touched me and strengthened me. Some people believe this to be Christ. Um in in our version, Lord is is not capitalized, so the interpretation or the the Translation was done in such a way that the translators did not think that it was Christ. But anyway. Daniel was rendered speechless by this angel, I assume it was an angel, and his message to Daniel. And here again, he's barely functioning. The angel has to keep intervening to keep Daniel in the conversation. I mean, it's like Daniel, he he just He's having a lot of trouble. He has a dual problem. Both talking to angels is hard, and hearing this vision is hard. It seems to have taken his breath away Have you ever received news that left you speechless and breathless? I would guess it was not good news. Most of the time that's true. Daniel needed help and the angel provided it. Daniel helped the angel helped Daniel to process his stuff. Now look what the angel says again in verse 19. And he said, O man greatly loved. There it is again. Fear not. Peace be with you. Be strong and of good courage. Have you ever heard news that unsettled you? Maybe it was something about a loved one? Maybe it was a bad report regarding a sickness. Maybe it was news regarding a life situation you're about to experience. There's so many devastating things that we can hear that can go wrong. And what are we tempted to conclude when those things happen? When we hear that, one, I am not loved by God. Two, I have reason to fear. 3. I cannot possibly have peace in this situation. 4. It is impossible to be strong and courageous with how bad this situation is. All of those ideas have one thing in common. They're all lies. Our seemers are broke, broke, broke. We can't believe what they tell us without testing against God's word and what God's word tells us. Let's look at them. I am not loved by God. Scripture tells us that every believer, no matter what their current circumstance, is loved by God, and nothing can separate them from the love of God. I have reason to fear. Scripture instructs us time after time to not give way to a position of fear. A stance of fear. Fear not is a frequent command in Scripture, one of the most frequent. And Jesus tells us how to think right about fear. Change your perspective and think about that which there is most reason to fear. Start there. If you want to think logically, start there. God can throw you in hell. Fear him and kiss the son while you can. And if you reconcile with the son, you have no reason to fear God's judgment or God's enemies. You have no reason to fear that which is most fear-worthy. I cannot possibly have peace in the situation. As for peace, peace again is reasonable, even in the face of fearful situations John 14, 26 and 27 says, But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid The circumstance this was spoken in was right before Jesus was betrayed by Judas and delivered to a cross carrying all of our sin. What trial do you have in your life that's worse than that one? If he could face the cross without fear, there's reason to believe that fear is not appropriate in our situation either And the last, it's impossible to be strong and courageous with how bad this situation is. Paul was talking about death in the context of the next statement in 2 Corinthians 5, 6. 6 through 8. He says, So we are always of good courage. We're always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord, or we walk by faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. Paul is always laying out good reason for having courage. Courage is based on a logical argument, too. All of these things are. You and I have reason to have courage in the face of fear-inciting situations in our lives. We have reason for courage. If at any time as Christians our reason drives us to think that we are being smart to be afraid. Or to worry, or to be peaceless, or to be cowardly, or to believe, based on our situation, that God is not loving or that God does not love us One thing is for sure. We are not being smart. We are being faithless We're trusting on our own understanding in the worst kind of way. Scripture addresses how to correct that thinking. It may take a great deal of time and effort, maybe a lifetime, but we can learn how to think differently. We can learn how to process differently Proverbs 3:5 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make straight your paths Be not wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. So the angel exhorted Daniel to avoid all the natural responses he might have to this vision that was delivered by an angel. And what was the result? And as he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, Let my Lord speak, for you have strengthened me. The Lord provided the strength that Daniel needed, as Daniel submitted himself to the Lord's messenger. We might not see how we can be fearless and courageous, but God can provide us with what we need in the situation if we'll just trust Him and trust His Word. Then verse 20, then he said, Do you know why I have come to you? But now I will return to fight against the Prince of Persia, and when I go out, behold the Prince of Greece will come. I think we can assume Daniel knew the answer to the angel's question, since the angel had already had answered it. Gabriel was there to help Daniel understand the long-term plight and the future of God's people. He already told him that. Then he tells Daniel he needs to get back to this fight that he's in. And he mentions that the Prince of Greece will somehow get involved. So where'd that come from? We don't know. And we really don't know what to do with that information. I think it reveals, though, partly how this next verse is true, Ephesians 6:12. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities. against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We don't know everything that's going on behind the scenes. That's an understatement. We know very little, only what God has told us. We'll talk next week about keeping it all in a proper perspective. But it's important to know that the headlines in the news will never reveal the true struggle. It's not going to tell you about the demons and the angels engaged in conflict. It's not going to tell you about the true nature of the evil. It will not tell you what God's plan is for using the world stage as it is. We only see the aftermath. We only see the end result. We don't see The spiritual forces that are happening behind the scenes. Verse 21. But I will tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth. There is none who contends by my side against these Except Michael, your prince. Frankly, I have no idea what that's supposed to teach us. Somehow, two angels are accomplishing something that's very difficult. It's framed in conflict And only Michael and this angel, supposedly Gabriel, are fighting against the Prince of Persia and possibly the Prince of Greece. Are they demons assigned to countries? We don't know. We only know that God assigned angels to do this warfare. And we should be encouraged because God always knows what he's doing. They're doing warfare that we are not equipped to do. God will see to it that the battles that we cannot fight, will be fought by those who can, so we can win the battles that we are to fight. As for applications this week, maybe a good application would be for us to spend some time asking to what degree we believe or do not believe what the angel said to Daniel. And he said, O man, greatly gloved. He said, How do you see yourself? Fear not. Peace be with you. Be strong and of good courage. Dispose and prayer. Lord, we thank you again for your word. We thank you for the