Last week we talked a lot about what it means to truly follow Jesus and what the capacity is for a human being to try to follow Jesus versus what it really takes to be a true follower. We saw that it goes beyond making a decision about Christ. It has to do with being one of Christ's sheep. But there's something I didn't talk about that I noticed later. Remember that Jesus could look at a person and know if he or she was one of the Father's chosen sheep. He could also know which were children of the devil by looking at them. You and I, we don't know that. But he could. But do you notice how he still treated the leaders and the people in our text? He appealed to them. He reasoned with them. He spoke to them about their souls. And I think this is an important uh Notice, if our doctrine doesn't lead us to desire to see even our greatest enemies saved We don't have the same doctrine that Jesus had. If our theological conclusions remove our passion for another person's salvation, our conclusions are wrongly formed. If our focus on the sovereignty of God removes our urgency for evangelism, we have missed something or added something in our doctrine. Christ constantly and consistently appealed to his enemies to repent and believe in him until his continued efforts would have sped up his death timeline. Okay, after our text, Jesus it begins to limit his public preaching. It's going downhill. And often, when he taught, he used parables from this point The parables were not clever stories to make truth clear. We hear that a lot. Jesus was such a good teacher, he used these stories. They weren't, according to him To make things clear, they were a judgment upon the Jewish people as a whole. Matthew 10, or Matthew 13, 10 through 17 tells us the inside scoop. Then the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? And he answered them, To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given. For to the one who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. This is why I speak to them in parables, because they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. Indeed, in their case, the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says, you will indeed hear but never understand, and you will indeed see, but never perceive. For this people's hearts are grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them. But blessed are your eyes, for they do see, and your ears, for they do hear. For truly I say to you, many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see and did not see it. And to hear what you hear and did not hear. So Jesus would tell a parable. Most of his audience would either be clueless Or have some vague idea about what he was talking about. But Jesus would explain the parable to his true followers. And they would hear and understand and they would follow Christ better as a result of being taught Jesus knew something about these leaders in our text that we couldn't know. He knew their hearts. So at this point, he began to focus on his followers He had a timeline that he had to keep, and he had a priority to get his followers up to speed, and he doesn't have much time left Jesus is closing out this interaction in our text by saying, I and the Father are one. I and the Father are one. That's one in essence. And the statement was clearly understood by the leaders as a proclamation of Christ's deity. That's why they wanted to kill him. Okay, back to the text. Verse 28: I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. We were talking a little bit about this in Sunday school. Do you want assurance of your salvation? Do you want to be confident in knowing that you are right with God? If you died today, you would be perfectly okay with God. There are two places to look. First, or 1 John teaches us to look at the changes in our lives that Christ has brought about. A Christian will see changes in how he sees life and lives life based upon his faith in Christ. That's going to happen. How visible it is, that varies, but this has to happen in the life of a believer. First John tells us what those changes look like, so we're not mystified. We know what to look for But then the second thing to look at are the promises of God. We look at those things that are true about a Christian. According to what God says. If you're a follower of Christ, these things are true of you, based on what we're reading in this text. Jesus has given you eternal life. It's not eternal life until, it's not eternal life unless. It is eternal life without any qualifiers. If you're in Christ, Jesus Christ has given you Eternal life. Now, if Christ gives a person eternal life, it is impossible that this person could stop having eternal life. It is both eternal and it is life. It's already been given. God will never take this gift back. So it can't be lost. We might prove by our lives we never really had it. But if we have it, it can't be lost. It's eternal by its very nature. The life that God gives a Christian is eternal by its very nature. Second thing, a follower of Christ will never perish. I have some weird stuff going on with my heart. It skips beats and adds extra beats and can't keep rhythm anymore. But some of you have this too. It keeps reminding me that I will perish. And as it does, it trains me to tell my soul that my body may perish, but I will never perish. I will never perish. And I'm I'm safe. in the hands of Jesus. Now the doctors aren't concerned by the way, so I continue I plan to continue to keep preaching. But uh I will not perish, and I need not fear, if I am in Christ's hands, ever. Third, no one will snatch them out of my hand. Remember our three enemies, our three mortal enemies of every single Christian who has ever lived? First, the world system around us. That's the same world system that's doing all of the devil's advertising and it's shaped according to his priorities. We got that going against us. Second, we have the flesh. The flesh is the muscle memory of our unregenerate self that's not whisked away when we come to Christ. We wish it were, but it's not Our sinful training and our sinful instincts push back against the truth that we now form our lives on in Christ as an enemy, the flesh. And the third, the devil. The personal evil force along with his minions who actively single us out at times and attack us. And I think the more central we are to doing the will of God, the more we receive his attacks. Well, none of these, as powerful as they seem, are going to get us out of Jesus' grasp. On us. That's the beauty here. Our enemies are great, but Jesus is greater. He's too good of a shepherd to allow for that. The robber or the wolf will meet his nail-studded rod before they ever reach us. Oh, they'll seek to do us harm. They'll attempt to do us harm. Our shepherd won't keep them always from attacking, but he will keep us from permanent harm. If you're in Christ, they cannot reach you in a way that will ultimately harm you. They can hurt us, but they can't ultimately harm us. Fourth thing, both the Father and the Son are united in holding us in their hands. The Father and the Son are in complete union with this heavenly ministry to us. My Father, he says, who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. So it's Christ and his Father. Oh, that our souls would comp comprehend this truth. If we would really get this. Oh that we would believe this in our heart of hearts. What comfort that brings. I am safe. How sad it is when we worry. What an insult we bring to our father and son who have told us this truth to our faces with undeniable clarity. It is impossible for us to be removed from our eternal position with Christ. Your soul safety is as certain as God's sovereign rule over all of creation. If God's will were ever to stop, if God were ever to stop being sovereign, we might have reason to be concerned But we know that such a thing is impossible. I am safe in the hands of Jesus. You are safe in the hands of Jesus if you are in Christ. We have enemies who seek our souls, but our protectors are infinitely more powerful than our enemies. And our protectors love us. And the fifth point: I and the Father are one. I've never really seen this quote in the context. The way that I should have. We have to ask, in context, what are the father and son one about? What are the father and son in this text one about? What are they united in? What is the emphasis here? What is the topic in our text? The answer to this should cause our hearts to cry out and say hallelujah. The Father and the Son are united in bringing people like you and me to to a glorious destination. That is the context that the Father and Son are one. They are united in seeing us through to the end. They are united in the salvation of human beings. That's the context. Now the statement surely is a declaration of the unity of the Father and the Son. It's truly a declaration of Jesus' deity. We know that. That I think is probably what's most obvious to us when we read it. And that's what the leader is fixated on. But they miss the absolute beauty of the statement. The Father and the Son are in absolute agreement in their desire to author and perfect salvation in sinful. human beings. That is what the Father and the Son are one about. They are one about seeing you and I live with them forever. Our hymn writer drives some of the point this point in the hymn, and we've sung this the last two weeks, I believe. But he will hold me fast. I just want to read the words again. When I fear my faith will fail. Christ will hold me fast. When the tempter would prevail, he will hold me fast. I could never keep my hold through life's fearful path, for my love's often cold. He must hold me fast. Those he saves are his delight. Christ will hold me fast. Precious in his holy sight, he will hold me fast. He will not let my soul be lost. His promises shall last, but by him at such a cost, he will hold me fast. For my life he bled and died. Christ will hold me fast. Justice has been satisfied. He will hold me fast. Raise with him to endless life. He will hold me fast till our faith is turned aside when he comes at last. He will hold me fast. He will hold me fast. For my Savior loves me so He will hold me fast. So while this is what we would have fixated on when Jesus said, I and the Father are one The leaders had no heart for that. They missed that all completely. They were on a witch hunt. So the precious truth about how loved we are by the Father and the Son was overshadowed to these rulers by the fact that Jesus had been a man. had made a claim that allows the leaders to unleash their hatred on Christ. They had performed he had performed a technicality that will allow them now to try to kill them. At least that's how they saw it. So the Jews picked up stones again to stone him. They want to kill Christ after Christ revealed the Father and the Son are united in protecting the salvation of every precious lamb of theirs. Can you imagine? Hating God for loving us. Jesus could have stricken them all dead right at that point. But again we see our gracious Lord appeals to them. Verse 32, Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you going to stone me? Obviously, they can't give a rational answer to that question. They're gonna have to reframe that question because they can't answer that one. But it is nonetheless a very good question. Yeah, I healed blind people, I healed deaf people, I healed deformed people, I brought people back from the dead Which one do you want to kill me for? That's pretty good. And the Jews answered him, saying, Well well, it's not for a good work that we're gonna stone you stone you for We're going to stone you, but not for good work, but for blasphemy, because you being a man make yourself God. This had to be embarrassing They would have had to say, admittedly, Jesus, you have done a great number, an unprecedented number, in all of human history Of miracles that have done immeasurable good to the ones that you healed. Yeah, but that aside, you claim to be God. Now it's interesting here that these leaders are accusing Jesus of blasphemy. They're accusing Jesus of blasphemy. Blasphemy is essentially assigning credit for something only God does to humans, or ascribing evil that God would never do to To God. humans The Jewish leadership had already let it be known that their explanation of how Jesus did these supernatural miracles was by the devil himself. So they ascribed evil to God. They had already ascribed evil to Jesus. And they were claiming that God, Jesus, is not God. That is blasphemy. The leaders are the blasphemers, not Jesus. Jesus was not only was only telling them the truth that yes, Christ is God. Now, I have grappled with this next section for more than a week, and and uh I understand what Jesus said. That's not a difficult in fact a long period of time I have grappled with with this, but I've greatly struggled with why. Why did Jesus used this particular argument at this particular place? Let's take a hard look at it. Verse 34. Jesus answered them. Is it not written in your law, I said you are gods? Now that is unusual. Right off the bat, that is unusual. Then he goes on to give his his his reason, his his uh logic. If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came And scripture can't be broken. Do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, you are blaspheming because I said, I am the Son of God. The quote Jesus uses is from Psalms 82 that Mark read to begin this. Psalms 82 is a song of Asaph directed toward corrupt judges who are failing to give justice to the That's the context of Psalm eighty-two. And then in Psalm eighty-two the wicked are described as those having neither knowledge nor understanding They walk about in darkness, all the foundations of the earth are shaken. That's the wicked. But then in contrast, Psalms 82, 6 and 7 says, of these corrupt judges I said, You are gods, small g, you are gods, son of the most high, all of you, nevertheless, like men you shall die and fall like any prince. So the judges of Israel. are called gods, smalgi, in contrast to the wicked who don't represent or recognize God's authority. These judges are called gods because they have been granted the authority, some degree of authority of God. So these judges who are called gods were representatives of God They're God's Son of the Most High, small g. The argument Jesus makes in our text is that there is a biblical precedent For referring to humans as God 's Son of the Most High, there is a biblical precedent The logic flows that when used properly, following the precedent of Scripture, a man calling himself God, Son of the Most High, has a scriptural precedence. It's not against Scripture, it goes along with Scripture. That is how Jesus is using this quote This that's what he seeks to prove in his logic. The problem I find here is that if we make the word gods too big, too expansive, Jesus' argument would be like this. Since we are all gods, and I'm just like you in being a God Then you can't accuse me of blasphemy since we're all gods. Well, Mormons love this verse and they base their theology upon it. This kind of approach, this kind of reasoning, would prove the point of biblical precedent. For a human being called God, but it would make too little of Jesus' distinct claim to deity. Only Jesus is God. Okay, so that's a wrong way to take it. And we know from the rest of Scripture that's definitely not how Jesus is arguing here, although it looks like it. But if we make too little of the word gods, small g, then Jesus' argument doesn't hold any weight For example, Jesus could not argue in the Old Testament you were called gods, but clearly that's not true, so how can you condemn me for saying that I'm a God? This approach would maintain a proper view of the deity of Christ, but it would deny the biblical precedent, which Jesus is using it for. No, if you make the meaning too small, the argument doesn't hold. It doesn't make any sense. If you make it too big, it denies the deity of Christ. So what do we do with that? And I've wrestled with this passage a lot, and I even bounced it off from my pastor friends, who fueled more of my thinking. But this is how I currently understand this passage. And check it out yourself, see what you think. For sure, it is the least to greatest argument. The argument says that the smaller thing is true, then surely the greater thing is true. For instance, this is the least to greatest argument. If a substitute teacher can tell a class to quiet down How much more can the actual full-time teacher tell them to quiet down? That's the least the greatest. If the least can do it, the greatest can do it, that sort of thing. So this is Jesus' argument The law called corrupt judges gods, small g, son of the most high. And I believe that's primarily because they were delegated some of God's authority. So Jesus makes the point that there is a scriptural precedent for a human to be called a God, son of the Most High. Now, how do we draw the distinction between the capital G God and the small G God? There has to be one. Scripture doesn't allow for these corrupt judges to be God, son of the most high, the same way that Jesus is God , Son of the Most High. But there is some resemblance. There's something God like about them that that uh the Old Testament is referring to. And maybe this will help. When Secretary of State Rubio represents President Trump in negotiations When Rubio speaks, one can say the president is speaking. President Small P. Rubio, in essence, Is the president with the small P. Rubio is not the president with the capital P. He sometimes speaks outside of the president's authority, and when he does, what he says doesn't matter any more than what any other citizen would. But when he speaks on behalf of Of the president, he carries the weight of the authority, even though the authority is delegated. Rubio speaks as president. Small P. If you were to deny that Rubio is speaking as president small p, you would be denying a reality, even though it is Trump. who is president with a capital P. He's the real president, the source of the presidency. I think That's how we should understand Psalms 82's use of the word gods as assigned to the corrupt judges. The rulers, even though corrupt, even though they will die are God-like and carry some of God's authority. So in calling them gods, it is not a violation of truth, as long as you keep that word gods in its proper context. But they are not God in essence. They have some godlike virtues in practice, but they are not God in essence. Now, in a lesser to greater argument, there's always a contrast between the lesser and greater, and there's a similarity between the lesser and greater The contrast, how are the rulers inferior to Christ? How are the ones called God's small g inferior to Christ? Well, according to Psalms 82, they are corrupt in their judgments and they will die. They do not do what God once done. And they were recipients of the Word of God. God's authoritative words did not originate with them. So these are all contrasts. These are the small g. Now what are the what are the similarities? How are they godlike? They weakly represent the true God's authority in contrast to the wicked who they were supposed to be judging. Jesus is arguing, I believe, that Christ is the perfection, the essence of what these men who are called God, small g were only functioning as. Christ did not judge corruptly like the rulers did. Christ only does those acts that perfectly carry out what God wants done and what God can do. Okay. If the religious rulers Who fit the picture painted by Psalms 82 perfectly, if these corrupt judges are referred to as gods, even though they carry the authority of God without the character of God If that's true, then how much more so is it appropriate to call Jesus the Son of God when he perfectly carries out the will of God? Now I had a lot of trouble understanding why would Jesus use this particular argument at this particular time. It appears to minimize the huge difference between him and the perfect Son of God, born of a virgin without sin, and us as human beings. You know, it's odd But after looking at it from a bunch of different angles, I think he chose the argument because in arguing this particular way, Christ could make two points at the same time, and his audience would get it. First, there is scriptural precedent for a human to be declared as God Now any serious student of the Bible needs to factor this in, and these guys call themselves serious students. Any serious biblical scholars who elevate the name and person of God properly cannot have a knee-jerk reaction based on a biblical understanding that says if a human makes a claim to be God, they must be wrong because Scripture would never allow For such a concept. No. There are clues in Scripture that the Messiah actually would and could make these claims. I think that's the point. There is a biblical precedent. It should not have knocked you off your kilter when you heard me say that, I think it's the essence. Jesus is urging such a scholar to examine the characteristics of the one making the claim. Don't reject them without consideration. There may have been some in the crowd who would have had their eyes open when Jesus said this. They may have thought, oh man, he's right. I have been writing him off on some law that I have in my head, and here is a biblical precedent I never even thought about before. This explanation by Christ would have been a great mercy to a person like that. It might make some of them question whether they were right to jump to a judgment of blasphemy. They might realize that their assumptions were false. The Bible actually does prepare them for a perfect man declaring himself to be God. And then second, and this is uh the part I hadn't considered at all, these inferior judges Cannot condemn the perfect judge for claiming to be God. These imperfect leaders are not qualified to make that judgment They are the small G gods who are making themselves out into the capital G gods. I think part of the point that Jesus is making is that these religious leaders had more in common with the corrupt judges. Than with Jesus. And as such, they are not qualified to make the judgment of whether Jesus is blasphemy or not. Whatever the case, the conclusion is clear. The religious leaders do not have grounds to accuse Christ of blasphemy. I think that's the end result that those guys would have come away with. He used the scripture, he showed us precedent, and even his precedent makes us look bad. Now there's also something else to know here that's really vital. And we see again how Christ views the scriptures In Christ's view of Scripture, the words that were chosen by the biblical writers matter The words, the actual words. Aramaic, Greek, Hebrew, the actual words They are precise, and he depends upon every word of it to be right. Christ refers to a single word in an obscure passage to make his whole point here. And then he says, and Scripture cannot be broken. He is stamping his endorsement on that Old Testament passage that I find really uncomfortable and difficult to deal with. He is saying scripture can't be broken. That's there, and it's there for a purpose and you can depend on it. And it's not the first time that Jesus did this He also did this when he was arguing with the Sadducees about resurrection. And Christ said this in Matthew 22, 31. He said, As for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God? I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but the living. This time Jesus relied upon the verb tense. in order to make his whole point. Jesus also said this in Matthew 5. 18, For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. In Christ's view of Scripture, he treated everything as being inerrant. Now, you and I don't have the original manuscripts. Translations are not perfect without error. But as they represent the original manuscripts accurately, and we have a pretty good idea of what they are We can use them that way. Jesus had a very, very high view of Scripture. He relied upon more than just general meetings of what is being said, like some translations are now. The words don't actually matter. It's the idea that the words are trying to convey, that's all that matters Jesus relied upon each word that was selected, and we should too. And then Jesus continues, If I'm not doing the works of my Father, don't believe me. But if I do them, even though you don't believe me, at least believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father. When I came to Christ at twelve years old, I expected my decision Of receiving Christ to come with a life-changing experience. I don't know why I expected that, but I know that I did. And that experience did not come in my life. And as a result, I had the blessing of many doubts Uh lots of them. Lots of doubts. And I had no way to verify if what I did was real or not, since I didn't have a dramatic experience. So from about age twelve to age fifteen, I had to get answers to my doubts. I was driven to it. I just wanted it, I wanted the doubt to go away Frankly. But now I realize that the doubt is what God used to build a solid foundation in my life. I'd read any book about apologetics that I could get my hands on I needed proof, and the more I looked, the more I got, and that was the beauty of it. I also needed to understand why Christianity was true and nothing else was. And again, there was proof, there was logic, there was reason, and I thank God for that turbulent time in my young Christian life. I needed it more than I realized. Christianity is not a sucker 's religion I've seen lots of versions of it that appear to be. And that's a sad thing. But Christianity is not a sucker 's religion. Every step of the way, the Christian is greeted with proofs. We can validate and verify the claims of Jesus by the acts of Jesus and the historical record about it. Much of Scripture was written in reference to historical realities that can be validated with archaeology. The internal prophecies in the scripture can be traced to historical events that either already happened or are yet to happen. The ancient copies are so numerous as to give us great confidence that our Bibles are nearly identical to the original manuscripts. Nobody else has anything like that. And the resurrected Christ had over 500 eyewitnesses. If you have trouble believing Christ's words, follow the evidence of what he did. It'll lead you to Christ. Granted, it'll still take a miracle for you to place your faith in Christ. But if you're following the evidence, it's likely that God is already doing a work in your heart If the Jewish leaders had objectively followed the facts, they would have seen all the evidence that was needed to prove Jesus Christ was who he said he was. Then verse 9, again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped their hands. And we see from that again, God's timing is always perfect. Nobody could kill Christ until it was time for him to be killed. And then verse 40, he went away across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained. And many came to him, and they said, John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true. And many believed in him there. Christ was moving more and more away from public ministry Now Jesus moved to a more obscure landscape and a place that was harder for the public to reach, and many still came to him These people were primed by John the Baptist, and they were more open to receiving Christ. The signs meant something to them, and they allowed the miracles of Christ to sway their opinions. John told them what Christ would be like, and they saw with their own eyes that Jesus was who John had predicted. And the result Many believed in Christ on the other side of the Jordan River, away from the religious hotbed of Jerusalem. Alright, let's close in prayer. Lord God, we praise you. We praise you for your wonderful works We praise you and we thank you for the the works of your hand that are visible, that can be seen, that are impossible, that only you can do. We thank you that you you left a trail of