Well, we're quickly coming to the conclusion of the Lord's ministry on the planet, at least the story of it. This period of time has more ink dedicated to the telling of it than any other period in history. By that fact alone, it's safe to assume that these are the most important days of human history. Mark has finished what he has to say about the Olivet discourse. That's what scholars call the teaching Christ gave about the destruction of the temple and the return of Christ. And while Mark has finished out what he has to say, there's a lot that he left out. First, he left out the parable of the ten virgins, which Matthew 25 reports. Remember that parable? There were ten virgins who were invited to be part of a marriage feast. Five were wise and five were foolish. Five were prepared by having the oil that they would need for their lamps with them. Five were not. And the five that were not prepared were rejected from joining the celebration. The application of that parable was that we should be prepared for the Lord's return because we don't know when it will be. Then Matthew 25 also reports the parable of the talents. In it, a man traveled to a far country, but before he goes, he gives varying amounts of money to his servants to invest for his master. The ones who invested it well, the master rewards. He tells them, Well done, good and faithful servant. You were faithful over a few things, I'll make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. That's what he spoke. Then a servant who had been given the least gave his report. And he told the master what he did and why he did it. In doing so, he revealed his lack of trust and respect for the master. His lack of proper conduct was due to his lack of proper regard for his master. He would not do the proper work for the Lord because in essence he resented and hated God, or in this in this uh instance, the master. So he buried the money, and then he gave it back, just like he had buried it. The master's response reveals that the lack of return on investment wasn't so much the issue, but the evil regard that the servant held for the master. The men were either good and faithful servants, or they were wicked and lazy servants. There were no middle ground. They were either willing to gladly serve the master's best interests or they would resent the idea that they were even required to do so. We need to note that the wicked servant, and that's what his behavior proved him to be, was cast into punishment. Then the next thing that Matthew tells us, that Mark does not, is what Christ said about the final judgment. Christ will separate the sheep from the goats. And again, it's the works that will reveal what was in each of the persons' hearts. They were judged on what they did, but what they did was driven by their regard for their Lord. What they did was driven by what they were. The sheep took care of fellow believers in need. The goats didn't And neither party was aware of the significance of the activity as they were doing it or not doing it. And then the sheep were told, Come you blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. The goats were told, depart from me, you cursed, into the everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. These were all things that Christ taught in the context of living by waiting on his return. It's really important for us to get this. We were told about future events. We're told that everything is headed toward those future events. They are sure to happen. They're certain to happen. Christ mentions that these are not going to be pleasant times. There is nothing he says that would lead a believer into being optimistic about the future of human society. He essentially tells us that it's bad and it's getting worse. And you can expect more of the same as human history continues. Okay then. What should we do in the meantime? It's very, very clear here what Christ expects. All of the parables point to the same basic attitude We're to live in a way that we will please the master when he returns. We're to live in a way that we will please the master when he returns. That's what it reduces down to. We're to care for his interests while he is away. That should be our priority Everything else should revolve around what it is that Christ once done. The wise virgins ordered their life activities around that which would best serve the bridegroom. The faithful investors ordered their life activities around that which would provide the best profit for their master. And the sheep lived their lives caring for those people around them who had needs that they could meet. Those who were cast into darkness, those who didn't make the cut in these parables, aren't mentioned to have done any hideous crimes. They may have been fine world citizens. They aren't cast out for doing terrible external acts. We need to pay attention here. All they were doing. was living distracted lives. They were living for the here and now. They weren't considering the return of their master And if they were, they were not aimed at pleasing him when he returns. We really need to think about this. We can't hear this through our theology sieve. Sure, it has to pass through that sieve first to know if it's trustworthy. You know, we're asking, does this fit scripture? Of course. It has to pass that test. But it has to go further. We can't leave it in the category of truths we should believe. Do you really believe that you can do something that pleases God? In your heart of hearts, do you really believe that you can do something that pleases God? Do I really believe that there are things that I can do that Jesus will one day put his arm around my shoulder and say, you know what, John? That thing you did pleased me. I'm happy about that thing you did, that life you live. If you're anything like me, that truth is exceedingly hard to imagine. We know what we are. We know that just getting an allowance into Christ's presence is a million times more than what we could ever deserve. And all that's true. So we, at least I, have the tendency to think that grace is me covered. I can get in the door because of the goodness of God. But I tend to imagine that I could never really do anything that would really please God, that would actually put a smile on Jesus' face. I could never really do anything that would win his smiler's enthusiastic approval. But you know what? That's bad doctrine. That's bad belief. We see here that everyone who will be received into the kingdom of God will be enthusiastically welcomed and endorsed. We will get a good job from our Savior. You will get an attaboy from the creator of the world. Do you find that inspiring? I think we should. We need to let the very notion of this creep into our hearts. We should let it fill our minds and our awareness. When God's word talks about rewards, it means what it says. We can please Jesus. Not only that, believers will be doing things that please Jesus when Christ returns. They will prove what they are by what they do. You'll find this all through the New Testament. Believers live changed lives. Never perfectly, but over time the change is visible. Now, just to keep things in perspective, we cannot please Christ if our sin has not been forgiven. We cannot please Christ in a state of enmity with God. We can't earn a right standing with God through any effort of our own. Our sin problem has got to be taken care of before we can have a relationship with God. But once we receive Christ's work on the cross to cover our sin, we now do have the glorious opportunity to please God. We can now do things that somehow have a positive effect on Christ. We can imagine him giving us the well-done verdict, and it isn't fiction. He is actually going to do it someday. Along with this, again, we can't forget that there's another side to this. In every one of these parables, God's endorsement is given based on activities that are done, life that is lived. We learn in James that faith without works is dead. We learn all through the New Testament that good works are things that come out of Christians, like cheeps are what come out of a bird. It will happen, and it has to happen. When the resurrection power of Jesus Christ is put into a person, something new has got to come out of that person. It just has to. Ephesians 2, 8 through 10 says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. We're pretty heavy on that first. And it's true, and we should be. Then it goes on, for we are his workmanship created in Christ for good works. We're created for good works, which God prepared beforehand, before us, before we were born, he prepared these works that we should walk in them. If we are created for good works, and God has created those good works we will do before He created us, that pretty much tells us that every true Christian will do good works. They aren't saved by doing good works. We're saved by grace, which none of us could merit at all, by the very definition of grace. But we will be empowered and driven. To do good works. Now that we have seen that if we're in Christ, our good works can please Christ, we have all the reason in the world to do those good works. Just think, if you knew your boss, if if you have a job, if you knew your boss was going to throw you a party and give you a million dollars in ten years for the appreciation for all the work that you do How hard would you work? Especially if you knew that he he didn't have to give you a penny of it. But he wants to. Well, that's kind of the position that we're in as Christians. Christ bodily resurrected. His ascension was seen by a lot of people, but he is coming back. And when he does, he will reward those who are living by waiting. Do we believe that? If we do, if we know that we can do things today that will please him when he returns, why not do every one of them that we can? Why not invest every talent for his service? Like the song said that we sang. Take my life and let it be consecrated for you. Why not regard every aspect of your life in regard to how you can please Jesus? It's logical, it's sensible. We have been given every reason to serve Christ in this life. Look at your life this morning. What is your life for? What is your life for? Who are you trying to please? Where do most of our efforts go? Where do our best efforts go? What would you do today if at the end of the day you would stand before Christ? What if he would be at your bedside this evening? What would you do today if you knew that when he shows up at your bed tonight, you could have done things that would please him? That he would say, good job. I'm pleased that you serve me that way today. What would we do differently? That's the mindset that we're talking about. That's living by waiting. That's what it's all about. Is that what we're doing? Is that how we're living? Is that how we're thinking? I came across this while I was studying, and I can't help but include it. It's by A. W. Tozer, and it's extremely prophetic. He says this, and it's pretty long. The longing to see Christ that burned in the breasts of those first Christians seems to have burned itself out. All we have left are the ashes. It's precisely the yearning and fainting for the return of Christ that has distinguished personal hope. From the theological one, the personal hope from the theological hope. Mere acquaintance with correct doctrine is a poor substitute for Christ. And familiarity with the New Testament eschatology will never take the place of love-inflamed desire to look on Christ's face. If the tender yearning is gone from the Advent hope today, there must be a reason for it. And I think I know what it is, or what they are, for there are a number of them. One is simply that popular fundamentalist theology has emphasized the utility of the cross rather than the beauty of the one who died on it. The saved man's relation to Christ has been made contractual instead of personal. The work of Christ has been stressed until it has eclipsed the person of Christ. Substitution has been allowed to supersede identification. What he did for me seems to be more important than what he is to me. Redemption is seen as an across-the-counter transaction which we accept, and the whole thing lacks emotional content. We must love someone very much to stay awake and long for his coming. And that may explain the absence of power in the Advent hope, even among those who still believe in Him. Another reason for the absence of real yearning for Christ's return is that Christians are so comfortable in this world that they have little desire to leave it. For those leaders who set the pace of religion and determine its content and quality, Christianity has become of late remarkably lucrative. The streets of gold do not have too great an appeal for those who find it so easy to pile up gold and silver in the service of the Lord here on earth We all want to reserve the hope of heaven as a kind of insurance against the day of death. But as long as we are healthy and comfortable, why exchange a familiar good for something about which we actually know very little? So reasons the carnal mind and so subtly that we're scarcely aware of it. Again, in these times, religion has become jolly good fun right here in this present world. And what's the hurry about heaven anyway? Christianity, contrary to what some had thought, is another and higher form of entertainment. Christ has done all the suffering. He has shed all the tears and carried all the crosses. We have but to enjoy the benefits of his heartbreak in the form of religious pleasures modeled after the world but carried on in the name of Jesus. So say the same people who claim to believe in Christ's second coming. History reveals that times of suffering for the church have also been times of looking upward. Tribulation has always sobered God's people and encouraged them to look for and to yearn after the return of their Lord. Our present preoccupation with this world may be a warning of bitter days to come. God will wean us from the earth some way. The easy way if possible, the hard way if necessary. It's up to us. Looking at the condition of the church, end quote. Looking at the condition of the church in the United States, I think A. W. Tozer was right when he said this 40 years ago. Will we live by waiting? In our current place, in our current state, will we live by waiting? Really? Alright, now that we've reviewed the content that the other Gospels held and Mark left out between Mark 13, 37 and Mark 14. 1, let's move on to our text. After two days it was the Passover and the feast of the unleavened bread. The Passover is two days away now. It's still Wednesday. Passover's on Friday. All through the history of mankind, we have seen the substitutionary blood sacrifice. It began when a sheep had to be killed to clothe Adam and Eve. Innocent blood was shed to cover their sin. An acceptable blood sacrifice was required even at the time of Cain and Abel. When Abraham placed Isaac on the altar, an acceptable blood offering was provided by a lamb caught in the thicket. Then there was the there were the Passover lambs that were offered the night before the Israelites left Egypt. The blood on the mantles caused the death angel to pass by the house. Judgment fell where there was no blood covering. The cross was also foretold in Psalms 22, 1 through 18, Isaiah 53, 1 through 12, Daniel 9, 27, and Zechariah 12, 10. And then John the Baptist said of Christ, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. John 1. 29. The Passover was one of the biggest spiritual events for any practicing Jew. This was the day where the sacrificed lamb had its greatest significance. All the people understood that they owed their existence to those lambs that were sacrificed to save them from the judgment of God and to deliver them from their bondage. All of Jewish history was pointing forward to the event that was about to happen in two days. So it's no coincidence that this event was falling on Passover This was God ordained. It happened when it would be most clear what it meant on Passover. And this year even was prophesied by Daniel in Daniel 9, 25 through 26. It says, know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the command to restore and build Jerusalem, Until Messiah the Prince, there shall be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. The street shall be built again and the wall, even in the troublesome times. Christ's crucifixion was happening at the same time that the Passover lambs were being sacrificed in the temple. God was killing his spotless lamb that would take away the sins of the redeemed. At the same time the priests were killing the lambs for the Passover. The feast of the unleavened bread began the next day and it lasted a full week. It commemorated Israel's exodus from Egypt. It was named for the bread that they took with them. It's important to note that this timing was critical. Christ had to die at this very moment in human history. There have been many attempts to kill him earlier. Christ always managed to evade those dangers. But this death Could not wait one more day. It could not wait one more hour. Now that would have been very, it would have been seen to be very unlikely. If you were a betting man to bet that Christ was going to die at this time. But it was going to happen nonetheless. We may sometimes get the idea that God does not keep track of time. You may think he must not know how many days you have suffered or how badly you need something right now. Well, Scripture assures us that God is very aware of time. He doesn't calculate it like we do. And he knows the other things we need more than we might need comfort. He is, after all, getting us ready for eternity. And that evidently takes a lot of training. So we can trust and believe God knows what time it is. And the chief priests and the scribes, the next passage, and the chief priests and the scribes thought how they might take him by trickery and put him to death. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people. We learn a little more in Matthew, in Matthew 26, 3 through 5. Then the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders of the people assembled at the palace of the high priest, who is called Caiaphas. and plotted to take Jesus by trickery and kill him. But they said, not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people. We could title this section, What Not to Do in a Church Business Meeting. According to both texts We see the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders met at the home of the high priest, which incidentally is called the palace, which is a little bit troublesome as well. And what we see here in the Pharisees and the Sadducees Are on the s they're on the same murder committee. These guys hated each other viciously But Jesus had attacked the prophet centers of the Sadducees and undermined their money-making activities, so he made enemies out of them, and he had constantly criticized the Pharisees, the so-called spiritual leadership. He revealed them for the scoundrels and the reprobates that they were. So they hated Christ too. And it would be interesting to know how all the parties were invited to this little event. Remember, these guys hated each other. How in the world did they pull this gathering together? But here they were, one big, happy, hateful family. So this emergency meeting was called because of the leader's concern for the flock's spiritual need. No. It was called for how to discern a certain problem spiritually? No. It was called to cry out to God in a prayer of guidance. No. It was called because they hated someone so much they wanted to kill a man. I know a little bit about eldering, and that is not a good purpose for an elders meeting. If you elders are out there thinking about calling a meeting to kill somebody, don't invite me. I'm not coming. And and look at who it is they want dead God 's son. What an irony. Here these guys are arguing vehemently about which party is serving the one true God better. The Sadducees party, uh the party most true to the first five books of the Bible, and the Pharisees party, the one that believes that God can't be kept in the Sadducees' box. They believe better of God. They think that the that God is still capable of amazing miracles like the resurrection of the dead. And here they are together, meeting peacefully and orderly to accomplish how to kill the only begotten Son of God thoroughly. We see it again and again, but it has to be said. Not everyone who says they speak for God truly do. Not everyone who thinks they are spiritual really is. We don't need to hold out our hands in fellowship just because someone says they like God. These people, while sometimes are the greatest friends of God, could also just as easily be the greatest enemies of God. Discernment is always required. I remember a so-called youth rally I was involved in at one time, and there was all kind of pr prophetic speech going on about what God was going to do with this Garrett Garrett County-based event that was going to be held And it it didn't look like to me that it would work based on what I knew about secular kids, but I figured, hey, if God's going to do this, I want to see it. Well about ten kids showed up at the first meeting and after all the kids left and they were mostly church kids, the leaders of the event went through the rows and they were casting out all the demons out of the seats. And I remember thinking at that point, one must pick their spiritual allies very closely. Not everyone who says they know something about God really knows something about God. As it is now, much of the greatest resistance to Bible-believing churches who tell the truth about things like homosexuality and abortion are people from liberal churches. When these people speak of their love for Jesus, we do well to ask them, who is this Jesus that you love so much? Define him. A. W. Tozer said a long time ago, it's no use to deny that Christ was crucified by persons who would today be called fundamentalists. We have got to watch our lives and doctrine closely. We have got to be discerning to make sure that those we trust to represent Christ really represent Christ. Saying Lord, Lord is not enough. Not everything that proclaims loyalty to Christ really has loyalty to Christ. In our instance today, these people claim to be the experts at loving God. And they hated him. Look at the last part of our text this morning, verse 4. And they plotted to take Jesus by trickery and kill him. But they said, not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people. Look at the methods that these so-called Jewish leaders are using These people had determined outside of the Word of God what needed to be done, and they were bound and determined to get it done by Hooker by Crook. These guys may have been movers and shakers, but they were not in any way representing God. We can never determine what God wants his church to be doing outside of the Word of God. This goes along with what we talked about a few weeks ago. There are some things that every believer ought to be doing. Every believer ought to be reading the Word of God and praying. He or she ought to be fellowshipping with other believers. He or she ought to be meeting the needs of other believers. And he or she should be spreading the gospel as there is opportunity We can safely proclaim all those things. But anything the Scripture doesn't say you should be doing is not for me or anyone else to be telling you that you should be doing. These leaders left the pages of Scripture in their oversight of their responsibilities, and by so doing they allowed their flesh to rule. When that happens, we can always know that the enemy of our souls is behind it. Anytime flesh rules the church, you have got the enemy of our souls attack. We must submit to the Lordship of Christ through his word. If his word says it, we should believe it and do it. If he doesn't, it might be good or bad, but we have no authority to command it in Christ's name. God does not need trickery. He does not require a clever mind to accomplish his will. And he certainly does not require a poll to be taken for leadership to determine what Christ once done. The leadership of the church does not need to know what the world wants in order to give them what Christ wants them to have. The religious leaders kept their thumb on the opinions of the masses. True spiritual leadership doesn't require that scrutiny. We can just do what our master tells us to do. That's enough. Christ told us that his message was going to create an uproar in the people. He told us this in previous passages He just told us that the true message is likely to divide families and sometimes result in our imprisonment and death. And unlike these spiritual leaders in our text, we are not to change one little thing. to avoid the massive disapproval of the crowds. These guys needed to care more about what God thinks and less about what the crowds think. And that may be true of churches today who pretend to provide spiritual leadership, but they do it based on the polls that they take of what people want. That is a very, very dangerous path. We need to consider that it was the religious leaders that killed Christ who cared so much about what the masses wanted. Christ only cared about what his father wanted. So this week for application, we would do well to consider what does it mean to live by waiting for Christ's return? How would my life change if I really believed that I could do things today that would honestly and truly and deeply please God? How should my life change to live for his return? And the second, we do well to consider what true spiritual leadership is. We need to discern those issues. based on what God says. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your kindness Grace. We thank you for your love and your word. We thank you that you give us guidance. We don't have to believe everything that we hear, but we can compare it against your word to know if it's true or not And uh Lord, you say you're returning, and somehow you can find pleasure in that that you have created in us. in that which lives itself out in faithfulness to you. That the things that are inspired by love for you that were inspired by the faith that you gave us Result in an outcropping of things that please you. And we have the wonderful, glorious, unimaginable opportunity To do those things. Help us, Lord, to live by waiting for your return, by doing those things now that will please you when you come. And to do it by faith in you and faith in your word, that you are who you say you are. We ask that you would help us to love you more deeply With more of ourselves, our our whole person. And that it would have a transforming Influence in how we even think about life And that we could live for you and look forward to your return, because that's where our reward is. And help us too to avoid, like the plague , any spiritual so-called leadership that does not base itself wholly in your word. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.