Now let's start by reviewing up to this point. Nicodemus sought out Jesus, and Nicodemus starts by stating an affirming statement to Jesus. We know that you're from God because of miracles. You're doing miracles. And he calls Jesus rabbi, something that Nicodemus would only say to somebody that he regards as an equal. If Nicodemus had a question, he never got to it. Jesus immediately takes the leadership of the conversation and he lays it truly, truly on him. I think it'd be like telling a person who believes the world is flat. Truly, truly, I tell you the world is round. It would be that kind of thing. The truly, truly lets Nicodemus know that Jesus is telling Nicodemus something that is absolutely, without any doubt, completely true. And maybe astounding. And it's stuff that Nicos Nicodemus had not known and he had not been teaching. He was telling Nicodemus that being right with God takes way more than a bloodline and a good track record. It takes a new heart. It takes a birth from God. Nicodemus did not give a stellar response to Jesus' declaration of truth. He seems, in my opinion, to try to make what Jesus said look silly and absurd about what, go back into my my mom's womb. Come on. So Jesus appeals to forces that we cannot see, but we know to be at work. That was his next line of reasoning. You know, if a flag suddenly starts flapping in the air, that the wind is present. The Holy Spirit is doing that kind of stuff, and Nicodemus should have known it And Jesus rebukes Nicodemus for not knowing it. It was his job to know it after all. That's where we take up things this morning. I'd like to start with an observation. I think that Jesus brothers would have given Jesus a talking to about now. about how he was handling this interaction with Nicodemus. Or yeah, with Nicodemus. Think of it. If you're trying to start a movement You try to find common ground to build on with those who you want as your allies. And the more powerful the ally, the better. You would want to compliment them and cater to them and find as much common ground as you can. You would grant you would want to gently correct them. You don't want to offend them Eventually, you know, when you when you were sure that they were on your team, you would deal with the issues. Jesus did the exact opposite of all of that. Jesus was highly offensive to Nicodemus. He was not speaking to Nicodemus as either an ally or an equal. Jesus was treating Nicodemus like a schoolchild who thought they knew something, but they didn't know anything at all. That's not how you build a movement. That's not how to grow politically powerful. That's not how to win friends and influence people. But it is how you make disciples when pride is the obstacle in your disciples' life. Nicodemus is going to have to come to love Christ. And to love truth at the expense of his pride. Jesus knows that if the Holy Spirit does not soften Nicodemus' heart, Nicodemus is going to hate Jesus. But if the wind does blow in Nicodemus' heart, Christ will end up with a true born-again disciple. And that's all he wants. Christ did not want anyone following him for purely earthly reasons. He didn't want that then, and he doesn't want that now. He didn't cater to it then and he doesn't cater to it now. His approach might be different, depending on on the heart of the potential follower. Sometimes he's kinder and gentler with people. Sometimes he's more harsh and up front with people. But the only people Jesus regards as followers of his first must be born again. Nothing short of that is acceptable. So Jesus gives Nicodemus the next round of truth in verse 11. Truly, truly, I say to you, We speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you don't receive our testimony. This is the first time that Jesus reveals the opposition in Nicodemus' heart. to what Christ is saying and what Christ is teaching. And again we see the truly truly. He was essentially saying, be a still and listen, Nicodemus. I'm not done talking yet You know, I'm going to again tell you something you do not know and you should know. Now, where Jesus says we speak, It's plural. And it could mean my father and I appealing to Christ being part of the Godhead, or it could be that Christ was including his followers, his true followers in this, like we're all saying this together. I think it's more likely referring to Christ than his father, because these his followers haven't been around very much And it's likely, the reason that he says we, I think, is likely a response to the we that Nicodemus started with. Remember, Nicodemus said, We know you are of God, so he's talking about me and my buddies You know, some of my other leaders , we have an opinion about you. And Jesus says, Well, we know something too. Christ is saying, when I talk to you about being born from above, being born of the Father, when I talk about the Spirit's effects being visible, even though the Spirit is not visible When I talk about that stuff, I know what I'm talking about. It's foreign to you, Nicodemus, but this has all been part of my spiritual environment. I know spiritual. I know supernatural. I'm an expert talking about my field of expertise. But Nicodemus, you and your fellow Jewish leaders, the you that Jesus uses here is plural. So he's not just talking to Nicodemus, he's referring to the we that he brought up to begin with. And he says, you guys Um and he responds to that that we says, you religious leaders, you think you're too smart for this. Y'all don't have any experience in this field. So y'all try to dismiss it. You doubt that I know what I'm talking about. You receive what I do, but you don't receive what I say about what I do. How much sense does that make? Do you really think you know better about the miracles than I do? Remember Nicodemus, who is doing the miracles, is a mere you. Now we may belittle Nicodemus here in our minds, but how quick are we to do the same thing? Jesus does the supernatural act of saving us. But when he tells us what we should believe, when he tells us the implications of this salvation that he has provided for us We simply are slow to apply it to our lives. Oh, we don't usually say, I reject what Christ says. I know he saved me, but that's all I'm going to accept. We just sort of ignore the implications. We find a way to live our way under our understanding, and we replace our understanding with what God tells us about That significant salvation that he gave us, like the fact that the power court of sin is unplugged now, that this happened. And this has implications in the fact that now we do not need to sin. Things like that. We received the miracle of salvation, but we're slow to receive Christ's testimony about what that means in our lives. We won't reply the accompanying truths, or at least we're slow to sometimes. It never pays to argue with an expert when you're clearly not one. And that's who who Nicodemus is dealing with. Verse 12, if I've told you earthly things and you don't believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? The question we first need to answer here is: what does Jesus mean here by earthly things? I've told you earthly things. Well, wind is earthly. It's a physical force. When Jesus compares a force you can't see with an effect that you can see. Christ is talking about earthly things. When he applies this earthly thing, even children can understand They know when the wind's blowing. You ask your kid, you know, they you don't have to be too old before he can answer the question, is the wind blowing? Well yeah, i i it is Even a child can understand the visible effects of the whole of the Holy Spirit's effect on humans' lives. He's still talking about the visible. Anyone can see a changed life. Just like you can see that the wind's blown, you can see a changed life. They don't need to be a spiritual person to recognize a changed life. A heathen, an absolute heathen person, person who has no belief in Christ, can see a changed life There are no spiritual prerequisites to see in this truth. It's an earthly, visible thing. And Jesus is saying, I'm telling you this, and you don't believe this. It's a little hard to explain more. Now, if Jesus tells Nicodemus that a changed life is what is needed, and a changed life is what happens. And it happens from a source outside of themselves, and it happens to them. If it happens at all, it happens to them And that's who gets into the kingdom of God. Nicodemus can't receive that. It doesn't fit into his understanding of how things work. He doesn't believe it. And there lies the problem. It's not that the thing is unbelievable It's that Nicodemus will have his life destroyed, his reputation ruined, his self-esteem crushed, and his pride upended if he accepts what Jesus is telling him. Be like if Nicodemus had just written a book about how to get right with God and has nothing to do with what Jesus is telling him. That's the kind of bind that Nicodemus is finding himself in. Now rest assured the issue that Christ was addressing was not as much Nicodemus' failure to understand what Christ was saying. As much as it was his unwillingness to believe in Christ. We like to believe that our failures in the past were due primarily to ignorance, things that we just didn't know. But as we track it down, we often find it as a deeper root than that. The real root is often that we refuse to believe in Christ the way that true belief in him demands. Our problem was not in what we did not understand. Our problem is in who we did not wholeheartedly, without reservation, believe and serve. That's Nicodemus' problem here. Jesus made the point with Nicodemus, if you won't believe the easy thing that doesn't even require spiritual new birth to understand, how are you going to believe the truths that do require supernatural faith to believe? And then he goes on. Verse 13: No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. Jesus here, I think, is pushing Nicodemus. He's letting Nic Nicodemus know that Nicodemus cannot approach Jesus as an equal here. We're not talking about the same level. Approaching Jesus as an intellectual topic to discuss academic things was not going to cut it. In the book of Daniel was the son of man. We see the mention of the son of man, and we should take a real quick look at it in its context again. Daniel 7, 13 and 14. It said, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. So we see right away where the Son of Man is. He's with the Ancient of Days. He's in the godhood. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. So we see the Son of Man in the vicinity Of the eternal kingdom, of i of the throne of God. We see here that the home of the Son of Man is heaven. The Son of Man knows heaven because he lived in heaven. It's not a theoretical construct to him. He doesn't know about it. He knows it. Nicodemus is having trouble with things that Jesus knows. Well, Jesus just keeps escalating Nicodemus' discomfort here. Jesus is saying that there have been no experts about heaven living on earth except the Son of Man that was displayed in Daniel. Evidently, there were a bunch of fake stories about people who have been exposed to heaven and came back, and some things never change. Jesus is saying none of those myths are true. There's only one expert. And I think Nicodemus would have understood that Jesus is claiming to be that one expert. How mind-blowing would that have been? I mean, poor Nicodemus he 's figuring he's going to go talk to a a fellow scholar. That's not at all what he gets. So the point is, no one is qualified to tell about heavenly things except those who know heavenly things. And the only way they can know them is either to have spent time in heaven or to have received information from someone who had spent time in heaven. Jesus is saying, I could teach you Nicodemus about heaven. But we both know you wouldn't believe it. You have in your presence the one person who could school you on spiritual things, but you won't hear it from me. I descended from heaven. I am that one. But up until now, you won't have it. When you read this text, you almost get the feeling that since Jesus was already blowing Nicodemus's mind, he might as well continue. Christ wanted Nicodemus to understand the terms of salvation. He wanted Nicodemus to know what to expect. The same son of man who could teach spiritual things because he lived in heaven, the same son of man Will be lifted up like the serpent in the wilderness. Verse 14, As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must this son of man be lifted up. There are so many interesting things about this story, about the serpent. It's hard not to get distracted. That would probably be worth another sermon, but we're not going to do it this morning. But let's just read it from Numbers. Numbers 21, 5 through 9 says, And the people spoke against God and against Moses. Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? What gratitude. For there's no food and no water, and we loathe this worthless food. They're complaining about God cooking. Not a good good place to be. Then the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people and they bit the people, so that many people of Israel died. And the people came to Moses and said Okay, we've sinned. You get the idea, it's not like wholeheartedly repentance, but we've sinned and we we're obviously in trouble and we for we have spoken against the Lord and against you. So at least they had got their definitions right, but he said, Pray to the Lord and and that he take away the serpents from us. So Moses prayed for the people And the Lord said to Moses, Make a fiery serpent and set it on a pole, and everyone who is bitten, when he sees it, shall live. So Moses made a bronze serpent to set it on a pole, and if a serpent bit anyone, he would look at the bronze serpent and live. So we see that the Israelites are rebelling against God. That's nothing new. God's judgment came in the form of snakes. This clear and present danger drove the people to recognize their sinfulness. This is a vital piece of the process that Jesus is describing. People were dying as a result of their sin. They were dying left and right. Now imagine this. These people were living in tents. And they never knew when a snake would show up. And if they get bit by this snake, they're gonna die. That is their environment. So the people came to Moses so that Moses would speak to God on their behalf, and what they wanted was for God to take away the consequences of their sin. They wanted him to remove the means of their punishment. But God had something different in mind. We're never told that the Lord removed the serpents, although obviously at some point he must have. He could have. Just as easily as he caused them to show up, he could have made them stop. No, God had Moses put an image of the very means of their punishment For that sin on that pole. God didn't prevent the Israelites from getting bitten by the snakes, but he gave them the remedy to look at by faith. The remedy was looking upon the very means of punishment they fully deserved. They had to look upon the punishment of their sins. They had they had to face the fact that they deserved the snakes. They would face the just penalty of their sin and have faith in God that He would remove the consequence of their sin. The whole looking at the pole was a faith in God to remove the penalty of their sin. Think about this. When we look at the snake on the pole, we see first we see something lifted up on a pole. Second, the thing that was lifted up was actually the means of punishment for the Israelite sin. Third, the people are told to Are not told to take any actions at that point to remedy their sins They aren't to improve, they're not to do better next time, none of that. The remedy had nothing to do with any form of improvement at all. Look at the poll Fourth, the only thing the people are called upon to do is to believe by looking at the snake on the pole. They were told by God, if you look, you'll live. That's what they're supposed to do. Fifth, this poll is a provision by God for the people to avoid the just penalty for their sins. And sixth, by faithfully looking their earthly lives, we're saved. John MacArthur put it this way: The stricken Israelites were cured by obediently looking apart from any works a righteousness of their own, in hope and dependence on God's word. At the elevated bronze serpent. In the same way, whoever looks in faith alone to the crucified Christ Will be cured from sin's deadly bite and will in him have eternal life. Now, how could Nicodemus make sense of this? First off, the Son of Man in Daniel did not appear to end up on a pole. That is not the vision that you would have gotten from the Son of Man as you're reading through Scripture. Yet this son of man had to be. It was necessary. It was part of his mission that could not be avoided. We can easily understand it all. You and I can understand it all because we have the whole story. But Nicodemus did not. To Nicodemus, everything was coming at him really fast. The phrase lifted up was interesting. It normally either referred to crucifixion or glorification. That's usually how that word was used in Scripture. Crucifixion or glorification. With Christ it meant both. Crucifixion was not the end of Christ's glorification, but it ultimately resulted in Christ's glorification. Crucifixion was the capstone of Christ's redeeming work. So Jesus is throwing several Old Testament images at Nicodemus. And they might have seemed disconnected and unrelated, but Jesus is saying these connect together. The Old Testament Son of Man who alone descended from heaven must be lifted up like a snake in the wilderness. Why? So just like the Israelites who were bitten by the snakes for their just punishment for sin , just as they had to look at the pole simply because God said so Just like they had to respond by faith in the provision of God for their sins, so would people now need to look at Christ? Think about it. First, we see Christ lifted up on a pole. Second, Christ's death was actually the display of the punishment for our sins. Third, there is no effort we can take that will be effective other than believing that what Christ did on that pole is the answer to our sin. We're not called to do anything in order to be saved except to believe Fourth, everyone is now called to believe in Christ. We must believe that Christ hung on that pole to take the penalty for our sin. We must believe. Fifth, the death of Christ on the cross is a provision by God to allow us to avoid the penalty, the just penalty for our sin. And sixth By faithfully looking and trusting in Christ, not just our earthly lives are saved for a few years, our lives are saved for eternity. That's what Christ is laying upon Nicodemus. We need to see how directly connected verses 14 and 15 are connected to 16 through 18. Verse 15, whoever believes in him. Verse 16, whoever believes in him. Verse 18, whoever believes in him. What did John write the book for? Remember that we believe in him. So people would believe in Christ. We can't miss it in these verses. He's hammering it. When we disconnect the concept of the bronze snake in the wilderness and the son of man being lifted up, we lose the richness of John 3:16. We can easily form our own opinions of what it means to believe if we remove John 3:16 from its context. And we can misunderstand the thrust of what it means for Christ to be lifted up if we remove it from its context. But when we connect it with the snake, we see it with great clarity. You and I have sinned. We have done worse than complain about God like the Israelites did. We were born in sin, we were enemies of God. While living in sin, we are incapable of doing the right thing for the right reasons. That's why Isaiah said, All of our righteousness, all the good stuff that looks like we do. It's like filthy rags. Prior to looking at Christ on the cross, we must be aware of why the cross was lifted up. Christ was lifted up because of our sin. Our sin put Christ there. As we see this innocent man suffering this cruel punishment, we're reminded that this punishment is what we deserve. We deserve the snake. We deserve the crucifixion. Until we see it that way, we're not looking at the cross as it has to be looked at. This faith in Christ has a context of the realization of sin. We have got to see that in the text. And then by faith, because of the desperate spot that our sin put us in We look to this cross for our salvation. We look with the faith that this cross will take away our just penalty for sin. Later, we understand that Jesus took our just penalty, all of it, for every sin that every believer would ever commit. Every bit of it. We're saved by our faith in Christ and what he did. We're saved by having faith in Christ to have died in our place so we can now live. And the remedy is not to extend our earthly life a few more years. No, he took care of more than a toxic snake bite. He took care of the penalty of sin His blood paid the penalty for our sins so that we can be restored to a relationship with God forever. We are now in right standing with God the Father. We can approach his throne as if we are Christ. That is how powerful this is. We can approach his throne as if we are Christ because we are in Christ. Because we approach the Father in Jesus Christ's rose. This is what it means to believe in Christ. Nothing else works at all, not even a little bit. No efforts at improvement to reach a right standing with God are either called for or ever effective. At all. It's all by faith. It's all by believing. And if we find ourselves in this state of believing in Christ for our salvation, we can be sure of one thing. We did not cause it. All of the glory goes to Christ. He called us to himself. He granted us repentance. He granted us faith as a gift. We were born again. Then we came. Oh how beautiful. Is that horrible cross We need to look at it. That is the orientation point in our lives. It's just not w how we come to Christ. It is how we live in Christ. Did a brother sin against you? We're to see it from the perspective of just how much we have been forgiven of at that cross. Do I think I may have sinned a sin too great for God to forgive? Go back to that cross. What sin was Christ incapable of covering? That's really the question. You can never exceed the greatness of God's salvation by the greatness of your sin. He always wins Our whole lives are centered on looking at Christ by faith. We live from faith to faith. It's faith in Christ the whole nine yards. Everything. Everything in the Christian life starts there and ends there. I want us to see one more thing in the text. Look at how verse 14 through 16 are meant to be seen together And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whoever believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. As Moses was obedient, lifted up the serpent so that all who looked by faith in it would be saved from the temporary consequences of their sin. So God in his great love lifted up his sins so that all who looked in faith upon him would be saved from the punishment of their sin forever. That is how we are to understand this passage. We should couple verse 14 with verse 16. It's there that we understand the Son of Man is God's only Son. The fulfillment of the image of the bronze snake on the pole is now the Son of God on the cross. And it had to happen. It had to happen for the salvation of God's people. And look at it closely. The world looking on at Jesus' crucifixion would have said the Jews did this to him, or the Romans did this to him. Jesus said the Father did this to him. Jesus said that his father took care of the must that had to happen. The Son must be lifted up, and the Father gave him up. That was always the plan. Christ was always destined for the cross. It was a must. There was no other way, ever We're going to end here and take this up in the future, but oh what a great salvation we have. Our failures in the Christian life can often, if not always, be tracked back to a failure. Of looking to the cross as we should. The gospel fixes our eyes there. Where because of love and love alone, someone died getting what we should get. In order to give us what only he should get. We need to apply that in every relationship we have. We need to apply it to every circumstance. Do you think you deserve better than you're getting? Go back to the cross. Do you think that God does not love you? Go back to the cross. Does the unpleasantness of your circumstances confuse you? Go back to the cross. Is someone hard to forgive? Go back to the cross. That's where we gain our eternal perspective. to face all of this life. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your just the majesty of what