Well, I think we're going for a record this morning. We're gonna cover two chapters in one day. And the the topic is losses that prepare for the gains. Losses that prepare for the gains. I want to start with a quote by C. S. Lewis. He said, Imagine yourself living in a house. God comes in to rebuild that house. At first, perhaps, you can understand what he's doing. He's getting the drains right and stopping the leaks in the roof and so on. You knew that these jobs needed done, so you're not surprised. But presently he starts knocking the house about in a way that hurts abominably and does not seem to make sense What on earth is he up to? The explanation is that he is building quite a different house from the one you thought of. Throwing out a new wing here, putting on an extra floor there, running up towers, making courtyards. You thought you were going to be made into a decent little cottage, but he is building a palace He intends to come and live in it himself. This morning we're going to look at what God does to a nation that's obstinate and proud. But what he does to this nation of his people is not a whole lot different than what he does in our own lives. We'll see him pruning off people in our text. In our lives, he prunes out areas of our lives of resistance and disobedience and self-dependence. Many of us came to Christ initially because we wanted something he offered us. For us who are raised in Christian families, many of us simply did not want to go to hell. That fear was the beginning of wisdom in our lives, and it led in a right direction. So that's all a good start. Maybe we wanted our lives to have meaning and purpose, and that's why we came to Christ. Maybe we longed for love and forgiveness. Maybe we wanted help in our lives and we knew we needed it. But who of us came to Christ? Because we wanted to die to ourselves and live to Christ. No, most of us thought we could use God to make our lives better. And then the pruning starts. Then pieces of us are taken captive and hauled off, sometimes kicking and screaming. We find out what we thought was our first love really wasn't much love at all. It may have been emotionally charged, but it could not be counted on to obey when obedience threatened what we thought would make us happy Who of us doesn't have an experience like that? So God begins the process of preparing us for eternity Along with the things that look like blessings come blessings that look more like tortures than anything else at the time. We begin to experience losses in our lives. And they aren't, they're often losses that we don't welcome. There are losses of things we hold dear. In fact, we think we must have those things, or our lives won't be worth living. We've been talking a lot about that, about our idolatry. Yet off they go, dragged off in chains, and there isn't a thing we can do about it. Our thoughts about what God was doing, going to do for us. Die in that dust pile. But it's just like C. S. Lewis says: it's there that we begin to see that God has bigger and better plans in mind. He isn't repairing a shack. He is preparing a mansion. His intent is not to create a happy lifetime. His intent is to create a glorious eternity with us in it. And not only us in it, but us fitting into it. What we see is not that God will take away and then give us back what he took. He takes away and gives us something new, something that he creates. Now, there are a lot of losses required before we'll be ready for that. And the losses hurt. But in eternity, we will thank God for every one of them. We'll see the plan. We'll see that it was perfect for making us exactly what God wanted to make us to be. And we'll praise the wisdom that pulled such a thing together. So the losses that prepare for the gains. Verse 1. For behold the Lord, the Lord of hosts takes away from Jerusalem from Judah. the stock and the store, the whole supply of bread and the whole supply of water. John Calvin said the clause that the words are found in means God will take away every help and assistance by which you think that you are upheld, so that nothing whatever may be left to support you. Look at what God is doing here. This wasn't figurative to these people. It was soon to be literal. The Babylonians, or it may have been the Assyrians, I'm not sure which, were going to surround the city and starve them out. When that happened, they would have nothing to keep them alive. They would need to rely upon God to get anything that they needed. The Lord is taking away everything that stabilizes the corporate life of Isaiah's generation. All support of bread and all support of water. Sometimes the measures that God must go to to really make a point in our lives are very extreme. In fact, if we didn't trust the nature of God, we would deem them as cruel. He strikes at the things that we feel we must have. Have you ever had God do that to you? Have you ever had him threaten something so central to your life that you felt that you would not survive? We've got to understand something. The souls of God's people are so important to God that he will do anything to have us get the point. He will do anything that is needed to prepare us for what he has in mind for us. We often make the process more severe than it has to be. But we need to understand it isn't unlike God to threaten the very core of the things that we depend on that keep us from depending upon Him. He'll bring us to our knees upon our knees Is what will do us the most good. So God takes away the food and the water. God takes away their sustenance. Now, what else does God take away? In verses 2 and 3 we watch as God takes away good leadership. He took away their military leaders, their civil leaders, their teachers of morality and wisdom Men who were moral, men who could give good counsel, people that we could go to for advice, basically. Now, in your life, how often have you wished that you could get rid of the people who tell you what to do? We don't want the government to interfere. At least I don't. We don't want leaders to interfere. Men don't want bosses telling them what to do. Wives don't want husbands telling them what to do. Children don't want parents to tell them what to do. Well, what does God do when he wants to discipline us here? He gives us our wish. He sees to it that the people he has set in place to lead are removed. That's a punishment that he is providing in this example. He takes away the people who want to know what we are doing and why we're doing it. You know, those those pesky people who really are looking out for our best interest. He takes away those who critically look at what we do and what we think. He takes away the nuisances to our happinesses, at least that's how we see it. Don't we often scorn that which God says that He has given to us for our good? Don't we often focus on the negative side of the authorities that God has placed over us? We look at the cost, but we completely missed the side of the benefit. Is this case, in this case, God had all of the pillars of their society hauled off Look at this. Everything they needed for physical protection, for justice between people, for wisdom to lead their lives, for spiritual truth and guidance, all gone. Not only don't they have food and water now, they don't have anything left to build a society on. And what does God give them in their place? Kids and unqualified men and women in the place of leadership. Let's look at the kids first. That's less likely to get stones thrown at our heads than some of the others Verse 4, I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them. The people will be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbor. The child will be insolent toward the elder and the base toward the honorable. Now, remember what happened often when children took over as kings in Israel, or even young men for that matter. Remember how Solomon's son chose the advice of his foolish young friend over the wisdom of the aged counselors that he had that were giving him excellent counseling. Most young people are not qualified to rule much because they haven't lived long enough to learn enough. It's that simple. They haven't tasted the results of enough of their bad bad decisions. They haven't made enough mistakes to be wise yet. They haven't seen enough lives falling apart from bad decision making. And that's not their fault. They simply can't be wiser than their years allow. Now, this doesn't mean that age, however, me equals wisdom, because there are plenty old fools, but there are no young sages. Our culture worships youth. It's like we're something we're always trying to get back to. Old people are seeming to have cosmetic surgery until their faces are look like plastic. With the desire of clinging to that which gives them value. They want to be young again because our culture thinks that's wonderful. Back here, at least they had the wisdom to understand The the value in in age, the value of having elders, those people who have lived long enough to know a few things We are as a society just stupid. Or maybe we can just see better than we can think. But what Isaiah is picturing is a complete breakdown of society. Children rule and and above that they treat their elders with disrespect in this setting. Then look what happens next in verses six and seven. Look at what their main qualifications for leadership have been reduced to. In verses 6 and 7. The crowd grabs a man and tries to make him a ruler. Why? Because he has clothes. Yeah, yeah, that's a real qualification. I can see that in the list of elders. Well does does he have pants? Well then he can be an elder That's a pretty bad when your only qualification for leadership uh is a pair of pants. And then look at the the person chosen. He doesn't want to leave. They come to him, they grab him, they say, we want you to leave. And he says, I don't want to do that. He basically says that he really doesn't have clothes or food. Now, keep in mind where this is. This is Jerusalem. This is where Solomon ruled. He basically says it. He doesn't want this position that people used to fight for. To be king was like the greatest thing you could possibly imagine. It was highly desirable, and now God has seen to it that the country is so bad that no one wants to be called leader. And in 8 through 11 we see the core problem, and it's what people say and what people do. And what do they do and say? They say and do things against the Lord. They do things to provoke God. They know they're going to provoke Him before they do it, and they're brazen and their sinfulness. Verse 9. Look on their countenance, witness against them, and they declare their sin as Sodom. They don't hide it. Woe to their soul, for they have brought evil upon themselves. We've all seen people who all it took was a look on their faces for you to know what was in their heart. Rebellion sometimes is so much a part of a person's life that it registers in their countenance. That's where Judah is now. That's where they're at as a nation. They don't even try to hide their sin. It's bad in our lives when we sin and try to hide it. It's far worse in our lives when we no longer even try to hide it, when we're no longer even ashamed of it, even when we get to the place where we're proud of it or we're bold and brazen with it I've been listening to a book on CD on the life of Dietrich Bonhoeffer, and he describes how Hitler shaped the Reich Church of Germany into just another arm of the government. It's a really interesting read. I had not understood what was going on in the church in Germany at the time. But there ended up being two sections. One was the confessing church that Bonhoeffer was part of that was basically saying this other group has nothing to do with Christianity And then there was the Reich Church that that uh Hitler was behind uh manipulating into being an arm of the government and they were just absolutely pro-Hitler and uh and basically pledge their lives to his his benefit. So anyway, uh They they stated that even at one point that Jesus was a refreshing infusion of Nordic blood. What nonsense. I mean That was ridiculous. Um but they weren't ashamed at all of their sin. They weren't trying to hide their sin. They were proud of it. That's how Judah had become. They are taking stances that they didn't care how it was perceived. They were rebelling against God. And Isaiah says, Woe to the soul. They have brought their judgment upon themselves. They have invited the wrath of God, and they were sure to get it. And here it comes. Verse 12 As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, those who lead you cause you to err and destroy the ways of your paths. The Lord stands up to plead and stands to judge the people. The Lord will enter into judgment with the elders of his people and his princes. For you have eaten up the vineyard, the plunder of the poor is in your houses. What do you mean by crushing my people and grinding the faces of the poor, says the Lord God of hosts? What a state these people are in. Children rule, children oppressed, and now women rule. Now these are fighting words in our culture, I understand that, but it can't be ignored. It is never a blessing in Scripture when no qualified men are found to lead, so that women are chosen to do so. Now, does this mean that there are no women who can do a good job of leading? I don't think that's the point. I think it's that manhood is to be used to provide protection and security. That is what God provided it for. And when men will not rise up in faithfulness to their God and do their God given duty, it's a bad, bad thing. And it doesn't matter where that is. When men refuse to take that responsibility, things will soon fall apart. That's true in our country and that's true in our families. Now back to our text. Even the rulers Judah guests that are willing to take the job lead in the wrong direction. They go the wrong way. They they go in bad directions So the Lord stands up to judge. When the Lord stands, it's usually to take action. That's almost always the case. If he stands, it means he's doing something. Now, what's the problem that God is so upset about here? He says, You've eaten up the vineyard, plundered the poor, crushed my people, and ground the faces of the poor. Essentially the sin is that they have exploited the powerless. They have exploited the powerless. They have used power to serve themselves at the expense of those that they were supposed to serve. We need to register this, and we need to keep registering this. We're going to see this as a theme through the book of Isaiah. And it is important. We can learn a lot about God in this thing. If God gets this upset about this sin, we better do everything that we can to make sure it isn't found in us in any way, shape, or form. Leaders are to be servants, just as Christ is. That's what he told us. He saw himself expendable for the good of those people that he served. And that's how we carried it out. We all know that that history from the book of Mark. We got a beautiful picture of Christ's style of leadership, his kind of leadership He clearly taught us that this is what he expects from us. Now, where do we have any authority over anybody? The elders are to be servants to this body of believers. Husbands are to be servants to their wives and children. Why is there to be servants to their children? Now think about this. First, is there any way that we are not carrying out our obligation to those that we are responsible to or for? Is there anything that God tells us that we are responsible to do for those people that we are not doing for them? That's a good start. Second is, what are the ways that we have laid the responsibilities that are ours on them to make our loads lighter? What work have we shifted to them that we should really be doing? And last, what have we taken from them that robs them in order to make us richer? This isn't always straightforward. We can do that relationally, psychologically. We're tricky. I would like to think that we would never oppress in any way, shape, or form anyone under our authority. But I've come to see that if it can be done, it's likely that we have done it. I don't know if that's how you see yourself, but that's how I see mine. I think there are sins I would never do. I just haven't looked enough or s or been in enough circumstances to bring that out in me. But we frequently find ourselves doing the very things that God uh lets us know right up front that should have no part in our lives, things that He really does not like So we need to look at our lives hard, and God hates this stuff. If we were any way if we are in any way Under serving or exploiting those under our care, we would do well to make changes. Now let's look at verses 16 through 24. What we see here are the women in Judah acting in a way that they shouldn't act. The details here are not all that important. Every culture does this a little bit differently. But what's clear and what we can clearly see is that these women, what they're doing is advertising their availability. They're flirting with something that should be reserved for their present or future husbands. They're making themselves as attractive as attractive sexually as they can in order to lure in some desired man. And they've picked up the tools of their culture that are most effective in doing so. And we notice the money they must have spent on all these tools of their trade, and they've stolen that money from the poor in order to buy these trinkets to make them more attractive. That's compounding the problem. Now, if ever there was an error to avoid, here's one. As I was thinking about preaching this, I was I was kind of wishing for a a different audience, because I wasn't sure how fitting it is, but it's here, so I'm I'm gonna go through with it anyway. Women, be careful what you're advertising and why. Know your hearts. Don't assume that your motives are good. Question them before God. Always ask why you're choosing to wear what you wear. Ask why you are responding to men the way that you're responding. We are very, very good at camouflaging our motives. It is so easy to lie about why we do what we do. Ask yourself this, single women, do I trust God to provide me with a husband of his choosing? Or do I feel that I should trust my wilds to provide me with what I want? Do I feel that it rests on my shoulders to impress a man and to win him to me? Or do I trust God to provide for me these things? And married women, am I doing anything or wearing anything in hopes of impressing any man other than my husband sexually? When you're around other men, do you hope to get sexual strokes or sexual approval? And don't assume that your motives are proper. Know it by examining them. Be sure that your motives are proper. Examine what you do and what you say and what you wear. Because the only thing that has changed between Isaiah's Judah and today are the brand names. The trinkets, they might be different, but what has been, you know, is as always, there's nothing new under the sun. Women have always been tempted to trust their appeal instead of their God. One look at the internet and we know that nothing has changed in that regard. Know your heart. Guard it. If your husbands or fathers are uncomfortable with something you are doing or wearing, listen to them. Don't be defensive. Ask yourself the hard questions. It may save you from mistakes that last a lifetime. And then this text goes on to show us the hard reality. All of this allure can end very, very suddenly. Look at the women in this text. They go from all their finery and the thrill of the hunt to being destitute. He goes on, instead of sweet smell there will be a stench. Instead of a sash, a rope, instead of well-set hair, baldness, instead of a rich robe, a girding of sackcloth, and branding instead of beauty. In Isaiah's day, this is going to happen suddenly, and it is going to happen literally, just like he says. It will happen when I believe it is again Assyria or Babylon raids Judah. In our day, it may take more time. In this day, it was going to be sudden. But uh having been a young man who is now close to 60, I can assure you that it happens. Age is destined to take away your allure. I I think it was Bodhi Bacam who was talking about men who marry women. Because they are just so good looking. And he he goes on, he says, there's two things to learn about this. The first is it won't last. And the second is it won't last. So anyway, you know , Proverbs talks about how all this stuff is fading. It's temporary. It is not going to be there 60 years from now. But uh the women who are ninety are very pretty, but only to those who love them for who they are and what they represent. There's a beauty about that that also uh Solomon talks about And that's a wonderful thing. But it's only to those who see past the skin and hair. Beauty is fleeting. Enjoy it, but don't depend upon it. It will never give you what your soul needs. Only God can do that. Now look at the fate of these women. These women who were at the top of their game. These women who thought they controlled their fate by their wiles. These women who were used to probably having their own way Verse 25, Your men shall fall by the sword and your mighty in war. Her gates shall lament and mourn, and she shall be desolate, shall sit on the ground, and in that day seven women will You shall take hold of one man, saying, We will eat our own food and wear our own apparel, only let us be called by your name to take away our reproach. I would have liked to live on that day. At the end of the day, we're all subject to our circumstances as God provides them. We do not have nearly as much control as what we might think. If we're in a good spot, it's not due to our excellent decision-making as much as it is by the grace of God. There are a million circumstances that had God allowed to happen to us could have destroyed us. You know, I was thinking about that the other day. There's no temptation that's taken us, but there isn't a way of escape. Because it's God who determines what temptation we we have. If God were to remove his protecting hand from us, there's a lot of temptations that would do us in. But God won't allow that to happen to us So that's a really good thing. So there are a million circumstances that could have destroyed us, but God protects us from those They would have left us in a life of misery. And if we're in a bad spot, we should learn what we can and trust God to have a purpose in our sufferings, because it is God who sees to it where it is that we are Here we see these wanton women brought to their knees. Later in Israel's history, when Rome sacked Jerusalem in 70 A. D. the whole event was depicted By an image. And the image was a woman sitting in the dust. It's it's almost prophetic. That's what was going to happen in 70 AD. That is how the Romans were going to portray The past Israel, a woman sitting in the dust, and here it is in Isaiah. A commentary also made an interesting observation of this text. It's said that the desperation of these tragic women in 4-1 stands parallel with the desperate men in 3-6. A man takes hold of his brother in a pitiful attempt to escape social chaos, and women take hold of a man in a pitiful attempt to escape personal shame. Both images merge in 3, 25 and 26, where Isaiah describes this metaphorical lady, Jerusalem herself. God has taken away her support and supply with all her finery and empty she shall s she sat she shall sit on the ground 326. And here are the women who had life by the tail, now showing their true colors, their true desperation. They just desperately longed for someone to love them and take care of them and to give them validation for their pathetic selves. They wanted someone to take away their reproach. And look at the deal they cut. We are to assume that this is not a good deal. So young women should look at this carefully. They say, we will eat our own food and wear our own apparel, only let us be called by your name. I can't help but laugh when I read this. Young women in our culture fight for that position. They think that anything different would be an offense. They want to be married, but they want to maintain their self-reliance, and their self-reliance is represented by the jobs that they have and the careers that they're pursuing. Being provided for by a man is somehow offensive to them. And they think that's an honorable good thing Because it shows how much they believe in themselves or or how you know how independent they are, how strong they are. But here it's shown for what it is. It's settling for something less than what marriage is supposed to be about. These women were foolish, but they were not as foolish as women in our culture. They at least knew that a man taking care of them is how it's supposed to be. And granted, you know, the details of how we work all that out in in our culture. That's up for some grabs, but at least this is the main the main um structure that should be there They understood at least that their sexuality could be used in a transaction whereby a man was willing to commit his life to have this thing of great value. Marriage was an economic arrangement whereby access to her body won the lifetime commitment of that man. That's a good trade. So, women, please get this. Save yourself for the man who will take care of you. Look at marriage from God's point of view. Accept nothing else. Now, in our text, we've seen the failure of leadership, we've seen the failure of personal strategies, we've seen the failure of society, we've seen the lack of fe Fear of God bear its terrible fruit And we've seen the consequences that these people experience due to their sin. We've seen the losses. But what was it all for? What's God going to accomplish through all this ugliness? What are the gains we talked about when we started to look at this text? Well, we see that in the rest of chapter 4. In that day, the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious. God is talking about what he is going to accomplish as a result of this wrath that he has poured out on this sinful behavior. It shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and appealing for those of Israel who have escaped. And it shall come to pass that he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy. Everyone who is recorded among the living in Jerusalem. When the Lord has washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and purged the blood of Jerusalem from her midst by the spirit of judgment and by the spirit of burning. Then the Lord will create above every dwelling place of Mount Zion and above her assemblies a cloud and smoke by day and a shining of flaming fire by night. That's basically his glory is going to be on this. For over all the glory there will be a covering, and there will be a tabernacle for shade in the daytime from the heat, for a place of refuge, and for a shelter from the storm and rain. What we have here is a word picture of the blessing of God. This is what God allowed the suffering for. These people have gone through the fire and come out the other end refined. Now, in this case, it might not be the same people. They are no longer dependent upon the things they used to depend upon. The people who are left are no longer like the people that that were there to begin with. Their wealth is gone, their status is gone, their allure is gone, all they have left is them and their God. But that's a good thing. Look at this closely. These people don't have any of the things that their former selves would have said that they needed in order to be happy. No trinkets, no idols, no wealth, no splendor, just God and the things that they really need to live. Water, food, and shelter. And what does it say about the people? It says in verse 3, and it shall come to pass that he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy. There it is. It's no secret, but lots of Christians act like it is. This is what God wants He wants a people who are holy. He wants a people who are weaned from this world and only want now what God wants for them. He wants a people who love him and trust him to provide for them everything that they need. It isn't complicated at all. All the losses that the people of God experience are to accomplish this one all-surpassing gain. To be longing for and prepared for the presence of God. To be holy. Christianity is not about our happiness, it's about our holiness. That is what God is accomplishing in our lives. When we look at this whole text, we must see a few things. There are very serious consequences associated with sin. God put up with it for a long time. A long time, but it was always leading to the judgment that he would finally dish out on Judah. It was coming. And we must see that there are people in that fray that are going to be changed. They're going to be rescued. But they will not be allowed to continue in the same state they were when this all began And with all that said, it's brought to mind a good closing scripture. Colossians 3:1 through 8 says this. If then you were raised with Christ, Seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not things on the earth For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Because of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience. That's exactly what we saw in this text. The wrath of God coming upon the sons of disobedience In which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. That was us before we came to Christ. But now you yourselves are to put off all these. Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. So we see what we're called to, and we see what we're called from. And Isaiah has given us the wonderful example of what happens to a people who give themselves away to what's here and do not seek those things that are above where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. What's thing number of coral nine to close