Well, you guys have gotten a lot of me this weekend. All right. Here we are again on Wednesday of Jesus' last week of ministry He's been teaching in the courtyards. Remember that was the area that he cleared of the vendors earlier in the week, at no small disturbance. And the Sadducees would still be furious about the profit that Christ is costing them because of not having their shops set up. Now Christ has fielded two questions already that were designed to turn the populace against him and to give the leaders a Roman charge that they can bring against Christ to get him killed. So far, Jesus is two for two, having turned the traps of his questionnaires into traps for his questionnaires. Now, our questionnaire this morning reveals something quite different than the rest. This one has an element of sincerity. Verse 28. Then one of the scribes came to him, having heard them reasoning together, having heard him Christ answer these questions, these traps that were set for him. Perceiving that he had answered them well, ask him, which is the first commandment of all If we had only read Mark, we would think that this man was representing himself. Like he just decided, well, I want to ask this question. We would think that he thought up this question and wanted to hear what Christ would say about it. But we find in Matthew a little bit more information about the background. Matthew 22, 34 through 36 says, But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, They gathered together. In other words, they lost the second round, they huddled for the third round. Then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question. uh testing him and saying. So we we get more information about where this question is coming from. It is representing the enemies of Jesus. And it has come from that that huddle. So we see in Matthew that this Pharisee, this lawyer, was sent with this question. Or at least the question had been discussed in the group and it was being intended for an evil purpose. Notice here that it says that the Pharisees gathered together. This is the fulfillment of prophecy. Psalms 2. 2 says that the kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. And then in Acts 4. 25, we find the interpretation of this. in one of their sermons where they said, Lord, you by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David, your servant, said, and then he goes back to quote, Psalms 2. 2, why did the Gentiles rage and the people devise futile things? The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod, And Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your purpose predestined to occur. So we see that the writer of Acts understood Psalms 2. 2 as being fulfilled in the events leading to Christ's death. So we can be confident that this truly was one more fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies. When those gods gathered together, they didn't think they were fulfilling prophecy. They didn't intend to fulfill prophecy, but they were. Now, what about this question that's going to be asked? Odds are that this question, like all the rest of the questions, was intended to be a trap. The trap was designed to have Jesus answer the question in a way that would incriminate him somehow. The most logical guess is that they wanted Jesus to come up with an answer that was different Than what Moses gave. And then the leaders could put Jesus up against Moses. And a dead prophet always ranked higher to the Jewish people than a living prophet. If Jesus were to say something that was not a quote from Scripture, the leaders probably thought that they could use it to destroy Jesus' credibility with the common man, and that was one of their purposes. So this question, like all the rest, was a test. But like I said earlier, this questioner was different. The best clue of that is what Jesus says at the end of this interaction. Jesus tells the scribe at the end of the interaction, you are not far from the kingdom of God. Christ did not say anything of that kind to any other questioner on that day. And it was very rare that he said such a thing to any religious leader. In fact, Christ is about to launch a very serious warning to the people in regard to the leadership of the Pharisees. He's going to hammer them in just a few verses. So Christ would not have told this man that he was not far from the kingdom of God if there wasn't something good going on in this man's mind. Now, this man is referred to as a lawyer. Scripture calls him a lawyer. A lawyer is a scribe. A Pharisee who was a professional scholar that specialized in the interpretation and application of Scripture and traditions. Not just Scripture, but Scripture and Traditions. The lawyers were the theologians of the day. The modern day equivalent might be seminary teachers. Are people who are writing books about theology? Now, it helps to have a little insight into what was being taught and thought inside of these schools of thought. This is how they thought of the law. And I'll quote from the expositor's Bible commentary. Says this. The rabbis counted 613 individual statutes in the law. 365 which were negative, and 248 which were positive, Attempts were made to differentiate between the heavy or great and the light or little commandments. The rabbis also made attempts to formulate great principles from which the rest of the law could be deduced. The most famous example comes from Hillel, who, when challenged by a Gentile, And the Gentile said, Make me a proselyte on condition that you teach me the whole law while I stand on one foot. I'm not exactly sure what the deal was with that question. I I mean it's odd. Um But Hillel replied to the guy, What you hate for yourself, do not do to your neighbor. This is the whole law. The rest is commentary. Go and learn. So we see from this example that Hillel applies to answer by appealing to a general, all-encompassing law to make application of what to do. So he sums it down into one point. He takes a whole The whole Old Testament law and sums it into one point. He says this is the whole law law. So Hillel is showing that he thinks the law to love your neighbor is supreme in some way. Okay, given that I think we understand the background of our text enough to move forward. We move forward and it says, and having heard them reasoning together, perceiving that he has answered them well, ask him. This scribe heard the questions and he heard Jesus' responses. Maybe this scribe had only heard bad, jaded comments about Christ up to this point. He may have been thinking, hey, if this Jesus is as bad as they say he is, if he is as bad as I hear he is, he is really going to need exposed. We got to get rid of this guy. I've got to show him for what he is But at the same time, it looks like this scribe is beginning to see that he may have been judging Jesus too quickly. He may have been going on partial information. He may not have known the whole scoop. He may have been believing what he was told instead of checking Jesus out for himself. Most people in our world are in the same boat. They're simply believing what they've been told, or what they have perceived, or what they've picked up along the way. But it's rare to find a skeptic who has really investigated Christ, who has read his writings, who has investigated his claims. I know at the fairgrounds, you know, we'll talk to some people and they'll be really uh adverse to Christianity and you ask them, did you ever read the Bible? Well, I've read parts of it. Then you find out it's like the title. It's just rare to find somebody who has really investigated Jesus Christ, really investigated Scripture. So when we encounter these people, we should follow Christ's example here. We need to give them truthful answers and see how they respond. Their responses might pleasantly surprise us. Maybe they have never heard this truth before. Sometimes skeptics are more ignorant than they are combative. Now another thing in the verse we're looking at is the word well. The scribes said that Jesus had answered his questioners well. I'm quoting from the New International Greek Testament commentary here. The Greek word for well in this context means not just cleverly , So as to escape the intended trap or even to win the argument. But the Jesus answers have been good, wholesome, satisfying leading the stribe to hope for an equally enlightened, not just clever, answer to his more fundamental question So when he says Jesus has answered well, he's basically saying that is a great fundamental truth truthfully given answer So this lawyer wasn't admiring how wise Christ was and how he handled himself in this interaction. He was impressed with the wisdom and truth of the answers themselves. He recognized Christ as a person who had a deep understanding of truth. This again shows that this man had some degree of sincerity. So the scribe asked this question. He asked him, which is the first commandment of all? Of all that 633 or whatever it is, which is the greatest commandment? The first means the first in order of importance. It could have also been translated chief. So which is the most important commandment of all? Now this is a discussion that the scribes would have been accustomed to. When you had a meeting of the scribes and they were, like we would say, sitting around the campfire. when they were casually talking and just um hashing things out. It was the kind of philosophical question that they would be discussing. This isn't the first time they would have either heard or asked this question. But now the scribe is posing it to Christ. Of the 613 laws, Jesus, which one is the most important? And we can imagine the scribe then paying very careful attention to the answer that he is about to hear. Because this is vital. This is a very important answer. He's posed to evaluate very carefully what was to come next. And verse 29. Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength. This is the first commandment. And the second, this is kind of like a bonus, the second is like it, is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. Now, Jesus is quoting from several verses here. Deuteronomy 6, 4 and 5 says this Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. This verse is from what the Jews called the Shema. The Shema is named after the first word of the verse, which means here. The Shima began, uh and a sh this Shima is uh it's kind of like uh uh a chant that you would say or or a slogan or uh uh uh something that everyone would memorize. And it began with Deuteronomy 6, 4, and 5. Just that one are those two verses. And then it grew over time to encompass some more. And eventually it also included Deuteronomy 11, 13 through 21, and Numbers 15, 37 through 41. Now, this Shema was required to be quoted in the morning and evening by every Jewish male. Women were required to quote it, but because of their schedules, it didn't have to be at specific times. But men were required to do it at specific times. This would have also been something that Jewish parents would have taught their children to quote before they go to sleep. So instead of, you know, now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep, they would have been quoting this Bible verse. So it was something that everyone in Jewish in Jesus' audience would have been extremely familiar with. So when he quotes this, they can quote it with him. They all know this by memory. Here's a little bit more from the expositor's Bible commentary. The Shema basically affirms two things. The unity of God, the Lord is one, and two, the covenant relationship of God to the Jewish people, the Lord our God. God is to be completely and totally, because he and he alone is God He's to be loved completely and totally because he and he alone is God, and because he has made a covenant of love with his people. In the covenant, God gives himself totally in love to his people. Therefore he expects his people to give themselves totally, soul, mind, and strength, in love to him. And then Christ adds that second commandment. Uh the questioner only asks for one. He gives two. The second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There's no other commandment greater than these. Do you know what Christ has just told us? He has just given us the interpretive key to understanding the whole Old Testament law What he says here is huge if you ever want to make sense of the Old Testament law. It helps you break down the Ten Commandments. The first four are about loving God. The last six are about loving people. Where the law is laid out in Deuteronomy, we can break it all down the same way. It all falls under those two headings. You can take every single one of those verses of the law and break them, either love God or love people. Then look what the command says. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. What this means is we're to love God with everything we are. The word used for love is agapel. It's the kind of love that comes from God. It's the kind of love that God has for us. It is decisional more than it is emotional. It does what it does because it believes what it believes. Now, how much should we love God? With everything that we have and with everything that we are. That's what this verse intends. It isn't like we can go through the list of heart, soul, mind, and strength and find something that isn't included there so that we keep that for ourselves. No, our heart is the essence and core of who we are in Scripture. It's the source of our thoughts, our words, our actions. The soul is the source of our emotions, at least The mind has to do with our reasoning, our will, our intentions, and things like that. And our strength has to do with our physical functioning. God deserves it all. God deserves it all. Look back at your life, at your greatest failures, and ask yourself this. What would have happened if you had simply put God first in that situation? What would have happened if you had found out what God wanted and done it? What would your life be like today if you had? Most of our greatest regrets come from disobeying this one command. Our lives are not what they could be because day after day we choose not to make God first. In the little decisions. We resist him. We choose other things. And then we wonder why our lives are the way they are. We wonder why our church is the way it is. We wonder why our families are the way they are. Here is an application point that will change our lives if we have the courage to face it. You want to hear from God? We're hearing from God. What would your day look like if you loved God today with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength? What would change? What would look different? Ask God to show you if you have the courage. Probably none of us here are involved right now in killing people or robbing people or worshipping demons or most of the other things that we think of as outright evil. But are we taking God seriously? Do we really see the reason for our existence, the reason for our very existence as loving Him with everything that we have? And really, what would stop us from doing so? What holds us up from surrendering our lives to Him? Do we really think that if we love him most, he will rob us of something that is very necessary? Something very important, something we need, something we're afraid of giving up. Do we really think that God, if we love Him with everything that we are, would rob us of something important? Why would we think that unless we really don't believe in our heart of hearts and soul of souls that God loves us? Unless we really don't think that God knows what's best for us. Hatred is not the greatest enemy of our love for God. Unbelief is. It's unbelief that will keep us from trusting God with our whole selves. It's the errant idea that we know what is better for us than what God does It's the errant idea that the snake postulated in the Garden of Eden that God is holding out on us. It 's that idea that we will only find that which is fulfilling to us by resisting God, by disobeying God. That's where we're going to have the good stuff. That's what holds us back in our relationship with God. We need to do business with our unbelief. We need to do business with anything that whispers in our ear that it would not be good to love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Think about how do you even feel when you hear that? You hear love love God that way. Is there something negative that creeps up and says, but but I won't have this and I won't have that? Track it down. Play detective in your soul. Hunt down that thought and lock it up. Take it captive. There's a truth in the Word of God that will counter what it is that we believe that causes us to resist. Following God with everything we are. What would your life look like right now if you love God with everything that you are? Ask him and watch for answers. He will answer that prayer. So Christ started with the most necessary thing, the most important thing. That one thing that Mary got right and Martha got wrong. Now Christ is going to move to what else is important. It's people. It's people who are right with God and people who are not right with God. Both groups. But what do we do at this point so often? We forget what comes first. And we make the second thing first. The seeker-friendly movement, the emergent church movement, is making this mistake across our world. They're elevating love for the seeker above love for God. And in the effort, they end up with a seeker-serving God instead of a God-serving seeker. We have a real capacity to mess things up. The conversations they have, and they don't call them sermons, are about what God can do for us. Little mention is ever made of the terrible offense that we are to God by what we are and what we have done. Little mention is made of the terribleness of our sin and the unworthiness of our person. It's all about the needs of the seeker. But what about the glory of God? What about his right to be served with everything that we have and everything that we are What about loving him first? No, that's deemed offensive and irrelevant. What a horrible mistake it is when we forget the church is all about the glory of God When we forget that it's all God's idea for God's praise, that our job is not to get seekers to like God, but it's our job to beg sinners to get forgiven by God. When we love God with everything we are, and we love our neighbors as ourselves, it will be clearly understood by all that God is what this project is all about. It is not about us, it is about God. It's all about his pleasure and his praise and his glory. We are just blessed beyond belief to be a small part of it. Alright, let's go on to the second part of what Christ said. And the second like it is this: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There we have it. Sums it up. Loving God and loving people is what your life is for. Loving God and loving people is what your life is for. Those are the most important things. Yes, we must love God first, certainly. We can't confuse the order. But when we love God first We will love what God loves. And God loves people. Think about it. What around you has the capacity for eternity? It's only God. Everything else burns. It's only God. I get a kick out of those who say that the greatest danger to humanity is global warming. Just wait till they meet the global warmer. You know, we said that in Sunday school some several times. People are important to God. And they are so important that this planet will not be destroyed a single moment before the last person who will ever come to Christ comes to Christ. His whole time schedule is based on people. The end of time is scheduled around one person, that last person, to come to Christ. That is how important people are to God. So if people are that important to God, they must be important to us. They're what God values, so if we love God, that's what we have to value. Now look at what Jesus says. It doesn't only tell us what, but it tells us how. It tells us how to love others. This is kind of a favorite topic of mine. Love your neighbor as yourself. I was raised in the clueless 70s. We were being taught that what we really need is to love ourselves. That's what was going on in the secular uh uh psychology that was coming out in the day. Isn't it funny that what the world says is our greatest need is what God tells us is our greatest problem. I guess that's far for the course. But anyway, the church bought this self-esteem garbage and they went hunting to find a place in the Bible that backed it. And that's always scary. And they ended up at today's verse. The reasoning goes like this: How can we hope to love others if we don't even love ourselves? So Jesus is backhandedly telling us here that it would really be good if we were to love ourselves, then maybe we might be able to love somebody else. What a bunch of malarkey. When a baby is born, that baby displays self-love at its finest. If it hurts, it tells you. If it's hungry, it tells you. If it's angry, because it hurts, or because it's hungry, it tells you. And it fully expects you to meet that need right now. We all live as the center of our universe. We all experience life and evaluate it for how it affects us, what's in it for us, what will advance our wishes We don't need to teach a baby that. We don't need to teach a person that. It doesn't need learned. We know it and we do it every day. One thing you can take for granted. People love themselves desperately in this sense of the definition. We are all experts at loving ourselves. Even when we're self-destructive, there's a self-serving motive, no matter how twisted it might be. What Jesus is saying is treat other people with the same kind of self-serving interest you would have for yourself. If you're hungry, you find food. If they're hungry, get them food. If you're tired, you sleep. Find the tired a place to sleep. It isn't terribly complicated. Take care of the stuff they need like you take care of the stuff you need. Now, you can't always take their word for it about what they need. They might need, they might think they need a bunch of things that God says they don't need. Remember that we're to love God first. So that means we believe only He knows what people really need. But we are to look out for needs and meet them. for others the same way that we would do for ourselves. That's that's what he's saying. Isn't it wonderful? That which is most important is also so simple. Love God with everything you've got. Love people like you love you. Oh, sometimes we need to think about it. Sometimes we need to figure out exactly what is best for somebody else, but it isn't all that complicated. Love God , love people, do it the way God says, and you've got the most important things in lives in your life licked. How much is your life focused on the needs of others? How much of your mental thought is spent thinking about someone else in what they might need today? Really, if loving others is number two in God's list, it better be showing up somewhere in our radar and in our calendars. It better keep us awake in the night from time to time. We better be absorbed with caring about and doing something about those who have needs around us. Do whatever it takes. Make a list of the needs you know. Pray about them. Ask God what you should do about them. And then do it. It isn't rocket science. Okay, so what are the most important things in the Christian life? What are the two things that if you do them, you have done everything else? Love God, love people. It's that simple. Now, back to the scribe. So the scribe said to him, Well said, teacher, you have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is one No no other but he. And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love one 's neighbor as oneself is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. What this scribe said was an enthusiastic endorsement of what Jesus had said. Well said would be similar to him saying, hear, hear. The scribe was probably hearing what Jesus said much in the same way we hear something said that shows a like-mindedness You know, when somebody says something, you think, yeah, yeah, you got that right. You know, I believe that, you believe that, we're on the same page. It would be like when we hear a person say, I made a decision to follow Christ, but I didn't realize till later that it was God who caused the whole thing. There's something in us that says, Yeah, that's the truth. I'm with ya This lawyer was in complete agreement. In fact, he emphasizes that what Jesus said is so much the priority that it's far more important to God than all the sacrifices combined. And that is a huge statement. That's a huge understanding. This was no party line scribe. This guy had some understanding of God and what was important to God. This guy was on God's page. Then verse 34. Now when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You're not far from the kingdom of God. And after that, no one dared question him. I think this tribe was on the verge. He realized that he was wrong about Jesus. Jesus was the real deal. He didn't need to to uh be exposed. Jesus understood the truth And he conveyed it in a way that even the big shot religious leaders didn't get it. But this scribe did. This scribe understood it. I hope we'll meet this gentleman in heaven one day. I suspect that we will. I hope that it was God who was working on his heart and mind, turning on the light, so he could see the truths of God and he could respond to Christ. I think the application for us this morning is pretty simple. Maybe we should just write this on a piece of paper and put it where we can see it this week. What can I do differently to love God with all I am and to love others like I love me? That's simple question. What can I do differently to love God with all I am and to love others like I love me? And then take that question to God and ask him to reveal that truth to us, and then walk through our lives watching for his answer. Let's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you so much. We thank you that you laid out the truth to us, like you laid out the truth to uh To describe and to the listeners there. We thank you that it's so simple. You just want us. All of us. You want us to love you and we want you want us to love what you love. It's not complicated at all. We thank you. We ask that you would do a work in our hearts. That you would reveal to us those places where unbelief holds us back from really loving and trusting you with our whole hearts. We ask that you would guide us in that process so that we would get rid of the hindrances that hold us back And that we would trust your promises instead that enable us to freely and gladly give you ourselves and to follow you and obey you. And then as we do that, we ask that you would help us to see the needs that we can meet in the lives of those people around us and to love them simply like we love ourselves. And we thank you, Lord, that you have enough in that statement to keep us busy in meaningful things for a lifetime. We thank you and praise you. In Jesus' name, amen.