Okay, so last week we talked about what the law said, and it clearly said that a person should treat his neighbor. Friend or enemy, well, he should do good to his enemies. The Pharisees taught that some of this was called for when dealing with a fellow Jew, especially a fellow Jew you like and have something to gain from, but when dealing with the Gentiles All bets are off. You don't have to go by that. But then we looked at how Jesus redefined the word neighbor, and he focused on the lawkeeper as being the one who met the need. of the person in the vicinity instead of the way uh the other way around. So this morning we're going to look deeper into the rest of what Jesus said. Now remember that the most reliable sources don't contain some of the verbiage in verse 44, so we are skipping it Verse 43, you have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies, pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Now remember what we said a few weeks ago when we looked closely at the examples that Jesus used for those times when we should not resist an evil person. Remember, he gave us some examples of how not to resist an evil person or when. Well, this is essentially the other side of that same coin. In the last passage, our enemies sought to do us harm, and we were told to respond otherworldly to that person. We were told to do the impossible in this world's way of thinking. We were told to withhold the natural response And to display the supernatural response that only Christ in a person would cause. Well, in our text today, we aren't even to wait for our enemy to do us harm. The last passage told us how to respond to evil men. That was reactive. Now we're told to be proactive toward evil men. We're to initiate goodness, kindness, benevolence, love. Love your enemies The word used for love here is agapeo. It's God's kind of love, agape, agape kind of love, that gives because that's the kind of love it is It doesn't wait until that love is deserved. Agape love reaches out. It meets the need. I hope we're getting this. Jesus is telling us to live in a way that is otherworldly. Otherworldly. This way of living will never just happen to the flesh. We're never going to default to it as long as we're in the flesh. We just studied in 1 Peter that we're to gird up the loins of our mind. In other words, we need to prepare our minds to do what our minds do not want to do. If we're to have the kind of hope that we should have, according to 1 Peter. And then in Romans 12, 2, it tells us that we should not be conformed to this world. In other words, we're not to allow anything of the world, the flesh, and the devil to have any controlling interest in our thoughts But be transformed by the renewing of our minds. The change we need for growth happens by intentional and continual rethinking that does not come naturally. And then he goes on that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. If we go through a day without making continual corrections, From the first thought and the first reaction that we have to a situation, and changing the subsequent thoughts and decisions made about that situation We're probably not carrying this out. If we're doing it, we'll easily know because we'll be constantly talking to ourselves. Constantly talking to ourselves in our mind. This will be part of our continual self-talk. We'll think things like this: I feel this emotion. But God says this. Or God, I don't know what to think about this, but I have an uneasy feeling about my response right now. Or God help me, I need to be different than this. I know this is not reflecting what your word says I should be. Or God, my life looks different here than how your word describes a believer's life. Change me, help me. I hope you're getting what I'm talking about here. That's the spiritual life. That's normal to the spiritual life. That's the battle that we're in every day, every one of us. That should be a common description of what is continually going through our minds. Do you see what I mean? There's nothing default about that There's nothing lazy about that. This is sober stuff, like verse Peter says. And to the degree that we dip our cups into the well of God's word And place what God says in the forefront of our minds, to that degree we have fuel for this battle. The goal is getting God's truth in the utmost places, in the deepest places, where we make decisions about everything, and then going by God's words instead of going by our seems. We must continually grow in this way of living. Every day we have opportunities to apply this in new areas as we see new things about God's Word. And new areas of our lives to apply that are maybe just old things in old areas that we have to do again because we so easily go back to what we were and how we thought. We must see that this is the Christian way of life. It's part of a reasonable service. For us to choose another reaction isn't just unfortunate, it's sin. It's the kind of sin that robs us of our joy and makes our lives miserable. Christ is commanding here that we be like him, that we be like him. We face someone who stands for those things we hate. Who are some of the clearest examples of people who stand for things that we hate? Maybe they're the people who are championing the cause of convenience murders, those who wholeheartedly endorse abortion. Maybe there are those who are continually attempting to pass laws that allow children to make sex change decisions prior to knowing anything significant about life. They're too young to smoke a cigarette, but somehow they're competent to decide their destiny. Maybe we think of those men who exploit women and take advantage of their vulnerability Maybe we think of the men who have made a business of doing so. Maybe we think of women who think it's sport to ruin families for their own selfish gratification. We can all think of those we love to hate, those who are closest to us in those things that we just rile up against. And we could go on and on, but I think that's enough to help us identify what Jesus is describing as our enemy. Our flesh wants to grab these people by the collar and shake them. Our flesh wants to do them bodily harm. And we can rationalize it with a sense of righteous, godly indignation. Look at the evil they stand for. Look at the evil they are doing. Surely God wants us to hate those individuals. Surely we can say whatever we want against those people. But what does Jesus say? What does he say about those very people who are sinning far more against him than they will ever be sinning against us? I say to you, love your enemies. No, surely not. He could not mean those people. Well, as much as I don't like it, Jesus doesn't qualify. Now, certainly there are other factors in the rest of Scripture that we need to bring in. And as we look through scriptures, we're going to see action Is sometimes required to protect others from the evil of our enemies. Sometimes warnings need to be made about the effect of those enemies Sometimes force might need to be used to stop them from victimizing people. We see all this in Scripture, and we see how Jesus dealt with the scribes and the Pharisees and the money changers. We see that there are times when the love for the flock requires harshness toward our enemies When evil people are feeding on the flock, what we do may not look loving to our enemies at that point. We know we have to consider those things and sometimes factor them into what we are doing and how we are deciding what to do. In a situation. But if those factors are not in play, we just love them. We look out for their needs, and what they need most is Jesus. Now, watch here. Jesus does not say we love them to make them our friends. But we love them just the same. No, we don't stop calling evil evil. We aren't to lose our minds or lose our discernment in this process. But what Jesus is describing is how we are to treat, how we are to regard the human beings who are the vessels of the evil. You see why I say this is unworldly? To respond properly requires death. It requires death to flesh. It requires death to self. It requires a meekness to King Jesus that is difficult to attain. We need to be like the horse that keeps looking at the trainer. We've talked about this before. We may want to avoid something that scares us. But we look to the trainer. We may want to respond to a distraction that would anger us, but we look to the trainer. We may want to head for the stream or for the barn for food, but we look to the trainer. We may want to defend ourselves from a perceived threat, but we look to the trainer. This won't happen to us by showing up at church. This won't happen to us by taking up the proper creeds and listening to the right preachers. We must decide that Jesus is Lord. In our lives. We must catch and maintain the positive virus of Christianity that changes everything we are over time. A person will not get here until he divorces himself from living for the approval of others. As long as he cares what others think, he's not free to live for King Jesus. But more than that, a person will not get here if he allows himself to sit on the throne where Jesus ought to be. A person can't be picking and choosing what he likes about Jesus' commands and what he does not like. He can't be saying, I'll treat church people the way Jesus tells me to, but I'm not going to treat those people the way that Jesus tells me to. To obey what Jesus says here requires a deep trust in the character of God. We must believe that King Jesus knows exactly what he is doing. And we must believe that we are being wise, as wise as we possibly can be, when we say yes to King Jesus. And that doesn't come naturally. We won't fall into that. It has to be decided each step of the way. Now, the beautiful thing is that Christ will empower each step. It is he who works in us to will and to do according to his good pleasure, those things that please him most. So as we work our minds and we rest in Christ , He will enable the transformation. As we work our minds and as we rest in Christ, he will enable the transformation. Our flesh is programmed to treat people the way they treat us. Now, I'm not trying to say that that you know how we are treated should not be information. I mean we do well to take in the information. How they treat us tells us things we need to know. We're not to regard our enemies as friends. It doesn't tell us that they're still our enemies, but we have to keep that fact in our mind because it matters. The truth of the situation we are in matters. But we don't need to respond based on what they do. We'll look on this at this in greater depth a little later. But for now. How will we know when we're getting this right? How will we know when we're doing this loving your enemy stuff? How will we know we are becoming what Jesus wants us to be? Well, we'll know it when we are more for a person's restoration than for their removal. We'll know it when we're more for their eternal life than their eternal death. When we are more for their salvation than their damnation. And how would we display such a thing? He tells us. Pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Pray for him. It's important for us to get this. These people that Jesus is describing are spitefully using us and persecuting us. He is not describing innocent people. These people are acting toward us evilly. And we are not to redefine their behavior. We aren't to put any positive slant onto what they're doing. Jesus was clearly talking about enemies being evil people doing evil things, and their bad treatment may be focused on us because they hate Christ. That's what persecution is. So they are bad people doing bad things, and we need not be confused about that. We're not to treat those people like they have redeeming virtues. They may have no virtues at all, except that they're made in God's image. Jesus doesn't command us to do what he commands us to do because he has some kind of blind idealism toward those people or what we will do toward those people, how it will affect them. There's a story of John MacArthur found that I think displays the point, and it's just one example of a person who did what Jesus was talking about here. In 1567, King Philip II of Spain appointed the Duke of Alba as the governor of the lower part of the nation. The Duke was a bitter enemy of the newly emerging Protestant Reformation. His rule was called the Reign of Terror, and his council was called the Bloody Council, because it had ordered the slaughter of so many Protestants. It's reported that one man who was sentenced to die for his biblical faith managed to escape during the dead of winter. As he was being pursued by a lone soldier, the man came to a lake whose ice was thin and cracking. Somehow he managed to get safely across the ice But as soon as he reached the other side, he heard his pursuer screaming. The soldier had fallen through the ice and was about to drown. At the risk of being captured, tortured, and eventually killed, or of being drowned himself, the man went back across the lake and rescued his enemy. Because the love of Christ constrained him to do it. He knew he had no other choice if he was to be faithful to his Lord. That's the kind of earth-shattering and mind-blowing love the believers are to exhibit. This escapee knew what his enemy was doing. He knew what his enemy was intending. He knew it was absolutely devilish. He did not regard this man as a friend, but he reached out to meet his need anyway. And he did it only because of the love of God, of his love for God. Now, Jesus tells us that we are to talk to God about these kind of people. We're to talk to God about these kind of people, and we're not to pray against them. We may pray against what they are trying to accomplish with their evil agenda. But we are to pray for them. We are to pray that God will reach them like God reached us. We're to pray for their salvation. were to pray that they too would break down before the God of the universe and surrender their lives to His Lordship. We tend to love those who love us and treat badly those who treat us badly. That's just our tendency. But what Jesus is saying is how we are treated Should never be the standard for how we treat others. Man, that's easy to say. That is so hard to do. We cannot go by that standard. Our actions come from another source and another motivation as Christians. This is insane by the world's way of looking at it, but it's common in the kingdom of God. There's a principle here that I think is important. How can you pray for a person's benefit and wish for their demise at the same time? How can you pray for a person's benefit and wish for their demise at the same time? I don't think you can. When we pray for the person, we line up with God's intention. Oh, maybe he won't save that person. But it's very like him to do so. When it comes to humans, God never saved a friend. He only ever saved enemies. God never saved a friend. He only ever saved enemies. Other than Jesus. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. While we were still enemies, Christ died for us. We were all enemies of God when God saved us, every one of us. And he wants us to be like him. He wants us to desire to see our enemies saved. That's the exact reasoning in our text. Look what comes next. Verse 45. That you may be sons of your Father in heaven, for he makes the son. His son rise on the evil and on the good and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. You see, this is the reasoning in the text. This is why. We are to love like God loves. And as we do it, we become more and more representative of God. We look like Him more. We don't do it to become God's God's people. We do it because we are God's people. The more we love our enemies, the more we act congruent to the new identity that He has given us. We are sons of the Father, and we become more glorifying to the Father as we act more like Him. We show our spiritual genetics. Now look around. When a farmer in the valley prays for rain, and God sends rain, who gets the rain? Everybody. Now it's not always true. I mean sometimes you get like we've had it where it's raining in our front yard, not a back. But for the most part, you know, when When the valley gets raining, everybody does. It doesn't just rain on those who have surrendered to King Jesus, it rains on the God rebellious neighbors just as much. Now, could God make it rain on just his children's crops? Of course, no, of course God could. Why doesn't it? Ultimately, because it's not like him to do so. It's not like God did not allow his common grace to be shared. God grants some graces to all people. Theologians call this common grace. The fact that anyone lives long enough to be saved by God's saving grace is due to common grace. If God were not loving, if he were not gracious, no human being would breathe long enough to come to him. But it's like God to give people life. It's like God to allow them to exist while knowing that they would they're never going to choose him. They are never going to want him , have control of their lives. But they continue to breathe. They continue to eat his food and drink his water and enjoy his creation and even exploit his creation in their rebellion. That's how God is. That's what this is telling us. That's how God is. Now, while we ponder that, we need to really consider the implications. The way I understand it, God allowing Hitler to live until his death took no more grace than God allowing me to live to my point of salvation. We can discuss that on Sunday school. But do you see what I'm saying? It's the same kind of grace. That it took to allow us to live before our salvation, as it is the kind that lets the most wicked person live. An enemy is an enemy. So when we pick those people we regard as the most wicked, we've got to factor that in. What would we have become if God had not dripped our hearts? What state would we have been in if God did not love his enemies? I know what kind of person I would be. And for sure the world would have been better off without me. Who do you refuse to pray for because they are your enemy? Who do you not wish would be saved? Who will you not ask to God for their salvation? If there's anyone like that for you, one thing is for sure, you're not representing your father well in that specific regard. Okay, let's move on. Verse 46 and 47. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you grief your brethren only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the tax collectors do so Jesus is telling us here how the world acts. It's based on an economy. I give something to get something. I get something, so I give something. That's how economies run. We should notice something here. The world is not likely to act evilly all the time. When it's getting what it wants and when it's wanting what it gets, it can be downright civil and pleasant. And we're to be thankful for that. We're to live in peace as much as we are able. So that's a good thing. It makes our neighborhood a lot nicer. It would be wrong to teach our children that the world will always treat you horribly, because it may not. But we can teach our children that our world is self-serving in whatever way it perceives its advantage. If someone has an advantage by treating you well, you expect that they will treat you well. And sometimes that's complicated, because people are complicated. I know sometimes I'm surprised with how kind and generous non-believers respond to me. They're much nicer people than me. But the truth is, everyone does what they perceive is in their best interest. And sometimes displaying virtue is what they perceive as their best interest. Jesus is basically saying here that you don't really display something supernatural in the world's economy. You don't display the character of God when you treat a person well when you have something to gain from it. And when you treat a person badly who is ticking you off. That isn't the nature of God that saves you. Now, Jesus is using the example of the tax collector as the person that they, the common Jew regarded as the worst of the worst. Jesus knew they were no worse than anybody else, but his audience didn't think that way. So he used them to say that even the worst of the worst, the biggest traitors to the Jewish nation, look after their own selfish advantage. There's no supernatural trait displayed there. It's just selfishness. It's just common humanness. As long as you limit your love to those who love you, you have not done anything that a child of the devil would not do. Tit for tat, compliment for compliment, gift for gift. That's the way of the world. Love is to be reserved for those you get along with. Disdain is for everyone else. That's the way of the world. Our old nature loves those who are lovely. We disdain those who are not. We loft up those who can grant us some advantage. We ignore those who grant us no advantage. That's the way of the world. And when when that's how we act, we can't make too much of it. It isn't anything special or remarkable. It's not going to shine light. The world is not going to look at that and say, well, that's impressive. They're going to say, I understand that. Nearly everyone says, have a nice day. I mean this. We are exceedingly good by nature at doing those things that will serve our selfish benefit. But what Jesus is describing is something very different. The last verse in our text gives us the real emphasis of what Jesus was saying. Verse 48, and this is like the verse you get to and you say, whoa. Wow. You know this therefore you shall be perfect just as your father in heaven is perfect. Do you want to stop? This must not be written to me. But it is. Are we guessing this? The goal is not to guard our interests. The goal is not to divvy out justice. The goal is not to be smart about our own interests. The goal is not to gain an advantage in human relationships. The goal is not to foster gain the emotional strokes we are after. The goal is to reflect the kind of treatment that God displayed toward us. That's the goal. Because that treatment is perfect. That treatment is holy. That treatment is supernatural, and it comes from the very character of a holy God. You shall be perfect. Now, surely that does not mean that we will be perfect in every way while we are still in this flesh. There's too many other verses that are against that. But the most perfection that we can attain is when we treat fellow human beings the way God treats us. I believe that's the perfect that Jesus is referring to here, at least part of it, a large part of it in context. And what is it really? It's grace. It's grace. Just simple, easy to understand, but hard to comprehend. Grace. Grace that reaches out to an enemy and offers him salvation. Grace that never allows what is done to make us decide what we will do to them. The grace that God has slayed to all of his enemies that he made friends out of. That grace. The most perfect we can be is to act like God in the face of our enemies. Or at least that is one per one place where we can display such a thing. The perfection that God expects out of us is for us to act like we appreciate the grace He gave to us. That's gospel from beginning to end. That's what it's all about. We cannot say, but this person is wicked and not deserving good treatment. Who do we know like that? Well, we were wicked and not deserving good treatment. Where would we have ended up if God had not displayed his grace? We can't say, look how they have hurt me Look how they have done not done the right thing. Well, look how they did not pay attention to what God said. Uh-huh. Who else do we know like that? We cannot say, but God, they knew what they were doing, but they did it anyway. Uh-huh. I guess we never did that. We can't miss this unless we choose to be blind here. The perfection referred to here is at least the perfection of passing on something that we were given when we did not deserve it. It's one beggar telling another beggar where to find food. Sometimes we want to make it more than that. We want to make it more complicated than that. We want to factor in our hurt, our discomfort, and all the other things But Jesus is telling us that we can't afford to grace the wicked. We can afford to grace the wicked. We can afford to pray for the salvation of those who aren't. Really, I think there's a deep beauty in this, a beauty that only comes from God, from the heart of God, from the character of God. It's a wonder. We can look at fellow human beings who have evil motives for doing evil things. They are truly acting as our enemies, and even more so as the enemies of God. They are all of those things without question. Sorry. And we look at those enemies and we see ourselves in the condition that we were in. They are dupes of the deceiver. They are pawns in his hands. Do we really think those we look at as being the most wicked people got there by themselves? Oh no. The devil's been using them to the extreme. They are fools who think themselves wise. They're headed to an eternity where they will suffer tremendously. This is the goal this morning. Christ is saying this. I want you to be perfect by treating them like I am treating you. That's really it. He's not pointing to some sinless perfection where we never make a mistake or never choose a sin. What he most wants for our lives is for us to be the grace people. He wants us to be the people addicted to grace, appreciative of grace, understanders of grace, the greatest proponents of grace. And at the end of the day, the extenders of grace to the ones who are the most unlikely to receive it We must look at our enemies from the eyes of God until it finally dawns on us that every fact about them should cause us to be sorry for them. And we become so sorry that we plead that God would show him, show them how hideous the path that they have chosen really is, and how foolish it is and how evil it is. We should mourn for their evil, not hate them because they have chosen it. Oh, what a horrible state they are in. It does not matter how many votes or dollars or conquests they get. They are in the most hideous state a person can find themselves in. They are an enemy of God. We must allow this to help us to see the need they have. And what else can we do but call out to God to meet that need, like he met ours? We know firsthand that he can do it. He did it to us. What a huge difference this is from our fleshly reaction. As we look at the news reports, as we see the evil things that evil people are doing, as we face consequences of what evil people decide, will we obey Christ? Will we be like him? Will we reflect the grace that has been shown to us? We're sure to have an opportunity to test this this week. All we need to do is read a news headline. Let's close this. Lord, we thank you that you grace us. We know that's what it all comes down to. The gospel. And you're not asking anything of us that you haven't enabled in us. By your grace. Help us to see it right. And Lord, we don't want to be confused. You call evil evil, and we want to hate evil. We want to have your heart toward evil, and we want to have your heart toward people. Helps to walk that tightrope and to be obedient in the whole thing, submitting ourselves to you every step of the way, not going by what seems Appropriate by what you say. We ask that you would help us to shine brighter. By changing our thoughts and then our reactions and our our lives By your word. Help me at work to not respond the way my flesh wants to respond and not the way I have so often respond. Convict me of of those things and help us all in our in our various s circumstances. To have a Jesus reaction that nobody expects. Help us, Lord, to be like you. In Jesus' name, Amen.