Good morning. Thanks again for having us. It's always good to see some young but aging faces and some of the folks that we were able to work with at Garrett College. So uh so first of all thanks a lot for your ongoing support of our ministry. It's Um just incredibly helpful for us and your prayers. Obviously what we're doing in Morgantown and at Garrett and Prosper is well beyond our ability or uh you know what we can provide for students and so your prayers and you guys helping to support what we're doing there to bring the gospel to students is um incredibly encouraging and just necessary. So thanks so much for being a partner with us in that. Sort of been going through the book of Matthew and uh just want to look uh at Matthew twenty-one this morning. I know a lot of times we'll celebrate Christmas in July, but I thought maybe we could do Palm Sunday in June. And just to sort of throw things off a little bit. Um it probably hasn't been that long ago if you had a message around uh Easter. But you can never hear this enough, I guess. So Matthew 21 is where we'll be this morning. And I just kind of want to walk through the text and then bring some of just sort of my own uh takeaways and hopefully it'll challenge you guys and encourage you at the same time. I'll just kind of read through this if you all want to turn there with me. I'll read through the entirety of it and then I'll kind of come back through and we'll look at some of the specific points I think that the scripture is making for us in some application. So Matthew 21, verse 1 , through the whole chapter here. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey , tied and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord needs them, and he will send them at once This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey and on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put them and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowds spread their cloaks on the road, others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. He said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you make it a den of robbers. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple when he healed them But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he had done, and the children crying out in the temple, Hosanna, the son of David, they were indignant. And they said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to him, Yes. Have you never read, out of the mouths of infants and nursing babies, you have prepared praise? In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry. I'm sorry, and leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there. In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it, and found nothing on it, but only leaves. He said to it, May no fruit ever come from you again. And the fig tree withered at once. When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree wither at once? And Jesus answering them, Truly I say to you, If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea, it will happen. Whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive if you have faith And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came up to him as he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this authority? Jesus answered them, I also will ask you one question, and if you will tell me the answer, then also I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, from where did it come? From heaven or from man? And they discussed it among themselves, saying, if we say from heaven, he will say to us, Why then did you not believe him? But if we say from man, we are afraid of the crowd, for they all hold that John was a prophet. So they answered Jesus, We do not know, and he said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. What do you think? A man had two sons, and he went to the first and said, Son, go and work in the vineyard today. And he answered, I will not. But afterward he changed his mind and he went And he went to the other son and he said to the same, and he said, Uh, I go, sir, but he did not go. Which of these two did the will of the Father? They said, the first, Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him, and even when you saw it, you did not afterward change. You do not change your minds and believe him. Here another parable. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it, and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants. And he went into another country. When the season for the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to go get his fruit. The tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another Again he sent another other servants, more than the first. They did the same to them. Finally he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the tenants saw the sun, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance. They took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to these tenants? They said to him, He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their season. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the Scripture, the son that the builder has rejected has become the cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. And it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruit. The one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on any one, it will crush him. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived what he was speaking about them. And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds, because they held him to be a prophet. Let me just open this in prayer quickly. Father, thank you for your word. God, we need your spirit to enlighten our minds and to transform our lives. through our knowledge of you and through what you reveal through your Spirit. Father, thank you for the life of Jesus, what it represents about you. Because as he spoke, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. God, we pray that we would know you in a deeper way from looking at these words that have been preserved for us. And Lord, I pray that you would speak beyond me so that we would see the realities of of what your scripture teaches and how it should change not just our hearts but our lives because of that. We pray in Jesus' name, amen. So looking back at the book of Matthew, basically what's happened is Jesus has come as a baby. He's raised into maturity. He started his ministry. But largely what he's done up to this point is he's had the miracles, his teaching. Um they've all been somewhat subtle in what Jesus' final uh role, what his final accomplishment would look like. So he's kind of been vague about uh the stories he's telling, the parables he's giving. The comments that he's making, the miracles are proving that he is divine, that he has a special role, that he is God incarnate. But he hasn't outright claimed these things. So even as he's performing miracles up to this point, he would say to the people, you know, go and tell no one about this. Or go and and keep this thing secret. And really this is possibly uh to overstate it maybe most important moment of of the bible as Jesus is making the claim that he is the one who has been sent by God to bear the sins of man and to make man right with God. And so as he's approaching the cr the the crucifix, as he's going to be crucified, This moment is really where Jesus begins to claim for himself the authority that God had given him. And so there's really there should be no confusion beyond this point as to who Jesus claims to be. He spoke in parables, he performed miracles, he he was, in some ways, a gentleman and not forcing himself on anyone, but at this point he's beginning to take for himself the authority that was rightfully his And so he rides in in this triumphal entry, and you see people honoring him, but not in the way that they were expected. Um when I worked uh in Dallas as a seminary student, I had my wife and I carried a lot of different jobs and uh just to kind of work our way through without getting any debt. And one of the jobs that I had was a valet attendant. Um so I was driving cars, not ballet, ballet attendant. I forgot the build for ballet, but I didn't want to go that route. Um so I would uh I would park cars at these different parties. Um they would vary. Some of the people I've parked, John Grisham. Benji the dog, uh Jay Leno was at one of the places, a lot of the president's cabinet is President Bush at the time. Uh we also had um A number of celebrity football players, athletes. Roger Stolbeck was one of the guys that I was parking regularly at a country club. But you get to see like a real variety of vehicles. You know, everything from the junker pickup truck with the door that you have to like reach through the window and pull a clothes hanger to get it open. All the way up to, you know, uh Ferrari, the Bugattis, uh, the Bentleys. And so I I parked a variety of cars. Uh the Lamborghini was probably the co the the nicest car that I parked. Um Which it was a lot of fun. Um, just to drive for a short while, pretending like it was mine for two minutes. And then uh parking it and uh But what what we would do a lot of times is when you're parking people, as a car pulls up, there's something that you can already know about the driver, I think, by its by the vehicle. by the chariot that he arrives in, it says a lot about what that person stands for or what impression they want to leave or what you know what social uh impression they're trying to make uh to the people who are there. Now the people who are driving a Ferrari are trying to make a certain impression with people. Um the people in a a work truck often are hardworking individuals. Um so, you know, it goes by a lot of names, whether it's your whip, your ride, your hoopty, you know, you whether it's a hot rod or a pickup or a Harley. What you drive into a place oftentimes is even through history has always sort of represented who you are or what you are about. And so if if you leave here in an ambulance, it will say something about your your your condition. If you uh came in a hearse It may say something about your ideas, your identity, your values. Um But what Jesus does here, I think, is he He reveals for us the nature of who God is and what God is doing by the means in which he rides into this city on this day. And it's something profound. And it's something unexpected. But I think that it's one of the most important things that we can draw from the life of Jesus is how he makes his triumphal entry. Not on a steed, but on a donkey. So as we look at um chapter twenty one I think the first thing that we see is, as Jesus is making his place as a king, he doesn't do it the way that I would do it. So if I were Jesus, I wouldn't do a lot of what he does here. Um if I were making my entry into a city to say, the king is here , I wouldn't find a donkey. and ride it in. It would be something much more prestigious than that. Maybe even a tank, a Hummer. I don't know. Something that's shows power and prestige and and and pomp. But Jesus doesn't do that. The Jews were expecting Jesus as the Messiah, the coming Messiah, they were expecting him to come and reign. with a sword and power, majesty to conquer those who were suppressing them, oppressing them. And so when Jesus, which this is this section of Scripture is stamished really between two really clear descriptions about what the kingdom of God is like. And what Jesus is saying, even in this important portion of Scripture, is that he's bringing in a kingdom, but man won't want the kingdom that he's bringing. They're expecting something different. They're expecting something powerful and immediate , something more like a warrior. And Jesus doesn't enter in this way. So his first the first thing that Jesus is saying is man has a perception of what God is going to do. And Jesus says, that's not how my kingdom looks. That's not how I will operate. That's not what the kingdom of God looks like. So I think it's really interesting is he starts off, he sends in his disciples to get a ride for him. So the ruler of all the universe says, go and get for me this donkey in a colt. And really what he's showing is God has The Jesus in this c in this state, he has full power, but he also has complete humility. And so those things aren't living in contrast. to each other. They're actually complementary to one another in the way that Jesus shows this. It would kind of be like, you know, me saying, go into Swanton and get a Ford Pento for me. It'll be parked along the road. Ask the driver for the keys. Tell him that God needs it. The driver will already be expecting you to be picking this car up. He'll give it to you gladly because the Lord needs it. And then you bring it, and that's going to be my ride into town. Like, God is showing in some way how he had orchestrated all of eternity past. To really bring us to this point where Jesus would come and fulfill his perfect purpose. And leading up to that, Jesus doesn't have to show he has all the power. By being full of pomp, he's showing he has all the power by being full of humility and grace. So he's showing that he has power, but without the pomp. And then if I were Jesus, I wouldn't have done what he's doing to show that he was the the king. Um Basically the the the presidential marketing team should have called in and been like, Jesus, what you're doing right now, that's not going to get you elected. Um if you if you want to get elected, you need to have more like you know, we're gonna bring us out of this recession and we're gonna you know, all those people who are who are abusing you and who are thwarting their power over you, we're gonna crush them and we're gonna we're gonna storm in and and conquer these people like a warrior But that's not what he does. Instead of riding in on a battle horse, Jesus rides in on a donkey. And the donkey symbolizes not an animal of prestige, but an animal of burden. It's a workhorse. It it accomplishes through toil and hard labor what it's meant to do. It fulfills its purpose in its hard work and bearing the burdens of its rider. In the same way that Jesus would bear our burdens. So if you want to think of an image, I don't know how many of you will remember this, but think less of the Lord of the Rings and more of Juan Valdez. Uh Juan Valdez was the man who rode on the donkey for the uh Colombian coffee. I don't know if you guys r anyone remembers those ads. But he's not riding in on a white horse, he's riding in on saddle-bagged donkey. Um John Calvin in his commentary he says this, which I think just captures this idea really well. He says, in order to lay claim to the honors of royalty, Jesus enters Jerusalem riding on an ass. A magnificent display, truly. More especially when the ass was borrowed from some person, he didn't even own it, he had to borrow it because of his lowly state, and when the want of a saddle and of accountants uh compelled the disciples to throw their garments on it, which was a mark and means of disgraceful poverty. He couldn't afford even a saddle. He had to they threw their garments on for him to ride upon. Sounds of loud and joyful welcome are heard, but from whom? From the very poorest and from those who belong to the despised multitude. One might think, therefore, that he intentionally exposed himself to the ridicule of all, but as he had to show two things at the same time He had to exhibit some proof of his kingdom, and he had to show what it doesn't that he had to show that it does not resemble an earthly kingdom that they were expecting. It does not consist of the fading riches of this world. It was altogether necessary for him to take this method. So he shows his kingship, but he also shows that he is not like this world. That he is something totally different. The kingdom of God is not found in the pomp of things, but in the depth of the spiritual. What's interesting is a lot of this uh portion of scripture is actually taken from Psalm 118. And so if you want to have a cross-reference for later, just to think about How his triumphal entry relates to some of what Israel would have been expecting of a Savior. Psalm 118 again and again is quoted in this portion of Scripture. And namely the thing that stands out to me is this phrase that's used, Hosanna. As he rides in the town, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord in verse 9. Hosanna in the highest. In Psalm 118, which you guys might remember the first verse of this that's actually made the song. I give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His love endures forever, right? That this is the beginning of this psalm. What Jesus is saying is, this is what my entry is about. Give thanks to God for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. And so when they cry out to Jesus, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest, they're recognizing what is true of the psalm. In the Psalms, this is some of the descriptures that is used by the psalmist. Again and again, four times in the first four verses, he says, Your steadfast love endures forever. Your steadfast love endures forever. Your steadfast love endures forever. Your unfa Filling, un Earned love lasts for eternity. He uses words like, you have set me free, you are on my side, you are my refuge. As as my as things are surrounding me and as doom is impending, you are my help. You are my strength. You are my song. You are my right hand. You are valiant. You've not given me to death. You've become my salvation. You've become the cornerstone You are marvelous in our eyes. We are glad in you. Save us, we pray, O Lord, give us success in verse 25 of Psalm 118. Save us, O Lord. You have made your light to shine on us. We will give you thanks forever. Your steadfast love endures forever That's just a portion of what's being described in Psalm 18. When Jesus is coming, they recognize him as this figure from Psalm 118. And Jesus is saying, My kingdom isn't one of power. one of a of great overarching authority in a sense that you think it is. It is a subtle, quiet, loving authority that's greater than the powers that you see man using And so he uses this word, this phrase, the psalmist does, your steadfast love endures forever. The Hebrew word for that is chesed. Can I say that? Chesed. Hesed. If you didn't get something on the back of your neck, the person behind you didn't say it right. This is this Hebrew word that means that God is forever faithful in his love toward us, despite what we do, that he is like a bird with the gathering his brood under his wings. He is in the midst of us and he is saving us, even despite our unfaithfulness. And it is it's everlasting, it's unmerited, and it's never-ending And so Jesus is saying, the kingdom that you're expecting isn't one of this overt power. It's one of pested love. And so As he comes in on this donkey, we hear them cry out, the lowly crowds crying out, Hosanna. Now, the meaning of Hosanna over time has sort of changed a little bit. From Psalm 118, what Hosanna actually meant was what's said there in verse 25. Save us. As Jesus is riding in on the donkey, the crowds are crying out to us, save us, Lord. Save us. The Pharisees missed it because they wanted a man of power. These humble, lowly people who need a Savior are crying out to him, Lord save us. Save us. We are wretched. We are in need. Save us. And so over the years what's happened is Instead of being be our savior, we're hopeless God. It's turned to you are our savior. We're not hopeless God. And so when we sing Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest We're recognizing that God did for us what the psalmist was crying out to be done. Where our hearts were in need and we were in desperation and cry out, Hosanna, save us, God. We now sing, Hosanna, God is that for us. He has become that for us. Jesus has been that savior for us. We're recognizing what Jesus claimed of himself on the donkey in this day. So when I was in high school, you know, you need a little extra spending cash. One of the guys locally here hired me on to um to do some roofing. In Cumberland for summer and m my friend Dave and I did that. Neither of us knew what a roofing shovel was or what a shingle was. Um But we climbed up on these steep pitch roofs and scraped off shingles in the hot summer heat. One of the roofs in particular was extremely steep. It was like a like a ten or twelve twelve pitch. You know that means that it's it was pretty pretty steep. Well off the front edge it was only really one story. Off the back edge was three stories to a po to a a patio, a concrete patio So we clean up the first side. It was kind of slippery as you're like clearing shingles sort of the aggregate kind of comes off of it and just becomes a slippy, slidey surface of gravel on the high-pitched roof. Well, on the backside, as we were scraping, I was being pretty cautious, but my friend Dave was not really known to be a cautious person And so he was just kind of like, you know, oh you just kinda walk in. I was kind of like leaning into the roof. Well, we got the roof cleared of the shingles, but There was still some of the gravelly stuff. And so I'm sort of clearing some stuff off and all of a sudden I hear boom. And I turn and look around behind me, and Dave's literally sliding. grabbing for the roof off the edge of this three story drop. And so I lunge and grab the the the ridge of the roof and throw my roofing shovel to him and just as his legs are going over the edge of the roof He grabs a shovel and I catch him and I pull him up. That's what Hosanna looks like. He he didn't know Hosanna, he didn't know Hebrew. But had he, he would have cried out, Hosanna, save me I'm falling. I'm on a slippery slope. There's nothing I can do. My power is not adequate to do what I need. Save me. And so I fortunately was able to be a part of Rescue him, so now he's indebted to me forever. He owes me his first born. Um But that's what Hosanna looks like. That is what the correct attitude toward God should be, how it should be expressed in our lives. Like God, we need you. And if we don't experience you, if you don't come to on our behalf, if you don't rescue us, not just from the condition of the world, but if you don't rescue us from the condition of ourself, of our own spiritual brokenness and lostness. then we're hopeless. Um we took a family camping trip to Mount Storm a couple of years back Uh no, actually maybe it was last year. It was a year or two ago. And my six year old son Colin, who always goes in over his head on a lot of things. He's a foolish boy, you know, he's six years old. He was probably four at the time. Um we were at the lake and he didn't really know how to swim just enough to sort of paddle away from the shore far enough that it wasn't safe. We were kind of talking on the shore and All of a sudden my sister just got this frantic look on her face. And out in the water was my four or five-year-old son just going under and he just kind of vanished. And then he was sort of splashed the surface and was like, how you know And we were totally oblivious that he had been struggling for a little bit and was like had gone out past the edge of the the the water where it was so deep that he couldn't stand. And so my sister just bolted in the water, grabbed him, and he was choking. He was fine But just the look on his face and his the franticness that he was drowning and he needed someone to enter into his situation or he was hopeless. Again, he didn't cry Hosanna, but in a spiritual way, that's what our soul should be crying We should be saying to God, and not just in a one-time moment, but perpetually, our condition is, Lord, we need you not just to fix our circumstances, but we need you to fix all of the world, including us. And so as Jesus rides in, he says, my kingdom is different. You want me to come in and fix things quickly. You want me to come in and rule with power and authority. And remove the circumstances that are hindering you, but he's like, I want to do a bigger work than that. I'm doing a much bigger thing than that. The kingdom of God is not like that. The kingdom of God is like the Lord of the universe entering into our brokenness, riding in on a donkey. With people crying out, Hosanna, Hosanna, save us Lord. So Jesus is making his claim here. He's saying that I am Hosanna. He's accepting this position, this title. And he's directly showing that he has a divine nature. That he is both gracious king and righteous judge. And so not only does he claim in humility the power By showing how all this had been orchestrated. He's showing his power and his humility. But he's also coming in as a righteous judge. And so he goes directly to the temples and he begins clearing out the elements of what people had been abusing the religiosity of their day and instead showing that the repentant people who came to him had a heart that was righteous and that that was those are really people who understood what the inheritance of the kingdom of God would look like. So he goes to the temple and he says, this is my house. He uses the term my house. Whose house was that? That's God's house. He's making a claim that he has who has the authority to go into the into the temple and say, you cannot do this in my house. Only God Himself And so on that authority, Jesus is showing, I have the authority to say that you are not doing what's right in God's eyes. And so he he He brings the judgment on them that they are using religion to serve their own interest and their own benefit. In that their perception of the kingdom of God is one thing, but it is not correct, because they're only driven by their own their own desire, their own want for power, for position. And that they're using religio religiosity as a means to get those things. So I think it's a great opportunity for us to ask ourselves, why are we in church? Why do we read the Bible? Why are we doing things that are spiritual in practice? Are we doing them because we want to know and welcome the king as he is? Or is it because we want a kingdom to come that benefits us Not necessarily the one that God has represented. So Jesus goes and curses the fig tree. And I think that he's showing that As he says in John , in the book of John, we will produce no fruit except that we abide in him. If we're not abiding in Christ, then there's nothing we can do. We aren't working in cooperation with God's kingdom unless we're abiding in who Jesus is. Unless we've given him that kingship, unless we've given him that place of authority in our lives, we aren't working toward God's kingdom. We're working against it And he challenges the religious leaders. What authority, by what authority do you do these things? Or by what authority do you ask these questions? Or by what authority did John do these things? Jesus is making a very bold statement about the authority on which he's operating, and he's putting into question the authority by which the Pharisees are operating. I think what he's showing is that there's a difference if you look in verse 28 through 32 He's saying to to the crowd Sorry, I'm just scared of as he looks at these two different sons. One son says that he's not going to do it, and then changes his mind And obeys. The other son says, I'll do it, and then does nothing. What what I think he's showing is a contrast here between intention and conviction. The intention is, yeah, oh of course I believe God is good. Oh yeah, of course I believe that that these things are Christian, or yeah, of course I I believe in this world view. But does that really become your conviction Or is it just sort of an an an intention? So maybe use two different words, conviction and belief. I would say that if I asked you all to write down what are your like core beliefs. Let's say you took out a piece of paper and you write down for me, I believe these things are true about God, about my life, about the world. Those things are a type of belief. But what Jesus is saying here, I think, is that that's not as important as the other kind of belief. Because what you write on a piece of paper about what you believe and what you live are two different beliefs. Conviction means that you're guilty of doing it. Intention means you're guilty of not doing it. Right? Intention means that you haven't yet done it or that you intend to do it. Conviction means that it's so important to you that you can't not change. That you have to change. And so I think that's the point he's making with the sons is that for those who claim the kingship of God and deny Jesus, their intention may be good, but they don't understand. And it hasn't become a conviction to a level that's changed the way they live and the things they believe about God. So What we see Jesus take them to, after doing all this, he's making his claim, he's showing his authority, he's bringing them to a place of contrasting their convictions and their intentions. And then he does what we all hate so much, but we also love. He brings them to a point of decision. Jesus is unapologetic about calling people to a decision. He's like, you're either here or you're here. Which way is it going to be? Plant your flag. And people hate that. Because we're people of extremes. And I think that's why Jesus is doing this. He wants to know, what are you all in on? Are you all in on a vision of this kingdom that you created, or are you all in on the kingdom that I'm saying is true? And most people are like, uh I think I'll just stick with the other kingdom. This one doesn't replay into my ideals as much as I'd like. But Jesus says, those who have rejected the cornerstone, which again quoting from the Psalm 118 , He says, they stumble over it because it was out of place or looked out of place. It wasn't what they had anticipated the stone looking like. And so they reject it. They throw it out. It's like the uh the the the arch, the stone of the um, I don't see what's that called, I just forgot. Not the cornerstone, but the Keystone. The Keystone would have an unorthodox shape to it, but it became the structure for the archways that makes many of our modern buildings so beautiful. But because Jesus' kingdom didn't look like their kingdom, they reject him, except for the lowly of heart, and those who are honoring him with palm branches and their clothing and making a way for the Son of God who rides in on a donkey. So he brings them to a place of decision. I love what T Tim Keller says, which is one of the most convicting things in the world. He says, Jesus makes no qualms about it. He either says, crown me or kill me. crown me or kill me. King me or crucify me. And so I think in every one of our own lives we have that decision to make. And not just in a one moment kind of decision. But again and again, are we kinging him or are we killing him? And so There's no in between. Jesus isn't interested in the halfway point where we sort of like his ideas and we're mostly on board, but when it doesn't work out the way that we were perceiving it to work. When the justice doesn't happen in our favor, when the timing's not right, when the suffering 's too much, when it's not benefiting us in power or in plenty, that it's no longer true to us, Jesus is saying you're either all in or you're not. Like we n He wants to be king or he wants to be nothing. And so obviously he wants to be king. Um it's like whenever I was in in high school, um, so you would have these really superficial dating relationships and I don't know if any of y'all can remember back to your high school years. But uh you would have an interest in a certain individual. So I I remember specifically having an interest in this girl and I sort of asked her if I told her how I felt about her. I thought that she was pretty and nice and I thought that it would be great if we were like a couple and uh could like sort of date. And she drops the F word on me. She said, Why don't we just be friends? I'm like, oh that wasn't really what I was interested in. And she's like, yeah, just friends. You know like, oh gosh. I wanted all I wanted the full investment. Like I wanted the relationship to be deeper than that. And I think that that's like that's what where Jesus is bringing the people to in this moment. He's like I know it doesn't look like you expected, but it's more beautiful than you thought. I promise this kingdom is greater than what you've imagined. Will you king me? And they say, we just want you to be our friend. We don't want you to be our king. And he's not interested in that. And that's hard. That's hard to wrestle with in our own lives. To continue to give over everything to the man on a donkey. But his kingdom isn't of this world. It's greater. It's more important. It's more precious than anything we can imagine here. And so on that day as he rode in, the whole city is stirred. The Hesed Savior rides in not on the king's horse, but on the donkey bearing the burdens of the world. Riding in to what he knows is going to be. his own death for the sake of the sins of all of us of the world. And he says, will you take me like this? And then Really there's there's two ways to look at Palm Sunday is you either give Jesus this palm or you give Jesus these palms. As they laid palm branches before him, it was like the unraveling of their pride and showing of humility. We want you, King Jesus. Come Hosanna, we need you Savior. Come and give us what we can't get on our own. And so it was like symbolic of hands falling before the king. Riding in on this donkey. And so I guess for us the question is, how are our palms? What's our posture toward God? Is our posture rigid? Or is it open? Are our hands full of God as He is? Are we willing to embrace that? Or are we are we frustrated? Are we are we self-reliant? Are we expecting the king in a way that he isn't ever coming? But Jesus came in a more beautiful way. But it takes God enlightening us in order to see that, I think. So I think that we welcome our own version of Jesus. We have our in our mind what Jesus should be and who he should be and what he should do. But I think that in the same way that the Pharisees struggle with this, we should struggle with this as well. Are we really letting Jesus speak to us in the way, in the truths of who he is, or are we creating in our own image? Something that we want Jesus to look like. Because I think that we're welcoming the Jesus who sweeps in like a superhero Changes all the distractions and frustrations and trials and tribulations around us. Right now, we're like, yeah, Jesus, that's wrong. Fix it. And this one fix it. And I went back good. And I think we're welcoming of that Jesus. I think when it comes to Hosanna, who comes into our life, Bearing our brokenness, bearing our deep sinful self, bearing the things in us that we can't change that are a heart issue in our own lives. We're not interested in the messy Jesus. We're not interested in inviting him in to the quiet secret corners of our life, to the untruths that we live by, to the hiddenness of the things that we're ashamed of. But Jesus says, I bore on the donkey, I bore on the cross, symbolically what he's doing on the donkey, he bore on the cross our shame and our guilt. And our inadequacies, and we can go to him without shame, and we can cry out to him, Hosanna. That he is the one who saves us. As we're drowning, as we're sliding, as we can't in our own strength, Jesus can And so I think that we need to be unashamed to enter into our loneliness because Jesus was unashamed of entering into our lowliness. He left heaven to become like us, to show us. But this doesn't scare him. Our mess isn't beyond him. He's not above all this. He's in it with us. In Philippians 2, as we look at the nature of Jesus, the Kenosis verse, it says he poured out his life for us, that although being in the nature, very nature of God, he didn't consider something to be grasped, but he emptied himself. Even to the point of death, death on the cross. And so I think that that's the point where we need to end up, is that we cry out Hosanna, and we are no longer ashamed because in Christ there's now no condemnation. But we enter it, we we openly lay our palms saying, Jesus, come into our lives in whatever space, in whatever way. It's gonna we realize it'll be messy that you came to bear the burdens of this broken world. But we want that. And um it's a messy, long process of being transformed. But in that God shows his dominion isn't one of heavy-handedness. He doesn't come in to crush us. He sees our sin, but greater than that, he sees our need. And so he enters in. Not heavy-handed lordship, but a close, caring, approachable, intimate relationship with us that changes us from the inside out. He sits with the lowly, but he reigns from the highest throne. That is the king who rides in on a donkey. And that king is the king we should invite to sit on the throne of our own hearts to. Let me pray. Father, thank you that You aren't like us in that you don't do it the way we would do it. And that you're too great to do that, God, that uh You did stoop to us though. And y you, as a psalmist, says, when we have need, you bend your knee to hear from us, God. God, I pray our hearts would feel needy. I pray that we wouldn't be the Pharisees who were critical of you, but that we were the crowd who gathered. Broken, sick, needing a God and a savior to enter into our circumstances. And I pray that if anyone here has never made that decision to place their trust and their faith in you as that Hosanna, that they would do that this morning, so that you could enter into them and change them. In a way they can't change themselves and can't save themselves. And then for all of us who have placed our faith in you, God, through the person of Christ, that we would A fresh call out Hosanna and that you would be our Savior, that you are our Savior, that we claim that by faith, that you have done all that's needed for us to live differently. To experience freedom from the things that have always bound us and kept us distant from you, God. Father, we pray that we would accept you both in your great uh seated on uh as a as a great king seated on the throne of judgment, but also as the great servant who rode in on a donkey to show But the power of God comes in the humility of service. We love you for that. You're like no other God. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.