Um I will just start out by saying how glad how very glad I didn't see it. Um I was thinking on the way over. You know, the first year you guys asked me to come be I showed up, I didn't know what I was getting into, didn't know the area. I've never been out here before. So I think I was literally about three hours, two and a half to three hours early. Uh last year I brought brought my family, uh they are they are here, they're parking the car. Uh but I think we showed up like five minutes before everything. started. So this year you got like two hours late. So if that trend continues you may want to keep that uh keep that in mind. Um gosh, let me uh let me say again how how I uh was I emailed John a couple a couple weeks ago I think. Uh and I told him, you know, I don't we don't have a lot of communication between us uh throughout the year, uh but I think with you guys often uh this this has becomes of a sweet spot uh in my summer. Uh and last year with my kids here, uh many times throughout the year they've referenced uh that camp thing that you talked a lot at. So we get to go back to that. So, uh that's to say glad to be here. Let me let me pray and uh and we'll get started. Father, thank you so much for your goodness toward us. Lord, thank you that uh you have gathered us here. Uh your people Father, under your name, under the banner of your truth. Um Father, under the power upheld, Father, by the power of your uh gospel. We are so grateful, Father. And the only way we can we can logically and reason Father, is that the people who come before you in humility? Because we bring nothing to our salvation, Father. It is all of you. We don't bring anything to the table. You have called us, Father. You have done the work. Send your son to die for us on the cross. And so, Father, we can know you and walk with you and be with you because of Jesus and Jesus alone. And Father, we come as grateful, thankful, humble people. Father, now As we would look at the topic of suffering. Lord, of what it is to go through pain and trials in life and to deal with the tension of being loved by a perfect and almighty God, yet walking through a World that is broken and full of hurt that we see around us, that we experience for ourselves. Father, would you be kind to join us here through the power of your spirit, through the power of your word, would you speak into our hearts, Father, and use this time tonight and over the next few days, Lord God, to do a work that we could never accomplish on our own. Father, my prayer is that you would give us a greater understanding of what suffering suffering is and what it is to suffer, why we suffer, why this is even important. And beyond understanding, Father, pray that you would meld our hearts to yours. Beyond understanding, beyond um just intellectual Assent to the topic. Though I pray you would give us that. But beyond that, I pray that you would use this to mold us and conform us to the image of Jesus. Father, who came not to To be served, but to serve. Who came as a suffering servant? Who came to live a life we could never live and die a death we could never die to pay a penalty, father, that we could never pay. So we as penalty. Thankful and humble people come before you, Father, thanking you for this time, praying that you would bless us, praying that you would bless your word as it goes out. Praying that you would bless the time that you have given us. together for your glory for the good of your people in Jesus' name. Amen. So sort of the title of our Topic over the next few days is this. It's kind of long. But it's hear and be glad. Hear and be glad. Magnifying Christ by suffering well. I take that from Psalm 34, 1 through 3, which says this, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise will be continually in my mouth. My soul makes its boast. in the Lord let the afflicted hear and be glad let the afflicted some versions might say the humble or the humble let the afflicted hear So we'll be looking at the topic of suffering. What did we do last year? Sin. This year suffering. Seems seems logical. We'll do we'll get the light stuff out of the way. Um so why this topic? Um for one, it's uh I think it categorizes for me personally this season of my life life and ministry uh at uh at at my church it categorizes some elements of my personal life it categorized a lot of elements uh with where uh our church body is at rest and bible uh and so part of the reason uh we're going into this topic is Because it's sort of where I am. Uh the other reason that this is an an absolutely relevant topic to every single person who is a person, who is a human being. And in fact, one of the challenges the Christian faith uh in in in our times in modern day culture and society perhaps one of the most difficult things that the church uh as an agent of science And light in culture faces, one of the most difficult things facing is explaining to people who don't understand the problem of pain and suffering. You see, uh postmodern Christianity Christianity over the last 30 to 40 years, more or less, in general, has essentially, and it's sort of generalized, uh, but has essentially overemphasized the of God, so much so that the modern church, if we're not paying attention to the whole council of the uh uh of the word of God, uh that the church in general uh and by implication, the system people who would desire to know, honor, love, follow God, uh get confused because we stress so much the love of God, but in a way that's at the expense of his other attributes. We stress the eminence of Christ, the fact that he is with us, he's a friend, he is near, which is good. Because he is those things, but he's not only those things. And so we stress the eminence of Christ , oftentimes at the expense of the exaltedness of Christ. Not only is yes he is near, yes, he is with us, yes, he is friends, but he is also high and exalted. He is also Lord. He is also King. And so today in sort of uh I don't know, over-indulge Western culture. We've taught well enough about the love of God, again, often at the expense of other attributes. And so this sort of reductionistic theology has set a table for us so that one of the main questions of our day, it comes in many forms, and it comes from within the body of Christ and from without are questions like this. These are common questions now. You look back over church history, not so much in certain certain ages. But the questions go like, essentially, how can a loving God, how can a loving God a suffering in the world that he created. If God did love, why would he allow so much pain? If God so loved the world, etc. Why hurt? Why fame? Why the cancer? Why the phone call? Why the divorce? Why the fill in the blank? And for many of us, if we're if we're honest, This is not just a philosophical issue. This is a deep-seated personal issue. It's an emotional issue. We as Christ followers must understand this tendency. We must understand that God loves us and yet somehow we still suffer. We have to be able to live with this tension and articulate it to some degree for the sake of those around us we don't understand. And that's why David writes in the psalm, my soul, my soul, not my situation, not just my mouth. My soul will boast in the Lord. Let those who are afflicted, let those who are being humbled, let those who are in pain, let those who are hurting, let them hear. And in the result of that, magnify. the Lord with me. Exalt his name. Let us exalt his name together. We as Christ followers must understand suffering because it is the context in which we live in this side of it. Eternity. Suffering is the context in which we live on this side of eternity. We all know what suffering is to some degree. Whether we've had much Mild seasons or or events that have caused us to suffer, or we've had deep, deep, deep things that have caused us suffering, or long seasons of suffering. We know what it is to suffer. know what it is to see suffering uh around it. We know it uh simply from observation. You look at the world around us, uh look at simply the realm of of nature, simply created order where you have things like hurricanes. and tsunamis and diseases and viruses and things out there that will that will eat you. We know that that suffering exists by observing the realm of society. by by the fact that there are people out there uh who will harm and hurt and abuse other people. We see things, we observe things like starvation or homelessness or poverty. Racism, persecution, genocide , ISIS, murder, suicide, wars, rumors about wars. We know from observations. observation in the external world that suffering exists, so that is a thing. We know suffering is is real and suffering is uh is is a thing because we go through trials ourselves. Any of any of these things that we that I've already said, uh in addition to things like financial difficulties, relationship struggles, again abuse, shame, depression, rejection, fear, doubt , sickness, death, feeling that we love and ourselves going through and saying this is just simply observation, right? Uh that we haven't even gotten into the realm of of spiritual warfare, spiritual suffering. The fact that an that an enemy seeks to kill, steal, and destroy our joy, pain and suffering touches as it seems. This side of eternity. It touches everything internally and externally. Touches everything physical and everything spiritually. All that to say, that the theme of suffering is not a hypothetical theme. This isn't just high-level theology. It's not distant theory. It's something that we must walk through. We must deal with. For me , for my church for my season. I'm not going to get into all of this and I don't say any of this to begin a comparison again. Uh but at my at my church and my body of believers, you're you know I I love that I love that we're churches. I'm sure you' from a sort of old New Testament sort of, you know, the the church in restaurants sends you greetings, sort of thing. Our church in 2015, January of 2015, we kick things off with a murmur. uh of one of our one of our folks. It went sort of downhill from there. Over the last uh over that year we we saw the the death of many good saints, uh young men with young families, guys my age dying from cancer. People your age committing suicide. Some dear friends, a co-work who've labored alongside of me since I've been there. Mysteriously disappearing, committing suicide, no, and that's it, that's just a big question mark for all of us. We we have no idea what happened there. That was last fall. 2016 for us kicked off with the moral failure of a major ministry leader in our church, a good friend. One of my dearest friends. And in the last six to eight months, my wife and I have found ourselves in in uh four to six counseling situations dealing with crisis marriage situations. We are in a season at my church at Rastan Baden of of suffering. Someone told us uh recently that that hey your church is sort of becoming known as a suffering church in our area. Um and again, this is not to begin to make a comparison chart. uh for the validity of the topic. This is simply the season of life and ministry that that I find myself in. There's no point in beginning to compare. My my my my son, my ten year old would probably tell you that is suffering because he just uh a a uh three hour trip turned into a six hour trip. Uh my my son Sam uh last uh last week last week he's working that hey Sam uh knocked out three of his own front team. And uh and he would call that suffering. And so there's uh there's not a lot of point because to some degree suffering is relative to your age, your experience your your uh your your your place and time in history. Uh and and and even the worst human suffering that we could think of or hear of or imagine is absolutely nothing compared uh to Jesus's. And so comparison serves a little point, but I do want to make uh I do want to make the point that it's not a topic that I bring before you lightly. It's not a topic I bring before you. meal that is prepared for you without some amount of thought and weight. And so we're going to look at what suffering is. We're going to look at how to respond To that suffering, and we're going to look at beyond sort of the coffee cup Christian bookstore Kincaid paintings how And why the Bible tells us to rejoice in suffering. Because if you've ever really suffered, being told to rejoice in that at first glance seems insane. It it seems it seems off base, but we're going to look uh at that. And tonight my topic is simply uh must we suffer? Maybe that seems like a self uh I don't know a sort of a pointless question, uh but we're gonna moment that we're going to answer this question, must we suffer? Must we? Um I will say, as we're continuing the preface, that this series of messages, this stuff we're going to look at, I do want to say it's in many ways incomplete because this is a massive subject, a massive topic, and so I'm going to be sort of painting in broad strokes. And my purpose is not to cover every new want of pain and suffering, either theologically or experientially. What I hope to do though is to give you a biblical portrait. A biblical portrait of how to move through suffering well. We will suffer. We will. And so when we do, because we desire to follow Christ, we should know how to respond well to suffering. when when we must. And so my prayer for our time together has been, uh and will continue to be, uh, that the Lord would be kind to nudge us, you and I, forward suffering well. And equip us likewise to then help others suffer well. My prayer has been and will be that the afflicted would hear and be glad and that Jesus would be magnified, that he would be seen as great and glorious and beautiful and mighty and that his name would be exalted even or maybe especially. When we suffer. Though suffering is most often felt and experienced at an individual level. Suffering is in reality sort of a clean. projects. Uh i it it's it has benefits and blessings and implications that go well beyond the individual. Second Corinthians 1, 3 through 7, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, the God of all comfort, who comforts us in our affliction, so that we may then comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort which we are. ourselves are comforted by God. For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too. And so if we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation. And if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer. Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings, so too you will share in our comfort. Suffering is a community in that it's never meant to be limited to the individual, both the benefits and the blessings. And so again, sort of to lay the foundation for the topic as we as we start to get into a little bit of meat tonight. Um I also want to set the stage for sort of a a theological foundation, uh sort of a foundational lens through which we are viewing the topic. I'm not going to go into all of these. I'm giving you these as presuppositions. I'm going to assume that you're with me on these, or if you're not, that you know where I'm coming from as I address this. I am Building on the foundation as we as we go through this topic, as as as uh the word comes alive through the Spirit for us in the next few days, uh the assumptions are, the presuppositions are that God is supreme value in and above the universe. In and above everything in it. He is supreme above all things. He is supreme He alone is absolute above all existing things. He alone is eternal and infinite. He alone is self-sustaining and self-sufficient. We're working under the presupposition I working under the presupposition that all things, all creations, all people are dependent and finite and contingent upon him, in whom we live and move and have our being. God alone. It's the supreme and great value. Everything else that has value at all has so only by connection to the Lord. We are going on the presupposition that God is good in all things. That in him is no shadow, no darkness, nothing but light. He does not change. His stance, his actions, his thoughts, his ways are unwaveringly and unshakably, unchangeably good. He is all good. Lamentations 3. 5. To those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks them, he works everything for the good. Romans 8. 25. for the good of those who love him and call it according to his purposes. So if we were to sum this up in a word, the foundational element through which we are viewing this lens is that God is sovereign. God is sovereign. When I say God is sovereign, that does not mean that he has the power and the right to govern all things. He does have the power and right to govern all things. uh but that in addition he does not only does he have the power and the right he actually does govern all things for his wise and holy purposes for his Glory. The alternative to that is that if he does not govern all things, then much of light, much of suffering, would be arbitrary and purposeless. It would be simply random chance. Or, more horrifically, the actions of a comp a capricious God who is not at his core good. And this sort of thinking is, you know, if you if you take If you begin to walk down that road, the only theological endpoint is what we would call nihilism, simply the the literally the belief in nothing. And this is not to say at all that within the realm of sovereign God's sovereignty, that we do not also feel the tension of human responsibility. not presenting this as hyper-Calvinistic that we're all puppets and we're just sort of playing out this this drama. Scripture presents both. Your responsibility, my responsibility, but the Greater context, God's sovereignty and his goodness. God governs all things. And and my my point in even saying this is to help us understand and realize that suffering is purposeful. Suffering is purposeful. It's not the same purpose but the same results all the time. But our trials and our and and and our afflictions are ordained and or redeemed, are ordained and or redeemed by a just and loving God for specific purposes that are intrinsically and at times Inexplicably tied to his goodness and his glory and our good. So that said, let's look at Suffering. Must must we suffer? Must we suffer? So again, tonight's sort of overview uh what it is. We're gonna we're gonna look a little bit sort of philosophically at And then we're gonna we're gonna look at seven general causes. We go through seven seven causes, seven sources of suffering. And then the next few sections , again, we're gonna look at how to respond and rejoice in suffering. We're going to look at the balm of worship. You and I are created to worship God. And so worship as a response to suffering in one sense. In the sense that we're fallen is unnatural. But in the sense of our creative design, Scripture calls it reasonable and proper and right. So we'll look at that. And then on Sunday we're going to look at the same thing. at the ministry of the word of God to suffering people. I 'll give you a very specific example, personal example from my own life and season. But for now, as we as we move on tonight, um Isn't it interesting that we are always, it seems, immensely aware when we suck. If you've got a rock in your shoe, you tend to know it. breaking your heart, you tend to know wherever it is on the spectrum, from rocking a shoe or itchy tag on the back of your shirt to deep emotional or spiritual pain, when suffering comes upon us, We we are aware of it and generally immensely aware of it. And this in itself tells us something about it. I think it tells us that ultimately we are not meant for suffering. Suffering was not part uh of the original design, though it is a part of the reality, the fallen reality in which we now live that is being redeemed, the fact that we are still aware of suffering I think tells us that we were not ultimately meant for it. And the fact that we are constantly in little ways or in big ways or in insane ways trying to escape it. We're always trying to get out of it and sort of get back to the garden. Um, you you think about it, I think about it like this. I think of air. Air. You know what happens uh if I put your head in a bucket of water, you you would immediately be aware. because you are not meant to breathe water. Most of you, until I pointed it out right now, were not really thinking probably about the fact that you are breathing air. You may be thinking of the fact that I'm taking up a lot of Um we don't breathe water because our bodies are not meant for it. And so when you cannot breathe air, you're immediately aware of it. Because that's what you're meant for your body's meant to do. And so if you take out the air from a room, you take it out from your lungs, you're entering into something that you are not purposed for. And so your awareness, the physical and mental awareness is immediately zoned in on that. Uh likewise with I I think with time, and I realize a little philosophical, with time, I mean we you know think about the fact that we structure our lives around time. hours late, so it's fresh on my mind. Uh what time do we get up? What time's breakfast? My kids, is it time for snack? Is it time for school? Is it time for work? Time to go home? Time to eat. What time's the show on? What time's church stuff? We are immensely aware of time , I think, because we are purposed for eternity. And so we're always aware of this thing that sort of rubs up against our intended purpose, time. the decay that time brings. And so again, this is sort of this are weird thoughts that I have. But I think in a in a like way we are not disappointed. the fact that God has not deeply designed us ultimately for suffering. And that's why we so often try to ignore it when we become aware of it, or avoid it, or escape it. um or justify it or deal with it in some way. Um and when we have seasons or times where we experience extreme suffering, extreme pain we tend to react extremely. Suffering has a polarizing effect on human beings. It's also a book called Miracle by any Andes by a guy named Nando Parado. And this is the story of a Uruguayan, I think it was a rugby team, true story back in the, I don't know, mid-70s or 80s. going to Chile for a rugby match, uh the plane goes down in the Andes. And it is heartbreaking, a horrible story of survival. These this team of people with their families, they're trapped in the Andes Mountains. They have to cannibalize their friends and family in order to stay alive. It's a horrible thing to hear about. It would be a horrible thing to experience. Uh and yet the the the author, this this uh fellow Nando uh who wrote the book, I don't know if you remember movie. But he wrote about as he's reflecting back in this, he tells about how this experience, how through this experience coming out of the church, saw God. And this extreme suffering and pain. It pushed him to the person of Christ. I have a good friend by contrast who as a college student, I remember this guy just being on fire for Jesus. He was so bold. He would share Christ with anybody. He wasn't a jerk about it. He was good. People would sit down and listen to it because he was so winsome and so kind and so genuine. And after college, he went to Haiti and he saw the suffering of children and he could not rectify it. And his conclusion at that suffering was, this is so awful, there can be no God. No God would allow this. Suffering has a polarizing effect on people. We always react to. Sometimes it's to escape it, sometimes it's to numb it, to get out of it. But I think ultimately it points to the fact that we are not made for it. And yet, yet here we are. And so we must deal with it. And so again, I'm asking a question. that has a fairly obvious answer. Must we suffer? Must we suffer? What causes suffering? What does it mean to suffer? Simply stated, we could say very, very simply, that suffering is anything which hurts or irritates. Um again, suffering can be uh uh anything on this this scale rock and shoe uh to death and divorce or got worse. But theologically, we would say, I would say that suffering is the absence or the departure of shalom. Shalom. Shalom is a Hebrew word. It points us to the perfect order and standard of God. In Genesis, when God created the heavens and the earth, he declared everything he created to be good. He created it all to be shalom, to be as it was meant to be. Everything was perfect. Peace. There was no pain, there was no suffering. Everything was as it was meant to be. And so sin and the consequential pain and suffering from sin are the departure and absence from God's original order would stand. And so must we suffer? Yes, we must. Because of sin. Let's dig into that a little deep. We look at causes of suffering. Causes of suffering. You're going to see that a lot of these overlap. A lot of these fit together like uh puzzle pieces, but again , this is going to provide you with a basic theological framework for the rest of our time. There's seven reasons why we must suffer. Why we do suffer. These are causes. And the first is simply this, we suffer because we live in a fallen world where sin reigns. We must suffer because we live in a fallen world in which sin reigns. This is the fallen natural world. You look at this in terms of nature. God has lowered the perfection of creation from the perfection of the garden. He's lowered the perfection of creation to match the spiritual state or those who inhabit it. And so creation, though beautiful, then Romans tells us, you know, that creation so clearly points us to God that all men are without excuse. And yet it's perfection and lowered to us. God has graciously sustained us on the earth. We were able to to to reproduce, to develop governments, to develop societies and cultures and systems, but most of these things are simply trying to deal with the effects of sin in some way. But the natural effect of a fallen creation is that good Good things now have evil byproducts. Good things now have evil results. Water can drown you. Gravity, if you jump up the building, will kill you. Lightning can burn down your house. Bears can eat. The natural world is falling. We suffer as well here we move into the second one. We suffer because we live in a broken Not just a broken natural world, but a broken world system. A broken world system, the the the cosmos, we would say, the world order that sort of set up beyond uh the natural realm. Now we're moving into realms of uh of humanity. culture , society. We're not now talking about mountains and weather. And so the natural world order, uh, we're told is ruled by Satan. That's Ephesians 2, prince of the power of the air. And so the second reason we must suffer, we must suffer at the hands of our enemy, Satan, who, for now , rules the world system in which we live. We are told that, and this stick with me here, we're not gonna get super super crazy, but uh we know that Satan is real. Satan is not an allegory. Uh this is not a red dude in pajamas with uh horns of pitch for it. This is a real living entity that scripture tells us his sole purpose and desire for us is to destroy us, to kill us, to steal our joy in Christ. keep us from coming back to our Creator. Satan has thousands of com uh of of accomplices in this , referred to throughout scripture as demons. or evil spirits or unclean spirits or the uh angels uh of the devil. Uh and again, Satan and those who are his have one single stance toward us. He is presented in scripture as a roaring lion , not the nice but unsafe lion you see in Narnia. This is a lion seeking to absolutely Devour you and I. There is no mercy, there is no regret, there is no hesitation on his part. His aim is to deceive you, to accuse you, and to absolutely crush and steal your soul. And so we must suffer. While we are here to some degree at the hands of our enemies Satan. Ephesians 6, 11 and 12 tells us to put on the whole armor of God. Why? Why does he tell us that specifically? That you may be able to stand against the steam Of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers, over this present darkness, over this world system, against the spiritual. from forces of evil in the heavenly places. Uh and though now we don't want to I'm not going to build up Satan too much, though now we suffer because of him, uh he obviously does not have ultimate power. This is not uh We're not presenting this as two God and the devil equal forces battling it out. Who's gonna win? We don't know. We'll wait and find out. Uh this is not that. We know the end result. We know that his defeat is imminent. Um I think I think last year I gave you the example. of like when you uh spray a cockroach, you see a cockroach on your kitchen counter, you spray it with rain, what's it do? It just goes nuts and start running around the place and then eventually dies. So that's sort of where we are with Satan now. Like Christ has come, Satan was crushed, he's defeated by But we're in that that period where redemption has come and where redemption is coming. If you were here with us last year, we move in into that to some degree. Oh, thank you so much. Why? Um and so now uh if you're reading through books like Job, if you look at uh the account of the gospels of Peter, um and this may freak you out some, he He acts at God's permission and within within the realm of the sovereignty of God, but without defacing, does it deface God's character? It's tension, but uh it is in scripture. Here's the third reason we must suffer. We must suffer. Again, you see these are bleeding into each other to some degree. Uh that's not a pun. We suffer because of our own flesh. We suffer because of our sin. We suffer because we live in what Paul calls in Romans 7 this body of death. Sin is our natural state, apart from Christ. Romans 3 23, all have sinned. Everyone. No one seeks God. No, not one. Ephesians 2. 1, you were dead in your sins. You were born spiritually dead. You and I. And Paul throughout Romans presents us with uh a new self redeemed in Christ, and yet we are still in this body of flesh, which is against Christ. And though we know We know how the story ends, we know how it turns out. We're in the intermediary period where we are perfect. We have the righteousness of Christ fully covering us, and yet we are being protected. as we move chronologically through time uh toward the gates of eternity. We suffer because of our flesh. James 4, 1 and 2. What causes quarrels? What causes spikes among you? My children. Listen. Calm and Beth, listen to this because this is you guys. You guys listen to see. I'm just I'm kind of messing with you. What causes quarrels and fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? Your desire You desire and you do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. It's played out in my in two-year-old kids and hundred-year-olds. women. You want something, you don't get it , you fight any for all. We must sin because of our flesh. Galatians 5 and 17 tells us for the sinfulness nature, our nature apart from Christ, our nature redeemed in Christ, being redeemed, being sanctified, being made like Him, the sinful nature desires what is contrary to sin the spirit and the spirit was contrary to the sinful nature. They are in conflict with each other so that you do not do what you want. We know what we should be doing. But I don't understand. I don't do the things that I know I should be doing. But but but the other things And this was our whole topic last year. Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. Paul in Romans eight. 12 and 13 tells us that if we live according to the flesh, we will die, but if by the Spirit we put to death the misdeeds of the body, we live. We suffer because those we are. redeemed by the complete and perfect and finished work of Christ, we are still being perfected. And the old man is still with us throughout the process of our sanctification, throughout the process of our being being drawn and brought closer to Christ, being conformed to his image. The old man is with us, the suicidal maniac who will throw you in front of a train. You're not careful. Fourth reason, we must suffer. We must suffer because we reap what we sow. We must suffer because we reap what we sow. Galatians 6, 7 and 7. nine, seven through nine. Do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. The one who sows pleases a sinful nature. From that nature will reap destruction. The one who sows to please the Spirit from the Spirit will reap eternal life. Therefore, let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest. We will reap a harvest. if we do not give up. That is to say that there are natural consequences for our actions. Scripture makes it clear again. that we are not just sort of we're not puppets that we have a a moral responsibility before our king before our god before our friend before our brother christ We have a moral responsibility and so there are consequences for actions. There's a law of the harvest. And you know, uh when you're I don't know, if you if you watch like debates like Christian atheist debates or stuff like that. Um, you know, some of the topics are, you know, a and and in some degree we all ask these questions, but um, you know, w why doesn't God stop acts of evil? Why doesn't God miraculously intervene if a dude walks into a movie theater and opens fire? Why doesn't he stop that? Because he could, right? He's all powerful, but if you're gonna say he's all powerful but he's also loving, well why doesn't he end his love and his power stop that? Why d why doesn't he stop the drum driver's car that ran over the kid? Um why doesn't he deflect the bullets. Why doesn't he save the people? Because a man reaps what he sows. We think would be good if God stopped certain acts of evil. Or, but usually when we think that we're think we're thinking of uh of the other people, right? We're thinking of the really bad stuff. But that would make life impossible. There's no freedom, there's no regularity, there's no personal responsibility there. And so God instituted uh this law of the harvest in Galatians 6 all makes it, sort of lays it out for us. A man reads what he sows. It's pretty simple. you you plant tomato seeds, you're gonna get tomatoes. As far as I know. Uh if you sow to the sinful nature, you're gonna reap destruction. Um Eventually. It may not be immediate, but it will be eventually. But if you sow to please the Spirit, what you reap from the Spirit is to take the light from the Spirit. And so we must suffer because we reap what we sow. There's the fifth reason we must suffer. There are times we suffer because of God's discipline. Because of his discipline. I don't know what you hear when you hear the word zip. Uh if you had, I don't know, abuse of parents or situations of, you know, just But you may be in a at a point or may have experience in your life where you hear the word discipline and you're thinking something extremely negative. Something uh broken and fallen and awful. But when I talk about God's discipline, Here's what I mean. And this is from Hebrews. Hebrews 12, 6 to 11. The Lord disciplines the one he loves. He disciplines the one he loves. He chastises every son whom he receives. And so when I say discipline, if you have a broken view of that, which probably most of us do to some degree, You have to pass that off a little bit and veer yourself uh toward this. That that that when the Lord disciplines, when God disciplines, it's from love. It's from perfection, a perfect motive. of love and reception. It is for discipline that you have to endure. Hebrews 12 Guzman tells us. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not some. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and and and we respected them. Obviously we're talking here about the intrinsic purposes, the right ways of discipline. Shall we not much more be subject to the father of spirits and live? For they, our earthly fathers, disciplined us for a short time. time as it seemed best to them. But he, God, disciplines us for our good that we may share his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful. rather than pleasant. But later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. Law of the harvest again. The peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Those of you who are parents or will be parents is a message from the future. If you're not a parent yet. But for those of you who are parents, you know that by God's grace, if we're doing it well and right, we're disciplining. Our children for their good. Discipline helps them to live in a world that is broken and fraught with danger and peril. God's loving discipline enables us to cope with a sinful world. Pain, physical pain, can keep us from greater physical evil. A burned finger warns us of worse pain. Burn your finger and that can keep you from burning your whole body. a living parable like this. My my kids don't always understand the dangers around them. And I'm not just talking about like, hey, don't play in the street. I mean that's that's certainly part of it. Um but I I I I my desire apparent uh is to show them the love of Christ, not through cruelty, uh, not through uh an abuse of of my authority or my power over them , but to show them the love of God. By helping them understand how best to conduct themselves, not just in the physical, but but but in their hearts and in their souls. And there's so there's there's discipline, there's uh uh correction. You you you don't have to teach your children how to disobey you. You don't. You didn't teach them. They came like that. You're spending uh you you you spent a lot of time on the contrary uh trying to trying to steer them opposite direction. And it yields fruit, the peaceful fruit of righteousness. But if I do not discipline them now, it yields a different harvest later. Though trials, though pains, though seasons of of discipline, uh when when at times when we're able to discern those, uh those those may be many and indeep. I you know we may or may not understand. them fully, but I often wonder how many bullets ha has God saved me from through through this little bit of discipline over here. So we suffer a ton. because it is God's loving discipline. This is the sixth reason why we must suffer. We must suffer because of our faith in Christ. We must suffer because of our faith in Christ. 2 Timothy 3. 12. Everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Will be persecuted. you first Peter 2 20 and uh 20 and 21 uh but if you suffer for doing good and you endure it this is commendable before God to this you were called to this you were called Christian. To this you were called Christ's follower. Because Christ suffered for you, leading you an example. You should follow in his steps. 1 Peter 4. 1. And therefore, since Christ suffered in his body, arm yourselves. Arm yourselves. Get ready. Prepare. Arm yourselves also with the same attitude. Because he who has suffered in his body is done with sin. 1 Peter 412, dear friends, dear, dear friends, this is this is a hard love letter. Dear friends , do not be surprised at the painful trial. suffering as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice. You participate in the sufferings of Christ so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you will be. You have been, you will be. It comes in different ways. It's sometimes direct, it's sometimes not. If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are blessed. For the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. If you suffer, it should not be as a murderer or a thief or any other kind of criminal or even as a meddler. However, If you suffer as a Christian, if you suffer as a follower of Jesus, do not be ashamed, but praise God that you bear that name. Let the afflicted here be glad and mad. the Lord with me. We suffered because of our faith in Christ. For years I thought that was such a strange thing. I I had a handy coated version of of Christianity uh early on, um thought that man, you start walking with Jesus and everything is A OK, right? In best and most important sense, absolutely. But as we walk toward him in this light, it is not a candy coated, neatly packaged. feel. We are appointed like Christ. As scripture paints clearly for us, we are appointed like the Christ that we emulate, that we follow. We are appointed to something. But we are to arm ourselves for this for this purpose. We're to get ready for this. We are to endure trials to be refined. Someone once said, I heard, don't know who it was, they said suffering for the Christians. Suffering is our goal. It's precious. Suffering helps us be made holy. It conforms us to his image. If we walk as Jesus walks. We will walk a path of suffering. I read the words of a Chinese pastor who wrote, I don't know what it was, sort of an open letter to the Western Church when he said this. He said, stop praying for persecution in China to end. Stop praying for our persecution to end. For it is through persecution that the church here has grown. We in fact are praying that the American church might take. Persecution so that revival would come to the American church like we have seen in China. Their suffering is a blessing. 14 if you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are blessed with the Spirit of God and glory, the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. We suffer, we must suffer, because we walk with Christ. Because of our faith in Christ. The seventh final reason we'll look at tonight. We suffer. We must suffer. Because it is ordained. It is ordained that we suffer. It is ordained that we suffer. God is sovereign, we have said, and by that we do not mean merely that God has the power and right to govern all things, but that he does actually govern. all things. He's doing this for his own wise and just and holy purposes. He's doing it for his glory. And as Romans 8. 28 tells us, he's doing it for the good of those who love him. He works all things. All things includes all things. That's what it means in the Greek. All things, all things. Great translation. Works all things to be good, those who love it. I'm dismayed. This is a rant. I'm gonna do a slight rant. I'm dismayed sometimes from culpits when I hear people refer to that verse as the cliche. If that verse is not entirely true, you and I have no hope. God is not working all things to be good. Those who love him are called according to his purposes. In a branch. God governs all things. If he does, if that's true, if he governs all things, then all things have purpose. And all things must pass from his hands, must pass through his hands, even suffering. I think it was C. S. Lewis, I think, uh, who said, if there is one molecule in the universe that it's loose and that it's outside of the sovereign control of God and it is not a God I can worship. If there's one molecule, one rogue thing outside of his sovereignty, then we should be In the most terrible way. But this is kind of, I don't know. Is it okay to say that God ordains suffering? Is it okay to say that? I think it is. If God is good, if God or God is good and he does all things primarily for his glory and at least maybe hopefully secondarily for our good. But it's not a bad thing. It's not as hard as we might think that suffering would be ordained. Think of Paul's conversion at Damascus in Acts 9, where it says, But the Lord said to Ananias, Go, this man's. Speaking with Paul is my chosen instrument to carry my name before the Gentiles. Probably most of us, by the way. I don't know your lineage. We're probably a room full of Gentiles. This man is my chosen instrument to carry my name before the Gentiles and their king and before the people of Israel. And I will show him how much he must suffer for my name. We have no grounds to deny the good that God has done through his servant Paul. Not even Paul denied And yet here it is. God says, I will show. God ordains his suffering. How much he must suffer for my name. Paul was shaped to his suffering. And even today. We reap the good from it. Philippians 1 29, for it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe, but also to suffer for him. It is granted, it is given, his purpose. 412. Dear friends, do not be surprised at the fate, painful trial we are suffering, as though it were something strange happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ. 1 Peter 4. 19. So then, those who suffer according to God's will should commit themselves to their faithful Creator and continue to do good. Those who suffer according to God's will. God's will. If God wills that we suffer for doing good, if God wills that we suffer and continue to do good, then we will suffer and let it B he ordains our suffering for our good, for his glory. And so these are seven generations. causes of suffering. Not all of these apply at the same time. They're not all happening at once. There's often, I would say, some amount of overlap. All suffering is not, for example, a a product of reaping what we've sown. It's not always because of Satan, not always because of disability. It's not always because of persecution. These are general causes. They're meant to give us a general theological framework for examining the topic. It is true, however, I think that rarely, rarely does suffering not reveal areas of need or areas of weakness or wrong attitudes that should be removed or dealt with. Rarely the suffering not bring this stuff out of us. In fact I would say that suffering always brings these things out of us. And sometimes we realize and sometimes we don't. But I think suffering in some way always brings something uh up to the surface within our lives that must be pulled out from darkness uh and brought into light. As many I think have have pointed out, uh we've never heard anybody really say you know the deepest. uh in most satisfying times or joys or pleasures of my life have really come at times of ease and comfort. The reason nobody says that, I've never heard anybody say it, uh because I think it's not true, it's quite the opposite. You'll hear people say, I've heard people say, I missed my cancer because it brought me so close to Christ. Heard people say I I miss in a sense. I'm thankful for production I have now, but there's a sense in that I missed when I was just scraping by when my wife and I in our early days were just barely paying the bills. Because it brought us to our knees before Christ. He was a missionary in India. He was a surgeon. He wrote a book called The Great Talk. It's called pain, colon, the gift that nobody wants. He says, I've come to see that pain and pleasure come not to us as opposites, but as Siamese twins, strangely joined and Intertwines. Nearly all of my memories of acute happiness in fact involve some element of joy or struggle. I'm sorry, some element of pain or struggle. And so it is if we know that God is causing all things, including our pain, including our suffering, including the darkest terrors of our days. But God, in his goodness, somehow orchestrating all of these things to work together. for those who love him and are called according to his purposes. So must we suffer. Must we suffer, yes. Yes. And in the great design of a loving God. Suffering is a is a tool. Suffering is the surgeon's cowper. He uses it to get our attention. He uses it to draw us to himself. He uses it to push us to worship. He uses it to accomplish his purposes in our lives in a way that may not have occurred without that obstacle, without that pain, without that. that struggle. And though the causes of suffering may be many, God's primary purpose is singular and holy and good, and it is to display his glory, which is our ultimate satisfaction and joy. And if you have suffered deeply, if you've suffered loss deeply, I don't want you to hear this as strike, theological mumbo, jumbo. I don't want you to hear this as okay well I have to like put on some sort of facade as I go through rough things so I look real spiritual. Scripture is full of people dealing honestly and brutally with me their pain. before God. So don't hear this with some, hey, don't worry about it. Message. Because your suffering matters. It matters. God is ordained it, but it matters. Because he's doing something with it. He's doing something that's good. So then those who suffer according to God's will should commit themselves to the faithful creator and continue to do good. Suffering is redeemed to build our trust in our God. Suffering forces us to turn from trusting in ourselves and trusting in our own resources. Suffering turns us from worshiping our spells or worshiping our idols. It turns us to God. So let our souls win as we Suffer both in him. Let him be magnified in our pain. Let the afflicted hear and be glad. Can't wait to talk to you tomorrow morning. We're going to talk about responding to pain and suffering. I think there's a very poignant example of this as we see Christ on the cross, two thieves on either side of the two guys in the exact same situation. Maybe I've never been hung on a cross, uh but I think it sounds pretty awful. Two guys in the exact same situation , pain and suffering, uh immense physical suffering, uh yet in response to Christ in very different ways. So we're gonna look at that and some more stuff tomorrow. I'm so glad to be with you guys. Uh I really am and I'm looking forward to our time together. Thanks for having me back. I would love to pray for us and then we'll move on. So Whatever next. Father, thank you so much for your word. Lord, your word is an anchor, it is a rock, it is uh life, it is God-breathed, it's useful. There's so many things. reproof, for rebuke, for encouragement. It it it cuss us. It cleans us. It guides us. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your spirit, which never departs from your word. Which never leaves us anywhere, your word doesn't doesn't take us, doesn't anchor us, doesn't show us. Thankful, Father, that as we live and work and raise families and fall in love and lose jobs and do all the stuff that we do. Lord, that we do so in in this with with your guides, your word and your spirit, anchoring and protecting us, bleeding and guiding us. And Father, as we, as we suffer, Lord, as we go through Pain in life. Lord, our desire would be to see the goodness of our God. Even in these things. Lord, our desire would be the goodness. How would we, as Paul tells us in Philippians 4, 7, to receive this peace that passes understanding? Lord, even in the midst of trial. Father, we will suffer. Lord, would you help us suffer well? so that our souls would still glorify your names. So your name would be in our lips. And our souls, our hearts, our most inmost being would proclaim your greatness. And that the afflicted, whether that is us or the people around us, would hear. Be glad that you are God and you are good. Lord, where my words have gone forth tonight, Lord, may they pass into forgetfulness. But Lord God, where your word has gone out, would you accomplish great things? things here that we change our hearts, change our minds, conform our wills and our emotions to the person front and whom we love and whom we follow and whom we pray and whom we say. Amen. And fucking.