Some passages of Scripture are written in a linear kind of fashion. Like 1 Corinthians that we're studying on Wednesdays. Paul lays out the importance of the body of Christ And then he goes through issue where the body of Christ is being violated and then goes through a next one and he goes through the next one. And you follow the path that he leads. We start at one point and we end several points later after touring through. each issue. My experience of the 23rd Psalm has been very different than that. I find that you can't preach one phrase in the Psalm without looking at several other verses. for the emphasis or for the understanding of what's being said. Some of years ago I purchased a computer program for recording music. And with that we would lay down a drum track. And then we would lay down a rhythm guitar track. And then we would lay down a harmonica track. And then a few vocal tracks. And none of the tracks were designed to listen to by themselves. In fact it doesn't sound too good by itself. But to get the full impact of the song, you had to listen to it with all the parts at the same time. That's how I see Psalms 23. The picture being painted is not one of what a shepherd does to his sheep each day, although it includes that. It's not a study of the isolated equipment of the shepherd, although it includes that. No, it's a song about how good it is for the sheep. When they're shepherded by this superior shepherd. The still waters, the green pastures The restoration of soul, the valleys of danger, the feasting among enemies, the overrunning cup, they're all tracks. In a song, they're describing the beauty of life in Christ. It isn't as much a progression. As it is a picture. It's almost a shame to study this verse by verse. So I keep trying to refer back and forward as we continue to sing this song in our souls. Verse 5, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. We've mentioned before that the 23rd Psalm is not just something that a Christian holds to in good times. When our material blessings overflow. While it's like God to give good things to his children to enjoy, the deeper blessings, the more important blessings, the richer nourishment. Comes from the relationship with the shepherd. Up until now, the psalm was presented in sheep imagery. Now we change the picture all of a sudden The imagery is one of a host serving a guest. Now we see a host A lavish host honoring the guest. How does he do it? First, he prepares a table. Now, in order to fully get this, we need to look at the surroundings. The enemies are present. What do enemies intend? Harm. They won't hurt us. These are beings that want to hurt us. They want us destroyed. So the context is not a casual walk in the park. Normally, if soldiers are in battle, they don't sit at a banquet table while they're In the middle of a fight. You know, they might grab some food on their way through the battlefield. They're looking for survival. But David paints an incongruous picture. Here. We are feasting while surrounded by enemies. Our good God prepares for us delicacies and has us sit down in peace to enjoy both the protection and the provision of our Lord. Does this not look like the man who has put on the armor of God, who is enjoying fellowship with Christ by reading his word, praying, and communing with the saints? The enemies are all around. The enemies hate what's going on. We know they're there, but we are basking in the promised protection from God. We are relying upon the fact that greater is He who is in you than He who is in the world. We have the richest treats in all of the world's existence We have fellowship with Christ, and we're going to focus that on a little bit later. So we have that. And second, we are invited to feast while our enemies are forced To watch and to just watch. We're protected. They want to harm us, they hate us, but they can't do anything. They would like to hurry us, they'd like to distract us, they would like us to focus on their power to do harm. The lion roar is hoping to flush us out of cover. But our host will not allow them to do that by force. We can choose to disbelieve our host and get all worked up if we like, but that's on us, that's not on him. Third, our host is rubbing it into our enemies' faces how he loves his children He's making them watch to magnify to all heavenly watchers their impotence to do harm to God's children. Christ is being glorified as we feast on his goodness in the presence of those who hate both us and Christ. Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that like God? Last sermon we looked at the valley of the shadow of death. We didn't fear. Why? Our shepherd was near. Now we feast not in the shadow of our enemies, but with their very presence. We find that they are impotent when faced with the great power of our host. Psych would tell us we should panic. We should run. All is lost. We can't sit at this table and eat. These are enemies. Look at what they could do to us. But when we look at our host's faith and realize that we could not possibly be any safer. than we are sitting at that table with our host. This psalm is not just to comfort us in good times. It's to comfort comfort us in all times. Even when the devil is roaring in our ears, trying to flush us from cover, the trick is to take our cues off the looks of our host 's face. When he says relax and keep feeding, we do well to relax and keep feeding. Then he goes on to say, You anoint my head with oil. Well, this is what all good hosts did in the Orient. It'd be similar to giving someone a bath, sort of. I personally I think I'd prefer the bath. But this was a blessing to them It would be a richness, it would be an honor. And it was usually a perfumed oil that would make sitting around a table more pleasant for both you and those around you. It was a luxury. I believe this is to show us again that Christ doesn't just give us life, he gives us abundant life. We don't just exist, we thrive at his hands. When we sit around his table, we even smell good. That's the imagery here. But then I guess my focus really comes down to what comes next. My cup overflows. My cup overflows. In the Orient, the host would often fill the wine cup until the wine flowed over the sides. I to us that'd be an incompetent post, you know, or one that can't see well or whatever. But um bad judgment of distance or something. But uh I I think that custom might make most of of the housewives cringe, especially if you have nice tablecloths, but it was a sign of abundance It was a sign of abundance. So you overfill the cup till it went over the sides and and that was that was good. The cup couldn't hold all the blessings being given is the idea of it And I want to make much of that this morning. Every believer, if he can refocus his attention into spiritual realities Cannot help to see cups flowing over in our lives. The tablecloth is being stained all around us in our imaginary banquet table as the wine keeps coming faster than we can drink it. You might look at your circumstances and say, how so? Look at my life. Look at my turmoil. All I can see is trouble overflowing. Well, let's look at the overflowing blessings, provision, and gratitude. Try to remember this. Try to remember the moment or day or the season that you finally grasped the full weight of your sin. You and I are pretty good, I would think, uh at choosing not to think about things. Or we excuse things because at the time they seem like perfectly understandable We saw last week how King David did that with his sin. We might assume anyone might have done as we have done if they were put into our circumstances. Or um and we go about our next daily to-do. List with very minimal remorse. But then one day, maybe the day of our conversion Or maybe well after, or maybe it's even a process that we go through. The Holy Spirit acts like Nathan and approaches us in his strict gaze so that we know He's talking to no one but me. And he says, You are the man. You are the man. You are the one. Who has committed that sin? Do you remember a time or times like that? It's not hard at all to cry at that point. You could not have kept us from it when we came to that awareness. It's like falling off a set of kids' monkey bars when I was a kid. I think it was about ten foot high, and I landed flat on my back. And all of my breath was removed at an instant, and I lost the capacity for a little while to get any more And I had never had that experience before, and it was alarming. That's kind of the same kind of feeling. That was our spiritual state. At our point of repentance. If you've never reached that state, learn more about your holy God If you're a Christian, you'll find repentance is the natural reaction to an encounter with God. If you're not a Christian, if you've never received the benefit of the saving work of Christ on your behalf by faith in Christ, your blindness Is keeping you from seeing the debt that you owe to your Savior. Call upon Christ to show your true self Show you your true self from his perspective. When he does, you'll be ready to cry out. So when we reach the deep dark cavern of our sin, what do we wish for? When we see ourselves as we truly are, what do we wish for? We wish for that, which would seem impossible. We wish for the burden of both our sin and our guilt to be removed. And it seems like too great of a thing to wish for. No one could ever. Be so kind to us. That obstacle, it's too great. Our souls, they are too stained. Our actions have been too grievous. Our mistakes are no longer mistakes. They're grievous, evil actions that we chose. Their actions which cost Christ his life. They're actions that Christ died for. But then what happens? Our soul becomes astounded and overwhelmed by the grace of God. We hope for God to place a little of what we need so desperately in our cup. But that's not good enough for our generous Lord. Not only is our sin debt completely removed and placed upon The completed work of Christ. We are given the power to be called the children of God. We are adopted into the royal family. We find out that we're chosen before the foundation of the world. We're guaranteed a rich inheritance. God's love is poured out in our hearts. We are made into a new creation. God is working all things out for our good. Nothing can separate us from God's love, and we could go on It is no wonder the cup flows over. That's a lot of wine-stained tablecloth right there. What heart could contain all that blessing? What vessel could capture all of that grace? It doesn't matter at this point if the valley blocks out all the sun and our enemies hurl their insults at us. Nothing matters except what keeps coming into our cups What I'm describing here isn't a myth or a fairy tale. It isn't some positive thinking mantra to make us cheer up. No, it's a picture of reality that we would see if time and matter were stripped away and we would see into the spiritual realm. This is real We see it by faith now, but it's more real than anything that we have ever touched, tasted, smelled, or heard. If you are in Christ, your cup is spilling all over the tablecloth. All the time. All the time with blessing. Our cups are also overflowing with provision. Remember what we started with? The Lord is my shepherd. Let's rephrase that. The Lord is my shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. He is your shepherd. Suze likes to say that Jared is her person. And by that she doesn't mean that it he is her property and she can sell him at any time if she likes. No, she means that she is She has a special covenant with him that locks the two together. That's what it's like with us and our shepherds. We are the shepherd's property, but he has covenanted himself with us If we are in Christ. Now let me ask you: who has a cup big enough to hold Christ? Whose heart can contain all his love and goodness and grace? We all know the answer to that. Nobody's. Nobody's When you and I sit at God's banquet, this is who we get. Along with these provisions, we have everything needed for life and godliness. We get a guaranteed inheritance. We get to be part of the body of Christ. We get the Word of God. We get the gift given to others in the body. We could go on and on. The cup keeps running over. I'm sure there are many more ways that we could expand upon this idea. Our cups run over in joy, in gratitude, in hope, just to name a few. And again, this isn't wishful thinking at all. It's fact. But all of this being true does not mean that we experience it all. We sing joy to the world, the Lord has come, but too often we live dismayed to the world, my problems have come. The answers to our problems are rarely found when looking at the problems. They're found when looking to the Lord. Our help comes from the hills, not from the holes. The longer we fixate on the problem, the more we think that dismay is the only response appropriate or even possible. And we begin thinking, I'm right to feel this way. Anyone in my shoes would feel this way. I should never have had to face this problem. It is completely unfair that I am in this position We begin to believe that Christ came to give us life to the bare minimum. We won't pronounce that we think he's a liar, but we believe the voice of our circumstances over the voice of our shepherd. The way we look at it by sight and not by faith, our cup doesn't run over. It barely has anything in it. And the longer we're a Christian, the better we get at defending our misery instead of our master. Because we know more truth about the world. We're more realistic. We know just how bad the world is and how true the evils are and how rampant they are across the face of the globe. But we lose the sheer wonder of how good. our shepherd is. We defend the right to our misery at the expense of offending the goodness of our shepherd. The world would think we're survivors, not overcomers. And it's easy to call this attitude anything but sin, but until we call it sin and repent of it, we'll never be delivered from it I can tell you about the trap because I've fallen into it. I've been dismayed by the pain wickedness causes, and I know what it is to call out to God. in despair in midnight hours. My guess is probably all of us have if we've been Christians for very long. And if we have, we know the relief that comes when we succumb to the shepherd's staff. When he guides us away from the contemplation of the effects of the wicked and to rest in the comfort of the shepherd's care. Yeah, wolves remain wolves. Robbers still exist. The valley of the shadow of death remains, and our enemies are surrounding the banquet Those are never reasons for our souls not to be restored. They are not reasons for our cups not to overflow. David says, I will fear no evil, because my good shepherd has never left my side, and he never will. We can keep our cup from overflowing, I guess, if we so choose. It all depends on what we fixate on And that doesn't happen to us. We're not a victim to those attitudes. We choose our paths of misery as much as we choose our paths of joy. We don't choose our paths of suffering. I mean they come they come to us, they come at us, and uh we don't want them, but we get them anyway. But how we respond? The paths to despair Are sinful ones. They by necessity believe wrong things about life and about our shepherd. True confession is the turning point. We will never repent of something that we refuse to define as sin. Instead of self-pity, sometimes what we need is self-rebuke or self-correction. Sometimes what we need is not empathy. We may not need people telling us how bad they feel for how bad we feel. We may not need support for our misery. What we might need is exhortation. Christ in our Psalm restores the soul of the one who trusts him Whatever keeps us from that restoration is not just unfortunate, it's unfaithful. God 's will for your life is the restoration of your soul, and that is a process. If your soul is not being restored, what lie are you clinging to that's keeping you from it? If your soul is not being restored, there's a problem, and the problem is not the hardness of our circumstance, neither is it a failure of the shepherd. The problem is a lie that's believed that's keeping us from appreciating and enjoying the riches of God's blessing. And those blessings may be mingled with sadness at a sinful at the sinful condition that reigns around us and in us. That's a mix it's a mixed bag. It's always a mixed bag that we live in. But the restoration of our souls must be happening. And there's no circumstance that disqualifies that truth. Beware what you tell yourself to explain why your soul is not being restored. Those quotes come up the quotes that you come up with are not likely to be coming from Scripture. Then look at what David says next. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. We start with the word surely. Surely. Surely is a certainty. Surely is a certainty. There is no doubt in this statement for all the saints of Christ. We do well to let our hearts run in the same direction as this declaration We can say here, I am certain. I am certain. We cannot be certain about performance, but we can be certain about Christ's performance God 's goodness is God's active benevolence toward his elect. This goodness includes the provision and the protection of which our cup is overflowing. It also includes God's wise ordering of things for our good. God's mercy is God's steadfast covenant love. It's his never letting go of kindness. John Gill says that goodness meets our needs while mercy covers our sins. And those are the two things that are running after us all the time. Goodness meets our needs while mercy covers our sins. Do you believe these two things are tracking you every day of your life? Goodness and mercy. The word for follow means to pursue, to chase, to run after. I love ra rabbit hunting with beagles. It's so much fun when the beagles get on the trail and they start howling the way that they do, and as they chase the rabbits, and the rabbits will do everything that they can to lose the hound, but uh Inevitably the hound normally gets back on the trail. Well that that must be what it looks like sometimes from God's perspective and his relationship with us. God 's goodnesses are hot on our trail. Sometimes we sit still and wait for those goodnesses to come, to overcome us, and those are our good days. Those are our smart days. Other times it might seem like we make it As hard as possible for goodness and mercy to catch us. But realize this is God's love and action. Our God has a pursuing love. If He did not, none of us would have a chance. And how long will it follow us? Every moment that the clock ticks. Every moment that we're in danger, every moment that we are in need, it doesn't just follow us when we appreciate it or invite it. It doesn't follow us only when we recognize it. It's not passive in its pursuit. It doesn't wait until we pursue it Again, we see that God's faithfulness toward us does not depend upon our faithfulness toward Him, and that is such a wonderful, wonderful thing. But thankfully, we benefit from God's gift far more thoroughly When we submit to the Lord's leading, when we invite his goodness and mercy. That's in our power if we are in Christ. And then the last portion, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Notice this word, shall. Dear brother or sister, if you are not confident of your salvation , You can be. And in fact, if you're following Christ, you should be confident. David did not say, I might dwell, I might dwell, or I shall give a quick visit, but that's all. No, he says, I shall dwell. I mightily hope in this reward. That was David's attitude. The reward begins now and goes on until eternity. Now, goodness and mercy will continue to chase us. Wherever Christ is, that is where his house is. We're told in the New Testament that our bodies are the tabernacles of the Lord. Our dwelling in God's house begins its regeneration. We live in communion with the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit will never leave us. It's here that the Lord is our shepherd. We are eating and drinking and being restored right here. We are being protected and provided for right here. We are celebrating in the riches of Christ while our enemies powerlessly look on right here This whole time we are being pursued relentlessly by goodness and mercy. Right here. God is chasing us with his goodness. And that chasing will continue until we cross the threshold of a different kind of house. Of the Lord. It's then that goodness and mercy will no longer need to give chase. It will have captured us. We then receive our reward. We will enter into the eternal fold where there will be no more need for protection. The banquet table will be set again, but for this at this time, it's not in the presence of our enemies anymore. It will be in the presence of the king or the lamb or the shepherd or whatever name best befits him at the time. Does this seem sometimes like science fiction to you I mean it does to me at times. You know, I start thinking about what I'm actually telling people when I when I witness to them or whatever, or what I preach even, it's like Wow, that's pretty far out there. It's real. It's all true. 100% true. We do well to keep orienting our mind to this reality that is realer than anything that we see with our eyes. It takes constant training and the training of faith In our minds. You and I wake up to physical life that gives little indication of spiritual reality. Our clock ticks the same, the alarm clock goes off the same, we get up to the same environment with the same responsibilities. We have the same bills, there are the same meals to make and the same household chores to do, the same job to get up and go to. But we can't allow ourselves to get lulled to sleep. We can't see the world the way the world sees the world. No, we have a loving shepherd. We have a carefully chosen path, chosen for our good. The Lord is restoring our souls. He is preparing his special provisions. And he overflows our cups with his goodness. And then he chases us down with goodness and mercy. And we live in his presence. Minute by minute, with every tick of the clock bringing us closer to our home. The home where our hearts will live in delight with the wondrous attributes of our Savior. Don't lose heart. Don't despair. Don't believe just what you see and feel. Run to Christ often and run to Christ long. He is our hope. And stay our strong tower, our high place, our hen 's feathers, our father's arms. He is our good shepherd. At the end of the day What more could we want? Let's pray. Oh Lord. Our heart longs for a shepherd like you