So let's go back to our story. Last week we looked at Christ crashing the disciples' closed door meeting. It was on a Sunday evening. Things were happening really quick. Reports were coming in. The Maeus hikers were still talking when Christ appeared to the ten disciples and others. And Thomas was not there. This appearance convinced the disciples beyond a shadow of a doubt that Christ was risen. But again, Thomas was not there. This morning we see Thomas's first encounter with the risen Lord. This is eight days later. So depending on how they were counting the days, this would probably be the Monday that fell a week later than the Sunday. of Christ's last visit, which was the day after he resurrected, or the day of. Now, where was Thomas when Christ showed up the first time? The truth is we don't know. It's very likely Thomas could have been with the other disciples if he wanted to be. After all, it's not like he was fully employed somewhere else. He sort of just lost his job. Traveling with Christ had been his job for the last several years. Now, think about how Thomas may have been feeling. Thomas was not a person who would quickly trust others. That's pretty clear. He was very skeptical. That was part of his disposition. Remember that when Christ talked about going to Lazarus' home, it was Thomas who said, let's also go so we can die with him. Pleasant guy. Thomas was a thinking kind of person, not a feeling kind of person. He made decisions based on what he understood as facts. Thomas had followed Christ. He'd gone all in with Christ based on the facts that he analyzed about Christ. But he had never signed up for this. Thomas is very likely brooding by himself. He's probably thinking that his decision to follow Christ was stupid. He had made a mistake. On top of this, Thomas probably was not the kind of person who would have a lot of deep personal relationships. And the ones he did have were probably very important to him. Now one of the most important friends he had, Christ, was dead. He would have experienced that as a deep blow. He was not the kind of person, probably, who could just blow off such a thing and get on with life. So Thomas is probably suffering. But the problem is he chose to suffer alone. Often, when we choose to suffer alone, when we choose to exclude those that we trust from our suffering, we deprive ourselves of the comfort that we could receive from others Every dilemma we find ourselves in has an answer in God's Word. The Word either teaches us how to look at it correctly or how to change the situation. The dilemmas we keep the longest are those that we keep most to ourselves. What's the problem that most plagues your life? Where do you find yourself falling short time after time? Where does your life circumstance rule you rather than you ruling your response to it? Take that place and ask yourself. Have I really shared in-depth how I feel and think about this with somebody who can really help me? Have I ever really gotten help for this thing? If we'll do that, we'll often find people really can help us with our dilemmas. We may stay in the same situation But we'll face it with a different perspective. Or maybe we'll be convinced to change our circumstances. Had Thomas been with others, he would have suffered eight days less than he did. That's worth noting. Another thing we may want to notice is that Jesus didn't announce when he was going to show up with these believers Those who were there got it. Those who weren't didn't. One of the reasons I've always committed myself and my family to meeting weekly in this fellowship is for this reason. The presence of Christ in our worship can't be replicated or reproduced later. The experience of these few moments together, once missed, are gone forever Now that isn't to say we won't have the presence of Christ in times when we aren't here. I'm not trying to make that point. But the experience of him revealing himself to us in our worship won't be the same as listening to the sermon online. or are talking among ourselves. For me, that's too important to miss unless something temporarily more important comes along. Verse 25. The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, Unless I see in his hands, the print of the nails and put my finger into the print of the nails and put my hand into his side, I will not believe. Now we read this and it's easy to forget that eight days had gone by. Eight days. And for eight days, what do you think Thomas' friends have been trying to do? They're trying to convince him that Christ raised from the dead. They saw him. The verb tense used here means they kept telling Thomas. So you've got ten guys telling Thomas that he needs to get with the program. After a few days, the disciples are probably getting pretty irritated with Thomas. Come on, man, they might be saying, are you calling all the flyers? Do you think we're delusional? Do you think we're that stupid? We saw Christ. It's easy to imagine that a guy like Thomas A guy that just wants to go by the facts finally responds to them after they're badgering in a way that serves notice that he wants his friends to shut up. He wants them to stop badgering it. So Thomas lays down what he what is required before he's going to believe that Christ rose from the dead. And he is extremely specific. He gave some time in thinking about this He wants to see the nail prints in Christ's hands and he wants to touch them. And he wants to touch Christ's side. And until that happens, Thomas is not going to believe. He's served notice to his buddies. This is how it is When that happens, I'll believe. God has created a lot of different kinds of people with all different kinds of personalities And while at times we may not think that's a good thing, it is. It really is. A lot of gifts, a lot of a lot of uh variety we find in our relationships with each other. When he places him in the church, he also gives them gifts. But what is our temptation when dealing with others? We want them to respond to situations like we do. We want them to get with the program. We want them to get in line and make things go smoothly and without waves. That's probably what the disciples are probably trying to do with Thomas. They want him to be excited by believing what the disciples believe based on the fact that the other disciples saw it. But we need to remember that even the disciples didn't believe the first eyewitness that they heard. And they may not have believed if they didn't see. But don't we often fail to see that people respond in large part based on the personality that God has given them? They can't see the world except through the eyes of the person that God has made them. Now, I'm not talking about disobedience, and I'm not talking about disbelieving. I'm talking about how we see things. When a group of people confront a problem, one person might immediately help those who are harmed. Another person may think to call the authorities. Another person may think to stop the source of harm. My point is, because a person responds differently than we might, that does not mean that a person is trying to be difficult If they won't get with our program, that doesn't mean that they are not following the program they are supposed to follow. Don't we often get irritated with each other? And the real reason is that we want the other person to be like us. We want the person to respond like us. And they're not. We want everything to go go along gladly or everyone to go along gladly with what we think to be a good idea, to be a good plan. And they can't see it as a good idea sometimes maybe We think that something we ask could be done easily, but the person we're asking sees it completely differently. We do well to learn to love. each other to love that person that we are seeming to have difficulty with. And often it's not something that's their fault. It's simply a result of them seeing life through the eyes that God gave them. Thomas is just being genuine here. He has to see proof. Thomas is probably a guy whose emotions go extremely deep. He can't take a hit like he just took very often. He had his hopes up, and that doesn't happen very often for a guy like Thomas. He can't afford to have them crashed again. So before Thomas allows himself to hope again, he has to know it's safe to hope He has to know he's not violating the skepticism that's part of his makeup. He has to know he's being reasonable and smart to allow this hope again in his heart. Now we might be critical of him, but do you know what kind of people these are that are so skeptical? They are the same kind of people that keep the church safe from error. They're the prophetic people who can see where things came from and where things are headed. So we would do well to cut Thomas the break here. He is likely just being genuine to who God has made him. And we would do well to go easy on each other when others are not as cooperative as we'd like them to be. Because ultimately we are not living in their skin. We do not answer to God for how they use their time We do well not to lump them into a category in our minds that they don't fit just because they don't respond like we'd like them to, or maybe even like we would in that circumstance Okay, so we have the disciples all excited about Christ being risen. And then there's Thomas who wants to believe, but will not allow himself to believe until he sees proof. Then verse 26, and after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Now, why did Christ wait eight days? We have no idea. All we know is that Christ shows up again in the middle of a closed room. I wonder if anyone was looking at the point where he materialized when he showed up. Wow, wouldn't that blow your mind? You're looking at a chair and suddenly there's someone in it. Now we see that Thomas was with them. This may have been hard for Thomas, with all these guys looking down on him for not believing their report. You think about it, this conflict has gone on probably for eight days. And now he's he's pretty much served notice, lay off me. And they've pretty much gotten in their heads, I guess we better lay off of them, but he's not getting with the program, and we don't like it a bit. But Thomas was there A little conflict, a little difficulty, and a little misunderstanding was not going to get him to bail out of the fellowship. How good it would be if all church members followed Thomas' example here How many people leave a church for far less than what was happening to Thomas here? Now, Christ again says, peace to you. This was a common greeting, and he was truly blessing them with the greatest peace that could ever be had. He bodily represented peace with God. When Christ was there, it truly was peace with them. Verse 27, then he said to Thomas, he didn't waste any time here. Then he looks at Thomas and he sa he says to Thomas, Reach your finger here, and look at the at my hand. And reach your hand here and put it at my side. Here here you go. Maybe he you know pulled up his robe or whatever he did. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. Look at Christ's first order of business. Thomas was at the front of the line in in Christ's agenda, probably because Thomas had the greatest need at this point. There is part of Thomas that wanted to believe, but he could not think he was being stupid in believing Christ is going to immediately bust that barrier for him. And they're both going to enjoy this. Now, what would Thomas have immediately known? You think about it. Put yourself in Thomas' spot. What would you have immediately known when Christ told him to do exactly what Thomas said were his proof tests for Thomas before he would allow himself to believe? The first thing Thomas would know is that Christ heard every word Thomas had said, expressing his doubts. Imagine how you might feel if Christ were to do that to us this morning. Suppose he were to show up and directly publicly address our doubts. Whether spoken or just thought, how embarrassed would we be? How stricken to the heart might we be? How would we feel if he addressed the faithless words that we uttered this week? Suppose he were to look us in the eye and say, yes, I am true, no matter what lies the world throws at you, I do exist, and I am King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Or maybe he would say, Yes, I promise to work out all those things that you are so afraid of. Those fears you allow to debilitate you, I have those things in the palm of my hand. Or maybe he would say, yes, you know, you might not know what the future will bring, but I do. And you can trust me with that. Or maybe you would say, yes, even that thing you cannot make sense of in your life right now, even that cost you pay that seems absolutely pointless, there is a point. I know what it is. Or I would not have allowed it to happen to you. If Christ were specifically to look at us and address our doubt, would it not cut us to the heart this morning? Would we not feel ashamed for having doubted Christ at all? Well, isn't that a good reason for quitting right now? Because like we've started in 2017, he's with us. He's with us. He knows it. He sees it. He's here. Isn't that a good reason to drop our doubts now and trust him and trust his word? Christ looked at Thomas and he dressed his doubts exactly as Thomas had expressed them. Christ knew exactly what Thomas had both said and thought, and Christ shows that he didn't think a whole lot of them. Christ said, do not be unbelieving, but believe it. Do not be unbelieving, but believe it. That'd be a good slogan for over our doors. Do not be unbelieving but believing. The problem here isn't so much that Thomas didn't take the disciples' words for Christ's resurrection. The problem is that Thomas didn't take Jesus' word for the resurrection Christ had promised he would raise, but Thomas was choosing not to believe it. The verb tense in this sentence basically means stop becoming an unbeliever and become a believer. Thomas was on the road to unbelief. He was only believing what he saw, what he experienced, but he was not believing what God Himself had clearly spoken. That's where we come into trouble. Thomas was becoming an interpreter of evidence rather than a believer of God. Jesus was dead. Science says people stay that way. Jesus said he would not. Thomas chose science over Jesus. And would have appeared smart to the world. Oh, doesn't our world think that's smart? But in reality, it was the dumbest thing Thomas could do. Because Thomas knew that. Science says that people cannot walk on water. Jesus did. Science says that people cannot make bread and fish out of nothing. Jesus did. Science says people cannot control the weather by speaking to it. Jesus did. Science says people cannot raise other people from the dead, and especially not just by speaking to them. Jesus did. Now, what smart reason did Thomas have for not believing Jesus would raise from the dead? None. None. But it's just like us. The most beautiful thing in this interaction is that Thomas was not kicked out of the club for having doubted Christ. Christ knew that Thomas wanted to believe, but Thomas was afraid to believe. He was afraid to believe something that was too good to be true. He didn't want to allow himself to hope again in case he was to be disappointed again. Christ knew what Thomas needed, and he gave it to Thomas. Christ will do the same thing for anyone who he calls to himself. He will always give us what we need to grow our faith. But the odd thing is that Thomas appears not to have really needed to touch the holes. What he really needed was to see Jesus. And again, isn't that often how it is? The thing we think we need isn't really what we need. It's kind of an excuse. What he really needed was just to see Jesus. He needed to talk to his Savior. He needed the reassurance that his Savior lived. Thomas appears to have taken Christ's admonition very seriously. Christ told Thomas to stop being an unbeliever and be a believer, and Thomas did that just that. His next sentence, verse 28, Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. My Lord and my God. Thomas calls Christ Lord. Kurios and God, Theos. These were both titles of deity. If Christ accepts this praise, this is a litmus test here. If Christ accepts this praise, He is essentially agreeing with Thomas that he himself is God. He himself is Lord. If Christ were not God, he would have been obligated at this point to set Thomas straight. Christ never sets Thomas straight. This is one of the clearest declarations of the deity of Jesus Christ in Scripture. The word for Lord means he to whom a person or things belongs, about which he has the power of deciding. Master. Lord. Let me read that again. The word for Lord means he to whom a person or thing belongs, about which he has the power of deciding. Master, Lord. I have a question for you this morning. Does Scripture describe a salvation whereby a person can call upon Christ as Savior? But never submit to as Lord. The scripture describe a salvation whereby a person can call upon Christ as Savior, but never submit to him as Lord. How would you answer that question? What scriptures would you look to? This would be a good study and a good discussion for Sunday school In fact, that might happen. So anyway, come to Sunday school if you're coming with uh some study on on that topic When Thomas cries to Christ, my Lord and my God, this was an amazing proclamation. Thomas was pronouncing himself a slave of this person, Jesus. Thomas was no longer his own. His decisions for how he was going to live were no longer his to make. He has given that right back to the rightful owner. He has given his life back to his Lord. He has fallen into step with the reality that has always existed. Jesus Christ truly is Lord. It's just that most people won't admit it. This is Christianity at its truest. I would contend that this is truly the starting place for the Christian life, for the Christian walk It may not be the starting place for God's calling on our lives, but it is the point where living the Christian life begins. God is very good at being long-suffering with us. He moves us through our ignorance and through our selfishness. He works upon our hearts in the most effective of ways until we reach this conclusion. Jesus Christ is Lord. And more importantly, Jesus Christ is my Lord. It is then that our lives take on the proper perspective. It's then that we stop making decisions in the natural way and we begin making them in a spiritual way. We hold each of those decisions we must make up to God's perusal, God's approval or disapproval, God's guidance. It isn't that we stop making decisions. We still must do that to survive, to live. But those decisions are held up to a higher power first. We take them to the owner. We submit each of them to the Lordship of Christ. That's what a slave does. That's what someone who calls Jesus Christ Lord and means it does. Our selfish interest is no longer our primary concern. Our Lord's interest becomes our primary concern. What we think will make us happy is no longer our first priority. What we think will please our Savior becomes the first priority. We will allow him to worry about what happiness we should have and what it should be like. And normally We find that this mode of life ends up with a great deal of happiness. But it does not come from the places that we would most expect it. It does not come from the places that we would orchestrate. It comes from God's hand. From God's provision. God's the source of all good things, I believe James tells us. Is Jesus Christ your Lord this morning? Is Jesus Christ your master this morning? Do you view your life in regard to everything being in submission to his lordship? Have you ever cried out like Thomas to Christ and declared him my Lord and my God? This must happen if you claim to believe in Jesus Christ. This must be the state of your heart. That is Christianity 101. Now granted, there are times That we choose to disobey. There may even be times in the Christian life that we choose to rebel. But we gravitate back. A Christian gravitates back. To this position of lordship, either that or Christ kills them. It's what we learn in Scripture. It's that severe. We gravitate back to the Lordship of Christ in our lives. Is that what our lives are like? Then what happens next to Thomas? How does Christ respond to Thomas? Verse 29, Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. First note that Christ did not deny Thomas's claim. Christ was God, so Thomas could call him God and be perfectly fitting, perfectly right. Next, notice that Thomas's statement, my Lord and my God, was a statement of belief Thomas didn't just believe that Christ rose from the dead. Thomas believed the whole package. Christ's resurrection meant that Jesus Christ was God's incarnate Son. Christ was God and Christ was Thomas's Lord. That is the belief package. When one comes to belief, they believe more than the facts about the person. They embrace the truth of Christ with their whole lives. They don't just believe about Christ, they believe in Christ. They receive the claims of Christ's godhood as having absolute bearing over their lives. That is what truly believing in Christ does. Christ becomes more than a creed, more than a mantra, more than a good luck charm, more than a statement of fact. Christ becomes Lord of all. That is belief. Now, what Christ says here is one of the greatest blessings from Christ Himself to you and to me that we will ever get. He states it here very clearly. Why did Thomas believe Christ? Because Christ showed up and displayed his physical reality. He allowed Thomas to see him. And Christ doesn't rebuke Thomas for this, but he does display it for what it is. The way Thomas believed was a step down from how the rest of the generations following Christ would believe. Thomas saw. Those following Thomas would not see, but they would still believe. Christ made it easier for Thomas to believe than it will be for all those that Thomas and the other ten would be sent to preach to. Thomas and the disciples all saw and believed. The rest will not have that opportunity. And that's right where we sit this morning. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. You and I, if we believe this morning, are the ones that Christ promises are blessed. Isn't that good to know? That we sort of get some credit, not in a spiritual sense, but it's it's a benefit, it's a good thing that we didn't see Christ, but we still believe in him. These are Christ's words for us. Often we have probably all wished that we would have gotten to see Christ, to have talked to him, to have walked with him. But Christ went out of his way here to let us know that it's we who will be blessed. And it's not by being blessed by being with him, it's the blessing of believing without seeing. The blessing of believing by faith, from faith to faith. Now, this does not mean that we believe blindly. God went out of his way to make sure that we have as much historical evidence of what we believe as any other historical fact a person might believe. This is not in any way saying that blind, unreasoning faith in something that has no evidence is a virtue. Any religion could sign up for that. But the blessing is in believing God without being able to experience the direct, convincing truth that Thomas was privy to. We can't touch it. Christ realized that it would be more difficult to believe without seeing than it would be to believe after seeing. But the truth is, all of us, all of it's a miracle anyway. That God would grip our hearts and draw us to Himself is pretty amazing no matter when and how He does it. But we are promised that we are blessed if we are of those who believe without seeing. And unless any of us have stories that I haven't heard about, we're all in that camp. So we need to consider ourselves blessed to have believed without seeing. Then verse 30, and truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in him. his name. This is how John finishes up this chapter, and then as an afterthought he writes chapter 21. Isn't it nice that he finishes it on a note that mostly all of his readers would relate to? He lets all of the readers know that Christ considered them blessed if, as a result of reading John's telling of the gospel story, they believe in Christ. Now John tells us that the story he told wasn't the whole story. Christ did even more amazing things, more proof of Christ's divinity than what John told. And he did them where the disciples could see them. They were verifiable by witnesses. And they weren't made-up hoaxes like other religions are based on. These were facts with witnesses. And why did John write it all down? John wrote it so the same thing that happened to the eleven disciples could happen to us. So we could catch this disease of Christianity. So we could believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, God in flesh, the Son of God. And that by believing in Christ, not just about Christ, that we could have eternal life. While every salvation may look different in many ways, everyone is the same in the most central way. Everyone who truly comes to Christ by faith believes the facts about them, and they also do business with the fact of who Christ is. By casting all their trust upon him for their salvation and for the running of their lives. We receive Christ's death on the cross to provide forgiveness of our sins. We receive his resurrection to provide us with the power to live a new life. At first, we may not be able to explain it very well. In fact, that might take a while for us to be able to understand the facts, understand the principles, and to explain it in a way that somebody else can understand it clearly. But we will know that our lives are Christ's. They belong to Christ. He is master, and we live to serve Him. That's the point that Thomas was driven to in our story. And that's the reason that the book of John was written for us to read. So we can have a faith like Thomas's. Even without seeing the nail and the spear holes. This week we would do well to examine the Lordship of Christ over all of our life. Where are we holding back? Where do we not trust him enough to believe what he says? Where do we not trust God's lordship enough to believe what he says? Where do we not trust him enough to do what he commands? We can call out to God and ask him how we can be more pleasing to him. Do we not think that he will answer such a prayer? Or are we afraid to pray it because we don't want the answer? When Thomas cried out, My Lord and my God, it led to a significantly shorter life on this planet for Thomas. Thomas died for his faith as far as we can tell. So there's nothing flippant about this commitment to Christ as Lord. It costs us our fleshly compulsions. It costs us our comfort. It costs us our stubborn inclination to think and act however we feel like thinking and acting Our tirades and tantrums and schemes and secrets and selfish strategies and rebellions have to die. They are put to death under the Lordship of Jesus Christ by faith in Jesus Christ. Is that what we want? Is that really what we want? Because that's what Christianity does. Are you ready to cry out like Thomas, my Lord and my God? Let's sing from the black book. I'd rather have Jesus.