We are on part three, the woman at the well. There's one more part. Now remember how Jesus initiated conversation with this woman. He asked her for water. Then he offered her better water, and he pointed out how much her water had failed her. Then he told her, I am the Messiah. Now we move on in our text. Verse 27. Just then his disciples came back. The words for just then mean at that very moment. His disciples came back in perfect timing. They got to hear Jesus tell the woman that he was the Messiah. Never doubt God's timing. His sovereignty controls every detail of our lives. I know that's difficult at times to leave, but that's what's happening. Jesus clearly intended the disciples to hear this pronouncement. And we continue. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, What do you seek? or Why are you talking to her? Now Jesus is talking to a woman who is a Samaritan and probably the kind of woman that is an outcast. and would not be comfortable with the other women who came in the cool of the evening. I learned some interesting things in my study. In Judaism, it was believed that for a rabbi to speak with a woman, even his wife, was at best a waste of time. And and at worst, a distraction from studying the Torah, which could lead to damnation The rabbi said, it's better that the words of the law be burned than be delivered to a woman So ladies, if you think you're being treated badly at times, at least you're welcome into discussions about the Word of God. One thing shines out here. Jesus did not care what rules people had come up with about how his creatures are to be dealt with. He doesn't care about public opinion. He doesn't care what the so-called experts in religion think. He doesn't care what they might think of him, or what evil they might suspect him of, or what they might say about him. He was willing to spend all of that for this woman's soul. He was willing to spend his reputation for this woman's soul. Also, we see that doing things Jesus' way will sometimes have us very misunderstood. There are times when Christ may lead us to pay a price for a person in such a way that it violates artificial rules that the church may have adopted where the culture has bled in to our theology. It's very difficult to avoid. One of the hardest things in Bible study is to get yourself out of yourself and take your points of view and say, my points of view don't matter. I want to know what this word says and work at it from backwards. So anyway, it's easy for us to take a cultural mindset, a cultural slant, and read the Bible through that culture. Where men say that the Bible says, but it's really the culture that says that thing, and the church has adopted it. Many of our brothers and sisters might think we're wrong to do what we're doing when we violate those kind of things. I want to add a caution here though. If we ever think we should do such a thing, we must know with certainty that we are not violating. Biblical principles. And I think this calls for a great deal of caution and accountability because we are so unlike Christ. And we know all the help that we can get. But Jesus would not allow man-made doctrine to keep him from the mission that his father gave him. Jesus had an appointment with this woman, and he would not be hindered by a bunch of people who misread Scripture. This woman's salvation was too important to be hindered by others' misunderstanding. of what was important in scriptures. So for the disciples of Christ to marvel that Jesus was talking with his woman I think the word marvel might seem like an understatement. It's almost like there was no word strong enough to give what these people are going to experience if they're watching Jesus talking to a woman. A Samaritan woman and one with a bad reputation. And what's next is interesting. But one said to the woman, what do you but no one said to the woman What are you looking for? Or to Jesus, what are you doing? My first thought here is, where was Peter? He rarely held his tongue. Maybe Peter had meant his quota that day for saying things that Jesus had to correct, so he he laid low. We don't know, but ha have you ever been in a classroom where the topic that's being discussed is so far beyond you that you're even afraid to ask any question because any question you ask is just going to embarrass yourself. I think that's the situation here. It certainly isn't that the disciples don't ask stupid questions after this event. Some comment commentators say that the disciples had learned to trust Christ's wisdom. I doubt it. The disciples would often offer advice to Christ after this. No, Jesus is talking to an outcast Samaritan woman, and the disciples didn't begin to understand how to process it. So they picked the wisest course for the moment. They didn't say anything. Now there is an example to follow. Now also think about this. I don't know how you see your own sinfulness. We certainly all see our own sinfulness. Maybe you think that you can compete with the notoriety of this woman's sin with your track record. Maybe not. But look at it again. No amount of sin would have kept Jesus from loving this woman, from pursuing this woman When Christ targets a person for his love, that person cannot disqualify themselves from his pursuit of them. Now we need to be careful how we think of that. I'm speaking of this from Christ's perspective, not ours. But Christ's methodology of choosing people does not go anything like ours would. And how he does the choosing is a secret that he keeps for himself. No matter who you are, we are as unlikely of a choice to receive Christ's love as this woman at Samaria was. Yet he loved her and he never allow yourself to see your past sin as an obstacle to God's love. It's no hindrance at all. And it's not because the sin isn't a big deal. It's because Christ's love is simply great. He has provided an adequate way to have that sin forgiven. He has paid the full price of any sin that you may have committed. That is Jesus. That is the Lord that we serve. That is his heart coming up. Okay, let's continue. Verse 28. So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people, Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? We don't know why the woman left her water jar. She may have thought, I know I'm coming back, and maybe the disciples in Christ can use it while I'm out. She might have thought that. We don't know. She had ceased being concerned about protocol and whether Christ would think himself too good to use it. She probably got the idea he'd just easily drink out of this thing, so I'll let it hear. Even this was a small sign of trust, a symbol that something had changed. Now, other translations say that the woman went back to the town and spoke to the men. And it would be natural if that were so, because she was probably more appealing to the men than she was to the women, actually. But the word for men really does not mean uh men. It doesn't single out males. It means mankind or human. So people truly is the better translation. Here it's not men. No. This woman goes to the people in the village. Now think about that. Wasn't she the outcast and the reject? of the village? Wasn't she the hated party of the village? Wouldn't this be really uncomfortable for her? She's probably likely to have the least dependent speech on anything having to do with spirituality in that whole village. But this woman cares enough about her townspeople that she does not want them to miss this amazing opportunity. She was willing to take great risks for their benefit. She wasn't gonna hog Jesus for herself. She wanted other people to come to her. Now look at the message she gives. Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Now think about that for a second. The all that I ever did is not referring to her track and field records from high school. The all I ever did was her sin. And it's something that the village was probably very aware of and spoke behind her back about. She's saying this man accurately told me about the sin he knew I had committed, and he doesn't know me. If this were you, would you have been so quick to broadcast that the revelation of your sin is the proof of his supernatural origin? But this woman does not hesitate. She's humble here. She's got nothing that she's trying to hang on to. Who she is in the villager 's eyes is of no importance. Who Jesus is is all that matters. We see so many examples here in evangelism with this woman at the well. She's going to people that she's uncomfortable with. She's telling them a message that exposes That Christ came to her while she was a sinner and knowing she was a sinner and knowing what kind of sin? And Christ told her who she really was. That's similar to what we're supposed to do. And as Christ means as much to us as Christ meant to this woman, we will approach it the same way. Her life was already preaching John the Baptist's sermon. He must increase. I must decrease. And then she said, can this be the Christ? Can this be the Christ? Now this is, I think this is really interesting. I hope I'm not making too much of it, but the way this is worded in the Greek implies the negative response. I mean, I think this woman was very shrewd. By this point, she probably knew enough men that she understood what was effective in their world. If she would have held herself up as some kind of expert If she were to have said, I found the Messiah and I know it's the Messiah, she may have been mocked and she may have met a lot of resistance. But she used reverse psychology here. She said, this man knew everything about me without knowing me, but that probably isn't enough evidence to prove he's the Christ, is it? That 's essentially how that is worded in agreed. She's presenting it as a mystery to solve rather than a declaration to be agreed upon. And it worked. They high-tailed it out of there. Now, I know this woman was not someone you would hold your, want your young women to model their lives after up to this point. But she shows wisdom here, and I think it's worthy of at least a question. Women, when you're dealing in the world of men and need to make a poem. And I'm sure there are plenty of times when you need to make a point. And there's a way you can go about it that will be highly effective. And there's another way to go about it that gives you greater inward satisfaction. Why not choose a highly effective one? If both cases are equally moral? I think the answer to that question, in some cases, may reveal things about your heart you might not like. I think it's a worthy question. When it requires more humility to handle something the most effective way, are you willing to try it? Okay, notice that this woman knew very little about Jesus, but what she knew was enough to tell others Isn't it interesting here that the woman who had known Jesus for probably less than an hour was a more zealous witness for Jesus in the village than the men that were spending their whole lives with him? There's nothing said about any of the disciples telling anybody about Jesus. But this woman did. So this was the effect. Verse 30. They went out of the town and were coming to him. So from the vantage point of the well, and I gather that the well is a little bit higher, Jesus and his team can probably see these townspeople coming. There they had a path that went between the grain fields. And the grain fields at this point would have been very, very green and very young. So these people would have been walking on the path. So you would see them rise above, you know, the grain. And uh so that's aesthetic. Verse 31. Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat, because remember they had gone into the village to get some food. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you don't know about. So the woman came for water, and Jesus has water, but spiritual water. The disciples are hungry and want food and want Jesus to have food. But Jesus already has food, but it's spiritual food. I'm sure it was helpful for Jesus to keep appealing to the things that everybody understood. He was a very good communicator. Everybody gets the concept of the need for food and water. Every one of us understands the sustained quality of food and water. Everyone knows what it's like to be hungry for food and be thirsty for water. We all know that. And then the sweetness of having that craving fulfilled. I can think of times when I was back hacking. And uh the water wasn't where it was supposed to be, you know, and fact hacking that gets extremely important. So we had to hike way down off of a mountain to get the water. Man, that was the sweetest water in the world. You know, it could have been filled with all kinds of amoebas, I don't know, but it was it was sweet water. So Jesus just uses those things to talk about spiritual reality. He too is talking about real things They're not just made up of molecules and able to be touched in hell. They too meet real human needs, but not the ones that keep your body living This was the truest of soul food. Jesus is probably thinking of this verse in Deuteronomy 8. 3. And he humbled you, and let you hunger, and fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone. But man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. At this point in the sermon, I sort of feel like Carla when she has a Clorox wipe in her hand Like she begins with the intention of wiping off the backsplash backslash of the the kitchen stove, but by the time she's done she's wiped off the microwave. the cupboard doors behind the sink, and if there's anything left of the wife, she'll finish up cleaning the floor with it. I've managed to avoid that disease in cleaning that I do, but I'm beginning to show symptoms of it that frighten me. But as I looked at this passage, I got distracted like Carla with the wife. I want to show how Jesus was using the concept of bread from an old from this Old Testament passage. But I first want to digress into a side point from this Old Testament text. Moses is telling us here in Deuteronomy that God the Father used object lessons as well God used hunger for this purpose. Think about how hard it would be to feed a million people every day while camping in the wilderness. A million people in a place not known for having food in it. God's intervention, without it, there is a serious threat of starvation, and anyone that has a half a brain would know it. All of us realistic folks could have worked that out and could have worked ourselves into quite a state fairly quickly How did the people respond? Well we see it also in Exodus 16, verse 2, and the whole congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. the wilderness. And the people of Israel said to them , Would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt when we sat by the meat pot and ate bread to the bull. Well that sounds kinda nice. It doesn't sound like slavery, does it? Short memory. But anyway, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill us. To kill the whole assembly with hunger. Now look at this situation they were in when they grumbled. It's pretty simple. It's a situation we often find ourselves in. They have unmet needs or expectations of their provider. They had unmet needs for expectations of their provider. In the case of food and water, those are needs When it came to them wanting meat later, that's a desire, not a need. And each of these situations, they grumbled or complained, depending upon which translation you're using. So this gives us a warning. When you find yourself worked up because a provider has not given us what we need or desire. You are at a grumbling crossroads. When your provider has not given you what you need or desire, you're at a grumbling crossroads For some reason, the people could not bring themselves to say to God, Lord, this is what I need to live. I know that you love me. I know you want me to live for you. So please give me food somehow. And then expect God to take care of you. But no, it couldn't be that. They just had to find fault in their provider They had to point out what was wrong with their provider and how he had seriously failed them. They grumbled about his failure instead of simply humbly asking him for what they wanted. They couldn't bring themselves to trust that the provider truly cared about them and was willing to work for their welfare. Who would cause that in person? Here we see the nature of the kind of grumbling that angers God. Now, are you someone who grumbles? I think it's unlikely that any of us really look in the mirror and say, well, no, there's a grumbling person. You know, it's just not something we categorize ourselves. But run it by the test. A grumbling spirit is one that would rather find fault with the provider than submissively requesting from the provider what one wants or needs. A grumbling spirit is one that would rather find fault with the provider than submissively requesting from the provider what one wants or needs. And this grumbling doesn't just apply to our relationship to God. It could be true to our of our attitudes toward others In James 5, 8, and 9 it says, You also be patient, establish your hearts for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Do not grumble against one another, brother, so that you might not be judged. Behold the judge is standing at the door. So you find yourself at a point where your provider has not given you what you need or desire. The difference between the sinful grumbling and faithful requesting is the difference between these two reactions. Grumbling says, it's your fault that I'm in this spot and I hold you accountable for this problem. The discomfort I'm experiencing is your fault. Your character flaw is what put me in this spot and I wouldn't be in this spot if it weren't for you. That 's the grumble. The faithful response is this: please provide for me what I need or want at this spot. Could you please help me get a solution for this problem? Are you a grumbler? Ask yourself this question. How do you respond to your provider when you find yourself in a bad spot? Do you attack or do you request? Now I know only God is the perfect provider, so sometimes we we have to have discussions with our human providers, our earthly providers, that are different than we would have with Jesus. But where do we usually start? Where do we start? With an attack or with a request? Why is it so hard for us to submissively ask our providers for what we need? Yeah, yeah. Okay, that's my side. My my distractions. So back to our text text. Anyway, so God provided food in the wilderness. But to understand what was going on, we need to see the context of what was going on. The Israelites are about to enter the promised land. This passage is talking about Deuteronomy 8, 1 and 2, where it tells the people that the laws of Moses they are about to hear are to be obeyed. The commandments are being given so that you will do them and you will live in God's blessing in the promised land And part of the process of ours and their history was God's humbling of them. God certainly has had to humble us many times in our lives in order for us to get his perspective and submit to it. Well that's what he was doing here. He provided the test to prove what our arts are like. He had to show us what we're made of, just like he had to show them. And it was after that we failed the test, after we grumbled about food or whatever, after we knew and realized that we had no capacity. To provide for ourselves what we needed, that we finally got to the place where we could learn something, where we could humble ourselves enough to realize that we must respectfully ask our loving provider for what we need. That's this context. The manna was a physical provision to meet a physical need. But the lesson Intended, even at that time, was a spiritual one of needing to depend upon and trust God. Their need for food was used to teach them about their more desperate need to depend upon God and Semantics. Yeah, bread is important. You live by it. It keeps you alive. But if you want to really live, if you want a spiritual life If you want to live in a blessed relationship with your Maker, you need another kind of food as well. You need to do, and this is the emphasis here. You need to do every word that comes from God's mouth. That's your bread, your spiritual bread. So when Jesus says, I already have some food, Jesus is saying, I have the sustenance in doing that which comes directly from the mouth of God. That's my food. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? We can't blame them. This would, you know, being around Jesus is like being around a sarcastic person. It takes a lot of time to get to know that person to understand the question that my daughter Ashley asked me, is that the kind you mean or the kind you don't? She understood sarcasm. She could never tell whether it was being sarcastic or not. In Jesus' case, the question would be: Jesus, are you talking about the physical kind or the spiritual kind? And that would be an issue. If we were there, we would wonder. It would not have been an easy thing to discern until Jesus actually explains it. So they asked each other down the line, you can just picture it. Did you bring him food? No, I bring him food. Did you bring him food? No, I bring him food. You know, that's kind of what happened here. And Jesus said to him, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Jesus understood from the Old Testament, and he's referring to it. My food is doing God's stuff. That. That's my food. Now that's very interesting. When we think of food, we think of something that meets and need we have. We think of something outside of us that comes to us to meet a desire for survival that we have. Or just because we're hungry. We don't usually see eating as something we give. It's something we did. But for Jesus, doing what his father wanted done met his most deep-felt need. My food, what I need, I get by doing. I'm going to think backwards. And that's probably part of our problem. Our seemers will rarely tell us that what we need most is gained by submitting every part of ourselves to Christ. And obeying his word. Our flesh tells us our needs are met by giving. We depend upon getting all kinds of things to fulfill us. Recognition, money, proper treatment by others, good sermons, good teaching. A peaceful environment, being shown respect? And the list is as long as there are people here. We're prone to think our hunger is met by getting. And here Jesus says, No. His hunger was met by doing the will of God, who sent me. And we need to grasp the importance of that phrase, who sent me? Christ had no confusion about his purpose on planet Earth. Sometimes we're not real sure about some things, but he was absolutely sure. He understood his Father's purpose for humanity, and he fully embraced his father's will in this. Jesus says over and over again, he came to do the will of his father. That was his bread. Remember the wristbands, W W J D. What would Jesus do? Well, he would do the will of his father. That's what Jesus would do. He would live his life maximizing every moment to accomplish the work his father gave him to do. And that was his sustenance. The question about our food begins with the question, who owns me? Who owns me? That determines what I'm here for. Christ was one with his father, so his question starts at a different place than ours. But for us, who owns us? Do you have as much trouble with that question as I do? Oh, I mean I I get the Bible, you know, the Bible study question, I get that right. I know what to write on the paper. But when we really grasp who owns me? When I think of my life, I have difficulty seeing it differently. Like I'm in my skin. I'm the guy making those decisions. I 'm making a decision about what to do next. Unfortunately, I have a lot of freedom in that now that I'm retired, which is kind of nice. I am choosing and I am doing. So it's very hard to live in the realization that I am not mine. My purpose is not my purpose. I'm somebody else's property. 1 Corinthians 6. 19 says, or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit within you? Whom you have from God, you are not your role, for you are a boblet of Christ, so glorify God in your body Paul is telling the Corinthians, you can't do what your body wants to do. You can't just do that. You can't just depend about doing what your body wants to do. It isn't your body. That was his reasoning. Your purpose is not your purpose. The purpose of you now is to glorify God in your body. Jesus was stating it differently, but I think it's the same concept. My food is to do what my father wants. Our food is to glorify God in our bodies. Same thing And our steamers tell us when we do that we are giving. And it's true, we are. We are giving. Romans 12, 1 says, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies As a living sacrifice, we are presenting, we are doing uh holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. We are offering ourselves up to God for his pleasure, and that's true. And it's completely appropriate for us to do. Anything else is inappropriate given the price that he pays for us. But what our seamer will rarely tell us, unless it has been thoroughly trained, is that our greatest joy Comes from doing the will of the Father. Our greatest joy comes from doing the will of the Father. Our greatest joy comes from our greatest service to our master. That's the bread we're hungry for and we don't even know it. As a Christian, to the degree that we are living for ourselves, we are starving ourselves. Maybe that's why we feel like our souls are so empty at times. Maybe that's why joy and peace seem so far away from us at times. If our lives are focused on ourselves, we are in a spiritual starvation diet. What we need to do at that point is to repent. Even if it's for the millionth time. Call out to God to present your body again as God's property and for his service. And begin where you are in that pursuit again. Just keep doing it. Fail your way to success if you have to. Persevere. Keep hanging on and starting over. God is sure to receive you wherever you are. Confess your sins. He restores fellowship. He promises that he will. Our spiritual food, our spiritual satisfaction comes from living for the will of our master. The one who sent our Savior and the one who sends us. We're going to stop here this morning because the next section fits together um and I don't want to break anything up. So anyway, let's pray. Father, we confess to you our selfishness. We find it so hard to live with the idea that we are yours And that what we decide should always be based on what you want. Lord, you know our failures. Please forgive us. Lord, we ask that you would help us to be like Jesus this week by finding our food. What our souls are so hungry for in doing your will. Help us, Lord, when we find ourselves attacking the provider instead of requesting what we need. And help us to be like this very simple woman who is excited to tell anyone and everyone about you, no matter how it made her look. Lord, please change us. And we praise you, Lord, that you showed such a clear example of your love to this woman. And we thank you, Lord, that none of our past sins puts us out of the reach. Of your present infinite love. We thank you for all these names. In Jesus' name. Amen.