You know, are you looking sort of Andy Stanley Stotley? He's like, no, like he's like our like our people love the word. Uh he said and they are accustomed, he said that I I think I'm pretty close to quote him, they're accustomed to sitting for long periods of time. And so my sermons have not gotten shorter, and so as long as your attention span hasn't either, I think we'll be in good uh shape. Um so our theme Which y you guys get the you you get sort of the benefit of a year or two of of thought and preparation and uh just thing that the Lord has led me to and I get to sort of put a lot of that together, stir it up and see what the Lord uh sort of brings to service Uh and uh this so the the title, I don't know if you want to put this tile on like when you post it or whatever, but it's a little weird, but uh sort of art The title for this series over the next four sessions is is By the Blood. By the Blood. So our theme, what we'll be talking about, we're going to be looking at really our our guilt uh before the Lord. Uh why why did Jesus do what he did? What was in place in our lives that he should that he should die for us. So we'll be looking at our our guilt. We're going to be looking at sort of how Jesus dealt with it And our response now, in practical terms, both as church and as individuals, how we follow them, how we live out. the the the the light in light of uh both the blood that was on is on our hands because of our guilt and because of our sin Uh and the blood that covers us because of Christ. Uh and so it it it in one sense I'm not I'm gonna try not to be like blood, blood, blood, blood the whole time. So we're uh ultimately I think this is uh a message, and most messages are, it's a message sort of to myself. Um that uh again i I I pray is is beneficial to those around me Uh ultimately I think this is going to be a sort of a call to Christ centered personal uh holiness. Um which I think is If there hasn't been a season in your life where that the need for that seems particularly poignant, uh maybe certainly just maybe be that season. So this will be in many ways the call to Christ interpersonal holiness and corporate unity as we navigate a very broken world. Our sort of theme verse for the weekend comes from Ephesians 2, verses 12 and 13, which says, remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the works But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. We are brought near to God. We are reconciled by the blood of Christ. And so uh just a quick outline of where we're going in this session. Uh we're going to look at Jesus and the kingdom of God. We're going to look at a a a quick snapshot of very early in Jesus' ministry, that's sort of setting the stage for session two, which is going to be uh just prior to the crucifixion. Matthew 27, where we're going to sort of maybe see ourselves through the characters of that account. And consider the human response to Jesus is Jesus is bringing, ushering in the kingdom of God. We're going to look at the The human response to that. Not the spiritual human response, not the spirit-led human response, but just the straight out of sin human response to that. And we'll see in session two I think That's really going to emphasize our guilt. Session three will be sort of living this out, how we live this out in our interactions as a church. Community. And then session four, we'll look at Second Thessalonians 3 in session 3. And then session 4 we're going to look at living, sort of living this out, like by the blood. What does this mean as far as our identity? As individuals connected to a body, but ultimately living before the Lord. What does it mean for our personal identity? But tonight we are going to start by looking at Uh the kingdom, uh Jesus' early ministry. Uh and I sort of would start out just by saying, man. Uh if again, I've Our church has issues at this point, and that's not like everything's sinking and burning down. I've got issues, you've got issues, we have uh a lot of issues Uh a recent uh issue that I had in my own household uh was uh a four-foot black snake in my basement. So that was uh just after we came home from vacation uh last summer. Um my man Sam and I were uh were there the other the other family by God's uh extreme grace and mercy because none of them do snakes. I don't I don't I'm not afraid of snakes, I don't go out of my way to mess with them. Sam, inexplicably earlier last year, had said to me, Dad, one of my life goals uh is to, I would like to kill a snake and take a picture with it. So I go down to my basement, which is unfinished, uh, and see about a four-footer uh who's stuck in a glue trap, uh a mouse, a mouse glue trap. He's been there maybe the He seems kind of weak, uh, because he's been there, we've been out of the house for about weeks. Uh and so I the first time does I call Sam. I'm like, Sam buddy, you're time to call it. Uh he says, bad, I'm honest. And he goes, he gets some leather gloves and he gets his BD guns But within like two minutes he topped that thing in the head a couple times, extricated it from the house, had me take a picture of it, and then tossed it into the uh the wood behind our house, and they quote uh to send a message to the others So so that particular issue uh was solved quickly because I had a sand. You did a great job on that. I would have to say that that worked out well for me. My nine-year-old achieved his life goals. I got a pretty decent sermon illustration out of it, and I didn't have to touch Snake. It did not end up well for the Snake who's dead, or my wife, who still he used to do the basic. I think that's more because it's a smell and because there's like that. Should have kept the snake. Well, moving was on the table at one point. I believe we found all the holes and sealed everything. We haven't had any issues since whenever that was. we'll we will discuss. So I you know if that were the only issue uh again that I had to deal with I'd be doing uh pretty good. Uh but again I've got Much more issues than that. So we're going to look at the gospel according to Mark. And what we're going to do, again, this is very early in Jesus' ministry. We're going to jog through Mark 1 And then sort of catch our breath and look at the first uh five or so five to ten verses in Mark 2, depending on uh what kind of sound you have. Uh just uh by way of background, uh Mark is obviously the second book of the New Testament written by John Mark, early believer in Jesus Christ. Probably wrote this around A. D. 55. And he is likely chronicling the eyewitness accounts. of Peter. Most theologian and historians say that's probably uh what happens. Um and uh as we look at Mark 2 verses 1 through 5. Well, we're going to start there. I'm going to read that, and then we're going to back up a little bit to 1. But part 2, 1 through 5 is kind of a familiar and to me very fascinating passage. And it's a sequence of events that as you as you sort of dig through it, I think reveals the priorities of each of the parties that are involved there. And it shows us Jesus' priorities when he is presented with a specific opportunity to deal with an issue That is brought before him. And I think one of the things that we're going to see here is that while we tend to present to Jesus what we think are the problems Right? Like we've got an idea in our minds and our hearts and our heads and our experiences uh in our uh affections. We say Jesus This is the biggest this is the big visible clear issue. More often than not, and what we'll see here in typical Jesus fashion is that he reveals and deals with a greater issue, a bigger issue than we thought. And what we're going to see is Jesus ultimately demonstrating his authority, his ultimate authority. to make ultimate provision for man's ultimate issue, our ultimate need. And so in terms of issues, that's really what we're looking at tonight. Again, as a setup uh for this idea that that we are we are guilty. We are under what uh Joel calls uh uh a a a blood uh blood guilt uh in in in the book of Joel in the Old Testament Let's look at Mark Jew first I said this. Also, I hope you're older and wiser. In two years, my my eyesight is not doing super great. I don't know if it's because of the macular regeneration uh or just because I'm getting old. But finding glass is really helpful with it. Mark two When he returned to Capernaum, Jesus, after some days, it was reported that he was at home. So Capernaum was sort of home-based during an early period in his ministry. It said, and many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door. And Jesus was preaching the word to them. And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. When they could not get named him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above them. When they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. When they saw and when Jesus saw their faith He said to the fairly, Son, your sins are forgiven. Let's pray real quick. Father, thank you so much for the goodness of your word. Lord, we are So thankful that you have not simply left us to face your stuff out for ourselves, but that you have given us instruction and guidance. Father, both in your your written word, your scriptures. that that uh point us to your living word in Christ uh that we can see and interact with and believe in because of the power of your Holy Spirit. So Father, we pray that as we look at your word tonight, that your spirit would intercede on our behalf, opening our minds and hearts, that we can see your beauty and your glory, that we can behold the wonders, Father, of the gospel that are continue to just peel peel back like layers uh in a in a beautiful and village onion. Um we are so grateful for the depth of the gospel. On one hand it is so simple that children can understand it. And yet, Father, something that we will marvel at for an eternity, Lord, and not rape the death so And so tonight, Father, we look at your word. We pray for your blessing and your spirit to be with us. And we give this time to you. Pray that you'll bless it in Jesus' name. So again, just brief context uh from from Mark. Mark is writing primarily to a Gentile audience. So he doesn't take time like uh in in Matthew uh or or Luke. He doesn't go through any genealogies, uh he doesn't he doesn't take a lot of time to set stuff up Mark jumps right in to the action. And in the opening verse of Mark, in Mark 1-1, he said, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, in their boom, he's off and running. In the first thirteen chapters of Mark Mark gives a shout out to an Old Testament prophet about a voice crying in the wilderness, speaking of John the Baptist. When he says, hey, that was John the Baptist. He was heralded in Jesus, whom he baptized and upon whom the Spirit of God rests. And so by the 14th verse of Mark, Jesus is already on the scene. He's got a message. And a mission. And that 's the mission is the gospel. If you look at Mark chapter 1, verses 14 and 15. You've got to get uh three, four chapters in on some of these other uh New Testament writers. Um Mark 14 verses in. Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. Repent and believe the gospels. We're going to break this down briefly so we get a sense, a handle of what on what Jesus was saying That's going to help us then as we dig into that section in Mark 2. So, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent, believe the gospel. So something is happening. Jesus says. This is red light. Something's happened. When? Jesus says the time is fulfilled. So something's happening. And that time is is now. But that thing that is supposed to happen Is happening or is about to happen now. What's happening? Well, he said the kingdom of God is near. The kingdom of God is at hand This is language that would indicate to those listening to him and us uh uh reading along, uh this would indicate uh A, that there are kingdoms And B, the world in which we live is not God's kingdom. Right? We are in a kingdom that has rulers, it has governance, it has citizens, it has jurisdictions. And it is a kingdom that was made by God in the beginning, but this kingdom has fallen. We live in a fallen kingdom. Since Genesis 3, the world is physically broken, this kingdom is spiritually separated. From its creator. God 's kingdom, however, his uh his rule, his authority, his uh redemptive and restorative Rain is at hand. And so we see immediately the implication here is that there are two kingdoms and they are at odds. Now a kingdom, for us, you know, we may think sort of medieval, you know, castle, a ruler, a king. Uh we we tend to in Western thought have exclusively almost that mindset, but uh for again those in the original the original hearers of this message when they hear kingdom uh even the word has a very strong connotation for them uh of family and so the original audience would have also understood kingdom understood the word kingdom in the original uh context to mean just as strongly uh as rulers and jurisdictions, uh just as strongly as the family or the household of God is at hand Right? And so you are a family, but your family is dysfunctional, your home is spiritually broken, but a true family, a whole family, the household of God is on the way. It's being established. That's why you also have adoption language interwoven with a lot of the New Testament teachings is because of this this familial um emphasis that these guys would have understood uh much more clearly maybe than we do. So this is a pretty big deal. So something's happening. We've got some kingdom, the kingdom of God is coming. And how should we respond to this? Jesus tell us. If the kingdom of God is near, You know, a reasonable question might be, well, how do we get into that? How do we gain access? How do I get adopted into this family of God, this household of God? Jesus says, repent and believe. Repent and believe. This uh you've got armature believers. Um you know that repent means to turn back, it means to go the other way, it means to uh turn away from one thing and check yourself. Toward another thing. Now, inherent in the command to repent is the reality of our Sin that's our uh active and ongoing uh and active or passive uh but ongoing rebellion against God, who is the ruler of this coming kingdom, who is the father of this coming perfect family We have all broken the king's laws, we have all grieved the father's heart by rejecting him, and so Jesus says, you must repent, you must turn from that, from that path, because that path leads to death. So you need to go into the opposite direction, which leads to life. This is Jesus' message. If you've ever heard it said that God can do anything, well that is not a true statement. God is bound to By the constraints of his do an perfect goodness and his perfect holiness. And so as such, one of the things he cannot do is ignore the offense of sin. The only appropriate response to sin against a perfectly good and holy and just and loving God is his full wrath upon that sin. The father turns his face away from the unrepentant sinner. The king does not welcome those who do not repent. Into his new kingdom. But he leaves the sinner on the path that that sinner has already willfully chosen. Which leads to the eternal sufferings of hell, eternal separation from God and his goodness And so in terms of issues and problems , we've got plenty, but no issue is more dire, no issue is more critical Then the issue of sin. And so uh Jesus, enable to help in order rather to help us understand why this gospel that he's saying believe in, gospel, good news, in order to help us understand why good news is good. He teaches repent He says, turn from your sin, stop going against God, turn and believe. Stop going this way, turn this way, and believe in the good news that God has made for you a way back to Him. Romans 6 23 summarizes all of this by telling us that the wages of sin and death, that we know this passage The penalty or the cost that you have incurred because of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ, for Christ Jesus. Jesus the Messiah, our Lord. And so that is what Jesus is preaching. You are to believe. Right? You are to turn from sin, turn to Jesus, believing and trusting by faith. Right? That he has paid your debt. And this is a gift to you. Ephesians makes it clear to us that this is by grace. You're saved through faith It's not of your works, it's not of your own doings. This is the gift of God. It's not a result of your work, your doings. Romans 10, 9, 10, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord Believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And so Jesus, in this simple statement, as he begins his ministry , In Mark chapter one points to sin as our greatest issue, and forgiveness as the only remedy. And so we can make uh what may seem like an obvious statement, that the greatest issue, the greatest problem uh that we have is not it's not physical. So those those are tough. It's not mental, but those are difficult. It's not emotional, it's not social. Our greatest need is not political. Our greatest need is spiritual. Our greatest need is to be forgiven of that sin, that sin that occurs in death. That debt must be paid. You and I cannot pay it. And so Jesus alone has paid it and purchased by his blood. The forgiveness of our sin and attributed to us, not just bringing us to ground zero, but now attributing to us through faith, belief, through accepting that gift, his righteousness. Not by earning it, not by working for it, but by believing upon it, he says, repent and believe. Accept this by faith as a gift Jesus doesn't nullify or deflect or sweep under the carpet in any way the wrath of God. But takes it full on, standing in our place as a substitute, because God's justice and wrath at our sin have been fully satisfied in the perfect sacrifice of Jesus. God can now In being true to who he is, without compromising in any way whatsoever, extend full pardon and complete forgiveness to those who repent and believe this good news by faith. Those who repent and believe are welcomed into this coming kingdom, this kingdom of God that is at hand. And this is the gospel. This is biblical Christianity. And with that message. With this this good news, Jesus' ministry begins. This is how he begins the whole thing And as Mark then uh records, uh he sort of skimmed through, we can go back later and read through Mark uh one, but uh he's gonna record Jesus calling together a small group of men his disciples and begin teaching, begin traveling around with this group, uh proclaiming this gospel, uh telling this message Uh he we we're gonna see that he's also uh you'll see when you read he's casting out demons, uh he's healing people. He is exercising those things that one who is of the kingdom of God would be able to do. And crowds so begin to flock into him. He he in in the second half of chapter one Again, this is the pace that was Mark is going. Second half of chapter 1, Jesus already had the thriving ministry. There's a rising clamor throughout the land about Jesus. And he's already in high demand. We might say, why? Because of his methods, because of uh these these neat things that he's doing Well in Mark 1. 27 we hear directly from the crowd as to why. 127 says, and they were all amazed. So that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching with authority. He commands even the unclean spirits. And they obeyed him. It's interesting to me, and I hope you've caught it there, that the crowds are recorded not as saying a true teaching. Right? When they say they say no, this is a new teaching, ah, and with authority. And so that is perhaps typical of crowds. Typical of us if we are not careful in that we can be more interested in what is new than what is true. There's a poll Something in us ought to be more concerned with style than with substance. The text does not indicate that it was the truth of what Jesus was saying that compelled the crowds. But that his teaching was new and fresh and cool and delivered in a way that they found super interesting. They like the show. But we know, and we'll look at this more as we go throughout the weekends, at least in the first few seconds, we know crowds and scriptures. And in life, even today, crowds tend to be tickled. Right? But for now , for now in the narrative, this message, repent and believe, the kingdom of God is at hand. uh even if the truth of it is not recognized by all, is something new and compelling, and uh probably particularly because of the miracles that accomplish And so as Mark chapter one winds down, uh Jesus' fame spread throughout the region, so much so But Jesus could no longer openly enter a town because of the crowds. So again, we read through sort of the end of the chapter here , Jesus uh has to said that he has to go out and stay in desolate places. And then even there, people would wonder how the town says to go find them. It's like a Jesus Easter egg hunt. Uh crowds of people would speak him out. And so by the time we get to this little uh snippet in Mark 2, things are in full swing. Jesus has returned from Pernam. uh which was served as sort of uh again a base camp for uh him and his disciples. Uh and look again at uh Mark II verses one through two and he returned when he returned to Capernaum after some days it was reported We've got around, hey, Jesus is back. He's got his house or his family. And many were gathered together. So that there was no more room, not even at the door. And he was preaching the word to them. So he's unfolding the Old Testament scriptures and he's teaching the Word, his the gospel of God. From 1-1, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, verse 14-15, the time is fulfilled, the Kingdom of God's hand, the tenth believed the gospel. Now, the crowds, right there off the bat, we see again the crowd pressing in to hear and see leadings. They keep showing up, they keep pressing in. He is proclaiming and teaching and explaining the doctrine of God using Scripture to this group of people who have evidently just sort of shown up at the house where he is staying. Verse three says, and they came, some people came bringing to him a uh a paralytic A paralytic team being carried by four men , etc. And so four guys show up with a paralyzed paralyzed guy. hoping to get him to Jesus. And here's the introduction of a very specific and very clear and what seems to human eyes a very obvious issue. The issue is that this man is paralyzed. Right? His body is broken. It doesn't work. But we find that because of the crowd They could not get near him. They couldn't get near Jesus. And so I think it's subtle, but I think the crowd here is not shown in a favorable light. They've gathered to hear Jesus, to see Jesus, they're impressed and amazed by Jesus, but at the same time They're keeping people who need Jesus away from Jesus. Verse four And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him And when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And so we see that these Four men bringing this issue before Christ, that they were not deterred by the presence of the crowd that would not let them get through. They're not going to allow This to keep them from Jesus. They have a friend, their friend has issues. They clearly believe whatever it is they believe about Jesus. They apparently believe that he can address or fix this issue. And so in refusing uh to be hindered by the crowd, they climb up on the roof. Uh and the the The Greek term here, if you're into nerdy Greek like I am, the Greek term is pretty funny. It says that they unroot the root. So whatever that looks like, uh the roof is there, they are unroofing it. And you can consider uh maybe how distracting that might have been. It's probably tile, it's probably hay, it's probably mud, it's probably sticks. Uh if you uh consider what that might have looked like to Jesus uh and to the crowd and to everyone. Uh think of it right now as somebody uh above Our head started busting a hole through the roof and stuff is falling down on you. Uh whatever I have to say is going to be drowned out. You're not going to be listening to me anyway, because we're all going to be looking at what you know what in the world is going on up in the roof. There's noise, debris , and then all of a sudden somebody uh is being lowered down through the roof. Uh I'm unclear uh from the text how long it takes to unroof a roof But it it doesn't seem like a quick process. So I can imagine that everything stops and the whole focus of what we're doing shifts to what's going on up here. First five And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytics, Son, your sins Are forgiven. Now, verse 5 is pivotal in this verse because Jesus is introducing a new element in this little narrative here, and that is faith. So Jesus Saw, Jesus saw, Jesus sees their faith. That's an interesting statement. Think about it. Can you and I see faith? It's an interesting question. There's a way, maybe, that we can. We can sort of see the outworkings, the outward workings of faith in other people's lives. There should be outward working though, as James makes that pretty clear. James among many places in the book We can see the outward workings. There is a way that we can see the evidence of faith. But we cannot truly see the faith of others in the same way that Jesus can see. Think of Hebrews 11:1, right? Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things unseen. And so we we we can make assumptions about did these guys have faith or not. But the only reason that we really know for sure that what they're doing is an act of faith It's because Jesus specifically identifies it as such, or Mark identifies it for us. The text doesn't say Jesus saw their determination. He saw their hard work. He saw their loving dedication to their friend. Jesus saw their worthy intentions. You can be persistent and hardworking and do really amazing things without having an ounce of faith at all. But Jesus identifies what they were doing as none of that. It was an act of faith. Jesus saw their faith. And so we consider maybe What is before us here in terms of there are things that are seen and things that are unseen. There are things that are evident And things that are revealed. And so here at the person of Jesus, these two categories of things seem to overlap. These men have just demonstrated invisible and resilient faith. They found a way uh around the obstacles uh that lie between them and Jesus. Uh a crowd, a roof. It's like the ultimate social distancing. So these men were persistent, right? They were unwilling. to allow these obstacles to remain between them and the object of their faith. And so Jesus recognizes, it does say , but he recognizes Their, their faith, their plural, uh. But we're gonna see that he sees a particular kind of faith in the paralyzed man Jesus sees this man's face in a way that is completely unseen by mere human eyes. How do we know? Well, because he says, son, your family language, right? Kingdom, kingdom, family, family language. Son, your sins are forgiven. So whatever we may think saving faith is, uh, we see that it's not rooted in human works and effort. Right? Remember, this man was paralyzed. He can't move. What does he add to this? He can't work for his salvation. He can't do a good deed here. The only thing he adds to this whole narrative is his brokenness. The only thing he brings to the table is his issues, his problem. This is a man who can repent and believe But do nothing else. Jesus says, son, your sins are forgiven. That's a weird response from a human standpoint. Right? Because from the perspective of the crowd, of the friends, they're also, we're going to see scribes, there are religious leaders here as well. who are not a fan of Jesus to the point to where the all of this Jesus is preaching, this kingdom, his his meddling and their stuff, they're going to eventually Kill him. Put him on uh a a mock trial and and kill him. Uh but they're there. So the perspective of those in the room. The issue would have seemed visible and clear. Here is a paralyzed man. We need to get him together with this guy who can apparently heal people. There's no doubt that that was the human, from the human perspective, the issue at hand. And yet Jesus doesn't address it here. He addresses the man's sin. He first expends, he's got to heal him, right? You know how that ends. But he first expends not healing for his body But forgiveness for his soul. I can't help but wonder if there was disappointment on the part of the man or of his friends, or of the crowd. In this climactic moment, all this noise and ruckus and the guys lowered down through a roof and Jesus simply says, son Your sins are forgiven. And so despite the expectations of the crowd of the friends and perhaps the expectation even of the paralyzed man himself, the man with the clear issue, Jesus addresses his greatest need. He addresses the forgiveness of the sin that has separated him from God. That would have led to eternal damnation Apart from Christ. And so there again we go back to that idea of what is seen and what is unseen. There's two issues here. The man's physical need And the men 's spiritually. Right? If you're paying attention, there's there's this dichotomy all throughout. Uh people I think nowadays it's very uh out of vogue to say that things are binary, right? Like it can't just be male or female. It can't just be one or two. It has to be all these nuanced stuff. Uh I find the scriptures to be refreshingly binary. There's a physical need and spiritual need. There are two kingdoms. There are two directions. There are two ways of seeing. Now Jesus can navigate both. Jesus can address both. Jesus has authority over both. But we should not miss that given the opportunity to heal this man's physical issue, he prioritizes Forgiving the man's sin over healing the man's body. His main concern, I think this points to us, his main concern is the spiritual need Before this blatantly obvious physical need that this man had. Let's look at verses six through eight Now some of the scribes were sitting there questioning in their hearts, why does this man speak like that? Speaking of Jesus. Why does Jesus speak like that? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them Why do you question these things in your hearts? Which is easier to say to the paralytic son, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise. Take up in your bed and walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Says to the paralytic, I say, pick up your bed and go home. Here Mark builds on that theme. I think of what is seen and seems evident and what is unseen. Here we have the scribe, that uh self-righteous uh religious elite. They're not saying anything out loud. Mark says they're questioning in their hearts what is inside, what is unseen And that Jesus perceived this, not with his outward eyes or his ears. He perceived it how with in his spirit, said in his spirit. So their hearts He perceived in his spirit what is in their hearts, right? He sees unseen faith in the man, in the scribes. He sees their internal unbelief. Now they're wrong about Jesus. But they're right about one No one can forgive sins but God alone. And so although they've got the answer wrong, they've got the right categories about Jesus here. Why does this man speak like that? They asked. So either he's a liar. a trickster or a blasphemer, right? Or the other option is, and the option that they've already taken off the table, uh, is that he is the Son of God who has authority. and power to forgive sin. Those are the choices Jesus leaves us with when we ask questions about his identity. And he asked them and he says, well what's easy? Right? Why are you questioning this? What's easier? Just say, son, your sins are forgiven, or just say rise and take up your bed and walk. So from the human standpoint It's way easier to just say, son, your sins are forgiven. You don't know. You can't tell if he just says that. Right? But to say rise and walk from the human standpoint. Well that that puts Jesus to the test, doesn't it? The evidence will be clear. And so from the Pharisees or scribes' perspective, the easier thing would be to do uh is to uh Actually the easier thing from the scribes would have been to just say your sins are forgiven. Because then we can write you off as a heretic and the blasphemy. Because to forgive sins is to claim divinity. There is nothing more godlike than to be able to forgive But from a general human perspective, it's way easier to just say your sin is forgiven. It's it's speculation. The text doesn't necessarily make this clear. I think that it's easier from Jesus' perspective That it's actually easier to just heal the meeting. Because to extend forgiveness is costly. To extend the forgiveness of his sin. He's still in the shadow of the cross. He's still moving toward the cross. He's still moving toward the garden as he prays to God. Take this cup from me, but not my will, but yours be done. Forgiveness will come only by way of his death on the cross, where he will bear the full wrath of God. God the Father on our behalf. We think of Isaiah 53. But he was pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds, by his wounds, we are healed. All we have gone astray. We have turned to everyone. to his own way, and the Lord had laid upon him, upon Christ, upon Jesus the Messiah, the iniquity, the sin, the blood guilt. Of us all. Jesus is healing this man's ultimate paralysis in forgiving his sin. He is dealing with the ultimate issue. He's addressing the ultimate need. The need for forgiveness before God Almighty. Again, sin is our ultimate, most critical issue. And so forgiveness is our most ultimate and critical need. And until that issue is addressed, any other issue and any solution given to us or that we seek out for ourselves is temporary at best. It 's not to say that they're not important, those issues, problems, things that we deal with in whatever area of life, mental, emotional, physical, political, social Those things have importance, but they are not the most uh important Point out in verse 10 , he says, but so that you know that the Son of Man has authority Son of Man is a title, great theological significance. It occurs to me 80-something times in the New Testament. Son of Man is actually the third most used title for Jesus. in the New Testament, next to Christ the Lord, but it is the title that he uses most often to refer to himself. If you look at Daniel 7, there's sort of an obscure messianic description there. It's a very graphic description of the Son of Man, this heavenly being appointed by the ancient of days. To judge the earth. Descends from and ascends to heaven, who rules with authority over all things. This The scription would have been in the thoughts of especially the scribes, but probably most good Jewish folks who were there And so they would have heard that as a Mesmianic title. But even those Gentiles who may have been there uh even if they weren't familiar, uh you could also just hear that as what it seems like the the humble title of a son who has a father. But he is in using that phrase Answering with a decisiveness over the question of his authority. Why does this man speak like that? Because he has authority. He has authority over those who would claim authority over him and wields that same authority today. It should not be forgotten by us. Let's look at verse 12. It says, And he rose, the man, the former paralytic, rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were amazed and they glorified God. And they said, We never saw anything like this. So they were all amazed. And I think to some uh degree we're left as readers to wonder uh maybe what is it that really amazed them? Well their focus is on the physical miracle. Right? We never saw. We never saw anything like this. What a great show. Right? The crowd missed the point. Now, we can't judge him too harshly for that, right? Because it was awesome. A paralyzed man. At the words of Jesus. Pick up this man. Walk out. That's amazing. That's miraculous. But it is just the lesser miracle here. The greater miracle, the better healing. It's the one that is unseen, the one that you have to trust Jesus in order to believe that it actually happened. That this man's sins are forgiven, and that he will spend an eternity in the kingdom of his Heavenly Father. The crowd missed it. They were amazed only at what they saw. Their focus went no further than simply what was before them. In that moment. But what a kindness. Man, what a kindness from Jesus. What good would it have been For this man to have the ability to move miraculously restored, but to have no forgiveness from God at the end of his days What good would it have been for his body to be healed, but his soul condemned to a Christless eternity? Mark goes on to answer, or to ask that same question rather, uh, later in his book in Mark eight thirty-six. He says, What does it profit a man to gain the world? But lose his soul. And so as we sort of wind this down, let's consider the characters in this narrative. Let's think about where we might See ourselves in this story what Jesus might have for us as we consider those whom we uh are Reading them. We have the crowd. We said I think we need to be careful with crowd because they tend to be fickle. One minute they are you'll see you Read the Bible. One minute crowds are curious, one minute they're amazed, one minute they're hosaming. And the next they're yelling, crucified. A crowd. It can be a congregation or it can be a mob. And what often makes the difference, I think. About whether uh it it's whether or not that crowd is interested mainly in what is new or what is true So we should be mindful of the crowds in which we stand and the crowds which we allow to influence us We have the religious, uh the scribes, the the Pharisees here, uh, who are styling. They're presented as wondering in their hearts. Um they I I I don't think they actually say anything. We only get to hear what they're uh thinking, what's in their heart. They're silent, they're sitting back, they're watching, they're judging, they're zealous. We 'll give them that. But it's for the wrong things. These are people that are always learning, but never coming to knowledge of the truth. We have the friends. Right? The four friends of this man, we're going to assume they were friends. They were determined, they were faithful, they were persistent. These men were so sure of Jesus' ability, even if they weren't sure about his identity. We don't really know. But they were so sure of Jesus' ability that they would stop at nothing to see We don't know if their faith was in their works or in the person of Jesus, but they were determined to let nothing stand between them and him. Not a crowd and not a root. Now, unlike these men, we have no physical barrier that keeps us, you and I, from Jesus Christ. Uh Romans 8. 9 tells us we are no longer uh primarily in the flesh, but we are of the spirit. We're people of the spirit We are the temple in which the Spirit of God dwells. And at the end of Romans 8, Paul gives us a practical outward 8 35. He says, who shall separate us? From the love of Christ. Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword or covet or Whatever. Pick an issue. Pick a headline. Will those things separate us from the love of Christ? No. In all of these things, we are more than Conquerors never him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, neither angels nor rulers, neither things present nor things to come, nor power, nor height, nor depth. Nor anything else in creation will be able to separate us from the love of God and Jesus Christ, our Lord. So I yeah, my my encouragement to you is the same as my encouragement to my church family that in these uh troubled days, whether you are deeply impacted or uh very little in fact uh that you not forget that we you and I not forget that our greatest need has already uh been met and so we consider Whatever sufferings this present age brings, we do not consider them as worthy to be compared to the coming kingdom of God Despite what you and I may feel and experience in this fallen kingdom in this season, we rejoice that nothing separates us from the Lord Jesus. Now, we also have to consider the paralytic, who is unique in this account, because what it looks like on the surface, what it looks like that he would have wanted. He simply would have wanted Jesus to heal. So that he could stand or walk or run or heal dirt under his toes, under his feet. I know that it was good things to desire. But he received something better. He received forgiveness. Forgiveness of a sin and entrance into God's kingdom. And so if we uh consider The repentant faith, if we go back to what Jesus is proclaiming, the gospel of God, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand, the fence and believing the gospel is at hand Beautiful, precious red letters, so clear. As we consider the faith that leads to forgiveness, as we look at the various parties in this account, we can ask Did the crowd at large have this sort of faith? Doesn't seem like Did the scribes? Apparently not. Did the four friends have the sort of faith that would lead Jesus and say, hey, your son, your sins are forgiven? Maybe. He recognizes their faith, but it's only to the paralytic. That we that that that he says, sons, your sins are forgiven. The one whom we are certain in this account had unseen Soul-saving, sin -forgiving faith. It's not the crowd, it's not the religious, it's not the poor men. Doing a great and wonderful thing for that friend. The one person who was granted clear forgiveness was the one person who could literally do nothing to earn it The one person whose physical condition mirrored his spiritual condition , Luke Carolyn. Nothing he could do to earn it. There's no way that he can move himself from the perishing kingdom of this world to the coming kingdom of God. He can only lie at the feet of Jesus And do the two things that Jesus says gives you access to the kingdom. All you could do is lie to feed Jesus and repent and believe in the one who forgives Sin. If we mess up the order that Jesus, I think, sets forth here in Mark 2, if we prioritize physical need If we prioritize our temporary issues over the spiritual need remedied only in and by and through Jesus Christ. We'll have no other option but to create a false gospel and false Savior. The message here isn't trust Jesus in your body, you will be healed It's not just Jesus and all your your physical, financial, social, political, emotional woes uh get worked out That might happen on this side of the uh of eternity. It may. It will happen on the other side. But only if you understand, if we understand the proper order here, not trust Jesus so your issues will be remedy, but trust Jesus so that your sins will be forgiven. That is the unique and beautiful message of the Christian faith, it is the gospel of Jesus, it is the good news through which you and everything around you I'm sorry, it is the good news that that though uh you and everything around you uh you and I and all of this, though it may be broken in sin, the God of the Bible forgives. Is where we'll leave it tonight, Christian uh brother or sister, uh whatever it is that you're dealing with uh in this seat. You look back and you remember the good faithfulness of God. Give you great manna for today. Your greatest need It 's already been met if your faith is in Christ. There's no greater issue than that to be solved. We may have other issues. May have other problems and they may be significant, but they are of this kingdom that's passing away. The resolution of those issues is simply a matter of time because The kingdom of God is near. The kingdom of God is at hand. Resolution is at hand. hand everything else is just a matter of time so when we pick it up tomorrow uh we'll be looking at a much darker scene this is sort of the the a a beautiful bright spot at the beginning of Jesus' ministry So just in preparation, if you want if you want to uh again check out sort of read through Mark 1, if you want to wanna preview uh Matthew 27 Uh you're welcome to do that sometime tonight that's where we'll pick it up uh tomorrow on a much darker scene uh like this. What Jesus is preaching and how he's preaching it. Sets the theme for what we're going to look at. Tomorrow, if we consider once again our greatest need, there's blood on our hands, and we will see how Jesus' blood both condemns And purifies us. That's right. So again, grateful for your your word and your spirit. Father were my words that uh interfered in any way with your words. Lord, I pray that thou pass from memory and where your word has gone forth from the quality. You will do what you have said you will do, and that is to bring fruit, that your word will do what it is that you intend for it to accomplish. in the hearts and lives of your people. So Father, where there is where there is your will and your word and your spirit, we pray, Father, we will bear good fruit in our lives. Father, we are grateful for you to talk declaring that this world is not your kingdom, but that your kingdom is at hand. So Father, as we look upon our greatest need, Father, let us not Get things out of order. Let us rejoice that if we are in you, if our faith is in the work and the life and the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ Well our greatest need has been provided for all. The rest is simply another time to follow me. We pray that uh throughout our time this weekend, Lord, that your people would be encouraged, your that your church, your bride would be strengthened. That you would continue to do good works, Father, for the good of your people, for the glory of the gospel of Jesus. And give you thanks and offer up the rest of our time as we continue in his name. And I think that's