In the year the King Museah died. What do we do when our heroes are gone? What do we do when our leaders die? What do we do when those we depend upon for guidance and strength and security are no longer there? That's the situation here. This is far more than a statement of what year this was. This was the statement of a national catastrophe. The earthly throne was temporarily vacant, and there were no good candidates to fill it. Well, Uzziah was not a godly king. He was a very capable human being doing a very good job at carrying out his office. He led the people into a time of success and relative peace. Some of that may have just been coincidence. God's time for judgment had not yet come. It had not hit yet. He died before the judgment day on the calendar for Judea and Jerusalem. It was coming, but it wasn't there yet. But nonetheless, He was the leader. And many people were probably attributing to this king the success that their nation had enjoyed. And now he's gone, and it seems like an impossible void to fill. So what should the people do? But even closer to home, how should we think about such a thing? We have certainly experienced it here at Ferndale. I mean, who could imagine going on without Mike? When we lose a friend and a leader like that, how are we supposed to think? How are we supposed to respond? How are we supposed to carry on? That is the environment that Isaiah describes in this short phrase. Those seven words are pregnant with meaning to anyone who lived through that period. They would not have missed it. We need to get to the rest of verse 1. We need to let it penetrate our hearts and our minds. Because it's the answer for our anxious thoughts when our security and provision and guidance And stability are all threatened. This is for all of us. Maybe it's a citizen's president who is lost, or a citizen's governor, or a citizen's mayor. Maybe it's our employer or our boss. Maybe it's a woman's husband. Maybe it's a child's parent. What is the answer to our fear of loss? What is the remedy to all those bad things that we can imagine happening to us? This is not for the faint of heart This is for people who are serious about their relationship with Christ. This is real medicine for the soul, but it isn't easy to apply. Here's the answer to deal with our fears. The second half of verse 1: I saw the Lord sitting on a throne high and lifted up. I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up. Isaiah saw a reality that changed his life from that point forward. Isaiah saw a reality that put his sin and hopeless situation in perspective in a heartbeat. This truth transcended all other truths. This source of security and authority and wisdom and truth transcended all other sources. Everything else a human would depend on dropped from view as if a floodlight suddenly turned on to the full situation. Isaiah saw with his eyes the reality of God. He saw how things really were instead of how things appeared to be. He saw the spiritual, invisible reality in a minute, in an instant. He saw what we say we believe by faith. He saw it. He saw that the Lord is real and the Lord is in charge. The Lord is real and the Lord is in charge. What would happen to us if we really believed that? I mean, really believed that. Down in our guts, down in the deepest part of us. Really, if we believe that, how could we fear? How could we be seduced by lies? How could we rebel? If we know that the Lord is real and that the Lord is in charge, and we have that in our minds, firmly implanted as the highest source of authority, as the greatest truth. Judea was concerned they had no fitting king. And Isaiah saw the truth. Here was the king of kings, unaffected by any activities of men. Uzziah's death was just a tiny blip on his screen. What did you fear last week? Let me ask you, would you have feared it if you were standing where Isaiah was standing? Would you have feared it if you saw what he saw? If you wouldn't have, your fear is due to a failure to exercise your faith. Because what Isaiah sees is real. Forever, without any change. So, could we lose our jobs? Yes. But God is on his throne. Could we lose our children or our spouses or our friends? Yes, but God is on his throne. If we really get this, if we really believe this, then there's really only one thing to fear, and it is God's displeasure. What we're about to see is what we've been seeing all along. What we really believe about God is the most important thing about us. What we really in our hearts, in our soul of souls, really believe about God is the most important thing about us. And I'm not talking about understanding theology, although that is necessary. Understanding theology doesn't necessarily change our lives, but it's what we really believe about God that really changes our lives. It's theology the theology that we believe that moves us from being fearful to faithful, from being disobedient to obedient. From living for temporary rewards to living for eternal rewards. We're about to see this transition in Isaiah. We're about to see his whole life take on the proper perspective. And all of it is a result of one thing. He saw God for who God is. One thing. His perspective of God changed. Every other positive change in his life will spring from that moment from that realization Lots of people try to live the Christian life, but they try to do it with a skewed view of God. As a result, they can't enjoy the Christian life. They can try to live it, but they can't enjoy it. They can't obey for the proper reasons, with the proper attitudes. God just never quite lives up to their expectations. They live fearful, frustrated, resentful, conflicted lives, and they don't know why. The problem is that they have never seen God for who God really is, and so they have never seen themselves for who they truly are. What we really believe about God, which is displayed by how we live, is the most important thing about us. Isaiah saw God on the throne. The throne on earth may have been empty. There may have been a shortage of resources in the world of man, but the throne in heaven certainly wasn't empty. The king in heaven is high and exalted. Everyone understands that there was no one worthy but God to sit on it. And then it says, and the train of his robe filled the temple. It's interesting that in many descriptions like this, people don't talk about God's face. It's like they can see lots, but they can't look into the face of God. In this case, God's robe fills up the temple, which is probably another way of saying that God's presence fills up the temple. Now this temple is probably similar to how the earthly temple was designed, because we find out from scripture that the one on earth was designed from the template in heaven. But there appears to be no curtain between the first doorway and the Holy of Holies. And that's more than likely where the throne is. Verse 2. Above it stood Seraphim. Each one had six wings, with two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. It is too bad they didn't have cameras back then. Because I mean this gives us a description of something that's a little bit hard for us to wrap our heads around. Above the temple, which may have just meant that these beings were standing while God was sitting down. stood the angels, the seraphim. And literally the word for seraphim is a little unclear. It's sometimes used for snakes. In this case it probably means burning ones. These angels may have appeared to be in flames. It might have been that they glowed in some way. Now, lots of people have lots of ideas about the wing positions. And some of them are pretty emphatic that they know what the wing positions are all about. I think um that they don't know I think it's likely that the ones over the eyes were there because no one can casually look upon God's face, even heavenly beings. As for the feet, nobody knows, but there's something interesting here. The verb tense means that this was happening continuously. So this wasn't something that just, you know, Isaiah showed up and they hurried up and did this thing. This was in process. This this was going on. This is regular routine in this environment So this scene that Isaiah looks into is one of constant motion. And evidently these angels use their wings to fly. Now I never I never really considered that much before. I wonder if it's like we imagine, you know, that they flap. Or uh or are they completely different than we would think, like in Ezekiel? Uh I don't know. Matters like these are more a matter of human curiosity, I think, than important to our understanding. But whatever the case, they have wings and they do fly. Verse 3, and one cried to another, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door were shaken by the voice of him who cried out, and the house was filled with smoke. Now we find out what the angels are doing, what role these seraphim play. They cry out to one another. Maybe it's a song in which they take turns. That's most likely the the way this is worded. I'll bet it's amazing. No matter what it is, I'll bet it's amazing. If we were to step into that doorway, we would never forget it. The picture we get is a symphony of sound and a choreographed flow of motion in heaven revolving around and showing off the majesty of God. That's what we see. Now, what's the topic of the song? The holiness of God. The holiness of God. In Hebrew, the way this is stated is the strongest possible way of emphasizing a point. To say something three times was to emphasize that it was supreme. That is As hard as you can say that statement. It's as forceful, it's as complete, it's as full as you can make it in their language Now, what does the word holy mean? I know immediately we come up with some ideas of holiness, and often they're a little skewed. Um it says this came from a word study dictionary and it says an adjective meaning sacred Holy. It's used to denote something or someone that is inherently sacred or has been designated as sacred by divine rite or cultic ceremony It designates that which is the opposite of common, and this is helpful. It's the opposite of common or profane. It could be said that the word for holy is a positive term regarding the character of its referrant. where common is a neutral term and profane is a very negative term. So holy is positive, common is neutral, and profane is negative. This word is often used to refer to God as being inherently holy, sacred, and set apart. Set apart is often one of the definitions of holy. And as being free from the attributes of fallen humanity. Therefore, in the Old Testament, God is accorded the title the Holy One of Israel And as such, God instructed that humanity should be holy because God is holy. That's the end of that definition. Holiness is a word of contrast. It's the all-powerful one in contrast to human weakness. It's God's moral perfection in contrast to our sinfulness. It's God's immortality in contrast to our mortality. It's God's worthiness contrasted to our human unworthiness. His holiness is the standard that makes all of our fallness so obvious. Our scene moves from an earthly throne that has been filled by a profane human. To a heavenly throne filled by an altogether other being. He is best defined by the emphasis of other. He is something other than us. He is something other than anything we know. He is sacred. He is superior. And there's such a gap between who he is and who we are that there is no hope of spanning that gap. The difference is something we hold in awe, knowing that we need not try to be like him in his consuming glory. There's no point. We can't reach that. He is holy. I play some basic guitar and I'm no musician by anybody's standards. Every now and then I hear a guitar part that I think is so skillfully played that I just want to hang my guitar up on the wall. and not play it again. It's it's so good that I could not ever imagine being able to play it. That's a simple idea of of holiness. It's the unobtainable other It would be like Carla is saying to Jack outside the Sears Tower in Chicago, how about we build one of these? Now Jack might think he could do it, but I I I think Carla might reach her limitation there It is unthinkable. It's the unthinkable difference between our capacity and our unreachable reality. That is God to us. When we ponder the greatness of God, the moral perfection of God, the eternal goodness of God, the magnificent graciousness of God. We can't help but quote David's psalm from the depth of who we are, when I consider thy heavens the work of thy fingers and the moon and the stars which which thou hast ordained. What is man? What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou visitest him? How do we even rate a second look? From this Almighty Holiness. Flippant, careless, faithless lives cannot be lived by people who grasp and meditate on the holiness of God. That view of God changes our whole perspective on reality. And then Scripture tells us that we are to be holy because God is holy. Well, obviously we cannot be what God is. We will never sit on his throne and we'll never have angels singing to us about how wonderful we are. I know some people that seem to think that that is their They're right. But uh that is not the case. We are to share in his set apartness as as special because of our identity with God. Because of our identity with Jesus Christ. We become something distinctly different and superior to what this world creates for only one reason. We are children of God. We have been chosen by God. God has set us apart. For holiness. God has chosen us to be His people, His representatives on this fallen planet. We represent Him like ambassadors represent a foreign country. So we're to live up to that identity that we have been given. And in that regard, we share a tiny sliver of God's holiness. And Psalms even says God's glory. As always, the proper understanding of our faith comes back to the glory of God. It's all about Him, and it is all for Him. Only he is holy, holy, holy. And then it goes on to say the whole earth is full of his glory. Have you ever considered what an odd God we serve, at least from a human perspective? Here is God who humans cannot gaze upon his face. But this same God chooses to display his glory in clearly identifiable terms When the Israelites traveled through the wilderness, God's glory was plainly visible in the cloud that accompanied them. Here, Isaiah sees God's glory fill the temple in the form of God's robe. Solomon saw God's glory fill the temple. God does not show off his form, but he does show off his glory. Now, how is the earth full of his glory? Well, we know that creation itself shows off God's glory. We see that lots of places in Scripture. A person has to make him or herself stupid to find an alternative solution to that simple explanation. They believe the unlikely or the impossible in order to avoid that which is most credible. Only a designer with incredible power and intelligence could put together a creation like the one that we live in. We also have God's church on this earth. And his church spreads from one end of the globe to the other. These people are proclaiming the message of the holiness and grace of God across the globe. We are the visible representation of God's work in the heart of human beings. God's glory fills the whole earth. But man's sinful condition allows him to miss it completely. He ascribes God's glory to something or someone else to his own peril. But very often. Verse 4. And the posts of the door were shaken by the voice of him who cried out, and the house was filled with smoke. Now we get an idea of the volume of this worship scene. It shakes the doorposts. Now, why the doorposts? Again, there's a bunch of opinions, but I think the most logical one is that's as far in as Isaiah got. I don't know that for sure, but that's my guess. He got to the door the door posting he wasn't going any farther. Um He he got to look into this amazing room with this heavenly worship service going on, and as he stood in the doorway, he noticed it shaken from the voices of the angels. The volume must have been amazing. And God's glory in the form of smoke filled the temple. Now, what is this man's reaction to this vision? And this is important. This might be something that you don't consider right off the bat. He is encountering the Holy Spirit of God as he has never encountered him before. He is in the presence of the Holy God. He has seen the power and glory firsthand. How does he respond? Now think about this in terms of how you have heard what happens to a person when the Holy Spirit comes into their life. Now, does he become overpowered and get knocked out by the Spirit of God? Does he begin asking for all the things that he personally wants when he encounters the Spirit of God? Does he notice some higher level of his own spirituality when he comes into the presence of God? You see what I'm getting at? So many things we're told that are the result of a Holy Spirit encounter, we don't see here. In fact, what we see here might be a real letdown. If we come to Christ for the spiritual ecstasies that we might feel, we may very well be very disappointed. What Isaiah experienced in the presence of the one true God was a bummer of all bummers. In the light of the perfect holiness of God, Isaiah came face to face with Isaiah. Isaiah saw in an instant just how morally flawed he really was. He may have walked into that doorway thinking he was an okay guy, maybe superior to the rest of the nation. He might have thought of himself as being some stellar Christian. Obviously Christian would be the word he would use, but And he walks in, and it's suddenly he sees God , any idea he had of himself of being superior just left. As Jason pointed out at camp, today we look at God's Word as a mirror to show what we are. We look in God's Word and we see ourselves there. Here Isaiah got the full dose all at once. I think we can be thankful that God i gives us insights incrementally. Because if we ever saw ourselves as we w really were all at the same time, I think most of us would say I give up. You know, it's too big. But anyway, Isaiah did one better than look in a mirror. He looked at perfection and instantaneously saw his condition was shockingly bad. He could immediately see the contrast between himself and the God that he served, and there was no room for any light-hearted remarks in this encounter. Verse five, we see Isaiah's response. So I said, Whoa, whoa, woe is me, for I am undone Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. All of us have encountered unfortunate circumstances that we know would create some form of difficulty for us. Like how many times have we sent a car to the garage and got back news of a very expensive repair? One that we weren't prepared for. We go to the dentist and we find out that the bill is going to be considerably higher than what we expected. Well, what Isaiah is describing here is not something like that. It's more akin to finding out that all of our organs are infested with cancer and the situation is absolutely hopeless. That's the kind of experience that Isaiah had here. Woe is me for I am undone might be paraphrased, oh no, I'm toast. I'm finished. I'm destroyed. I am in a hopeless situation. I have no way out. That's the kind of mindset that he had. That's what Isaiah must have experienced based on what he said. This is what always happens when true people experience the real God. The tax collector, remember, prayed, forgive me. I am the sinner. It's the same idea. Now, is this an unusual experience in a Christian's life? No, I think it's normative. In fact, until we reach the point of desperation that Isaiah reached I don't think we really understand what grace is, and we're not very useful in his work. When Peter wept after denying Christ, he got the point. He was at that point. When Paul got knocked off his horse and found out who the knocker was, Paul got this point. We could go on and on. True usefulness in the kingdom of God begins at the point when we come to the end of ourselves. And for the first time, realize that we must have God change us if we were ever to be changed. Think back. How did you come to Christ? Did you come to him with this realization? I don't think most of us do. Christ in his grace draws himself, draws us to himself in all different conditions, for with all different realizations. For some it's a cognitive understanding. For others, it's an emotional response that we're drawn to him. And we come to him because we want something from him. And he's offering something, so that's not a problem. But think back. When did you first come to him at the end of your rope? When did you come to him understanding, oh no , I'm toast? If God doesn't do something for me, I'm lost. I can't fix this. This mess is bigger than me. I need supernatural help. I need God to do Something for me that I cannot do for myself. My way isn't working. It's just getting worse. I need an infusion of his power in my life for me to be the person he wants me to be. Before that, we may have seen ourselves as being a Christian, but in reality we were of very little use to God Before that point, we had added God unto our lives to improve some portion of our lives. But at that oh no point, we finally get the point. My life is God's life. And I must have his forgiveness in my life and the power to live for him more than I need life itself This may have been a process in your life, or it may have been a memorable event. But it has to happen. It has to happen to us. We have to come to some grips with that. We have to continually reorient to that point. We must come to the end of our ropes before we will depend upon the rope that Jesus Christ offers us. Living for ourselves will no longer cut it. Living with sin in our lives will no longer cut it. We find ourselves needing to overcome it. And we can't, and only Christ can do that in us. That's the point of the discovery where Christian discipleship really begins. Are you there? Is that how you see your life? Have you come to the oh no, I am toast realization? The realization that if God doesn't do something for me I'm beyond hope. Whether you have or not, that is the truth about all of our lives. Apart from Christ, we really can do nothing, just like Christ said. It's only in Christ that we can have success in the things a Christian is called to do. We're to live from faith to faith. The whole of the Christian life is to be lived in the trust of the God who saved us Now, what does Isaiah say he's guilty of here? He says, Because I am a man of unclean lips and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. Now, there are at least two possibilities here. Isaiah could have been convicted of a specific sin having to do with his speech. This would mean that he was confessing a very specific sin that he was suddenly aware of. And that is possible But the thing that causes me to think otherwise is the rest of the verse. When he says, I dwell in the midst of a people with unclean lips. This is the only reference to unclean lips in the whole book of Isaiah or the whole Bible. There are a lot of references to unclean things And they're all things that God forbids and despises. But I don't get the point that the people that Isaiah dwelt with had their primary sin of being one of the tongue. The people he dealt with had severe heart problems, and we see that in the rest of the book of Isaiah. Their problems were much bigger than what their tongues said. I think we find clues in what Jesus said in Matthew 15, 10 and 11, where he says, When Jesus had called the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear and understand. Not what goes into the mouth defiles a man, but what comes out of the mouth, this defiles the man. And then Jesus explained it further in a few verses later in verse 17. Do you not understand that whatever enters the mouth goes into the stomach and is eliminated? So he's basically saying the big problem with us isn't our food intake. It isn't taking some food that is technically off off uh uh it should be off of our diet because of uh a rule that God had made. But he says in verse 18, but those things which proceed from the mouth come from the heart, and that's what defiles a man. For out of the heart proceeds evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. Those are the big deal. Those are the things that defile the man. It's what's in us that defiles us. But to eat with unwashed hands, that's not here you're missing the point if you're getting to thinking that it's this this little rule about what you are eating that's that's the big deal with what's wrong with you. What Jesus explains is that a lip problem isn't as much a lip problem as a heart problem. I think that what Isaiah is confessing is a heart that is not sold out to God. It was an unclean heart and a mind that displayed itself in unclean things that were said and thought and lived down. And that would have been true of his contemporaries as well. That realization is what caused him to explain, woe to me, I'm undone. I am history. There's no getting around this problem. It's Bitza art problem, it's in the core of me. How in the world are you gonna fix this God? How am I gonna get away with this And look how he describes the problem. He says, Because I am a man of unclean lips and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. He recognizes an incongruity that he knows cannot continue to exist. He's essentially saying that there is no significant difference between those he lives with that he is supposed to be ministering to and himself. They're committing the same sins. They're in the same spiritual state. That's essentially what he's saying. I often lament about the state of the so-called church. We have the same divorce rate as our culture. Out of wedlock encounters aren't much different. We watch the same movies, listen to the same music. I wonder how different even our expenditures are Do we spend the same percentage on our own pleasures and entertainment as the world does? Do we spend the same percentage of our time on self-serving things as the world does? What's the difference? Now, I like to keep it at the world of statistics, but I can't avoid the personal questions. What am I really doing that is significantly different than the world around me? What am I doing that I would only do if I believed that Jesus Christ is returning soon? What am I doing that is only counting on reward in eternity because what I'm doing sure doesn't pay off here? How much does Isaiah's statement convict us? I am a person of uncommitted heart, and I dwell in the midst of a people who have uncommitted hearts. Now remember, where did all this spring from? What caused Isaiah to suddenly see himself so clearly? For my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. Seeing God seated in power provides the perspective that Isaiah needed. First, he saw that there was no problem created by a lack of human leadership. There was a true and perfect king on the heavenly throne, and that allays all of our fears about this life as well as the next, except for one. What does he think of us? The second thing Isaiah saw was his unworthiness, not only to do ministries, but to simply exist. The third thing he saw was the enormity of the sin and its insurmountable obstacle in his communion with God. If we were presenting the gospel to somebody this morning, what we would be saying is, this is the bad news You know, we've just covered the portion. This is the bad news. When you come to yourself and you see that I am a sinner That I have sinned and there is nothing that I can do to make myself better, that all of my righteousness, all the good things that I might do, all the good stuff I might pull out of my heart will not earn a single thing from God. It's not going to improve us in God's sight. It's not going to Check off some checkbox of morality before God. We are absolutely bankrupt. Oh no, I am toast. And we come to him and we say, What? What must I do to be saved? And we find that it is Jesus Christ whose glory and holiness. was shed in our or placed into our position. He died in our place so that we can inherit his righteousness. We could put it on like a cloak, scripture says. Like like a gown. And we, by faith, believe in what Jesus Christ did on his by dying for us and raising again. We believe that. And we say, save me. I believe that Jesus Christ is the only thing that will make me righteous. I believe that Jesus Christ i is the only thing that makes me fit to be in God's presence. That is Christianity. That is salvation. And every single one of us can can Bank everything we own on those promises that God has made to us. And we can rest with great certainty, knowing that we are a believer. Because we have believed in the person and work of Jesus Christ and have committed our life to that process. Well, that was the bad news that we encountered and the good news we s we just heard. But fortunately God's grace is going to rain down on Isaiah next week and we're going to get to see that. Now, how often do we consider what God who God is during our weeks? How often do we consider who God is during our weeks? How would imagining God on his throne When we are in the midst of our struggles and trials and temptations, how would that change things? How would it change what is important to us? How would it change what we are afraid of? How would it change the sins that we would do because it would appear that nobody is looking or nobody cares? Through the eyes of faith, we can see and believe what Isaiah saw and incorporate them as if we see them with our own eyes. That's what faith is for. Faith sees the invisible, but what we know exists. And our great and mighty God is on his throne. But we live like we believe it. Lord, we thank you for this wonderful text. We thank you for this experience that your person had with you. We thank you for the reality of it. We thank you for what it displays about you and what it displays about us. And Lord, we ask that you would help us to live in such a fashion that our lives cannot be explained except for the fact that we believe in a mighty God who sits on a throne. And has everything in control. Help us talk like that. Help us think like that. Help us live like that. And help us to see ourselves in the light of your holiness. And to continue to adjust our living into conformity of your will, because only you are worthy of our obedience, only you are worthy of our service, only you are worthy. of our lives. And help us to live in such a way that we honor you and are constantly thinking of how we can best please you In Jesus name, Amen