Only the scales of God matter in the end. Remember last week we saw the old man Daniel, probably at least eighty, brought before the king Belshazzar And the king did everything he could do to demean Daniel while still out holding out the hope that Daniel could tell the king what the writing on the wall meant And I pointed out how much of a failure that king was, and how unlike his grandfather he was. The last thing Belshazzar said was a bribe to get Daniel to perform this function for the king. He offered Daniel the third spot in the kingdom, and we're taken up from there this morning. Verse 17, then Daniel answered and said before the king, let your gifts be for yourself, and give your rewards to another, somebody else. Nevertheless, I will read the writing to the king and make known to him the interpretation. A guy named Oliver Anthony recently wrote a song called Richmond North of Richmond, and it's been all over the internet. It seems like the powers that be now are all trying to cater to this guy, to honor him, to use his influence, to reward him with a lot of money for doing stuff. They're offering them all kinds of things that those who are trying to reach the top, those who are in that industry and doing their best have become popular , live for. But from what I've seen, they have no power over this guy because he doesn't care. He has different motivations. So he will not allow himself to be owned by what they can deliver to him. He won't compromise because they don't have anything to offer him that he wants. It's interesting to watch it because it robs powerful people of the power that they are used to. I don't know if that is completely accurate of Oliver Anthony, but is absolutely true of Daniel in our text. The king had just offered Daniel the most prestigious position in the country, other than being the king. This would have probably been what a thousand people at this party would have wanted. Many probably would have given anything for that opportunity. They would have jostled for it and competed for it and You know, stab other people in the back for it. It's it's that kind of environment. But Daniel looks at the king and says, keep it. Keep it. I don't want it. I have no interest in serving you. I have no interest in your gifts. I have no interest in your compliments and your flattery. Nothing you have appeals to me. I doubt that the king had any idea what drove a man like Daniel. It certainly wasn't something that he knew of firsthand. I would guess that Belshazzar did not know how to deal with a man like that. Daniel was a man of principle. Belshazzar clearly was not. You and I are called to be people of principle, people who cannot be owned by the world and its offerings. Now we might enjoy some of the moral pleasures of this world just like the next guy. There's lots to enjoy in our life, and a lot that God gives us the freedom to enjoy and gives it to us to enjoy. So that's all good. But they do not own us. We care first about pleasing our King Christ, and everything else is a distant second. That kind of living, when done consistently, makes us unseducible. Unseducible. That isn't a word, by the way, but it should be. Then Daniel says, Nevertheless, I'll read the writing. Now I'm going to do it for different reasons than you think. I'm not doing it because you're offering me stuff. But I'll do it and I'll let you know what it means But Daniel starts with the history lesson. And that's really interesting. The king wanted a job done, he wanted a simple answer. He did not ask for a history lesson But Daniel was going to use this opportunity that he has to speak to the king about Daniel's God, King Nebuchadnezzar's life. King Nebuchadnezzar's heart and the kingdom's future. O King, the most high God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father, kingship and greatness and glory and majesty. Well, we've seen this before. It is very intentionally stated. The Most High God, and oh, by the way, Belshazzar, that is the God that your grandfather identified as the God of the Jews, the Most High God. The God who owns these precious cups that you're drinking out of. That most high God. Gave Nep, gave Nebuchadnezzar your grandfather, his kingship, and everything that came with it. That did not just happen God gave that to him. It was ordained by a real God who moves in space and time, the Most High God. Verse 19, and because of the greatness that he gave him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled in fear before him. Whom he would, he killed, whom he would, he kept alive, whom he would, he raised up, whom he would, he humbled. I think Daniel might be rubbing in that Belshazzar's grandfather was a real king. This current king is nothing like his grandfather. Belshazzar probably had to run many of his decisions through his father, who is the actual king, who tended to go on extended vacations from what we read. Now, Nebuchadnezzar had real power, and he wielded at his will. When he decided something, he did it. He didn't have to ask anybody's permission. He didn't have to worry about what anybody else thought But even Nebuchadnezzar was under the thumb of God's power. And that's the point. So when he got to Abidi, he had to be brought back into check. Now it's interesting how this is stated. Verse 20, but when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was brought down from his kingly throne, and his glory was taken from him. We see that the king had a heart condition. It was the proud heart, and a heart in the spirit. He was going in a bad direction, and he was locking into it. He was hardening into the path of pride. And it's the instance where he got put in his place wasn't just An incident. Like some of us we will do something that is out of character for us, some sin that we don't normally commit, but at that point we do. That's not true of Nebuchadnezzar. When Nebuchadnezzar said what he said, looking over his kingdom, it was an outflowing of a condition in his heart that was getting worse. He was getting prouder and prouder. And if God were not to have intervened in the king's life, he would have reached that end destination and been lost. But God did intervene. Do you ever look at a situation in your life, maybe a time in your life, and you know that had God not caused a dramatic fall in your life You probably would have locked into a bad past. But we can be thankful that God is a God of dramatic intrusions, just when we need them. Daniel states this in language that cannot be misunderstood. The king was brought down. Glory was taken from him. Daniel did not say he lost his glory. That could have implied that the king had some control over his glory. No, it was taken by an external party. This God who owns these sacred vessels that Belshazzar is desecrating, that's the God who did that. Verse 21, he was driven from among the children of mankind, and his mind was made like that of a beast, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys. Again, he was driven. It didn't say he just went. He was driven. None of this was in the king's control. His mind was made like that of a beast. This stuff was being done to Nebuchadnezzar intentionally, with a purpose, by a god. Then he was fed grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven until he knew that the Most High God rules the kingdom of mankind and sets over it whom He will. Here again we see that King Nebuchadnezzar's stay in Club Beastly was done with a specific purpose whose author was God. He was to get the point that this Jewish God is the one true God who absolutely controls everything. Everything. Not just Jewish stuff. Everything. He gives kingdoms to whoever he wants to. That's power. Now the history lesson is over, and it begins to get personal. And you, his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart Though you knew all this. We remember again that this was actually King Nebuchadnezzar's grandchild The word for sun was commonly used interchangeably for either. It's used for ancestor. It was a common use. It's like uh i ours isn't as commonly used that way, but theirs was Now, God was weighing Belshazzar. That's what the writing on the wall was all about. We'll get to that. But Belshazzar is being weighed by God And we will find four complaints. We'll find four ways that Belsesar fails miserably. The first Is that Belshazzar was given enough truth to lead him to the one true God, but he ignored it. Belshazzar was given truth, but he ignored it. Sometimes there are times when we are ignorant of truth because we never heard it. But when the truth is all around us in our environment and we still don't know it, Ignorance isn't the issue. Apathy is the issue. We simply don't care enough about it to know it. That was Belshazzar. He had the truth right there. He had the history lessons. He had probably heard this. He should have considered it. He should have investigated it. But he was busy with other stuff. Like partying. He was busy indulging himself. Scripture says it is better not to know the truth. Than to know it and disregard it. 2 Peter 2. 20 says, For if after they have escaped the defilements of the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, They are again entangled in them and overcome. The last state has become worse for them than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness Than after knowing it to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them. There is a higher accountability for those who are surrounded by truth For those who know it. We don't know exactly how that's implemented by God. We don't understand exactly how He's going to ration that out. But Knowing or having the capacity to know makes a person more accountable, more responsible for the rejection of God than for those who have never heard You and I are highly, highly accountable. We have zero excuses for our failures. We know the Word of God. We know what God has said. Thankfully, if we confess our sins, God is faithful to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But Belshazzar shows no intentions of repenting. And for him, that was very bad. So Belshazzar avoided the truth. Second, he refused to humble himself, like his grandfather eventually did. Verse 23, but you have lifted up yourself against the Lord of heaven. Now, Belshazzar knew the history of those vessels. This was not a mistake. He knew whose they were. He knew what they represented. But he said in his heart, I'll do whatever I feel like doing. Have you ever caught yourself saying that to yourself? I'm gonna do whatever I feel like doing. I know what God says, but I don't care right now. God can do to me whatever he wants, but I want to do this thing and no one's going to stop me. I want to enjoy this experience and no one's going to stop me. That is a very, very, very scary attitude. I suspect we've all had it, but it is really, really dangerous And that is exactly what Belshazzar did. He didn't just lift himself up. He lifted himself up against He was against the Lord of heaven. It was like he was tempting the Lord of heaven to do something. It was one thing for King Nebuchadnezzar to be confused about the role of man and the role of God. He blurried those lines a little more than he should, and he paid for it. The king assigned attributes to himself that belong to God. But I don't think we ever see that he intentionally picked a fight with Daniel's God He never rose up against him in such a blatant and intentional fashion. He was not blatantly defiant like Belshazzar. He would not humble himself. Scripture has much to say about pride. Here's just a few. Proverbs 8:13, the fear of the Lord is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance, the way of evil, and perverted speech I hate. James 4:10. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Proverbs 29, 23. One's pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will obtain honor. So Belshazzar was weighed and found wanting in his arrogance against God. It goes on, And the vessels of his house have been brought in before you, and you and your lords, your wives, and your concubines have drunk wine from them. Here Belshazzar was weighed and found wanting in a third manner. He was profaning the sacred He was profaning the sacred. These vessels were intended for one thing. They were intended to be used in the worship of the one true God. They were for a sacred purpose. We don't see that Nebuchadnezzar ever violated that. He always kept them safe. He always kept them stored away. They were for a sacred person. But Belshazzar, fully knowing that, chose to use them for a very base purpose. They were given by God for the worship of God, and Belshazzar gave them to his rulers to get drunk from. They were created for a lofty spiritual purpose, and Belshazzar used them for a base purpose. This was a brazen insult against the God of heaven that he was fully aware that he was committing. Now we might think I would never take anything that God clearly identified for one purpose and use it for a selfish purpose purpose And we might think that, but it's very likely that we have done that. 1 Thessalonians 4. 3 says, For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality That each one of you know how to control his own body and holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust that like the Gentiles who do not know God Now, the actual word for body in verse 4 is vessel. And we've looked into that before. There's some lack of clarity as to whether it refers to a man's body, a man's own body, or his wife. But basically, it's telling us that our bodies have a sacred purpose by God. Our bodies are made for a sacred purpose, a sacred intention. We are commanded to use these vessels that we live in in a specific God-ordained way. And when we do not, we are violating the sacred every bit as much as Belshazzar did. God called us to holiness, not to impurity. So if we have practiced sexual immorality, we have profaned the sacred. But it's more than just sexual immorality because we see in Romans 12, 1, Where it says, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. A sacred thing, holy and acceptable, holy, set apart, sacred, which is your spiritual worship. Our bodies are intended for spiritual worship. They are intended to be used as an instrument of worship before God. When we do with our bodies whatever we want in opposition to what God has clearly commanded, we are again profaning the sacred. We're taking God's vessels and using them for another purpose. This is worthy of consideration and prayer this week, I think. Lord, how am I profaning the sacred? How am I profaning the sacred? How am I not using my body according to your purposes? How am I using it for a pleasure that you have not designed it for? Then he goes on, and you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, and wood and stone, which do not see or hear or know. But the God in whose hand is your breath and whose all whose are all your ways, you have not honored You've honored all the losers, but you haven't honored me. Here is the fourth and last way that Belshazzar was found wanting: idolatry. Idolatry, choosing the wrong God. We will often offer up that which we have of great value to that which we most cherish. We'll often offer up that which we have of greatest value to that which we most cherish. It's one way to find our idols What can we not be happy without? What will we do almost anything to have? For that thing we will spend many precious things Isaiah took us through the school of spotting idolatry. And uh I almost forget the guy's name who said that our hearts are idle factories. We can make idols of possessions, positions, privileges, people, pleasures, almost anything. It doesn't have to start with a P. But in the end, we'll spend that which is designated only for God's use, and we will sacrifice it to that idol. Somehow, some way. Time, money, our bodies, attention, affection, on and on. We will spend it for that thing That is our idol. Now notice how Daniel describes these idols against God. The idols do not see or hear or know. Those are pretty important things in somebody that you are trusting to deliver you in times of trouble. He's saying these idols never have the capacity to deliver what you're trusting them for. They are impotent. They don't work. They have no power. They are worthless. Against what? the God in whose hand is your breath. It's like Daniel saying Belshazzar You really want to take that risk? You really want to cross the God who is allowing you to breathe for the gods whose power is a figment of your imagination? Do you think that's a good trade? After all, which of them ever have been able to interpret anything in the history of Babylon? I mean, we granted we have a very short history, but why do they always need Daniel? If your gods are so great, why does it always take God through Daniel to give you the answers? We know one thing in this story. Daniel was not there to reconcile Belshazzar to God, like he may have done with Nebuchadnezzar. And God was not going to discipline Belshazzar. God was going to punish him. He was there to pronounce judgment on Belshazzar. And by the end of this day, The God who holds Belshazzar's breath is going to stop holding it. It's going to remove his breath. Isaiah 42, 8. I am the Lord, that is my name, my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols. Psalms 115, 1. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness. And we continue in our text. Then from his presence the hand was sent, and this writing was inscribed. And this is the writing that was inscribed: meeny, meeny, tickle parson. This is the interpretation of the matter, meaning God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end. Tekel, you have been weighed in the balances and found wanting. For as your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians. Daniel is telling the king that the writing on the wall was God's reaction to what Belshazzar had done. And who he was. The hand was sent. That's how it's worded. It was sent, and it was inscribing things in the plaster of the wall. Now this would have been exceedingly freaky. There's no doubt. I mean all of us would be freaked out if we saw that. None of us would say, well, I've heard about that before. You know, but we we'd be freaked out. From what I read, these words were all Aramaic. And it's interesting that God writes in our languages. He condescends to the vehicles of communication that we can understand. Now that's a tiny point, but it's significant. If you were God, I mean, that'd be a drag using people 's uh languages, but he does, because he wants to communicate with us. Now, the wise men must have understood the actual words. But they didn't understand what they meant, what they were intended to say. So it was like, you know, various words like I mentioned last week. that had meaning and they knew the meaning to each word, but they couldn't understand what it meant on the wall. Now, can you imagine being Daniel at this point? He's probably asleep or preparing to be. And he's living his quiet retirement life. And he's enjoying his last years as best he can, probably, and he gets a knock at his door. The king needs you at his drunken party. Dress well, there's over a thousand people there. So Daniel goes there and he puts up with the belittling that this little upstart pretend king brings to him But when Daniel sees what's on the wall, he knows what it means. It means this punk king who thinks himself so great is going to lose his kingdom very, very soon. So he delivers the message I can't help but believe, based on the context, that it is with great contempt, not the respect and concern that he showed for the king's grandfather. Here's the deal, King. This is what this means. Meanie meanie. Usually in the Bible, when something is said twice, it's said for emphasis. Meanie means numbered. God has essentially had enough. He has put up with as many numbers as he plans to. Your time is up. Your numbers are up. Your kingdom is over. You don't mess with God the way you mess with him this evening and get away with it. Not forever. God has a limit. You reached it. Your number's up. Tekle. Mini was about the kingdom. Tekel is not. Tekel is about Belshazzar. Think about this. What is there to weigh? What would happen if God were to weigh us outside of Christ? What if Christ were to weigh our life before Christ? What if Christ's sacrifice for our sins were removed from our life? We'd be right up there with the arrogant King Belgazar. Our scales would dip just as quickly and just as far. Belsar was outside of a relationship of faith in the true and living God, the Most High God, the one true God. He could not help but be found wanting. Now, he was wanting his own particular way that was offensive. But you and I would be right there with him if it were not for the completed work of Christ and him drawing us to himself. Perez. Belshazzar, this is it. You're not getting a second chance. You're not going to have a chance to repent. Your kingdom is being given to the Medes and Persians. I wonder how many minutes it was before the enemy armies walked into that banquet hall. I wonder if they were still there. We don't know. We just know by that evening he was done. I wonder if anyone, if if that had any life-changing effects in drawing some people in the crowd to the one and true God. We don't know. Then Belshazzar gave the command, and Daniel was clothed with purple, a chain of gold was put around his neck, and a proclamation was made about him that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom. We can almost see Daniel here saying, I just want to go back to bed. I know my God enough to know that this promotion is is temporary. It's a moot point. It's not gonna last very long. And it's a job I don't want. But let's get this over with. And this is probably the last time this king will wake me up to come to a party. Verse 30, that very night Belsazar the Chaldean was killed, and Darius the Mead received the kingdom, being sixty-two years old It's interesting what Revelation says about the fall of Mystery Babylon in Revelation 17 and 18. I'm sure we're going to get to that in Sunday school, and I'll look forward to it. With the fall of Mystery Babylon, those who shared in her sins and those who profited in her commerce are terribly upset. when Babylon falls. But the saints have a completely different response to it. In chapter 19 it says, hallelujah. Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, for true and just are his judgments. He has condemned the great prostitute who corrupted the earth by her adulteries. He has avenged on her the blood of his servants. Again they shout, hallelujah. The smoke from her goes up forever and ever. And again, amen. Hallelujah. Our God vindicated himself on the arrogance of this heathen kingdom that he set up. and that he tore down. He displayed his glory in the presence of those who assumed to demean him and his power and his wisdom He put an end to a wickedness that lofted itself up against him. The end of King Belshazzar's reign was worthy of a great cheer by the people who loved God. This is what the end of time will be like. We will all be so glad for our God to be vindicated. Finally, we will be glad for all the exploiters to be eliminated, for all the mockers to be silenced, for all those who glibly live as if God does not exist to have their breath removed. That will be a glorious day for the kingdom of God. But until then, it's our job to love our enemies and reach out to them with the hope That our God might save them and allow them to taste the mercy and grace of God that we have tasted That we could be a beggar sharing our food with other beggars, wanting God to be glorified in that person's life We would do well after seeing Belshazzar's judgment to make sure that we're not living in a way where we're guilty of any of Belshazzar's sins. Do we have an attitude that says that in any area of our lives, I don't care what God says, I'm going to do this thing? I don't care what God says, I'm going to do this thing. Are we treating our bodies like they're sacred vessels to be dedicated to God's purposes? That's a lot like what Angie brought up in in Sunday school about how we are we are Christ's bride. Do we act like it? Are we faithful to our husband, Christ? Do we allow pride to drive any of our decisions? Can we look at any decisions we make in a day and say The only reason I did that, or the primary reason I did that, is pride. Do we do things with the intention to gain glory for ourselves instead of God? Do we live out the truth that we know? Remember that was one of Belshazzar's problems And when we need to make a decision we're unsure of, do we consult truths? Do we consult God's Word? Another application on the more positive side from Daniel's perspective is is there anything so important in my life that I can be owned? That somebody can hold something up to me and say, I will give you this if you will do what I tell you. Is there anything that the world can threaten me with that would cause me to deny Christ, that would cause me to be disobedient? To Christ that would change my obedience to Christ. People who are free from the world's change are remarkable people They can deliver the truth from God without concern of the repercussions. That's what we see in Daniel in our text this morning. Alright, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for Daniel. Lord, we don't see many heroes in Scripture without seeing their downside. But you, for whatever reason, didn't see fit to give us his downside. We thank you for such an example of faithfulness, and we ask that you would help us to be To be that kind of guy, the kind that can't be owned, we can't we don't ultimately care what what the world thinks of us, what the world has to say about us, what the world can do to us. But we care about you, and we care about your people and we care about calling others into a relationship with you. We ask that you would help us to apply the lessons that we learned from the bad example of Belshazzar and the good example from Daniel. And Lord, help us not to desecrate. the bodies that you have given us by allowing ourselves to live in a reckless manner that does not submit to your word. And help us to apply all the other things as well. We ask that for this week, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. So I don't know if you guys want to see That's what I was thinking. I think it'd be a good idea.