To get a full perspective on what the Pharisees and the scribes really thought and what they really taught about divorce, we need to look at another passage than the text that we had. It's Matthew 19, 3 through 10. Matthew 19, 3 through 10. The Pharisees also came to him, testing him and saying to him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? And he answered and said to them, have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? And said, for this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become flesh. So then they are no longer Two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, what God has joined together, let not man separate. And they said to him, Well, why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce and put her away? And he said to them, Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you that whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery. And whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery. His disciples said to him, If such is the case of the man with his wife, it's better not to marry. We're going to try and answer these questions this morning. What did the law teach? What did the scribes and the Pharisees teach? And what did Christ teach? Let's start with what the law said about divorce. This is what the Pharisees twisted for their own benefit. In Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4, it says this. Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4. It says when a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some uncleanness in her And he writes her the a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house. When she has departed from his house and goes and becomes another man's wife If the latter husband detests her and writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand and sends her out of the house, or if the latter husband dies, who took her as a wife. Then her former husband who had who divorced her must not take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled. But that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin on the land which the Lord your God is giving you as Okay, again, that is the passage about divorce in the Old Testament. The word for uncleanness, which is a divorceable offense, is only used one other place in the Old Testament. It's in Deuteronomy 23, 13, and 14, and it's talking about how to arrange bathroom functions in the Israelite camp. It talks about covering up one's excrement because, and this is interesting, the because is because the Lord walks in the midst of your camp and he must not see anything indecent among you. And that's the word for indecent. So it's difficult to know exactly what uncleanness refers to, and that is what the Pharisees used to their full advantage. Now, we need to remember something. What was the penis' punishment in the law of God for adultery? It was death. So, the law does not repeat this in Deuteronomy 24. Divorce here must be something other than a married woman having sex with another man. That was already covered by Sonic. So it had to be something other than that. Prior to the law of Moses, and this is really helpful in understanding the divorce law Prior to the law of Moses, it's very likely that men were divorcing or abandoning their wives, casting them out for no good reason. And this would have been terrible for women and children and for the family. It would have been an awful thing for this to be happening. And it's likely that the Mosaic Law actually required a divorce to only be done for legitimate reasons. Which must be proven before witnesses and confessed to. So the first divorce law Was limiting what a man could destroy a marriage for. It was a very good thing. It was limiting what a man could divorce a woman for. It was not an encouragement to commit divorce. But an allowance only under special situations to do so. It was limited to finding, and and this is kind of the quote that comes up in divorce material about the Old Testament. Some natural moral or physical defect in the wife. Some natural moral or physical defect in the wife. And this would have kicked many of the prior reasons for divorce or abandonment. They would have been kicked out of court. They would not have been allowed. This would have been seen as by women as this is protection for me. This divorce law is protection for me. The law was coming to their defense. And it was protecting women and children from frivolous selfishnesses of men. That is what it was designed for. Secondly, the law protected a woman in that it provided an explanation of her current state It would say that this woman had been released by her prior husband for this reason. And the reason, it might be disgraceful, but it would not have been worthy of stoning. It was something big, but it was not that big. This paper would protect a woman. Now, it would not protect her from the truth of what was wrong with her, but it would protect her from having no recourse. Going forward. Now at least she can remarry. She's got this divorce paper. And this divorce paper was to be presented to her in the presence of two witnesses so that she could always appeal back to those two witnesses if there's ever any question about whether she was set free from that marriage. And thirdly, the woman could not change, the man could not change his mind once he divorced that woman Even if the woman was divorced a second time and became available for marriage, his first husband did not have the option of marrying her again. It's likely that this is because of the importance of marriage and this importance of marriage is being stressed. Divorce is not to be decided frivolously, and once decided it can't be rescinded. That's not something you do in a fit of anger to get eaten with your wife on some argument. There's no undoing this. So you're supposed to take it seriously. So the divorce law was in the scriptures to protect women and children from the arbitrary decisions of men. The divorce law was a good way to deal with a bad situation. Okay, so that's what the law taught. Now, what did the Pharisees teach? Well, we get the inside suit from Matthew 19, where they said this, their question gave them away. He touched them saying, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? And then And said this in verse seven, they said to him, Why then did Moses command to give a di uh certificate of divorce and put her away? And Jesus said to Moses , because the hardness of your hearts permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. Look at how the Pharisees had twisted the law around. The law was created to keep women from being divorced due to frivolous reasons. But that's not at all how the Pharisees were used it. The way the Pharisees word it, it seems like they think the divorce law requires them to commit divorce. It commands them. Sorry, wife, but you crossed this line and now I must get rid of you because the divorce law tells me I have to. That's ridiculous. Anybody in that patent would know better. In reality, no one was ever required by the law to divorce anyone. Joseph thought he had a right to divorce Mary for a bit, and he planned to. But even if his suspicions had been correct, which they obviously weren't, he was not commanded to commit divorce, but he was enabled to do so. In fact, the Pharisees were teaching that this idea of uncleanness can be expanded out to almost anything that a husband did not like about his wife. Essentially, by their definitions, they had removed the protection for women and children that God had placed the law therefore. The divorce law allowed for a man who finds himself in an unfortunate spot of finding something about his wife that he didn't know before he married her, it allows him to get out of that relationship. Or something might happen during the marriage that puts him in that same spot. Here is a way that is fair to him and deals with the wrong that his wife had done in the best way possible. The Pharisees had twisted it to the place where they could end the marriage because his wife burnt his supper. They had destroyed the benefit for women and children that the law was put into place for. Okay, now what does Jesus teach? We looked at what the law taught, what uh the Pharisees taught. What did Jesus teach? We'll most mostly look at Jesus' expanded teaching in Matthew 19. And I think it's safe to assume, based on the other gospels, But Jesus repeated his teachings on many of these topics in many locations. So he you know he had some some hot topics that he used to cover and he would hit them here and there, you know, like many teachers do. So what he teaches in one place is going to be the same idea as what he taught in another place, even though he may focus on different aspects. So uh we've already written we've already read this passage and we're we're just gonna keep referring to it. But remember, so Pharisees came to him Asking him a question, Jesus explains what marriage is all about, schools them in what they ought to know already, and then uh gives his pronouncement. So the first teaching Jesus gives is the marriage is intended to be a till death to you part vow and relationship. In the Garden of Eden, a man and a woman were created to complement each other. God obviously knew what he was doing. That was the first designed marriage of a man and a woman, and they were living together. And that powerful sexual desire that God built into his creation would assure that men and women in future generations will want to be together. And if they're going to be together, it will require a man starting up his own family by in some way breaking with the dependence that he had on his family. In order to be dependent upon in his new family. That's, you know, as Jesus is describing the Garden of Eden, that's what he's describing. Somehow these two who get married, when they become one physically, or by the marriage vow, or I think both. I'm not sure how it all works. I asked the the guys that are pastors breakfast, you know, how does God put together? And uh it was interesting conversations. But in some way God joins together. God actually takes the credit for putting the two together in some way that is more than just the man and woman can decide to do. The joining becomes more than something God recognizes. It becomes something God does. So now it's more than just a physical union backed by a promise. It becomes a union created by God. Now he has joined them together. He's created a union intended for life in that couple. And that's how he regards it. And Jesus is true in the Pharisees. This is what it's all about, God The logic is that once it is bound together, it is never to be unbound except as death. And those who trifle with frivolously unbinding that bond are in rebellion against God. That's God's view of marriage. This is marriage that God created. It is intended to be dissoluble. It's good for us to ponder that this morning. I believe that we might all believe this. I suspect that we do, but it's it's still important to consider. Our marriage relationships are way more important in God's sight than might be sensed or perceived or imagined. Doesn't getting married sometimes seem like a decision I make? So it's a decision, if there's a bad one, I can unmake it. Isn't it s sometimes like sort of buying a house? You know, it's a big deal to buy a house, but if I have to, I can always sell it. Well, according to Jesus, marriage is not like that at all. In our cases, men, we were not required by law to marry the person that we married. We don't live in a country and we don't have that culture where we're demanded to do that. But once we did decide to marry that woman, as long as they don't violate this single condition of divorce, they are ours and we are to love them as Christ loved the church Divorce is not an option to us. Paul in 1 Corinthians allows for a second option. So there is an option, but only if the woman sins. Alright, and the second option is in 1 Corinthians if an unbelieving spouse refuses to stay with us If they in essence divorce us, we can accept that divorce and move on as well. But those are the only conditions mentioned. Marriage really is that big of a deal, that big of a commitment, till death to us part really is an accurate description of the strength of a marriage bond. There may be drastic measures needed in marriages to deal with sin issues. Granted, that happens, and you know, we're all capable of all kinds of sin. Maybe a separation for safety may be required. There is room for separation. But the bond is not to be trifled with. We cannot afford to play with our lusts. If we play with that cat, we're going to get scratched. Relational flirting and trying to get positive sexual-oriented strokes can turn into a fire far too quickly. Scripture warns us to stay away from all of that sin. Jesus touched that when he talked about marriage and adultery. If you're a believer and you are married, I can pretty well guarantee you what the devil's will for your marriage is. He wants it violated. He wants it destroyed. That's his will for your life. And all sexually oriented sins are just precursors and preparations for that. Now, what's the condition for divorce? What does Jesus teach? Verse 32, but I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. So the only reason that a believer is allowed to divorce another believer is this. Sexual immorality. This is the Greek word pornea, which is the root word for our word pornography. It means fornication and it points to all sexual sins of the mind and the body. Its most primary meaning though is illicit sexual intercourse. But it can be more than that, but that's generally the strongest use of it. Now, my question, then, is why did Jesus not take the word for adultery Why didn't he say accept for adultery? Which is a very specific word and would let us know that the only reason for a man to divorce a woman is if she has sex with another man while she is married to him. Why did Jesus not limit to that? And then all you have to do, I think, to answer the question is read the news. In our world, it's not hard at all to figure out why Jesus did not use that word. With all the sexual craziness in our world, the sin a wife might be guilty of could even be homosexual sin. It could involve all manners of sexual craziness and perversity. So Jesus did not limit it by using the word adultery. He used the bigger word, the more expanded word for Cornea. I think the safest way to define Jesus uses pornea in this passage is to define it like this. Pornea is any sexual sin that in the Old Testament held the death penalty for the person doing. That's safest, and that's the grounds for divorce. How many Christian divorces would not have happened this year if this was the only grounds for which a Christian would divorce? How many marriages would not have been destroyed this year if Christ's people would just go by Christ's rule? Now, could there be a woman who has committed who was committed to being with men or women in ways that she should be, but doesn't cross certain lines? You know, can could that get blurry As to, you know, is that the sexual sin that Jesus is talking about or not? Could that be a form of cornea that is divorceable? Maybe Those are the kind of things that church leadership might need help to discern. That would be those those are hard difficult questions. But it's very clear that the only divorceable offense is sexual in nature It's doing something with someone's sexuality that should not be done. Now, why is that the only grounds for divorce? I believe it's because sexual intimacy is the greatest difference between the marriage relationship and every other relationship. Sexual intimacy is part of the basis, the founding basis that marriage is based on. It's at the root of the marriage relationship So the violation of the sexual union is the destruction of the marriage. The physical union is part of what creates that bond. We tend to view a marriage being broken when the divorce is announced and the divorce is decided upon, but it's more likely that the marriage is destroyed when the sexual act outside the marriage is committed. That the marriage is actually divorced, or that the marriage is actually destroyed at that point. It's then that the bond is broken. It's then that what God brought together has been broken, and that's why divorce is then allowed. Divorce then simply reflects What has already happened? Divorce reflects the reality of that broken bond. The man in this case is not initiating a destruction of marriage He experienced a disruption of marriage. He's simply announcing it. The man is the victim in this case, not the woman. He didn't sign up for this kind of relationship, and by divorce he is given some recourse accordingly. I believe that's why Jesus allows divorce. It allows a man to reflect the reality of what was done to him. Now, we need to answer one more question. If there are legitimate grounds for divorce, what are the implications if a person takes them? Well, in this case, if the marriage has been violated by adultery or something closely akin to adultery, the man has every right to remarry. The marriage has already been broken, he didn't break it, and the man's given the option here to divorce his wife Divorce, by its very nature, is the pronouncement of the end of the marriage. And when rightfully divorced, a man can remarry. The problem the Pharisees had is they were divorcing for all kinds of reasons. And they were the wrong reasons. So they were announcing the end of marriages that God still recognized. And that could only result in adultery being committed in some sense by both parties. If you look at the text where Jesus talks about divorce, divorce is normally wrongfully done In the bigger context of coveting. We've been studying that. So Jesus reveals that a large part of what he says about divorce is inspired by the revelation that coveting is the lion's share of the incentive. For divorce, wrongful divorce. I think we can understand Matthew 19 in that context of coveting, causing a man to want to replace his wife. So he's it's not only when he find something displeasing about one, but he's probably got his mind set on another. And that immediately after he divorces the wife, he replaces her with somebody else That's what he's saying here. I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality and marries another, commits adultery, and whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery. I believe that's essentially what's being said here. There's no way to cover this illegitimate act with legitimacy. There's no way to cover having destroyed a marriage on paper that was not already destroyed by a sexual violation. This wrongful divorce is destined to result in adultery by all parties. It has to. Because the divorce itself has caused a married woman to act as if she is not. The husband that forced that woman to commit adultery in order to have a marriage, which in those days she may have needed for her very survival. Even when he marries her and commits to her, the bond with her husband had not been broken. So this, you know, the man that picks her up, when they commit sex They break that bond of the first marriage. When the man marries this wrongly divorced woman, the act is adultery. She is still a married woman. It does not matter what the paper says And it is his adultery with her that breaks that initial bond. And even if the man who does the wrongful divorcing goes out and pretends to be doing something legitimate by taking on the second wife In the first wife's place, you know, with the ceremony before God, him bringing that second wife to replace the first is complicit in the first wife's adultery. Had he not replaced his first wife, there would be no adultery. But since he has, the whole thing is just a huge ball of adultery. And when a man commits a divorce that is not simply announcing a bond that has already been broken , The man is guilty for all the adultery that happens. I think that's what Jesus is saying. By being forced to find another marriage, the wrong woman commits adultery By coveting a second wife and forcing the first one out in order to marry the second, the divorcing man commits adultery. The Pharisees would have seen that second marriage as being perfectly legitimate. The Pharisees were, they thought that be a wonderful thing to do, a worshipful thing to do. have this wonderful wedding in front of God. They would have thought they were doing something that fit into God's law. They were doing something God would honor, just like the first wife's marriage. But Jesus is letting them know what he really thinks is their shenanigans. He does not see that second relationship as legitimate at all. It's just a ball of adultery. The relationship is conceived in the violation of the marriage. It is in the framework of destroying marriage. And it is because of the violence done by the divorce of the first woman. The Pharisees thought adultery was very bad. They would have been they'd been against. They'd have been against adultery. Jesus is telling them their way of divorcing is adultery. That's the strength of what he's saying here. That's the essence. I believe that that is Jesus' message to the Pharisees You guys think you're pulling one over by skimming around marriage loss? Your divorces are adultery. That's what he's saying. It doesn't conform to the law of God. It is an absolute violation of it. Now, what should a Christian do if they are in a marriage situation like that? That's a different sermon. But repentance is always the place to start. Then normally carrying out that marriage, no matter how badly it started, would be the faithful thing to do. But again, that's a different sermon. I don't know that we learned as much new this morning. I hope we did, but I hope we get the point, no matter if it's new or old. God thinks marriage is a big deal. God thinks marriage is a big deal. Divorce is not an option between believers except for sexual immorality, which had already violated the marriage. If you're prone to playing with those ideas, I think it's safe to say stop. You know, we're considering, you know, there might be a better better option out there. Just put it out of your mind. Because there's not God put you guys together. And we would do well to honor that commitment as well as we possibly can. Maybe a thought for this week should be if the Lord has created this bond between myself and my spouse, if he has done this miraculous thing that he takes credit for and he says he did What choices can I make that honor God most? God made this bond. What choices can I make that honor God most? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for bringing clarity into our lives. We thank you for showing us our sin. We thank you that you provided such a good thing in marriage. Like so many things, we have an an amazing way to screw things up. We uh we thank you. We thank you for marriage, we thank you for family, we thank you for providing a structure where children can be safe and where where wives can be safe and provided for. We just thank you for all of that. We ask that you would help us to guard what you have joined together. Help us to see it in the reality that you describe it in instead of the reality that we perceive it in. And that we would honor you with our decisions, and that we would make our decisions based on the reality that your word gives us We ask that you would help us to please you with our marriages this week and to honor you in all that we say and do. It is in my capital.