Okay, let's start by reviewing. Last week we talked about verses 1 through 11 in Isaiah 40. And now we're moving on to verses 12 through 26. And here's the outline that we're using for this passage. Verses 1 through 11 was God's comforts. God comforts with the news of a worldwide salvation. God comforts with the news of a worldwide salvation. Verses 12 through 26, which is this morning's, God shows that he's able to do what he says he'll do. God shows that he is able to do what he says he'll do. And verses 27 through 31, God shows how we can live a life now in hope of what he will eventually do. So God's laid out the message that He is going to provide an amazing and worldwide salvation. What would be your first consideration if you heard a claim like that and you were unaware of what God really is like? You might ask, well, can he do it? Can he do it? That would be a very logical question. Does God have the ability, the power, the wisdom to provide a salvation like this? Remember, most people in that culture would have thought that there were many gods, and each one has a certain place for a certain thing. And Isaiah emphasized that there's only one true God, and he is capable of a worldwide salvation. Our passage this morning answers the question of what this God is like. It's his resume, you know, it's it's his ability is being shown off. We'll also see the alternatives that men create and we see how man tries to save himself. And we're going to see the utter futility in thinking that anything good can come from those quarters. This message in Isaiah is appropriate to our time as much as any other. You and I are surrounded by people who have very admirable traits, who do a surprisingly good job of carrying out their responsibilities even at a sacrifice to themselves. in the world that we live in, in the in the environment that we we exist in. Sometimes it's it's simply surprising in light of total depravity how good people behave. They speak of God and spiritual things, but many do not know the one true God. They have not experienced the wonder and glory and the weight of God. There are a lot of isms out there that have replaced God. The two I see the most are probably hedonism, which is the love of pleasure, and secularism, which is the belief that we are as much of God as there is. And growing very quickly is the belief in atheism. And that's the ultimate of secularism. Secularism lives as if there isn't a God He is irrelevant. Atheism declares that there is no God and even the idea of God is evil in their minds. logic. I took a quick look on the internet for just a few quotes displaying what our modern-day prophets are saying. And I'm I'll just limit myself to the topic of human potential. I think you'll find this interesting. Human potential is amazing. We have the capacity to create a world that is peaceful, one that spreads kindness and love rather than hatred. If we believe it to be so, it will be our truth and we will create it. Christy Bauman, whoever that is When the brain's potential is fully unleashed, there can be few, if any, limitations. Anyone who tells you otherwise isn't up to date with the latest scientific findings on the brain and is exhibiting their ignorance. For the brain's potential is the human potential. James Morcamp. By the year 2000, we will, I hope, raise our children to believe in human potential, not God. Gloria Steinem. And what is the potential man after all? Is he not the sum of all that is human? Divine, in other words? Henry Miller. Isaiah will describe a man going out to make his God and cutting down a tree. And what is the evidence that this thing he creates will have the power to deliver him? There's none. None at all. But we're far too sophisticated for that. We're not gonna go out and cut a tree and make it God. No. We say we need no tree. We ourselves are God We can depend upon ourselves and we can deliver ourselves. We can create a world of kindness and love. This potential goodness lives in us and is just crying to get out. And what's the evidence our human potential will deliver all of this goodness? Well let's see. We've had 10,000 years of human history. Have we taken care of poverty? No. Crime? No. Starvation? No. Government corruption? No. Violence? No. Suicide? No. Okay, are we at least showing progress? Well, what do you think? As far as I can tell, there is zero evidence for having faith in humans as a solution to the human problem Believe in such a thing is simply a blind leap in the faith. That's funny, you know, so many unbelievers Say, I can't believe that, you know, what you believe, because that's a blind leap into faith. But I can trust that humans are going to fix the problems that they have created. Right. It's no different than the man who goes out to carve himself an idol. There's no difference. There is no obstacle for God to do exactly what God wants to do. He can do it at any time. He does not need to communicate what he's doing at all. But there's a huge obstacle for people believing in him. So he will use his word to communicate the truth to him, to us, to them. That's what we're gonna see this morning. We will see that God and only God is capable of providing salvation That's really the title of this sermon. God and only God is capable of providing salvation. What we will see are a series of questions asking who and whom. And this strikes at the very core of the issue. Who is qualified to provide us our salvation? If we answer the questions, we get the answer to our deepest need. So it's a very relevant passage. And they're fair questions. They avoid ambiguity. They avoid our complicated self-deceptions. And they're easily answered. Okay, first question. Are you ready? Are you ready to discern who alone can grant us salvation? Who can really take care of us? Who has the ability to deliver to us exactly what we need? Well here you go. First question. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? Measured heaven with a span, and calculated the dust of the earth in a measure, weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance. Well, that's sort of a run-on question. Take our globe spinning through space. Let's start there, he says. Who is able to take all of the water in the ocean and lift it in the palm of his hand? I have a kitty swimming pole on my deck, or at least I did when I put this together, it was half full of water. I suppose I could empty it by cupping my hand and you know moving the water out like that. I won't because it will take a thousand actions of that kind to empty that little pool. And the pool's tiny. God scoops all the waters in the ocean in one scoop of his hand, and it's not even heavy. We can't even apply the word effort to God. That's something we think of. That's something we experience. It's not something that God does. He doesn't try, he does. The trillions of gallons in the ocean, each weighing eight pounds apiece, God lifts in the palm of his hand and he puts it wherever he wants. Who else can do that? How many are qualified? How many reach that qualification? No but nobody. That's it. I mean there's God and there's nobody else Okay, let's expand this a little. Let's take the galaxy or the universe. I'm not real sure of the difference. I think the universe is bigger and the galaxies are smaller. But the farthest man has gone in our galaxy is the backside of the moon. Apollo 13 did that. Now, the closest star to us, other than the sun, is 4. 3 light years. If we tried to go there at the speed that we went to the moon with, we better take our vitamins. It would take 114,000 years. To get there. That's 4. 3 light years. The latest science says that the universe is about 46 billion light years across. That's the time to the nearest star, 4. 3 billion, or 4. 3 light years, times 10 billion. Now, how does God measure his distance? You know, does he have a complicated little device? No. He stretches out his hand. As wide as it can be, maybe. He measures the universe like we measure a horse. So the question comes back, and who else can do that? Well, let me think. No one. Now God weighs dirt. He takes all the dirt in the world and knows exactly how much it weighs. And who else can do that? No one. Okay, let's try an easy one. How about we just take Mount Everest? How much does it weigh? This is this this one's child's play, isn't it? This is the smallest thing yet. Of course not. We have no idea. Maybe a man could lift a 400-pound rock. Maybe you know if he's at his peak, he could lift a 400-pound rock. But he would never lift the mountain. In fact, there aren't enough lifetimes for that to get done, even if he only lifted a rock at a time. No, man does not have the power of God. Never, in any way, ever. Zero. The point of this is not to show us how big God's hand is. That's an anthropomorphism. It's assigning human qualities to God. God is spirit. So it's not the issue of how big his hand is. These are things that God can do. But he does not possess the exact human qualities assigned to him here. This is done so we can picture something of the power of God, not the physique. I mean you can't come out and take this passage and say, well, then God's hand is 46 billion light years across. That is not what this is designed to do, but it is designed to show us there is no other Like him. There is no one that can do what he can do. Okay, so God is more powerful than any other option offering salvation. Let's see what else he is. Verse 13. Who has directed the Spirit of the Lord or as his counselor has taught him? With whom did he take counsel and who instructed him? And taught him in the path of justice, who taught him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding. Okay, God beats everybody in power. We've established that. But how about in knowledge and wisdom? What about smarts? Well, we tend to answer this question while thinking about humans, like what person has instructed him. But the Israelites were in a land that had many idols. The question might be intended to draw attention to this idea of other gods. What other God has instructed him? What other God has given our God help? Many of the other gods are based on cosmic bodies that already exist. There's the sun god and the moon god and that sort of thing God is asking, who was there helping me create these celestial bodies? Who was giving me advice? I work in a business where I rely heavily on those who know more about things than I do. I'm always asking, either asking for or looking for guidance. And even Mr. Google helps me a lot. I need expertise. God never needs that. He never needs it, never looks for it. When he asks questions, it isn't because he doesn't know the answer. There is no one to refer to. No one knows what God knows. God has never had anyone that he had to or even could lean to for something that he doesn't know. No one knew how to create planets or stars or solar systems. No one knew how to create an eyeball or a heart or an ear or a brain. God alone is qualified. Only He has the know-how. This is good to remember next time we think to inform God about what we need. Sure, we should approach Him like a kid would approach a loving father if we need something. That's all good. But if we don't if we don't get that thing, God really isn't needing our advice on this particular topic. You know, it's not like we're filling God in on something that He has no idea about. We need to humbly come before our God and understand that we aren't adding to his knowledge base and we aren't, he doesn't need someone to tell him what to do. He's got this and we simply need to trust him. So continuing. And even more than that, where did the idea of justice come from? Where did the idea of knowledge come from? Where did understanding come from? All of these came from God's own character. If God did not exist, none of these things would exist. Of course, we wouldn't exist to know it. But that's all true. Are we getting the point yet? This is the point Isaiah is making. God has no competitors. God has no competitors. All these other gods are false gods. Oh, there are numerous sources that pose themselves as competitors. But they only win if we fail to ask the right questions. When we ask the questions that God asks, all the competitors fall flat on their faces. Okay, so no one has the power to provide salvation but God. No one has the wisdom to provide salvation but God. But how about humans? Don't they offer some level of salvation? Some level of power? Assyria and Babylon appear to be able to do what they propose to do. Don't they? I mean back then they would have been the superpower. They appear to have power. Should they not be feared for the harm that they could do? Should they not be trusted to provide some form of salvation? Verse 15, behold, the nations are as a drop in a bucket, and are counted as small dust in the scales. Look, he lifts up the aisles is a very little thing. Here's God's answer to that. Nope. Nope. Trusting in people, trusting in political systems. Nope, they're nothing. They look like they they're more than nothing. But they aren't. They do not have the power to save. John MacArthur wrote a really good little book about how the government, we cannot trust the government to save us They're not saviors. They don't have the power to resist the salvation of God. They are nothing to God. When Sarah in her pursuit of of taking her buckets of water to her precious cows, spills a drop of water out of a bucket she's using to water the cows or horses. Does she worry about that drop? No, she doesn't worry about it because it's insignificant. It's not a word. Sometimes when I'm working on computers, there might be a dust, there might be some dust on a part that I'm working on. I never fret about it. I don't go get a hammer to beat it off. I bend over and blow on it, and the dust is gone. That's what the world powers are to God. That's what the world powers are to God. Now do they seem that way to us? Of course they don't seem that way. But that's how they are. This is the point where to begin. Look at the world news reports Do they upset us? Why? I found that much of my distress is from giving wicked people too much credit and not giving God enough credit. The wicked Islamic militants do horrific things. They're horrible. But even that is not out of God's control. The persecution of Christians appears to be increasing and getting closer to home. But even that serves a bigger purpose. All of those people doing all of that wickedness is just a drop in a bucket to God. He will wipe it out on the day that he determines he wants to, and there will be no resistance. We need to watch the news from the perspective of God's word. We need to watch what goes on around us from the perspective of God's word We need a higher view if we're gonna if if we're gonna watch this stuff at all, we need to see it from God's perspective Now the next verses are interesting. Verse 16, and Leman is not sufficient to burn, nor its beasts sufficient for a burnt offering All nations before him are as nothing, and they are counted by him less than nothing and worthless. Just as the power of political powers could not stop God's salvation The contribution of the world's powers don't even contribute to God's salvation. I think that's what this is saying. It doesn't add anything The best that human salvation can accomplish doesn't even add an iota to God's salvation Even if Lebanon were to be offered as a burnt sacrifice, as if it was offered up as some spiritual help of some sort, and all of its wealth be thrown in the fire, it would not appease God. It wouldn't please God at all. It would not add to the salvation that God is planning to provide for his people. Why? Because apart from faith, it is impossible to please God. I hope that sounds familiar. That's from Jason's Hebrews 11 study. Our culture loves to spout all of the psychological wisdom from our modern self-proclaimed prophets. In it, we're told just how wonderful and valuable we are. Listen closely to that stuff. How wonderful and valuable we are. Suicide, they say, is a sin because it robs the world of us. We think we owe all kinds of things to ourselves because we are so intrinsically valuable. Listen to the psychology. That's where a lot of it comes from You are worth this, therefore rise up in your behavior to meet your worth. And what does God say? All nations before God are as nothing. Nothing. And they are counted by him less than nothing. What's less than nothing? You know, it's a negative number. We aren't exactly stellar examples of worth here. Tell me this. When your bank account has nothing in it, what can you buy? Nothing. What value does that bank account have? None. What is it worth? Nothing. That is our intrinsic worth in God's bank account. We have got to let go of this idea that Jesus died for us because he saw our worth. Scripture doesn't say that. He did not. He died for us because he is worthy. And his father is worthy. He deserves to have people who will live with him for eternity and worship him. That is where our worth comes in. But if we don't have faith, there is nothing about us that pleases God. There is nothing about us that has worth to God. It is only through faith that we give God any pleasure and have any worth. Now, after seeing our lack of worth, we must focus on God's worth God has shown us that we have no intrinsic worth. The only worth we have is the worth God chooses to place on us. Now, how about God's worth to us? God's worth to us. How do we go about assigning worth? How do we go about worshiping God? Or really, how do we come up with something to take his place? That's really the question. How do we as humans go about this process so often, so much of the time, and it isn't very pretty. Verse 18, to whom then will you liken God? Okay, you're picking gods now. What's your choice? You're going to go out and make one. What's it going to be like? Or what likeness will you compare to him? The workman molds an image, the goldsmith overspreads it with gold, and the silversmith casts silver chains. Whoever's too impoverished for a really good idol has to has to scrimp here. They have to be a little economic in their in their God choice. He chooses a tree that won't rot. He seeks for himself a skillful workman to prepare a carved image that won't totter. We become before this God who is all-powerful. We come before this God who is omniscient. He needs no one. He needs no help. We're completely reliant upon this God for everything. He is reliant upon us for nothing. And how do we respond? We replace him. Isn't that I mean isn't that us? We replace him with something that we create That's what unregenerate humans have always done and always will. We will always replace God because ultimately we don't want a God that we do not control. We don't want to be owned. We don't want to be told what to do. We don't want to be controlled. We want to do exactly what we want to do. And we want to maintain our freedom to do it. Now, we may come up with elaborate replacements or economic replacements, but replacements will be made if we have the power to do it. We will worship something. And if it's not the one true God, we'll find some way of replacing God with something of human origin. There are no third options. There's nowhere else to go. We worship the creator God or something of his creation. It's inherent. And in our culture, we don't waste much time pretending anymore. Our primary worship in our culture is ourselves The created thing we worship is what we view in the mirror or some offshoot of what that creature can do. That tends to be our worship. Is it absurd? You bet. Is it normal? Absolutely. So what's the problem with that? Verse 21. Have you not known? Have you not heard? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? Don't we love to use ignorance as an excuse? God, the only reason I sinned is because I didn't know. And without a doubt, sometimes that could be true. It was very true of Paul. But there's a simple test for ignorance, and we see it all the time with our kids. Are they hiding what they're doing? Are they hiding what they're doing? Well most of the time, if they're hiding what they're doing, they know what is wrong. You know, they know they shouldn't be doing it. Things that we are ignorant of we tend to display, not realizing that there's a downside. But things that we know to be wrong we tend to hide. Isaiah has shown these people that their sin of idolatry is inexcusable. They could not excuse their replacement of the one true God with the little statues of wood and metal. They knew better. They knew better. Have you not heard? And and the tenses here from what I understand is one sort of past tense and one's current tense. That's basically you're hearing this all the time. You know, this is something you do know. You know, you can't claim ignorance on this. The Word of God has made this thing clear from the very beginning. Were we to start with Adam and Eve, we would know that the one true God is not an idol. Then we watch Abraham and we know that he had an encounter with that one true God, not with statutes. And then Moses brings us the law, and we know that we cannot replace God with our ideas about God. Ignorance is not the excuse. These people should have known who God is. And who is he? Verse 22. It's a really interesting description. There are so many of these in scripture that just half the time it's almost like they make you laugh. Verse 22, it is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers. Grasshopper, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in. He brings the princes to nothing, he makes the judges of the earth useless Scarcely shall they be planted, scarcely shall they be sown, scarcely shall their stalk take root in the earth, when he will blow on them, and they will wither, and the whirlwind will take them away like stove. Now we need to keep in mind who this is addressing. This is addressing people captive by the Babylonian war machine. And they have seen this machine firsthand. They know what this political power looks like. Everyone looks to be, everything looks to be run by the political forces and the military forces. And God is saying, no, that is not how it is. Everything you think is wrong. I sit above it all, he says. None of man's actions affect me at all. They have as little impact on me as a bunch of grasshoppers flying at me. They're insignificant. At most, they're a nuisance. Look how he talks about the things we get perplexed about. We get all bent out of shape about. He does with political powers exactly what he wants when he wants. If he wants Putin or Trump or Pelosi or whoever out of power, out they go If he wants someone else in, in they go. The princes think they have power. The politicians think they have power. But they only hold the amount of power for the amount of time that God wants them to have. When he's done, they're done. Every single time, all of the time, without any exceptions. It's all temporary. It's all for a short time. And the remedy from God is not a difficult thing. When he decides to end it, he describes it as a puff. A puff. Like we get rid of dust. That's how God will end things. We as Christians make a huge mistake when we think that we must rally all the forces to overcome some evil political power in this country. We give it too much credit. We act like it's a powerful force standing against God. According to this, it isn't. If it weren't serving some purpose of God, it would not exist. When God is done, he puffs, it's gone. Verse 25, To whom then will you liken me, or to whom shall I be equal, says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see who has created these things, who brings out their host by number. He calls them by name. By the greatness of his might and the strength of his power, not one is missing. The problem with false worship Is that we have robbed ourselves of that which we were created for The problem with false worship, no matter how that worship takes its place, the problem with false worship is that we have robbed ourselves of that which we were created for. We have robbed ourselves of the only thing that truly gives our lives meaning and value. We have traded eternity for a trinket. We've traded an eternal birthright for a song and a dance. The bowl of soup we've settled for is pretty pitiful. That is the problem with false worship. This has been a rare sermon. I've made very little application. But we can't leave here having encountered who God really is without some compelling observation. I have a question. How can we leave here this morning after seeing God going into great detail, describing his power over all of life situations? How can we leave here to act like we have a powerless, foolish God? How do we do that? We do it by knowing what he says, but thinking we know better. God forbids something, but we know better. God commands something, but we know better. We trust our natural reactions, our natural responses. To direct us instead of God's word. We rationalize why we can't do what God says. We declare ourselves an exception to the rule, how it really doesn't apply it to us. That's how we pull off our secret rebellion, how we carve our idols that we like. Isaiah is telling us we can trust God like he says he is worthy of. We can trust God, like he says we must trust God. Or we can replace him, but when we replace him, it will always be an inferior God of our own making that will not deliver what it is we need. most. This is a challenge by Isaiah and ultimately God to trust the salvation of God. Period. Trust the salvation of God and nothing else Let's commit to do this this week. Commit to not allow ourselves or any other believer in our presence to posture anything but a commitment to trust God. Let's commit to calling it what it is when we refuse to believe that the salvation of God is sufficient. The power of God is sufficient. The wisdom of God is sufficient to bring us safely into God's final kingdom. God does not deserve to be mistrusted and maligned. We will glorify Him or we won't. If we don't believe him, let's at least bring it out in the open. Let's just say, no, I think I can come up with a replacement I prefer on this point. I don't like what God is saying. I don't like what God is asking of me. I don't think God is smart enough or powerful enough to deliver me. But if we won't make that break, let's overcome the obstacles that have held us back in the past. Let's trust God to deliver us and trust him alone as he alone is absolutely worthy of and capable of, as we've seen in Isaiah. That's the closing prayer. Lord God, you have graciously given us truth about yourself, truth that you wouldn't have to give, and we would never know if you didn't. We would never create a God like you. We don't have the wisdom. We don't have the justice. We don't have all of the things. The only way we know about what is good is that it comes from you. The only way we know anything about you is that you communicate to us. We ask that you would help us to see our lives in perspective of worship. To see how it is that we are worshiping you and where it is that we are failing to worship you, where we are believing something different, where we are following something different, where we are shutting you out. So that we can have a God of our own making. Lord, we ask for conviction to fall on us in any way that we are robbing you of the glory you deserve in our lives. And that you would deal with us strictly as a uh As a loving parent and discipline us or do whatever it takes to draw our attention to those places we displease you by distrusting you. And we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen