I'd like to start this morning with a story of a Christian, and this is from our friend Mr. Hortman. Thomas Cranmer is a name you might not know offhand Maybe you've heard his voice echoing in the Book of Common Prayer, where he says this, Almighty God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, maker of all things Judge of all men, we acknowledge and bewail our manifold sins and wickedness. The remembrance of them is grievous unto us. The burden of them is intolerable. Have mercy upon us. Have mercy upon us, most merciful Father. As Archbishop of Canterbury, Cranmer bravely advanced the gospel during the English Reformation, but when Mary became queen in fifteen fifty-three, she had him arrested. From his prison window, he watched his fellow reformers Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley burn up the city. It was unforgettable, with Latmer encouraging Ridley, be of good comfort, Master Ridley, and play the man. We shall on this day light such a candle by God's grace in England as I trust shall never be put out. Cranmer, for his part, did not play the band. He gave gent. Government agents drainwashed him into recanting the gospel. He was set free and for several weeks enjoyed a comfortable life again. But they put him back in prison and he signed more recantations. But when he realized that they were going to kill him anyway, his old courage returned. On the day of his execution in Oxford , He stepped through a two-hour sermon at the Church of St. Mary denouncing him as a heretic. Then he was expected publicly to admit the error of his ways, but he stood firm. He said the following, and now I come to the great thing, which so much troubleth my conscience more than anything that I ever did or said in my whole life. And that is the setting forth of a writing contrary to the truth. And forasmuch as my hand offended writing contrary to my heart, my hand shall be first punished. The remembrance of his sins was grievous to him and the burden intolerable, just like he had said in the book of prayer. In fact, he walked from the church to the state so quickly his guards could hardly keep up with him. An eyewitness describes his death. Fire being now put to him, he stretched out his right hand. And thrust it into the fire, and held it there a good space before the fire came to any part of his body, where his hand was seen of every man sensibly burning. Crying with a loud voice, This hand hath offended. As soon as the fire was got up, he was very soon dead, never stirring or crying All the while. We all like to read the heroes of the faith when they do well. Don't you love the words of Vladimir to a certain Friend, you know, play the man, we shall on this day light such a candle by God's grace in England as I trust shall never be put out. Doesn't that inspire you? Doesn't it make you want to rise up and and be faithful? Doesn't that make you want to pay the price with them to glorify and honor our Savior? But we don't really want to hear about the cranberr failure. Do. But the truth is we need it. We need to know what's in mankind. Because we don't live like life is portrayed in the movies. We never do everything we know that we should do for God, do we? We never obey perfectly. And even worse, sometimes we choose to do exactly the opposite of what God wants because we become absorbed with self in some way. We may one day stand up like Elijah against all the prophets of Baal, and then the next day run for our lives from a woman's wrath like Elijah did with Jezebel. There is no one but Christ who honors God perfectly. So we must be prepared to minister to and with people as they truly are. And we need to be quick to see ourselves as one of those flawed people. One of the people that are just as likely to be Cranmer as his buddies. Our story this morning is about a man of faith. Hezekiah had just stood up, as instructed by God, to the whole Assyrian army, the greatest military power on the face of the earth at that time. He stood strong. Once he determined that no other resources would work, then he had to learn that first, then he stood strong for God, and God delivered the people of Jerusalem. This happened. This was a high point for Hezekiah. He could stand up strong in the face of that particular challenge to his faith. But this morning we see a challenge to his faith that he was not prepared to stand up to. Isn't that like our lives? Aren't there some events in our lives that we're really pleased with ourselves? We replay how we did those faithful things in the face of big challenges. Those who are close to us may know what those things are because we have a tendency to talk about them, maybe over and over again. And that is in fact. But past faithfulness is never enough. Present faithfulness is what we have to focus most on We never retire from the battle in the Christian life. There is no retirement from Christian walks, from Christian living, from battling with the devil. It will rage every day until we die. It should make us nervous when our testimony of God's grace and power in our lives is always in the distant past. The victory has to be experienced today and every day. We need to be quick to talk about the mercy and the grace that was new today or yesterday. Where have you experienced a victory in faith this last week? Where have you stood up to temptation this last week? Where have you done what God wanted you to do that was very hard to do this last week? Where did you believe in him in spite of your flesh screening to do something else this last week? This day is where the victory is won. This day is where the battle is lost. Faithfulness today is what's required in the Christian life. What challenge to your faith are you continually facing now, today? What's this struggle that God has placed you in that He expects you to be faithful in now? Okay, let's look at our test. Verse 1. In those days Hezekiah was sick and near death, and the Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, went to him and said to him, Thus says the Lord, set your house in order, for you shall die and not live. Here's the test. Hezekiah was about forty years old. Soon after the wonderful victory over Assyria, Hezekiah got sick And the prophet Isaiah came to visit him and tell him that he just needs to claim healing in Jesus' name and speak the word and heal out. No, no, obviously that is not what he said. In fact, if you're seeking people to comfort you in a hospital, you might not want to ask for a prophet. Isaiah shows up and he gives Hezekiah very important information. Your prognosis is not good, you will die. This will give you a chance to line up your will and prepare them for your death. The prophet was very blunt and to the point, and there's nothing wrong with that, especially when you're delivering a message from God. But I think most of us would prefer a little more empathy than seems to be portrayed here. Now, Christians all over the world face this very same test. I guarantee you if we could take a survey of all the Christians in the United States, there'd be a lot. Under this very same test. Now it's usually the medical doctor who shows up, not the prophet, that delivers the news. But the news is the same. You have stage four cancer. It's spread throughout your body. Something like that. This could happen to any of us at any time. How would we respond to that news? How would we respond to knowing, to finding out on a specific day that we do not have much longer to live? While Hisekiah may not be our best example, I want to make something clear here. Failure to attest is not imminent. Failure is never a certainty Failure is an option as we face the tests that are in front of us, just as success is We decide. There is no trial we face where God does not hold out an option of success for us. No matter how hard it is to be faithful in a trial, faithfulness is always an available and attainable option in the Christian life. 1 Corinthians 10, 13 says, No temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man. But God is faithful who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. But with the temptation will also make the way of escape that you may be able to bear it. And then James 1, 2, 3, 4 says, My brother, encounter all joy when you fall into various trials. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. But let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. The devil's message to us is always give up. Give up, give in. You can't win. You can't be faithful. You can't stand up to a real test of your faith. No one does. If the really hard test comes, you'll fail. And then it's easy for us to imagine all the scenarios where we did fail. But that's not the message that comes from Christ. That's not the message that comes from his spirit. That is not the message that comes from his word. The message from his word is always an encouragement to stand up to the trial by faith and win. Really, find any scripture that says that a believer must fail a trial or give in to a temptation. I challenge you to look for that. There are none. The trials are intended to produce good things in our lives, and they should be faced by an unshakable faith in God that that is exactly what they are. And that's hard to do. That's what Hezekiah should have done. He had a grand opportunity to glorify God here. So let's see what he does. Verse 2. Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall and prayed to the Lord and said, Remember now, O Lord, I pray. How I have walked before you in truth and with a loyal heart, and have done what is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. I think maybe all of us look at our past with idealized versions of ourselves. Have you ever noticed that we're always the heroes in our daydreams? And we're often the heroes of our past. Not completely, but often. And when the facts of our history intrude by telling a different story, well, we sort of forget the facts. I think it's funny how Hezekiah represents himself here to God. There's some truth here, but it's a bit of pick and choose truth. Hezekiah didn't mention calling to Egypt to save him from Assyria. He didn't mention trying to bribe the enemies of God. No. He appeals to God to remember the good things that he did. Now the problem with God is that he doesn't really remember anything in the way that we do. He knows everything all the time. So when we remember something, it's like we have to do some work and go into that database and pull that little piece of information back. And some of our databases work better than others. There are long periods of silence when I'm doing this kind of thing. But anyway, God doesn't do that. He doesn't have to look into his database. It's all there all the time. God knows He knows everything. He is the ultimate of total recall. So when God sees Hezekiah's life, God sees it all Just like God does with our lives. And that's the very thing that allows us to face the truth about ourselves as it really is and was. While we may not be able to accept ourselves as we really were, God already has, which is an amazing thing. He never accepts What a person thinks they are. He always accepts his children for what they really are, no matter what they believe about themselves. Whether they know themselves or not. If he can love us, in spite of who we really are our work, we should feel We should be free to readily examine our lives for the truth and only the truth, because that's the that's the truth. He's loved us in. That's a great thing. Hezekiah did walk before God in truth and with a loyal heart, like he said. That's not the whole truth, but that encapsulates a large portion of how he lived. Scripture regards him as one of the good kings. Like we talked about in Sunday school, Angie brought that up. 2 Kings 18, 4 through 6 says that 2 Kings 18, 4 through 6 says He removed the high places and broke the sacred pillars, cut down the wooden image, and broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made. For until those days the children of Israel burned incense to it And called it Nehushna. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor who were before him. I think that might have been specifically speaking of his success with the idols, idol worship. Not sure about that. For he held fast to the Lord. He did not depart from following him, but kept his commandments which the Lord had commanded Moses. This is very high praise for Hezekiah. He did very well most of the time. There were exceptions which Hezekiah passed over, but up to this point he has been a good king. But 2 Chronicles 32 gives us a picture that we don't see in the other narratives. Now this is after our story. But When you see where he's going, you get an idea of where he is. We get an inside look at the heart of Hezekiah at this point. In 2 Chronicles 32, 24 through 26 It says, in those days, Nezekiah was sick and near death, and he prayed to the Lord, and he spoke to him and gave him a sign. , But Hezekiah did not repay according to the favor shown him, for his heart was lifted up. That's kind of the key Uh David there. His heart was lifted up. Therefore wrath was looming over him and over Judah and Jerusalem. Then Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart. He and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the Lord did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah. What we see in Chronicles is where Hezekiah was headed. Hezekiah could have died at the point in today's text, but he didn't want to die. Now, Hezekiah may have had all kinds of good reasons. We don't know. We may have thought he was doing God's kingdom a favor by staying alive. Because look how much good he had done. If he lives another 15 years, think of all the good he can do. We don't know. But what we do know is that what faith awaited Hezekiah after God extended his life. We do know that Success was about to get to Hezekiah. We also find in Chronicles how much wealth he had built up for himself. It goes into some detail about that. It looks like maybe his treasure began to be placed in the wrong place, and his heart followed his treasures, as if our hearts always follow our treasures. Things would go badly from now on, from here on, from this point on. There's a point here that we cannot miss, and I know I've made it before, but I think it's important. We have a tendency to think that when a young person dies that they have been robbed of a lot of good things. And then you know I I I know how how close to home that this message is and that it's something that that we've experienced you know the loss of we tend to uh immediately ascribe any future that person would have of being primarily good things, positive things, enjoyable things and useful things At least that's what I do. I mean I always associate with the word tragic when uh when somebody dies young. But I wonder if God gets tired of hearing that. Why can't we ever first assume that God really knows what he's doing? Apart from our hurt, apart from the things we feel, all of those things. Why does he never get the benefit of the doubt in situations in our minds, or in my mind? Maybe God was rescuing the person from something much more horrible than death Maybe what they had waiting for them would have been incredible suffering. We don't know. Maybe it would have been devastating spiritual failure with far-reaching consequences. We don't know. Maybe it would have been a replay of what happened when God gave Hezekiah what Hezekiah won. We don't know. Do you realize how good a record Hezekiah's life would have had if he had died when God said he would? He would have probably been one of the best records of faithfulness in all the journals of the kings in the Old Testament. He would have been seen as a wonderful example of faithfulness. Not a perfect example, but a wonderful example. But that was not to be. Why? Because God gave in to Hezekiah's flea for more time to do all the wonderful things that were awaiting in Hezekiah's life. It's too bad. An early death is better than a life lived faithlessly. Now, when you hear the name of Hezekiah, what do you think of? We talked about this in Sunday school, and evidently I'm in the minority. I asked Carla the question last night, and she said, Isn't he the guy that God extended his life? I was hoping that's what most people would say, but in Sunday school we found out that's not. But that's often how he's thought of. He's the guy that outlived his faithfulness. He's the guy that lived too long. He's the guy that thought he knew better than God that he did. I know that we at Ferndale have suffered a disproportional share of sudden deaths among young people. What I seek to share this morning is not that we should not grieve or suffer the loss as loved ones always do. What I'm trying to say is that God is trustworthy. God is trustworthy. God knows what he is doing. He has good reasons for what he does. But they're way over our pay grade. And if we knew the future like God does, and if we had the courage to choose the best thing, we would find that what God arranges ends up being the best thing. Fortunately, God does not wait for us to agree with him. He doesn't share what he knows. We do not know what future his people are safe from when he takes them earth. But we do know that we can trust God. The character of God is what we have to trust in, and that he has proven over and over. We don't know the facts that God knows, and it's a good thing we don't, but we know God. And that has to be our encouragement through the hard times that we face. Now, at the end of verse 3, we see that Hezekiah wept bitterly. The word for bitterly is great. The word emphasizes the importance or significance of something. So this is telling us that Hezekiah wept with great intensity. Now, I doubt that anyone would greet the news of their upcoming demise by saying, Woo-woo, I get to die now. You know, that's not going to be our natural response. This news is not something you blow off and go to the next thing on your to-do list. In fact, this news redefines your whole to-do list, makes it a whole lot shorter. No, a certain amount of grieving is called for when you learn something like that, when you hear that kind of news. Very few of us are instinctively pleased to give up the life we have come to know For a life that we expect to be good but we have never experienced, I think that's really the issue that we find ourselves in It takes a whole lot of faith to believe when we're about ready to make that leap that God really means everything He says. It's easy for us while we're living and we're thinking, well someday I'll die. But when we get to the edge and we realize it's right now, if either what I've believed all these years is true or it is not, you know, then it it starts stinking in a little. Tears are certainly appropriate and necessary and normal and expected. But what we see with Hezekiah shows something about Hezekiah that was a problem. He was not prepared in his faith to trust God with his death. He felt the need to cling to this life in spite of what God had said. Now ask yourself, how could Hezekiah have responded? Could he not have arisen by faith to accepting this next event from God's hand? Could he not have said like Mary, let it be to me according to your word? Isn't that the ultimate statement of receiving God's word from God's hand? Be it unto me according to your word. Why the bitter tears? Was that not a distrust in God and God's plan? Look at this closely. This is what happened. Hezekiah's failure to fully trust in God's wisdom, God's love, his provision, led to Hezekiah disgracing himself and God. Wow. Isn't that always the case? A death in God's plan is better than long life in Adams. Suffering from God's plan is better than pleasure from our plan. Everything from God's hand is better than anything from ours. Every single one of our lives proves that. Every one of us can make this point by truthfully retelling the story of our lives. Where did the good things come from? Trusting and obeying God. Where did the bad things come from? Following our hearts. We're going to take this text up again next week, but we already have much to apply from Hezekiah's example. And again, as in all the book of Isaiah, the crux of the matter comes back to who we will trust with our lives. Will we trust God with all his wisdom and grace and love? Or will we trust ourselves with all what? Foolishness and selfishness and unbelief? What will it be? We're all facing these issues in our lives right now. We're all making choices of who and what we will believe. What will we do? Do we want to follow Hezekiah's lead to disgrace? Or do we want to trust God's plan for future grace and pleasure forever? What will it be? It's good to have a testimony of wonderful things that God has done to us and in us and through us years ago But it's necessary that we have a story today of the wonderful things that God is doing to us and in us and through us. Do we have such a testimony? What is God teaching us? Where are we growing? What is going on spiritually in our lives? If we look at our lives and say, well , not much , then there's something Christ has to say that we might want to consider. Luke 11, 9 through 13 says this. So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you. See, and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be open. If a son asks for bread from any father among you, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if he asks for an egg, will he give him a scorpion? Of course not. And if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? If we want to see spiritual things happen in our lives, this is a prayer we can pray by faith. It's one of those prayers you can name it and claim it, because God said so. We can pray it expectantly. We can ask and know that we will receive. God will give more of Himself to any of His children who ask for it expectantly. Is that what we want? Let's do this. Let's all pray this prayer for a week and see what happens. Let's test God in a way that He invites testing. We can pray, Father, give me more of you, more of your spirit, more of your fellowship and presence in my life. Then we'll see how our testimony changes. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you that you hold us out all of these Wonderful alternatives. The alternative of being faithful. The alternative of trusting you. The alternative of believing you. The alternative of laying our lives in your hands. Lord, we want more of you. At least we want to want more of you. We want you to move in our lives in such a way that your Son is glorified in our lives, that much is made of Jesus. So, Father, we ask that you would give us more of you, more of your spirit, more of your fellowship, and more of your presence in our lives this week. We invite you to show off you in us. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Stimulating