Last week we talked about the division in our text, or the division of our text. And it's all about trusting God in opposition to wrong views of stuff, wrong views of other things that we could trust But first we see in verse 19 through 24, we see the evil of lust for gaining the world stuff. Treasure gained for pleasure, treasure gained for Security. The second we see in verses 25 through 34, we see the evil of worry for the lack of the world's stuff. And we're left with two alternatives. Layup temporary treasure, layup permanent treasure. Layup temporary, layup permanent. This morning I hope to at least look at verses 21 through 23. What we find here are the problems of the straying heart and the problems of the wrong perspective. Verse 21, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. 22. The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. We talked about this last week. We talked about how we determine if our heart is fixated on things, on stuff, on material goods. To the degree that they are. Those things own our hearts. You can't have an idol that does not affect your heart. Idols own our hearts to the degree that we focus on them And idols are always in direct competition with God for our hearts. Jesus will go on to say that you can't serve God and mammoth or money. You can serve God and possess money, but you cannot serve God and serve money. God will not accept that competition. So we must guard our hearts against competing loves. Do we need some help with this? Ask yourself, what do you really, really, really want? What do you really, really, really want in your life? If our core desire is not God, we're in serious danger of sin. I've said before that this passage is not really four topics: treasure, perspective, masters, and trust. What we're talking about is one thing: it's about a heart that trusts the Father. And I think the headings in our Bible actually distract us from the meaning in this case. Jesus warns us about the alternatives that are always open to us. He reasons with us, which is extremely kind of God to do for us, but he reasons with us to choose wisely with the choices that are open to us. We're open to choosing treasures on earth or treasures in heaven. We're open to seeing things faithfully or seeing things wrongly. We're open to serving God as master or things as master. And we're open to worrying about our provision or trusting God for his provision. We're doing one or the other all the time. We can't opt out. We can't say I don't like either of those options. It doesn't matter. We're going to do one or the other. Humans do this stuff. It's part of who we are. There is an either-ornness about us. Children of God choose one way, not completely, not perfectly, but overall, and children of the devil choose another. But all the parts in our text, they all fit together as a whole. These texts are looking at the same kind of process from many different perspectives, from many different angles. They're looking at our relationship to God. Now let's look at the text. Verse 22: The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? When you look at that, when you read it. Do you have any idea what it means? I've always approached this text with a vague sense of what it was saying. You know, something's bad, something's good, and something about how you look at stuff somehow. But I don't remember ever clarifying exactly what I think it means. It's been a really good process for me, been really helpful. And you know, the the odd thing is on this passage I did not find much help with commentaries. Have you ever done that? Read over something a bunch of times and think you understood it, but then you go to try to tell somebody about it and you really can't explain it. Well, let's start by taking it literally. And this gets interesting. Verse 22: The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. Okay, so if we take this literally, it means that your eyeball somehow puts light into the cells in your body so that there would be light in our cells put there by our eye. And a blind person would not have light in their cells because they don't have good eyes. I think we can opt out of that interpretation for a couple other reasons First, I'm not aware of such a thing physiologically happening in the human body. I don't think the cells of a blind person have any less light in them than the cells of a seeing person. I don't think light is really the issue there. Second, interpreting it this way would not fit with the flow of the text. It would not fit the context. So, what is Jesus saying? It's important that we know because ultimately the difference is the difference between us being godly and us being not godly. So let's look at the words. The lamp of the body is the eye. Okay, the word for lamp is a thing that illuminates. So the thing that illuminates the body is the eye. Now, what is the body? The word used means the physical us. It is a fitting translation to say the us that lives in our body. I think in this case it would mean our personhood. Well, yeah, I used Eli as an example. While Eli has a body, and when we look at Eli 's body, we think of it as Eli. You know, that's just how we are. Eli also exists as a person inside of his body. And I believe in context that inner part must be what this is talking about. Why? Well, the Bible does not say that the physical body has the capacity to be made spiritually better. And clearly that's what this is talking about. We can increase our body's physical health, but we cannot make our arm or our foot more spiritual. And whatever this eye is doing, it is making the body either lighter or darker. better or worse. So the concept must apply to something that can be morally improved or morally made worse. So I think it has to be the part of us that is in the body. So when it says the body, it means us, you as a person. So this is what we have so far in a paraphrase. The thing that illuminates who we are is the eye. Now, what is the eye? Again, it cannot mean the physical eyeball. A lot of evil people have perfectly good eyesight. Well, what does a physical eyeball do? The eyeball focuses on images in our surroundings and communicates those images to our brain. And then the brain decides what to do with those images. What Jesus is talking about can't be as simple as taking in the image, because there's a morality to it. Again, seeing the image does nothing moral It has no moral force. It's just sight. The power of good and evil is in how we interpret the images. It's in how we perceive them. It is in how we process them. So the I must be the method in which we process and interpret our surroundings. The I must be the method in which we process and interpret our surroundings. So the thing that illuminates who we are is the method with which we process our surroundings. That's a paraphrase. It's how we see life. We have a new kitten in the Ziegler household, and for public record, the owner of that kitten is Carla Ziegler and not John Ziegler. The other day, the older the older cat what was that? The the older day The other day, the older cat had jumped up in my lap and I was petting her. And that was perfectly a common occurrence that we were both content with, although the cat always got the better end of the bargain. But on this day, the older cat became highly agitated. Why? Because the new kitten was in the same room as she was Now it was the same house with the same cat food. I was sitting in the same chair petting her the same way I always did. The kitten was too far away to be any nuisance. And even if he wanted to be a nuisance, the older cat is ten times her weight. So what changed? What changed is how the cat perceived her world Her way of seeing became focused on nothing but that little black ball of fur. This made me think about our text. That's what our text is talking about. It's about how we choose to process our surroundings It's about how we think about what is happening in our lives. It's not just seeing those things that are happening, it's how we process what we see that is happening. Have you ever been in a state of being that you thought would take forever to change? Maybe you're just so mad or so sad or whatever. And then something else happens and you find your state of being completely changed That's the power of perspective. The power of perspective has more power in our lives than all of life's situations combined. And we are totally responsible for it. How we process life's events does not happen to us. The temptation to process it wrongly might happen to us. That first impulse we have, our inclination, the temptation to think wrongly may come to us unwelcome. That might happen to us. But what we finally decide is our responsibility. We are free to choose, and we do choose. We do choose. We may not like to see it that way, but we do choose. Here we see that the good eye will do something very different than the bad eye. Before we go on, we should note that it was a very common saying in Jesus' time for a person to have an evil eye. An evil eye. The evil eye in this case was clearly known as a greedy eye That's not how I normally think of that expression. I normally think of it as a parent shooting a glance at a child when that child is doing something they're not supposed to be doing. And the glance warns the child of the impending doom if the present behavior does not change. And while there's really no evil in that look, I just think of it as an evil eye due to its menace. But in Jesus' day, an evil eye was known as a greedy eye. It was a person who looked at his surroundings, never satisfied with the amount of stuff he had, always wanting more, always wanting what someone else might have. And this fits very well in the context. In fact, it fits perfectly. His audience would have known exactly what he was talking about. The greedy eye was a way of seeing, a way of perceiving and interpreting the surroundings. Now, how can we make sense of light and darkness? Okay, we've covered everything else. But what is light and darkness? Immediately I would guess that all of us would know that light is good and dark is bad. We can start with that. I think that's a safe assumption in all of Scripture. So we know that we should be full of light and we should not be full of darkness. But what is it? What is this light we should be full of? If we define what the light is, I think darkness will take care of itself. It's absence of that thing. So, what is this light? Well, Jesus said he was the light. He said he was the light of the world. And what was he? Well, among other things, Christ is the full presence of God's revelation. Christ is God's revelation of himself to us. Christ could say, if you have seen me, you've seen my Father John 1, 1 through 5 says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing that was made was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it And then Colossians 1, 15 through 19 says, he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell We human beings are created in the image of God. We got that at church camp a couple years ago or last year or whenever it was. We have some similar characteristics of God that the animals don't share. We're capable of complex reason. Some people you might wonder, but we are capable of. And we sense beauty We understand that some things are evil even if we don't define good and evil properly. Every tribe discovered has even had a concept of God So humans have the capacity to understand that there is a God and that that matters. They even have a desire of some kind, to honor some kind of God. But what they do not know and what they are not capable of discovering is what that God is like. Creation provides some clues. We're told that in Romans. So we can get enough that there is a God and we can learn some things about him. But the creation will not fully reveal God. Creation will not provide a person the way of salvation. No matter how much a man thinks about God on his own, he will never know God. He's destined to create a God in his own image. He can't help it. We simply don't have the capacity in and of our own capabilities to discover who God is. We're not tuned in. We may discover things about him, but it would never be enough to meet our need. So we have a need, and it's a need that only God can meet. God must reveal Himself if we are to know God God must expose Himself to mankind in a way that we can understand it. And Christ was that full revelation of God. Christ was God interpreted into human language and human experience. He was the essential light. He was the essential revelation of God. So if we want to know what light is, that's where we start. Jesus was God's revelation of himself to mankind. He was the light. Let's look a little more. How does this translate into our day-to-day lives, into our processing, our day-to-day experiences? Psalms 36. 9 says, For with you is the fountain of life, in your light we see light. I think that's a really interesting thing. In your light, we see light. When we receive the revelation that you are, talking of Christ, We can truly see our lives as they are. In your light, we see light Your light allows us to see clearly. The revelation of you to us allows us to see all of light the way that it really is. And then Proverbs 6. 23 says, For the commandment is a lamp and the law a light. Reproofs of the instruction are a way of life. The commandments are things that God has said. The commandments are things that God has revealed about Himself. These were not ideas of men, these were concepts revealed by a holy God. They're words. It's a message that has content. And what effect do those words of God have? They're light. They're light. They reveal to us something about God and something about the reality that we live in. So light is the presence of God's revelation. It's the revelation of the thing along with God's perspective on the thing. So we can see something that we could not see before we had the light. The light brings God's perspective, God's revelation onto all parts of our lives. To walk in the light is to walk under God's exposure. Now, we know that a person can be full of light or be full of darkness. Well, what makes the difference? Let's go back to our paraphrase again. The thing that illuminates the lamp, who we are, the body, is the method with which we process our surroundings. The eye. Then we continue. If therefore your method with which you process your surroundings, the eye, is good , Your whole body will be full of revelation of God, or your whole self will be full of the revelation of God. But if your method which with which you process your surroundings The eye is bad, your whole self will be full of the lack of revelation of God What we see is that everyone has a way of processing their surroundings. Everyone has a way of making sense of their lives. We all do it. With some people, you may scratch your head and wonder how in the world they think they are doing it, but they are using an eye of sorts. They are processing their surroundings in some way. What is the difference between those full of light and those full of darkness? The revelation of God. Those with the light incorporate the revelation of God that has been supernaturally revealed to them by God. They're learning not to trust their natural reactions. They become suspicious of their perceptions. They learned that they cannot follow their heart. They're constantly asking, but what does God say about this thing? I feel this way, I naturally think this way, I perceive something this way. What does God say? What is the light in this circumstance? Those in darkness do not incorporate that which has been supernaturally revealed by God. They trust something else, their perceptions, what they see, their science book, whatever. Now what does this look like? Let's use the economic collapse illustration. Monica, you might want to tune out here. We could choose thousands, but this one will suffice. Let's suppose that all the experts agree that our economy is going to collapse. When it does, we'll have no electricity, no fuel, etc. And life as we know it will end. Let's assume for the sake of the illustration that this is a fact. This is our surroundings. Now, what is the difference between a good eye and a bad eye in this circumstance? What is the difference between a good eye and a bad eye, between a person who will be filled with darkness and a person who will be filled with light? Let's assume both people know the same information. They're looking at the same facts. They are both seeing the same logical implications. They're both processing the same environment. What is the difference? How does God's revelation make any difference to the person with the good seer, a good looker, a good eye? The bad eye can only take in what the world can tell it. The bad eye can only take in what the world can tell it, whether that's flesh, whether that's impulses, whether that's news, whatever it is. It has nothing else. It can see the same facts, but cannot see God's perspective on those facts. It cannot see God's revelation about Himself in the midst of those facts It is left with only the world's resources to deal with the world's problems. So what is the bad eye likely to result in? Despair, fear, worry, dread, dismay The responses will be varied, but few responses would be constructive and none would be light. They can't be. It's the world's reaction to the world's circumstances. And ultimately, that will logically lead a person to despair. I'm not trying to say that everyone would have despair if they were an unbeliever in that circumstance. Sometimes people think pretty positively. But if they were to think it through, it would lead to despair. Now what about the good eye? Does that good eye not see the consequences of the collapse or the inevitable inevitability of it? No, the good eye does not see less truth. The good eye sees more truth. It sees the world's circumstances through the revelation of God. It asks the question, has God not spoken? And then it looks for the relevant revelation. It asks, what has God promised his people? What is God's attitude toward people? What is this God like? What will the end result be for his people? What is God's intention for his people? In Isaiah 41:10, fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Isaiah 54 :10 For the mountains may depart and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from you. Philippians 4, 19, and my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. Psalms 50:15, call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me Romans 8. 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. Matthew 6. 31, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things, all these provisions, will be added to you. Romans 8, 16 and 17, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. Provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. Revelation 22, 12 Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me to repay each one for what he has done. These are just a sample of what the good eyes see that the bad eyes don't. It's the revelation of God's truth in the world of our circumstances. And it's based on a profound trust in the character of God. That is the foundation of our faith. I forget who it was. It said, How you see God is the most important thing about you. Might have been A. W. Tozer. What you think of God is the most important thing about you. Over the years, and I I keep saying it, and it's just so important to me, and I trust that it is to all of us, but the foundation of our faith is found in what we think of God. And really who we think God is comes out in our lives on a regular basis. But when we really get it, when we we really believe it, when we buy into it and we are enthralled with it, that That our God has the kind of character that you can completely rely upon to take care of you In the way that he best sees fit, and he loves us more than we love ourselves When we buy into that, it is life-transforming. It's the bottom of faith. It's where everything else stems from The believer trusts the personhood of God to carry out the word of God. You know, it's one thing to know the word of God, but if you don't trust his character. It doesn't matter how much you know, because you don't believe he's going to do it anyway. The believer trusts the personhood of God. To carry out the Word of God. It's a deep and abiding trust. That trust in God, coupled with the knowledge of the Word of God, is the difference between darkness and light in our lives. And this is not only true in the difference between a person characterized by light, a Christian, versus one characterized by darkness, an unbeliever. It's also true of areas of darkness in our lives as believers. A good eye chooses to incorporate revelation in all of its thoughts. It doesn't react to the world's circumstances the way the world reacts because it sees truth that the world cannot see, and it believes the God who spoke the truth. That's the kind of renewing of the mind that Romans tells us is the process of sanctification. Those places where we are not incorporating God's truth, we have the opportunity to. We grow in that every day. We grow in processing that knowledge, putting it into action. Jesus is simply saying it in a different way here. And when we're able to paraphrase the passage in a way that makes sense to us, we can see how perfectly this fits in the context of what Jesus is talking about. This is how to faithfully live in the presence of the Father, just like the rest of the passage. So let's quickly finish out the last portion of the text If therefore that light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? I think what Jesus is saying here is that if that which you depend upon to be revelation of truth in your life is not what God says. If it's something else, your darkness is utter darkness. You have no way of escaping it when you buy into the idea that this truth, that isn't God's truth, is absolute truth. You have no way in you to see that light. You are effectively blind, but you think you can see. That's why people are so vehement on things that we know are absolutely false. They cannot tell that they are not true. If you're depending upon something you think God said, but he really didn't say it, Or if you think that something holds the authority like God should and it is something other than God, you're in big trouble. And the people we rub shoulders with day in and day out, if we're in the world, that's the trouble they're in. I think this may have been a warning partly to those who are not going to be convinced that Christ was the Messiah, the very revelation of God to man. Their way of defining truth had some errors, and their eye was bad. And if you don't get who Jesus Christ is right, you won't get anything right. In that state, there is no light available. That eye is as bad as an eye can get. And that's what Scripture says about our fellow non-believers. You know, the people we know who are non-believers. Darkness. They're blind. And they can't make themselves see. I think this too applies to our fellow humans who interpret the world based on only on what they can see, what can be proven by science. These people assume that there is no God. With an assumption like that, with an eye like that, those folks are destined to view the Christian teachings with disdain or hostility or apathy or even pity. They cannot help it. Their light is bad. Their eye is bad. It will affect their whole self. And apart from a miracle of God, their blindness is incurable. They are not capable of fixing it. We can tell them about the revelation of God. It's what we're supposed to do. We can reveal that truth. We can quote that truth. We can shine that light, but it's like a dog trying to read. Something has to change about the nature of the dog. Something has to fundamentally change about that person before that person can see it. We're told to shine that light, but we're also told to depend upon a miracle for that person's blindness to be removed. If a person's light, what they perceive as truth, is really lies, how bad their state is. Their whole life will be based on a falsehood. As we close, may we not allow our thoughts To be without light. May God's word be the final verdict on every thought we think. And when we react or whatever, you know, go into something in our heads May we ask the question, God, what do you say? I know what I think, I know what I feel, I know what I'm prone to. God, what do you say? And search that out. May our light be true light, and may it guide us in every step. Here's the final paraphrase. I mean, this really helped me. I hope it's doing for you what it did for me. But the thing that illuminates who we are is the method with which we process our surroundings. If therefore the method with which we process our surroundings is good, Our whole self will be full of the revelation of God. But if our method with which we process our surroundings is bad, our whole self will be full of that absence of God's revelation. And if we believe the lack of information or revelation, if we believe the lack of revelation as if it is revelation , How great is that deficit of truth? It's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you that you