Paul receives and gives needed encouragement. We all need encouragement I got a Facebook chat just a couple of weeks ago, if not last week, from an old high school friend. And he said this to me. I was pondering stuff after watching the Chosen live streaming event last night, and I had a thought. Then my friend went on to talk about uh these experiences that he's had in a lot of cathedrals. My friend has happened to stay in the Catholic Church. We've had some conversations about that, but he is a believer. And he said he's uh been in Saint Anthony's in Cincinnati, Saint Francis in Grand Rapids, Our Lady of the Assumption in uh Charlotte. He's been to many ca cathedrals in Europe and even Russia. He says, I've been to the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, the sepulchre in Jerusalem, and have listened to the Pope outside of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. But the most magnificent church I've ever experienced was a rock at Southern Columbia High School with a good friend. I just thought you should know. This rock was in a day a drainage ditch where the Lord gave me the opportunity to win this friend of Christ. He's actually one of the very few people that I've led to Christ in my lifetime, at least that I'm sure of. And this was a tremendous encouragement. to me when I received this. It was very kind of him to send it. You may think of a time in your life where a word of encouragement was life-changing You might think of a time when a simple word turned a corner in your life. Something you just needed encouragement that day. You needed to hear something. And somebody brought that to you. Or when it was just what you needed to hear to keep hanging on. We tend to remember encouragements because they're so valuable to us. And sometimes they're Less common than they maybe should be. They're so necessary. Well, Paul, in our text, had been in need of encouragement. On his second missionary journey, he went to Asia God had other plans and sent him and his team not to Asia. The Holy Spirit wouldn't let him minister in Asia, and I'm with Brad. I don't know why or how he did it. But whatever it is, whatever the deal is, Paul had no luck in Asia. He had to go over to Macedonia. So he went to Ph Philippi, then Thessalonica, then Berea. And then Paul's team stayed at Berea, and Paul's followers sent Paul away to Athens. Paul sent word from Athens to have his team come back to him as soon as he could. And you're seeing a little bit of urgency. When you read the book of Acts, I believe it's chapter 17. And then Paul went to Corinth. Now by the time he hit Corinth, he needed his team with him before he was going to do any more ministry. That's very clear. He is not going to do any more ministry until his team shows up. Now we might fault Paul for that. After all, he's an apostle. You know, he's like a super Christian. He shouldn't have any problems. doing this by himself. Shouldn't he just continue to do this work enthusiastically no matter what obstacles he's facing? Well, that's just not how life is, and that's not how people are, and that's okay. Think about it. Paul believes that he's doing the Lord's work. Okay? So he's in charge of this trip that he's on And he believes he's out there following the Holy Spirit's lead. And what happens? Goes to Philippi, gets kicked out. Goes to the Thessalonica, gets kicked out. He gets rushed to Berea. Has very little effect in Athens. And Corinth, who he's now sitting in, is the sin capital of the world. Paul is probably beginning to wonder if he was getting all of this right. If this was of the Lord, wouldn't the Lord bless it the way he did in other places? Would it really be the Lord's will to have him kicked out of out of these places after, especially Thessalonica , maybe only three weeks of ministry. What good could possibly have been done in so short of a time, Paul might have thought. So Paul is alone in Corinth and possibly second-guessing in his ministry. He had evidently sent Silas and Timothy back to encourage the believers, and they went to Thessalonica. to give Paul a status report. And they do. And the report is glowing. It's tremendous. It is clearly supernatural. God is doing stuff, obviously, spiritual stuff in the lives of the Thessalonics. The point is that God provided Paul this encouragement to continue ministering when Paul most needed it. We'll see in 2 Thessalonians that things did not always stay quite so positive, but that's how we are, isn't it? You know, we often need rebuke along with encouragement. But for now, Paul is thrilled with their status. And right now was the time that he needed that encouragement. An application for us might be to focus more on how much everyone around us needs encouragement. Sometimes instead of thinking about and focusing so much on a person's weaknesses, we really need to let them know what we see that is positive. You know, the thing I notice in your life where you are making success, you know, making progress. Things I see in your life that are pluses. I suspect our church has room to grow in that. Those positive statements will often inspire many times over what a critical comment might inspire, no matter how true. Even Paul needed encouragement, and God provided it right when he needed it most. That was the context. Now on to our text. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy, and uh Sylvanus and Silas are It's like Tim and Timothy, you know, it's it's just another way of saying the word. To the Church of the Thessalonians in God, the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. Now it's not unusual for Paul to include others as the sender of the letter. He does that in several of his letters. And since Timothy and Silas were just there at Thessalonic, it's no wonder he includes them. Much of what Paul has to say is based on what he learned from the report that came from Silas and Timothy. And he says to the church. To the church. There are so many people who think that all that matters is their individual relationship with God That their walk with God is a personal thing. So they sometimes go to the forest on Sunday morning because they can they believe they can worship better. That's a very unbiblical mindset Paul went out of his way to win individuals to Christ and into a church. The church is the safe spot for believers. We have little protection nor purpose when we separate ourselves from the church. Ecclesia, the Greek word for church, means essentially a gathering with a shared purpose. And that is exactly what we are here. If not for Christ, well think about it. Look around and think of What other reason would this group of people ever come together for, if not for Christ? Maybe we would gather as family members, family units, maybe we would gather as old friends, but that would probably not include all of this unlikely group of people gathered together here this morning and listening from Other places. Christ is our common purpose, our common love, the one thing that we have in common that is greater than anything that we have in difference. So we gather together because of him. Then it says, in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, our gathering is not an ordinary group of people sharing a common purpose. Like maybe a Rotary Club or, you know, the Lions or whatever. We are supernaturally gathered. Our church was brought together in something. The church itself is of divine creation. We're brought together in God the Father and Lord Jesus Christ. Brad made an excellent application of this point in his introduction last week As I was studying for this sermon, it came to my attention again just how weird this sentence would have sounded to any self-respecting Jewish person. Paul's acting like a polytheist. From the way they would view things. That's how this sentence would have sounded to him, to them. Because Paul was very clearly including Christ. in this godness, including Christ in this God family. He ascribes to Christ in many of his writings things that are only ascribed to God, creation being one of them. So this church was brought into existence and brought together not only by God the Father, but also by the Lord Jesus Christ. On a side note, given that this is one of the first books in the New Testament, this is a testimony to the deity of Christ being a core doctrine to the Christian church from the very start. This should be another admonition to us to take the Church of Christ very seriously. It is not like it seems. The church seems to only be a human institution. But if Scripture is true, the church is not just a human institution. And we've talked about this before. I had it included in my notes before we discussed it some of the times. But I find it very difficult when someone wants to leave our church and go to another, or or they want to leave another and come to ours. I know some of you feel the same way. It's often misunderstood when we approach such a thing with a great spiritual urgency. It's like, what's the big deal? I want to go to church. I just like this one better. Most American churchgoers see the church they attend as more of a service to themselves and their family. So they pick out a church that best fits their needs And they see it more as that than a supernatural gathering of God's people with all the benefits and obligations included in that. So they evaluated accordingly which church fits me best, where am I in most agreement with their theology? Which one provides the best service to my children Which style of music do I most like? Well, how does that really fit when you're talking about a church that is created in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ? Now grant, our situation is a little different. There's more than one church in our town. But the point is still true. When we are part of a church, that is a big deal. Go into another town and pick out a church, yeah, pick it pick it however you want. But once you are part of that that membership, of of that unity of believers, it becomes a a spiritual matter. It's a big deal. If a church leadership is not submissive to the word of Christ, I'm quick to say flee that church, it's not a church. If Christ isn't the head of the church, it's not a church. Go to one that is. But the church is sacred, and we have to be very, very careful. That's my point. Grace to you and peace, he says. Grace to you and peace. William Henderson says this about that phrase. May grace and peace rest upon you all. Essentially, that's what he's saying. They would have heard as they read this. May grace and peace rest upon you all. As God's official representative, I, together with my associates, Silas and Timothy, declare that this is what will actually happen. You will receive grace and peace. You are receiving grace and peace. I am, I am, uh Wishing that on you, wanting that on you, conveying that on you to the degree that words can do that. Now, isn't a believer always in a state of grace? Of course, we wouldn't be here if we weren't in a state of grace. There's no other way to come to God but in a state of grace. But there are degrees to which we enjoy that grace. Our enjoyment of God's grace is based on our belief and obedience. Paul is voicing his intention that the Thessalonians would fully enjoy and appreciate and experience the grace and peace offered to them by Christ. Now, how will grace and peace best rest upon us? It's as our hearts eagerly and willingly pursue Christ. How will they least rest upon us? It is by our disobedience and lack of attention to our relationship with Christ. Paul's intention, along with all his work, is for these people to fully experience and enjoy and benefit from God's grace and peace offered by the gospel of Christ. Again, Mr. Henderson helps us. The biblical idea of peace is designated by the Hebrew word shalom, the deep and abiding peace that rests when people are right with God. Leon Morris has defined this piece as a flourishing state of soul. A flourishing state of soul. Isn't that cool? That's the peace that God offers us. A flourishing state of our soul. Do you have peace? When you're settled in your chair with your Bible, do you have peace? Is your soul settled? Is your soul satisfied in God? When you think about your life situations, do you have peace? Do you trust the shepherd's leading? Let's take a real brief look at a wonderful scriptural picture of peace. This is probably like if you want to take the word peace and understand it, read this. And as we read it, notice the peace that oozes from each verse. It flows from the dependence and submission to a shepherd by the sheep. Psalms 23. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his namesake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil, for you're with me. And you've got your rod and staff. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. That's peace. Does your life lack peace? Do you find it very little like the 23rd Psalm in your life? The remedy is first go back to the gospel. Meditate on the peace that you have been given through Jesus Christ through all of the promises, through all of the passages that tell us about such a thing You who were an enemy of God are now his friend. He has brought you into his family. There is no sin guilt anymore that would keep you from fellowshipping with God. Then confess any known sin. Sin creates distance between us and God in our fellowship. It doesn't destroy our relationship, but it creates distance in our fellowship We can grieve the Holy Spirit, and Christ does not force closeness. He'll discipline sin. But he will not force us to abide in him, to move closer to him. If we want a close relationship and the peace that follows, we've got to do serious business with those things that create distance. And again, he will discipline us to where we think that's important, but we really don't want to push his hand that way. Nothing will steal peace in your life like sin will. Then in our relationships, we do well to learn peacemaking. Remember when we read Matthew 5:9 in the Beatitudes, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God? Also, Colossians 3, 12 and 13 says this. Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. And then it says this. It says, bearing with one another. And I think after that we should understand like a separation, a separate Talk. It's like we bear with one another and sometimes if one has a complaint against another, forgiving one another. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. It's like two topics: bearing with one another and forgiving one another, and then he expands on what forgiving one another is. The more I read this, I think that the patience in ESV, or the long-suffering in New King James Version, is explained by the next phrase, bearing with one another I think this is what we do when our attempts at clearing the air with each other fall short. Maybe someone is doing something that irritates us. My goodness, that would never happen. Maybe we suspect them of bad motives. Maybe we're sure we see something that they'll not admit. And it's it it's not a clear offense. It isn't like they stole money from us or slandered us. Those things are provable. No, there's no clear, solid complaint. And complaint is the right word here. There's no clear, solid complaint that can be proven. Maybe we've addressed things with them, and they either can't or won't see them Or they've addressed with us, and we can't see them. Also, there are things that we we could be wrong about. I mean, that's happened once or twice too. On those things, we may need to just suffer those things. We need to bear with those things. We bear with the other person in a way that we don't become bitter to them. We love them because that's the bond of perfection. We bear the weight of their shortcomings. But on the other hand, sometimes there is a complaint. Sometimes there is a complaint, and this is when a sin against us is clear and obvious and provable. Then it's time to address that sin. That complaint and seek reconciliation. Either way, both paths lead to peace And we're to be active agents in facilitating that peace. We either bear with each other or we deal with the legitimate complaints that we have with each other. Both take a different path to the same end. Let's continue. Verse 2. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope. Look at that again. Your work of faith, your labor of love. And your steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. Here is where Paul received encouragement. The Thessalonian believers are actually doing the things that Paul taught them to do By truly believing the things Paul told them to believe. And Paul couldn't be happier. Paul couldn't be happier about it. After all the setbacks that he had experienced, after maybe experiencing doubts about the work that he was doing. After being down about how things were going, this report reaches him and he could not be more thankful. Paul is saying here that this is a continual process. What he's doing in thanking, it's a continual process. He kept remembering the Thessalonians, and when he did, he couldn't help but be thankful. A few Sundays ago, I was eating some wings. And all of a sudden I realized that my crown had fallen off my tooth, which incidentally it fell off again and then again. This is the third time. But anyway Uh I couldn't find it and I was leaving right after that meal to be eventually at a funeral of all my family back home and I had some, you know, an event to attend. So Plus to recreate that crown is going to be another $1,000. At least that's what it could be. So I was distraught. I don't get distraught real easy. But I was I was distraught this time. I was very silent. Carla knows what that means. And About that time, Carla looked across the table at a wing that I had just finished. And he said, she said, What's this? She pulls out the crown out of that chicken. And all day long, as my tongue ran across that spot in my mouth where that missing tooth would be should be, I I could not help but be thankful that God allowed Carla to find that that crown. Now obviously it's a bit silly and it's not terribly important, but it was important to me. I think Paul felt something like that, but a million times more. Because unlike a crown, Paul's ministry was so important to him. And so important, period, so important in eternity. The Thessalonians' example of faith was the validation of Paul's ministry that he was in such a need at that point for. He was so thankful that God had done an obvious work in their hearts due to the work that Paul had done in ministering to them. I think Paul provides us a model here of how we should regard those who are in faith all around us We probably don't thank God enough for what we see of the Spirit's work in each other's lives. We have a lot to be thankful for, and it isn't all just stuff. It's people. It's God's work. It's very common for Paul to talk about his thankful prayers for all the saints that he has ministered to. Verse 3, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul here gives the reasons why he is so thankful. When I think of you, I think of the effect that the gospel had on you. That's why he's thankful. And what's the fruit? What happened? What resulted? Your work of faith, your labor of love, and your steadfastness. Of hope. The result of Paul's ministry was faith, hope, and love. Never see that, do we? Those three things together. I mean, that's like the core foundation. Of what happens in a Christian life. Faith, hope, and love. But notice how Paul knew that this was true. He didn't say your words of faith Or your intentions to love, or your fond ideas about hope. No, the Thessalonians were putting their money where their mouth was They were exhibiting action in their lives inspired by the truth in their hearts. They were exhibiting action in their lives inspired by the truth in their hearts. Look at the words. The first two I'm not real fond of. Work and labor. The first is the work that comes out of the Thessalonian believers. It proceeds from them because of their faith in God. We know that according to James, faith without works is dead. Faith drives us to work. By its very nature, believing what God says and obeying what God says inspires us to move. Sometimes it's the internal work. Sometimes it's the external work. But it's always working. It's always doing something. Faith that doesn't do something isn't something. Faith causes effort and faith requires effort. You can know if it's real because it's causing movement, it's causing change. Love is very similar. Remember that the definition of love requires that it reaches out to meet a need. That's what love does. Love that doesn't isn't. So the nature of love is to work. The nature of love is to provide So our work proceeds from the love in our hearts for God and fellow believers. And our hope produces steadfastness. Our hope, or wildly looking forward to what God has in store, produces hanging on, hanging on. How many places in Scriptures are there where believers are facing real trials and they're told to fix their minds on the reward? To encourage their hearts to wildly look forward to what is to come. When our hope is set on our reward. When it's set on our final home, all the benefits we'll experience, all of the payoffs that we're going to receive, when our hope, when our minds are set in that future grace direction. That has the effect of making us stay the course and do what we need to do to make it to the finish line. Because we know it's worth it. We've been practicing that in our heads. That God is good and God has good stuff for us. Maybe just not right now. A believer cannot be a believer if God has not given that person a real genuine faith in God. And faith cannot exist without producing hope and love. And while faith is the first and leading quality, love is the one that lasts forever. The greatest of these, faith, hope, and love. In 1 Corinthians, we find out it's love, because you don't need faith and hope anymore when you are in that final existence of blessing. I believe all three, the faith, the hope, the love, are all in the Lord Jesus Christ. I was watching something the other night, and a man kept saying to people, you've got to have faith. He never said in what? That's the stupidest statement in the world. Faith in what? In yourself? In the cosmos? In ants? You know, faith is wishful thinking When it's like that. Should we have faith in wishful thinking? But we have hope, we have faith in the man God Jesus Christ. We have faith in something substantial and something eternal We have a grounded faith in love and hope. These are all certain because of the birth, life, death, and resurrection of Christ in real, measurable time and space. Then Paul gives a second reason for thanksgiving for the Thessalonians. In verse 4, he says, For we know, brothers, loved by God, that he has chosen you. Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit with full conviction. Look at this closely. Verse 4. Look what Paul does not say inspired his encouragement and thanksgiving. Paul doesn't say anything about their words. That may come and play a part, but Paul shows us something here about discerning true spirituality. Discerning true spirituality. So far, true spirituality worked, labored, created steadfastness. Now, Paul says true spirituality caused true spiritual changes When they heard and responded to the word. We find the most obvious truth a few verses down, and it is very powerful. And all of this train of thought leads to it. In verse 9. How you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. That's the end point. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. The power of this gospel changed the most important thing about them. The core thing it changed who they worshipped It changed who they trusted with their lives. It changed who they believed in. It changed what ruled their lives. Praying a prayer is never an evidence that Paul relies upon much to determine if a person is a Christian or not. A testimony of faith by itself is not very useful evidence. We find that in 1 John. There's always got to be those signs of life. I know lots of people who think they're saved because they prayed their prayer at some point. But there's no change in those people at the core. Change in the core is what we look for as evidence. At least that's what Paul looked for, that's what John looked for. Many of us probably didn't have a light switch kind of salvation experience. Maybe maybe you did. May I I didn't. Sometimes it starts with the prayer and God continues to work on us until we see the need to surrender all of ourselves to Him. My guess is that most of us look at the process and we wonder, when was I really saved? You know, I know when I said I was, and I know I did this and I did this and I did that, but I wonder when I was really saved. When things really changed in my heart, when I gave up worshiping the God of self or status or pleasure or security or whatever my God was and gave it up and worship the holy God. We may wonder when that day was that we began to truly follow Jesus. And that's not unusual. But for the Thessalonians, I think it happened rather suddenly. And it was pretty evident to everybody. Of course, their idols were a little bit more obvious. But Paul knows that the Thessalonians are chosen by God because they heard the word of God. And rather than it just be a curiosity, rather than it just be a study point or something that they want to know better, it became a life-changing surge of power in their daily lives. It wouldn't leave them alone. Once they bumped into that word, it wouldn't leave them alone. They weren't the same after that. They were driven to give up their gods and trust Christ to take care of them now and forever. If Paul knew us, would he say that he knows that God has chosen us? Could he say that he sees the power of God that accompanies the Word of God? in our lives. Could he look at our lives and say, you can't get away from that word, can you? That's part of you now, isn't it? That's changed you, hasn't it? Could he say that we have evidence of turning from serving the false gods and now we serve only Christ? And granted, as soon as I've used the word only, I know, you know I I kind of freak out at that because we fail and we fall back and we We sin. But in general, can we get away with it inside of ourselves? The conviction of sin is one of the most sure, most frequent evidences. Of our Christianity, because we can't live outside of God. We can't live and get away with our sin, even if no one else can catch us. Because we can't live in it. Would he be that confident? Notice too that it says Paul knows. He knows that they're elect. We can't take this too far, but it shows that we can have a great deal of confidence that a person who exhibits godly fruit is a person who has been chosen by God. They may think that it's because that they themselves made a decision to follow God. And we don't want to quibble too much on those points. But can we see how amazing this was? Paul was at Thessalonica for probably three weeks. We don't know how many more. We know he was at least there for three weeks. Three weeks. And look at this. Other onlookers who are not biased at all, they're just telling what they see. They're already saying that these people are different. Because they have abandoned their gods to follow Christ. These people who are reporting this, they don't know why, they don't know how. They might think it's the dumbest thing in the world. But they're saying, I can see that difference. In closing, maybe a good application would be that we make sure we understand that true salvation Always displays power. And that power results in growing faith Hope and love. And that faith, hope, and love cannot remain a belief by itself. It must be accompanied with action, with change. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. There's so much that you give us. We thank you for