Now remember where we are in our text. The Pharisees are trying to put Christ in a bind by asking him a question. But Christ is taking them to school again on what the Bible has to say about the whole topic. They're asking Christ about divorce, and Christ is telling them about God. We uh this is part two of this uh study on this on this passage, and we covered a lot of the material last week. We're gonna delve into some other uh passages this week. Now, after Christ had served notice to the Jewish leaders, Christ's disciples discussed the matter a little bit more. We see in verse 10. In the house his disciples also asked him again about the same matter. So he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. We've got to notice carefully what Christ says here. He says, whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. The man is committing adultery against his wife. This is something new. This is not something you would learn in a Jewish household In the Jewish mindset, adultery was always a sin against another man. If a man were to sleep with another man's wife, the sin was not seen as being against the woman. The sin was against the man. They would have thought it impossible to commit adultery against a woman. But that's exactly what Jesus is saying here. Jesus assigns a value and importance to women previously unknown. He is essentially saying the sin against her is a big deal, even if no other man is involved. God regards your tri mistreatment of her as something serious, since she too is precious to God. It matters that she's being violated by this divorce and remarriage The effect of this would have been dramatic to the listeners. And it helps us understand what comes next in the story. It helps us understand why the disciples say what they say after hearing this. We see from the Pharisees' question and their mentality that they were only concerned about the world of men. They were only concerned about how the divorce rules affected them. They were only concerned about what they as men were allowed to do. Jesus, however, concerns himself with the effect that this will have upon women whom God loves. So he adds this other perspective, this other element. If you divorce your wife, you're sinning against her. This is not something they would have wanted to hear. It would have been difficult to believe Christ was even saying it when they heard it. But say it, he did. So, for all of you women this morning, take comfort in this love that God has for you, even when it might seem like you live in a man's world. It's also important to note that these verses do not answer the question about a man adding a second wife and not divorcing the first. Scholars are vehement on both sides of that debate, but that's not what our passage is about. What we see here is the divorce that results in remarriage Creates a situation of adultery. Again, this is not something the Pharisees or the disciples would have expected. They were not expecting to hear this come out of Jesus' mouth. They probably didn't think that divorcing a wife they didn't like was all that big of a deal. They would probably feel justified for divorcing their wives if their wives didn't treat them the way that they felt they should have been treated or didn't cook like They thought they should, or it didn't clean like they thought they should, or whatever it was. They would not have guessed that divorce, by its very nature, created a sinful condition before God. But Jesus is making it clear and he's not backing down. So then, is Jesus saying that there are no provisions for divorce? There are many who say that's true. John Piper is one of them, and he's worth reading to understand where he's coming from. He doesn't believe that divorce is allowed at any time for a Christian. But I think he's wrong. The way this whole topic makes the most sense to me is that Jesus in Mark is referring to marriages in the kingdom. Marriages between believers in Christ. It makes perfect sense that believers who have the burial, death, and resurrection of Christ in common Should be able to love each other in Christ and somehow find a way to work out their differences. They have the church to help them referee their differences and to find ways to live together peacefully. And they have the other gifts in the church to appeal to for having their needs met. It's not like they're out all in on their own, just those two people that they have to make it by their resources. It's more than that. The church is there for them. So then, what about other arrangements? What about marriages that were entered into outside the bonds of Christian commitment? I think when we apply this assumption that I just mentioned, what Paul has to say fits perfectly. If we don't apply that assumption, it's a whole lot more difficult to understand what in the world Paul's talking about. In 1 Corinthians 7, 1 through 16, and we're going to spend a good bit of time here, verse 1 and 2 says, Now concerning the things of which you wrote to me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Nevertheless, because of sexual immorality, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband. Now this touch a woman is touch to inflame. It's sexually oriented. Before we go any further, it's vital that we get what's said in these first two verses There are only two biblical positions regarding sexuality, sexual conduct. There is complete abstinence from physical sexual intimacy And there's marriage. That's it. Those are the only right positions. There are two kinds of light switches at our house. There's a dimmer switch on the on the dining room And with that switch, you can turn the light on very low and then keep turning it up and up and up until it's as light as it can be. That's how our culture deals with sexual intimacy. The other switches in our house are on-off switches. They're either on all the way or off all the way. That is how God treats sexual intimacy. We do well to adjust accordingly in the guidance that we give to young people or single people when we're talking about this. The church has accepted a third option over the years that we've gotten from our culture. We can call it dating or there's a number of other things you might call it. And with it, we have expected and allowed various degrees of sexual intimacy. It's not an on-off, it's a dimmer switch And then we're shocked at the heartbreak that it creates when it goes badly. Well, what do we expect? We need to understand and believe and apply God's word. There is marriage or there is abstinence. Those are the only two biblical alternatives. So let's read on, verse 3. Let the husband render to his wife the affection due her, and likewise also the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does, and likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Do not deprive one another except with consent for a time, that you may give yourselves to fasting and prayer and come together again so that Satan does not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. Now, remember when Christ said in our Mark text, he said, for this reason, and then he goes on to talk about the creation of male and female. Well, here you have it again said a little bit differently by Paul. It's for this reason, for sexual intimacy, that men and women come together in marriage. And since marriage is for this reason Since it's for this reason, to intentionally withhold this reason, this activity, is a violation of marriage. It's not right to deny each other the benefits Of the reason for the marriage. Makes perfect sense. Now it's clear in this text that there are sometimes reasons that married people will both agree to put off this intimacy for a higher priority. And every married couple works that out their own way. But there is little benefit in married couples being surprised that their partners are normally interested in this activity. While that desire, sexual desire, can easily be construed as a selfish desire and can be placed in a negative light, God Himself doesn't seem to do so. It's pretty much expected that this is something that married people do and they got married to do it. And if God wants them to have opportunity, and if God wants them to have opportunity and availability to do so, it's his idea. And if he's good with that arrangement, we would be wise not to be too critical of it. Now, timing for when that activity might happen, that every couple needs to work out their own way. Again, if you ever get the idea that God is not good, if you ever get the idea that God is withholding good stuff from his children because he prohibits some things, And you get the idea that the devil is the one that offers all the good stuff. Just think about this. God provided marriage. He provided marriage. He intended that we would use it. He knew he would use it, and he knew that it was something to be grateful for. What a wonderful gift that is. And it's from his hand to us. Verse six. But I say this is a concession, not a commandment, for I wish that all men were even as I myself But each one has his own gift from God, one in this manner, another in that. But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, It is good for them if they remain even as I am. But if they cannot exercise self-control, let them marry, for it's better to marry than to burn with passion. All right. So Paul says that it's good to not get married And that it 's that's not because marriage isn't a good thing, but marriage presents some limitations and demands on a person's time. All of us who are married would probably all agree that's a massive understatement. It changes everything. But if passion is going to be distracting. If that's going to be a distracting element in a person's life, then it's better to take God's provision for that and thank God for it and enjoy it. And that's okay. That is not a second class decision. God created your desire and he created the relationship to fulfill that desire. Both are good Now, next Paul gets to the provisions for handling those relationships. And I think we'll immediately spot something that Paul rarely does. And most of us who have read this over and over again, immediately when we hit it, we think that's odd. At least I still do. First ten, now to the married I command, yet not I but the Lord A wife is not to depart from her husband, but even if she does depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband is not to divorce his wife Now, Paul says, yet not I, but the Lord. He's essentially saying that this is coming directly from the Lord. I'm commanding it, but but uh It's coming from the Lord. I think Paul is saying that this is ground that Christ has already covered. You've already heard this teaching, if you've heard of what Christ said. Christ covered it. Christ addressed this situation. And we know, because we read it, that he covered it in Mark 10. We also see it in Matthew. In Matthew 5, 31 through 32, it says, Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery Okay, now skipping back to 1 Corinthians, Paul says, a wife is not to depart from her husband. But even if she does depart , Let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband is not to divorce his wife So Paul is restating what Christ taught. And in context, this addresses believers who are married to believers. The rule for married believers is no divorce period. If it gets so bad that a woman must get away from her husband, she should separate. Or I suppose vice versa. But that does not give her the right to divorce and remarry. We need to keep some things in mind here. Both parties, if believers Would be submissive to the leadership of God's Word and the church. So if there's a problem like this, the elders would be working with both parties to reconcile. In this way, there's hope that the situation could change. By the intervention of outside parties, maybe bad habits can be changed or whatever. There's hope for the parties to heal. And there's a system of accountability that avoids any victimhood. So it's not like we're throwing a person back into a relationship where they're going to uh you know suffer extremely That's not the idea. The church is there to help. The church is there to support. And we are humans and we are sinners, so we're going to encounter some of that. But there's no reason for believers to divorce, and it's not allowed. Also notice the difference in advice to men and women. A woman's permitted to separate with the assumption that the separation is necessary to resolve differences or to remain safe. But she's not permitted to remarry. To the man it's simply stated that he is not permitted to divorce. There's nothing said about marrying someone else There may be several reasons for that. One might be that he's not forbidden to marry another woman, where a woman would be prohibited from marrying another man. Verse 12, but to the rest I not the Lord say, If any brother has a wife who does not believe And she is willing to live with him, let him not divorce her. And a woman who has a husband who does not believe, if he is willing to live with her, let her not divorce him. So, who are the rest? It's very clear from the context that the rest are those who are in mixed marriages, believer with unbeliever. Notice that Paul says that I, not the Lord, say this. How are we supposed to understand that? Is he saying, well, this is just my human opinion and everyone's free to ignore it if you want to, but this is what I think about it. I don't think so. It would be odd to even include such a thing in Scripture. It would be confusing. It seems more likely and more fitting that this advice from Paul is every bit as much as of God as every bit as much God's word as what Christ taught. But Christ was addressing those people who were considering the kingdom of God. Paul is addressing the mix of what happens in real life and real churches. Now, how do you determine if a person believes or not? That's what gets really hard in our society. Because very often when couples split, one or both parties change churches or leave the church In that situation, how do you get confidence that both parties are believers? Profession of faith is one thing, that's a start, but that profession is always tested by a willingness to submit to Scripture. When there's no way to test that, it becomes extremely difficult to know if the party's a believer or not. This is probably not a situation that that Paul would have experienced, given that there weren't a zillion churches But it is one that we have a difficult time with. This teaching by Paul is best handled when the couple that's having the d having difficulty dealing with their differences remains under the supervision and help of the church. Only then can certain determination be made where both parties stand. You can test it out. As soon as parties go on their own way There won't be any confidence that the determination of a person's spiritual status will be accurate. And in essence, it will ensure that more divorces take place than are actually allowed. So one of the most important determinations when resolving marriage problems is, are both parties believers? And hence submissive to the will of God. Are both parties believers and will they submit to the will of God? That one fact makes a huge difference in how we handle these kinds of situations, in what we advise. We simply can't give advice until that question is answered. Now, look at the determining factor for what to do in a mixed marriage. Is the unbelieving partner willing to live with the believer? There's no question asked about how fulfilling that relationship might be. There's nothing mentioned about how well each party's needs are even being met. The only consideration brought forward is will the unbelieving party remain in the marriage? Are they willing? Even in this situation, we cannot get the idea that a marriage that is not between believers does not need to be honored Paul shows us that even that matter even that marriage matters. It should not be ended due to a preference or a convenience. It should be respected and honored. But we need to also keep in mind that it will be no small thing being married to a believer, for a non-believer, especially someone who just came to Christ. That believer is going to be changing That believer is going to be marching to a different drummer. They're not going to do what they used to do before. Believing in Christ may actually make the believer a better spouse, but that'll be hard for the person who must live with that changed spouse. This believing spouse is now going to serve the Lord. They'll read God's word and go by it. They'll pray to God. They'll speak the truth. The implications may be difficult for the unbelieving spouse. All the games will have changed. So if the unbelieving spouse remains willing to stay married, That might be a really good sign of their openness to the gospel. So, why honor this marriage? Why stick to this marriage? Verse 14. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the believing wife is sanctified by the husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy. Verse 14's a tough one. We can't we know that it can't mean, yeah, we know what it doesn't mean. We know that it can't mean that if an unbelieving husband remains married to a believing wife, that the husband will be saved for eternity without ever having to have faith in Jesus Christ. We know it doesn't mean that. So we can work backwa backwards a little bit. So then what does it mean? I've read a lot of hokey explanations that require way too much work to be believed. First, we have to understand that sanctified is just a word. It doesn't always mean the same exact thing. It isn't always spiritually oriented. That sanctified just means set apart. It does not have to mean set apart for eternal salvation, although often in Scripture it does. It doesn't have to mean that. There's something that is set apart about this relationship that is not true of two unbelievers living together. Okay, so you've got a set apartness in some way. When you've got a believer married to an unbeliever, that is different than um any other relationship, uh a non-believer married to a non-believer The thing that's set apart could be the opportunity for godly influence. Think about this. The man married to a Christian wife is going to have a heavenly influence in his home every day. Not a perfectly heavenly influence every day, but he's going to have a heavenly influence there. And every child is going to experience that There's something special about that, something sanctifying about that. So there's a good chance that the unbelieving spouse is going to have an eternal effect. But what if they don't? What if the spouse says, I've had enough of you? I've had enough of you and your Christianity. I want rid of you and your influence. Or I just want rid of you, period. Well, then Paul covers that in verse 15. But if the unbeliever departs, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. This is the only place where divorce is permissible other than because of sexual immorality. It's permissible in mixed marriages when the unbeliever When the unbelieving party does not want to remain married, Christians have to be very careful in initiating divorce proceedings. As long as there is any hope for reconciliation, as long as there is no evidence that reconciliation cannot or should not happen, we should not be the party that initiates these things. The only time we should is when the divorce is already complete. Reconciliation would be impossible, but the paperwork hasn't been done yet. It's interesting that Paul ends this instruction about departing with the words, but God has called us to peace. We're to have peace in this situation. This is not a fight we need to fight. We can accept our place and move on. We don't need to continue in enmity against an unbeliever who does not want to live with us. Along with this, I think it conveys more of Paul's attitude toward marriage Marriage is not to be worshipped. It isn't more than it is. It's a way for humans to live together in physical intimacy. And in it, it represents Christ and the church in a way that no other relationships represent him. But it is not heavenly. There will be no marriage in heaven. The best it will be will be here on earth as an aid for us and others as we pursue a life of fellowship with God and his people. And that's as peaceful as it gets when we're submitting to each other as we submit to Christ in this relationship. Even in all of this, we see that marriage is a very big deal. It isn't eternal, it isn't spiritual, although it's spiritually recognized But it's a big deal. It's the only way for men and women, it's the only way men and women are intended to be joined together When we look around us, we see that our world spits at God every day with impunity. Our culture thinks what God has made is archaic, restrictive, old-fashioned. We certainly shouldn't be required to go by his rules. And God still says it's absolutely required if one wants to enjoy this communion he created in a way that pleases him. Now, let's see how the disciples respond to this teaching back in Matthew. We're going to Matthew, which is the parallel passage of the passage that we're in in Mark. Matthew 19, 10 through 12. His disciples said to him, If if such is the case of the man with his wife, it's better not to marry But Christ said to them, All cannot accept this saying, but only those to whom it has been given. For there are eunuchs who are born thus from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who are made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs. For the kingdom's sake, for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He who is able to accept it, let him accept it. Clearly, the disciples grasped that Christ was changing the perspective. He was taking away a man's arbitrary right to trash something that is about God. He's demanding that women's interests are protected even at a man's expense. He's making marriage about serving God over pleasing oneself. And they clearly don't like it. They're probably all imagining living with difficult women without having any way to threaten them into conformity and having no recourse. And they're concluding, I'm not sure it's real smart to enter marriage under those conditions. I'm not real smart. That's a good arrangement. I'm not sure that's a good arrangement. Notice that Jesus doesn't say, oh no, you guys got me wrong. You misunderstood what I was saying. He doesn't say that at all. He responds completely differently. He basically starts talking about their options. Okay. Okay. If you don't like that, you there's always this The word for accept in the phrase, not all can accept this teaching, means to make space for something. Basically he's saying not everyone's going to be able to wrap their mind around this idea that marriage is permanent. Not everyone will embrace God's idea of marriage I'll grant you that. Not everyone will embrace that. That'll take a work of God on somebody's heart. I read a bunch of commentaries, and my conclusion is that everyone is guessing about how the role of eunuchs fit in here. I wonder if it might have been tongue-in-cheek. The disciples may have been commenting, like men often do, about the difficulties of living with women if we have to stay committed to one for the rest of our lives. So Jesus lays out the other alternative. Well, guys, if you don't like marriage, there's several forms of eunuchs available. I mean that's that's what it looks like to me MacArthur says that Jesus is laying out the only three categories where we can be successfully single. He thinks the third one in this category is voluntary singleness, not a literal eunuch. And it's something chosen to fulfill the kingdom's work. So he said some of you might even choose to essentially live like a eunuch, act like a eunuch, even though physically you're not one. I really doubt that the disciples like the eunuch option any better than being committed to one woman for life no matter what. But those are their only choices. They can accept the commitment of marriage for life, or they can accept the option of singleness, but there aren't any other options. We see from all of our study that Christ is very serious about marriage. I've said that a number of times, and that's the one thing that keeps coming out to me as I'm studying it. And the thing is, we better be too. Much of what Jesus addresses is how not to violate it. So when Jesus is talking, that's what we're getting, how not to violate it. We learn in the epistles how we are actually to carry out these relationships. How men are to love their wives and their wives are to respect their husbands. And he puts it in day-to-day terms that we all experience. We've been talking about the contract. And while we do, we can't forget about the relationship. Jesus didn't talk much about that relationship, but he's talking about the contract. But in studying for this sermon, I ran across a story, and I'd like to end with it. Some years ago, I heard the story of an elderly minister who had been married for 50 years. One morning at breakfast, his wife slumped over the table unconscious. By the time her husband got her to the hospital, she was dead After the funeral, he said to his sons, This is a good day, a wonderful day. And what a person read that, but that's pretty cold hearted. But he said, This is a This is a good day, a wonderful day. And when they asked what he meant, he explained, Well, I know she is with the Lord now. And I'm glad she went first. That's the way I wanted it to be. Because I didn't want her to have the grief of burying me and having to live alone. Some years later, that minister was asked to speak at a feminist meeting on the subject of marriage. He recounted his wife's death and his gratitude that she had died first. Listen, he told him. Anybody who knows the meaning of true love always wants the other person to go first because they don't want them to endure the pain and the sorrow and the anxiety and loneliness. Of burying the one they've loved. I dare say that the modern romantic relationships that try to pass for love are a far cry from that kind of feeling and that kind of reality. And he was right. Marriage was God's idea. Marriage is God's creation. God is in charge of marriage. And He will eventually end its existence In the meantime, those who are married are to view it as a lifelong commitment. We can't allow our culture to change our expectations of marriage or our commitment to it. Those who are not committed to a marriage relationship are to refrain from any degree of sexual intimacy. Do we treat marriage with the commitment it deserves? That's really the question we're coming down to this morning. Do we treat marriage with the commitment? that it deserves? Do we allow God's thoughts, God's words, God's directions to change our thoughts? And will we be obedient to God in that relationship It provides us with the opportunity to love better every single day. It provides us the opportunity to represent either Christ or the Church every day. Is that how we regard it? It is, like all of life, all about God. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for how it brings clarity into how we should live. We ask, Lord, that you would help us to submit ourselves to your thinking, to your word, to your ideas, to your statements, to your commands at every step. realizing that it's just how we were created and to glorify you and to honor you, that's that's what's required. Help us not get creative, help us to not look for loopholes. but to simply understand what your will is and gladly do it, no matter how difficult. Because we love you, and more importantly, you have loved us. So we ask that this week you would draw to our attention ways that we think wrongly about our marriage and that you would bring to us the correct ways of looking. And uh ways that you show us where we could be more glorifying to you in this relationship And help us to give good advice, your advice, to anyone who asks in need of your Guidance in marriage. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.