There are a couple of things I want to point out in the context. First is the use of so many absolutes Be anxious for nothing, not a single thing. But in everything, that's every single thing, give your requests We need to remove any doubt that would say that this advice is only for times when things are generally pretty good, but we're tempted to think maybe badly about the situation. No, Paul's talking about every day, all day, any situation. Every situation. So when we face life differently than what he commands here, we're doing it wrong. When we face life like he says to do it, we're doing it right. No matter what our circumstances. There are many ways to look at this. We could be discouraged because obeying Paul's commands is so hard to do Maybe we fail to do it over and over again. Maybe we've been anxious, we've thought anxious thoughts habitually. Well, guess what? Today's a new start. Today we have new mercies. And the wonderful, glorious thing about this is if Paul commands it, it's doable in Christ. It is available for us, it is a solution, it is attainable. Now naturally it never perfectly. We're not gonna have a perfect track record of doing this, but it's there for us to do, for us to uh To make a habit. So let's look at this scripture as opportunity to be freed from the burden of anxious thoughts that lead to anxious feelings Now those feelings of anxiety that can't be tracked back to things in our lives that we fought our way into. That could be a burden that we simply need to bear for times in our seasons in our lives, while still at the same time directing our minds to heaven, directing our thoughts where they need to go. We can't control our feelings, but we are commanded to control our thinking. And God knows how we're wired. Controlling our thinking will affect how we feel. Now, the second focus is the need for peace And the importance of peace in this passage. The need for peace and the importance of peace. Verse 7 says: the peace of God will guard your hearts and minds. Verse 9 says, and the God of peace will be with you. It's like a peace sandwich. The peace of God will guard our hearts and minds, and the God of peace will be with you. As always, we need to define our terms. What is peace? And one definition is absence of enmity. Peace may be easier to define by looking at the opposite of peace, which is enmity, war. Have you ever had a fight with your spouse where you wondered how in the world you'd ever reconcile those differences? I've heard that happens in marriages. What do you find? First, there's positional enmity. You're standing against each other on a position. There is a dispute, there is a conflict, there's something against something. There's a lack of good standing between two people for something that has at least some basis in perceived or real truths. And what else is there? There's the accompanying feeling that things are not okay. There's that feeling in the pit of your stomach that this is not a state you want to be in and you don't want to remain in. It's unsettling. It's depriving you of okayness. You just want the enmity to go away. And then we develop strategies to either resolve the conflicts or to placate them. Because what we really desperately want, at least most of us I think, is peace. We just want peace And we want both the knowledge and the accompanying feeling that all is okay between us in our relationship. We want the feeling that we are in good standing with the other party. That piece is the goal that Paul has in mind for us with God. That peace is where God wants us to live and where we want to quickly revert back to when we stray from the course. God wants us to have restored fellowship so that we can experience the feelings of being okay in our relationship with God. In our fellowship with God. Remember that our position is already one of peace, or we could never have peace with God. Even while we were enemies in position , Christ died for us and his work brought us over from being his enemy to being his child. So our position is good in that sense. He is committed to our relationship. But that doesn't mean that our fellowship with God is always good. There are times when we grieve God. There are times that we are not okay in our relating to God There are times when we create distance between us and God, and eventually that deeply bothers us if we're a believer. It creates stuff in our lives that is not good. Feelings in our lives that are not good, an unsettledness that we should have when we are not in the right relationship with God. And that is not God's desire for us. He wants to restore the okayness. He wants us to feel the comfort of his beloved sheep being cared for by their shepherd. He wants that for us. Or the chick being covered by the hen 's feathers. I think the piece spoken of here might be best be displayed by the song It Is Well With My Soul. I think that captures it. That's the heart of peace. The position of no enmity experienced in the feelings of well-being It's the position of greatest spiritual productivity since we are most closely reliant upon who God loves us. Now, who of us is ever going to say, I don't want that? I don't want that right relationship with God. I don't want those feelings of peace that accompany that right relationship. I want my life to be in turmoil. I want to experience my life as if I'm completely at the mercy of all the events that are happening around me. I want the apparent chaos to keep my life off kilter all the time. That's what I want. I don't want the security of being deeply loved by someone who only wants my best all the time. The idea is ludicrous that we would not want such a thing. But sometimes we don't want to pay the price we have to pay to have it. We don't want to do the hard work that Paul is going to lay in front of us today. Of taking control of our minds and directing our thoughts and our actions. And rest assured, your flesh is not going to help you do what Paul commands us to do. Now keep in mind that the Philippians are facing persecution. As we see so many things changing around us in our political landscape, we may be thinking the same things that the Philippians were thinking Maybe we're thinking the same way they were thinking because we're getting more and more familiar with that opposition. by those around us. But Paul has commanded them to obey what God wants done instead of the way they are tending to think, tempted to think. And he says in verse 6, be anxious for nothing. Be anxious for nothing. To be anxious basically means to be anxious, to be troubled with cares. This is certainly not referring to every hurtful or painful emotion that we might experience. When we love each other, we mourn for each other. We feel the pain that others others experience to some degree. And there are lots of examples in Scripture where deep concern is shown as being something godly while it is still something painful. Something that causes concern, something that that uh that we get absorbed with. So no, what Paul is referring to is more specific, and this is threading. This is the worry about current or possible future life circumstances that we fear are simply disturbed about. The worry about current or possible future life circumstances that we fear are simply disturbed about. This isn't the first time we've looked at worry. I know this text is long, but it's the one from Jesus in Matthew 6 that we went over not too much longer ago, or not too long ago. Matthew 6, 25 through 34 says, Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them Are you not of more value than they? Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, don't worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. It's impossible for us to believe, with all the ink that Jesus gave to this topic, that it's okay for us to continue in a life of fretting and anxiety, anxious thoughts. Now why is that so important? Dennis Johnson from the Reformed Expository commentary said it really well. He said, Paul meets us at every turn with a reminder of the God of grace. Because he knows that our anxiety is not merely the product of poor coping strategies. It's symptomatic of misplaced trust. Anxiety shows that our hearts are set on something that we are terrified of, losing it, desperate to hold on to it for dear life That something that we cannot bear to lose is our heart's foundation, its center of gravity. Even good things: love, family, knowledge, success. cannot last through thick and thin because they are create creaturely and finite. In his 2009 book, Counterfeit Gods, Pastor Tim Keller Told recession-terrified New Yorkers, and the rest of us, that what we worry about is symptomatic of the counterfeit gods that we instinctively count on. Though we sense uneasily that those idols cannot bear the weight of our hopes, Keller says, anything that becomes more important and non-negotiable to us than God becomes an enslaving idol. In this paradigm, we can locate idols by looking at our most unyielding emotions. What makes us uncontrollably angry, anxious, or dependent Idols control us, since we feel we must have them, or life is meaningless. On the other hand, those who trust in Christ can face every threat and wound that this twisted world can inflict. Tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword. Death and life, things present and things to come are anything else in all creation, because we are assured. That nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Refocusing on your faithful Lord, treasuring Jesus and His grace as your life's foundation. Imparts joy and gentleness, enabling us to combat worry by praying with gratitude, by pondering Christ's character, and by practicing the pattern of gospel-shaped conduct He just really hammers that, hits that on the head. I could not imagine a way that that could be said better. The greatest problem with anxiety is that it displays what our heart of hearts really thinks about God. And what we value more highly than Him and our relationship with Him. When we fret like the world frets, we're testifying to them that our true God is no better than their false God, whatever it might be. You and I are going to have more and more opportunities to display our rock solid trust in Christ in the days and years ahead. That may provide some very powerful witnessing opportunities that we would never have in times of prosperity. If we will face life with a solid trust that Christ will provide us for us, that's going to be noticeable as the climate of fear around us continues to grow. John MacArthur also said this, people become worried, anxious, and fearful because they do not trust in God's wisdom, power, or goodness. They fear that God is not wise enough, strong enough, or good enough to prevent disaster. It may be that this sinful doubt is because their knowledge of him is faulty or that sin in their lives has crippled their faith. Thankful prayer brings release from fear and worry because it affirms God's sovereign control over every circumstance. and that his purpose is the believer's good. We can easily see why Paul singled out this condition And he lets us know that we can't stay in this condition. It's forbidden to remain there in anxiety. Do not be anxious So we say, okay, well, I'm for that. I don't like anxiety. I don't like being anxious. How can I change? How can I stop? How can I deal with this serious issue? And while Jesus gave us a lot more content in that regard, we covered that in great depth a few years ago, but Paul gives us a whole lot in a couple of verses to help us again. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Okay. He starts with but. The but tells us that Paul is telling us the counter to maintaining anxious thoughts He gives us the solution, and it's to pray. The word used for prayer and supplication and requests don't really have that big of a distinction. It's like saying, whenever you face anything, pray any way you want to. That's the gist of it. If you want to talk to God, do that. If you want to petition specific requests and linger on those, Go ahead. If you want to ask for what you think you might need or might might be helpful, feel free to. But go to God instead of going into your head. In everything, run to God. In everything, trust God. In everything, unburden to God. In everything, believe that God hears you and will do good for you. In everything, run to God. Well, why wouldn't we run to God? And a lot of times it's that we fear that God is not wise enough, strong enough, or good enough to prevent disaster. Which is the lie that keeps us from running to God in prayer when we're facing great uncertainty? Do we really, in our heart of hearts, believe that God actually knows what he's doing? This God that we are running to , He's got this. Do we really, in our heart of hearts, believe that God can accomplish any good thing that He desires for us? And do we really, in our heart of hearts, believe that God really deeply loves us? Even when He brings things into our lives that deeply hurt us, He deeply loves us. How often do we feel like we're a victim of worry, of anxiety that's a result of our thinking? Like it's it's something that just happens to us. I don't know, I was walking around and one day I I'm just anxious. Like we should be pitied because we're so fretful. And God never describes it that way. God describes it as unbelief. It's a personal affront to him. He doesn't placate it, he doesn't pity it. He commands that we stop doing it. Peter talked about this impulse to run to God in a different circumstance. But the impulse was the same and for the same reason. In 1 Peter. In chapter 5, 6 and 7, it says, Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you in time, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. He cares for us. It's the same idea. Run to God. Why? No one could possibly care for you more or better. Or more powerfully than God can. Now I hope you notice that I skipped the phrase in the text, and it says, with thanksgiving. With Thanksgiving. If you want an interesting word study, study that word, Thanksgiving, and then add all of its other uses like thankful and thanks and all those things. Just go through and count in a concordance or whatever, and you're likely to be shocked how many times this single thing is commanded in the New Testament. Give thanks. Why might that be? What happens when you begin to think about things that you're thankful for? Well, you stop for at least a few seconds thinking about that which you want but don't have, or have but you don't want. And what's your mind directed to? That which you have and want, or that which you don't have and don't want. Remember when we talked about how much has changed when you get a child who's brooding to change his focus? Wrong perspective is often the greatest detractor from our joy. We're thinking about all of the wrong things. We're selfishly fixated on something that God does not want us to have at that moment, or vice versa. Gordon Fee had something to say about uh Thanksgiving. He said, lack of gratitude is the first step. to idolatry from Romans 121. Thanksgiving is an explicit acknowledgement of creaturliness and dependence, a recognition that everything comes as a gift The verbalization before God of His goodness and generosity. If prayer as petition indicates their utter dependence on and trust in God , Petition accompanied by thanksgiving puts both their prayer and their lives into proper theological perspective. Thanksgiving does not mean to say thank you in advance for gifts to be received. Rather, it's the absolutely basic posture of the believer and the proper context for petitioning God Gratitude acknowledges and begets generosity. It's also the key to the final affirmation that follows. I don't think any of us can ask the question, what do you have to be thankful for? And not fill a long list fairly quickly. We used to ask this question on Thanksgiving while driving between our grandparents, and Carla would write down the answers as the kids called them out. And we always filled at least two columns of the first page of a letter-sized paper, and usually I think it was front and back. And uh we we still have those There were things like forks and grass and dolls and all kinds of things. But they were all legit. They were all gifts. They were all things that we'd received Most every morning, part of Carl and my morning routine is to ask each other, what are you thankful for? What are you thankful for? And then we try not to repeat ourselves. Retirement comes up a lot. So I might cheat. God has given us so much But we spend so little time in our lives determining to think about those kinds of things. And that's why it's commanded so often. I challenge you to ask your spouses and your kids regularly or whoever you fellowship with, what are you thankful for? What are you thankful for? It transforms their minds and changes their focus for at least a minute. And if you have nothing else to give thanks for, then focus on the main event. There is always that. 2 Corinthians 9:15. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift Thanks be to God for Jesus. Okay, let's move on. Verse 7. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. We've already spoken some about the peace of God. That's the target. That's what we're trying to get to. That's the state of being that comes about as we pray to God. Trusting his character, asking him for what we think we need, talking to him about our situation, and thanking him for not only what he has already given to us, but also thanking him that our whole situation is couched in his loving provision for us. I can't help of thinking of Susan Jared when it seemed that the worst thing was going to happen. And that they they still trusted God. And God displayed his goodness and loving kindness in such a remarkable way. This immediate result is not always the outcome. But God's displaying his loving kindness and giving us good gifts is always the outcome, even when those good gifts are wrapped in tragic wrapping paper. We know that his plans for us are always good. So in everything that happens, we can have that mindset of thanking God for those things that we can see to thank him for. And if nothing else, thank him for who he is and what Christ has done for us and the eternal glory that we have in front of us. This resulted in peace where they were able to receive the comfort of being okay with God even when they could not wrap their heads around the situation. that God had placed them in. There is a peace that comes from God. It's a peace of having right relationship, being in right fellowship. And it's feeling the result of both of those things. It's the place where we say that it is well with my soul. It's the place where we are most productive spiritually. And we continue to see God in his proper light. I'm sure Suze or Jared could tell you that they did not do those things perfectly or without failure, but they did them substantially, and that is such a huge deal. Think about this. They could have lost those months of uncertainty in their lives in utter despair. They could have been driven to all kinds of wrong things. And all of those things would have been a complete waste of time because God had in mind the plan much better than they would have ever predicted. As far as men were concerned, the future was bleak. But when God is involved, we trust and we wait. He does amazing work in the face of catastrophe, one way or the other. We ask and we talk and we pray to God while thanking him for his past work in our lives and his future promises for our lives, and we trust and we look to him and we have peace. And he goes on to say, which surpasses all understanding. I think what this is saying is that this peace will be beyond all the capabilities of a human's ability to create. Our human understanding cannot take us to this place. A self-dependent human will never get here apart from God. This peace is different than the world can create because it's rooted in a reality that is even more certain than the physical reality that we can experience This peace we have is rooted in a right relationship with God, into which we are continually invited into intimate fellowship. There is no peace in the world like it The best the world can get is the peace of good circumstance or the peace induced by the illusion of one's imagination. The world cannot give Christian peace. It is beyond their ability to conjure up They cannot get there with their understanding of things. This is beyond that understanding. Our understanding does not have to reach what God plans to do, it only needs to reach who God is That's the source of the peace. The person and relationship with Christ is the source of the peace. And that peace will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Now, how's that work? How does this peace guard our hearts and minds? Maybe there are other ways that this is true, but think about it. What is this peace based on Is it not based on a solid theology of who God is? Isn't that where we're saying that peace comes from? Is it not based on the peace between man and God that Christ won for us? Is it not based on deciding to trust our God even when the devil says it's futile, even when the enemy taunts us with our foolishness to believe in God Even when our flesh rises up and says, this God sure doesn't seem to be taking a liking to you today. So how will this peace protect us? How does it work? Because the peace is based upon our rock solid foundation of our belief in our Savior. That faith in Christ will protect us from any idea sent our way to destroy us. The idea that our foundation is firm in Christ. That nothing can separate us from his love, that all things work together for good to those who love him and are called according to his purpose. That is the foundation of the peace. So, all of those substantial foundations of peace are going to protect our hearts and minds. And our hearts and minds is where all the destructive ideas come to and through. I think we can think of it by either the faith that brings this peace with God or the peace itself will protect us from all the plans that the enemy has to distract us and destroy us. And it makes sense that our peace would be beyond understanding. It is certain that this God that we believe in is certainly well beyond the limits of anyone's understanding. Romans 11, 33 through 36 says, O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him that it shall be repaid to him? For of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. Amen. When our peace finds its foundation in the person of Christ and the resources of God, That creates something that no human understanding would ever be able to reproduce. The focus on who we are in Christ is the greatest protection our lives can have. The way we guard our minds, the way we guard our hearts is with the truth of the wonderful salvation that we have. Thoughts that are accurately based upon God's word will truly protect us from going crazy with worry. It'll keep us from allowing the devil to drive us to reacting as if everything is out of control. It will drive us into the safety of our Savior's arms. That's why so many of the epistles start with theology. A list of things to do is never going to give us peace. It's who we are in Christ and living congruently to who we are in Christ that brings us peace. I hope this has been useful to us this morning. We're so blessed to have the God of peace and the peace of God available to us this morning. Will we face this week with a resolve to run to God and everything? Because that's really what Paul's saying. Will we take the cure that Paul lays out here for those anxious thoughts? Because we're going to have anxious thoughts It's a certainty. Will we orient to who God is and how trustable God is to take care of us? Will we take time out to thank Him for who He is and what He has done and what He will do? for us. Will we maintain the peace between us and God in our fellowship with Him, so it will guard us from thinking and doing all kinds of evil That's the opportunity that we face, and that is the wonderful resource that we are provided with this week. Let's close in prayer. Lord, you know our anxious thoughts.