Remember that this uh chapter that we're on is about true and false worships. And Isaiah is still addressing both parties in this text. Verses 12 through 14 addresses the true worshipers. He's talking to Judah and Jerusalem in this context. But we can see from the rest of the context that it has to expand to believers of all times somehow Verse 12 says, For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream. Have you ever heard the song that's got peace like a river? It might show your age, not sure, but this is where it came from. What is this piece? The listeners would have understood that they would receive abundant prosperity and welfare. And that it comes in a river would mean that it's a continually provided uh flood or flow. There's never ending supply. And along with this comes the resources of all the Gentiles. That is how they would have received this first. Now, in context, if you were there, and the Jews were a small, insignificant group of people The Gentiles were everybody else. You know, the Gentiles inhabited most of the world, and the Jews only inhabited a little bit of it. The Gentiles were the threat to the Jewish people. But this promise is that the Gentiles would be swarming into the Jewish world, which is probably not what they had experienced very often in their history. Now, they probably understood this politically. That's probably how they saw it, but ultimately we see it spiritually. What do we see in our world today? The Gentiles far exceed the Jewish people as the children of God. And the peace that's being received like a river is peace with God The first century believers would have had trouble believing this. If you were a first century, you know, just after Christ. And you had come to Christ as a Jewish believer, you would have trouble believing how this is going to work out. The Jewish apostles of Christ have trouble even allowing us even to our ranks And it's not too hard to believe that, given the differences. Paul and Barnabas were the spiritual mavericks who were shaking the pot of Christianity at the time. And the Jewish people saw this as their thing. Even the Jewish Christians saw it as being their thing. It was an extension of their Jewishness. They would have never envisioned the world as it is now. The Gentiles vastly outnumber the Jewish believers, and the Gentile leaders are the most influential leaders in the Christian church. We can't understand what a strange thing this would have been to the believers in Isaiah's day or even in the new church at Jerusalem. But it's true nonetheless. The kingdom of God has surely received peace like a river. We have an overflowing river every day coming to us of peace with God. And peace from God. It's here all the time. It's here all the time in Christ. It's readily available for us. We do not need the wait to visit the temple and sacrifice a sheep. All we need to do is confess our sins. That's all. It's simple. And the church is primarily made up of Gentiles, of all those people who were previously the enemies of the Jewish people. And then he goes on, then you shall feed. On her side you shall be carried and be dandled on her knees. As one whom his mother comforts, so life will comfort you, and you shall be comforted in Jerusalem. This is a wonderful passage. Do you sometimes feel like God is disciplined? Do you feel that no matter what you do, you cannot receive his affirmation? Well those feelings are lies about God. Doesn't matter that they're feelings. They're lies about God. Now You may be feeling playing games with yourself, or I may be, we may be lying to ourselves about ourselves, and if that's the case, and we're robbing ourselves from closeness with God, we can blame God, but ultimately it's our fault. But if we're confessing our sin and living by faith, what this describes in this verse is God's relationship to us. It's describing uh it's described as a mother who loves her child. Now, have you ever seen a love greater than that? And that's not all mothers, not all children, but mother's love in general. Have you ever seen love greater than that? All of us have seen mothers hold their kids on their side while they're trying to get other things done uh like a common occurrence where there's uh a family with babies or small children. We've all seen mothers hold children on their knees as they're speaking to them and just relating to them and loving them and making eye contact and all that kind of stuff. And we've known of mothers feeding their babies from their own bodies. I mean, that happens all the time. So do you see what is being said here in our text? This is the kind of love God is describing that He will provide for His children. It's remarkable. It's amazing. It's tender, it's compassionate, and it's real. It's just as tender and caring as any human relationship that we've ever had. And then in verse 13, it shifts to an older person and it talks about the comfort we received later in life from our mothers. And it's certainly different than the younger years, but it's just as sincere and focused. It's a true love that looks out for our best interests, no matter what it may cost our mothers We receive empathy and comfort. No one else may understand some of the situations we find ourselves in as well as our mothers. So they can grant comfort more insightfully than anybody else. This is surely not true again of every mother, of every situation, but it's always true of the best of them. And that's what God is pointing to. What is your view of God? Really? I mean how do you view God? Your first response is probably the best one. How do you initially think when you hear the word God isn't it? What do you think of God? Well maybe that view needs to be adjusted. In fact, it's almost a certainty that needs to be adjusted some, and that's what scripture does a lot. It helps us change our view of God, to who God really is and how he really responds to his children. Then verse 14, when you see this, your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like grass. The hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants and his indignation to his enemies. One day there will be perfect congruity. There will be perfect congruity. Between the world as it really is and the world how it appears. Right now there's a lot of confusion. Our world does not know lots of things. It can believe that good is bad and that bad is good. It can think that the devil's children represent God and God's children represent the devil. We can't stop that. We can't stop that in this world. But there is coming a day, as real as today, when everything will be seen exactly as it is. And the people of God, when that happens, you're going to break out in cheering. It'll be like was said in the 90s. Sweet. It'll be sweet. What God loves and what God hates on that day will be seen clearly. Who he is for and who he is against will be seen clearly. Who will live forever in his kingdom and who will preach eternal judgment will both be seen clearly. That day is coming. We really don't need to trouble ourselves now with the continual misunderstanding the world has about spiritual things It's to be expected. It's gonna happen. God knows that He has not chosen to stop it yet. It's serving a purpose, so one day it will stop. Verses 15 through 17. For behold, the Lord will come with fire and his chariots like a whirlwind, surrender his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire. For by fire and by his sword the Lord will judge all flesh, and the slain of the Lord shall be many. Those who sanctify themselves and purify themselves to go to the gardens after an idol in the midst Eating swine's flesh, an abomination, and the mouse that's not thrown in there, it's just kind of passing there, and the mouse shall be consumed together, says the Lord. The verse is first talking about Jewish purging, but its ultimate fulfillment will be in final judgment. Remember that we talked about offering sacrifices earlier in this text, you know, that the Jewish people were offering sacrifices, and God regarded them as being trash. And we talked about how doing the right thing was not what God wanted. God wanted people. He wanted his people 's worship. This judgment was in a Jewish context, and it still is in our text. But now we have the epitome of false worship. These people are sanctifying themselves That's a good Christian word, isn't it? You know, sanctifying yourself when we think, well, that's good. Sanctification is the process of setting ourselves apart for God's use, isn't it? Or him setting us apart for his use. Isn't that a good thing? Well, yeah. When it's for the right God, it's for a one, it's a wonderful thing. It's a tremendous thing. It's an expected thing. It's what Christians do. But in this case, look what the sanctification is for. Look what the purification is for. To go to the gardens after an idol in the midst, eating swine's flesh and the abomination and the mouse. These people are preparing themselves for idol worship. They're doing for this idol what should only be done for the one true God. And notice what happens. When a person serves another idol, that idol will always demand something of worth from the worshipper. It's what idols do. The idols that we have worshipped in our past have demanded things of great value from us. Things we can never get back. And then they take us through a process of defilement instead of cleansing. They add dirt and they don't take any away. They add shame and they never remove shame. That's what our idols do. Now, do we really think the devils behind this process ever wanted to provide anything good to these worshipers? Of course not. He's the destroyer. He's the accuser. He wants to do harm. And he'll use any bait that will work with us to accomplish this. And he's very, very good at it. We really need to get this. There is not a single temptation to sin that will ever give us what we really need. Never, ever. It will only give you what you think you mean. What you feel you need, what you cannot imagine doing without. But it will never ever give you what you really need. Man, that's hard to believe. That is still hard to believe when our flesh is telling us you gotta have this thing. You gotta do this thing. But it's true. Now I can understand the attractions before. But it's difficult to imagine the draw of eating a mouse. I cannot imagine. How are you going to recruit for this item? My guess is that it was part of the process because the devil could then show just how far he has degraded these poor sockers. And that's what the devil wants. He wants to portray just how how corrupt God's creation is and how how easily affected they are. There often comes a point in our idolatry that the debasement no longer even appeals to the false worshiper. It just leaves an awful feeling of no, oh no, I've done it again And apart from the mystery of Christ and the truth of the gospel, we're left with no hope whatsoever. How could any God love a person like this? How could any God love a person like us? Now look at the destination of these people, these false worshipers. Planes and sword. God has no issue with destroying those who refuse his love. God has no issue destroying those who will not repent. In some sense, he prefers that they would repent. We get that about God. We've learned that in Isaiah about God. That God, there's part of his will, part of what he desires, part of what he is like, that he would prefer that everyone surrender to him But if he says, here I am, here I am, and they say, I prefer my idol, he'll obliterate them without remorse. After all, our God is a just God. Verse 18, for I know their works and their thoughts. It shall be that I will gather all nations in tongues, and they shall come and see my glory. We're surrounded by a lot of people who will not respond to God's call that appear to be much better people than we are. You know what I mean? You've been out, you know, in the i i in your work environment or in the world or somewhere, and you just see nice people people doing nice things. Yesterday I I showed up at the the dumpster place And uh some guy hobbled back trying to get to his garbage and everyone there in every vehicle got out of their vehicle and unloaded that guy's garbage for I was thinking about trying at the dance time. And anyway, you know there's a lot of kindness out there They're certainly nicer than I am. And maybe that's not saying much. But we we might be tempted to think that maybe God's judgment's a little askew. I mean these are nice people. But this verse reveals the important fact. God not only knows everything that they do. That might be impressive if we just knew everything that maybe a person did. But God knows everything they think. And that's where the truth comes out. Much of the goodness we see is really just human pride exhibiting itself. Some people may actually be acting out of a self, out of a sense of moral superiority, just proving themselves to be wonderful people. They want to prove their wonderful selves to be wonderful selves. And at the bottom of all that is arrogance. We don't know everything a person does, and we sure don't know everything a person thinks. But if we did, we would see what it is that deserves God's judgment. Now one day God will gather all humanity. And that again will be the day when everything is laid clear. Everything will be seen as it is. And the Carl Steigans and the Bill Mayers and the Hugh Heifers and the Nietzsche's of the world will see the truth that day. These people who have slandered God and who have spoken argently against God will see the glory of God and their mouths will be stopped. We need never worry about those who scoff at God. They never get the final word. No. One day God will scoff at them, and it'll be worse than anything they ever imagined. Verse twenty two The numbers go all over the place here. I'm I'm hoping they're in order. For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, I will set a sign among them, and those among them who will escape I will send to the nations. The Tarshish in Pul and Lud who draw the bow, and Tubal and Jaman to the coastlands afar off, who have not heard my thing, nor seen my glory, and they shall declare my glory among the Gentiles. Then they shall bring out all your brethren for an offering to the Lord to out of all nations, on horses and in chariots, and in litters, on mules, and camels, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says the Lord. As to children of Israel bring an offering in a clean vessel into the house of the Lord, and I will also take some of them for priests and Levot, says the Lord. Now, these are the texts that we can we we sort of do best with what we can. We see the verse talks about the new heavens and the new earth. Well, when do we know that the new heavens and the new earth happens? And it's not until the end of time. I believe it's after the judgment of mankind and the sending of the lost souls to hell that the new heaven and new earth shows up. And uh the the new heavens and the new earth are going to be free of corruption, so you can't uh I find it hard to imagine God would show up with them with them before corruption is removed. So then what's the rest of the passage talking about? Could this be a prophecy about what happened in Acts when the persecution of the true worshippers began by the false worshippers of God? Could there have ever been a truer exhibition of the people who claim to represent God persecuting those who truly did represent God? Is there a better time in history of that happening, a better example? And what was the result? The gospel was spread all over the planet as a result of that suffering. Where? Well the cities mentioned if you if you drew a map would take you westward in pretty much a straight line from the top boundary of Israel. So if you have Israel here um depending on which way you're facing it. At the top it would go that way, and at the bottom it would go that way. And if you follow the cities out, that's how it would work itself out. So what point do you think it would make if I asked you what direction is a disease spreading? And you said You get the idea. It's it's taken over. You know, it's it's taken over the world. And I think that's the point. Those escaping persecution in Jerusalem went everywhere and the gospel went with them. And what was the sign it speaks of here? Tongues? It very well could be. Tongues originally happened at Pentecost and then spread to the Gentile converts in that order in both directions. So it's very likely the sign of tongues was being spoken of here, the sign that would happen. And verse 20 is wonderful. This verse is about us. We are our Jewish brethren's offering to the Lord. The word used for offering is not a bloody sacrifice personally. It's the kind of offering that does not require blood, like the grain offerings or the living sacrifice. And notice that they're called brethren. What a fight Paul had to make the Jewish believers recognize that fact. That the Gentile converts were rubbish. Ephesians is a book that displays how hard that struggle was. That book of Ephesians is all about the turmoil between believers and Christian believers , Jewish believers, and Gentile believers. We Gentiles are brothers with the most purebred follower of Jesus Christ. The most purebred Jewish follower of Jesus Christ Now what might expect at this point to become in a second class citizen? I mean look at all the good stuff that they have done, all the all the laws that they lived by. After all, a convert to the Jewish religion never reached the rights that a natural-born Jew had at birth in temple worship. So do we get the cheap seats when the Jews get the good seats behind the plate or the dugout? No. There are no second-class citizens in eternity. There may be those who allow their faith to drive them to live for eternity's rewards more than earthly rewards so that they're rewarded more richly. That would only be right. We can't hardly think that those faithless faithless decisions that we've made will not have abdicated some eternal benefit That's just a fact. They have to result in absences of crowns we can cast at Christ's feet. And those people who are faithful have those crowns. And the faithful actions gain eternal rewards. Scripture talks about that language. None of us will complain, I'm sure. But we are constantly encouraged to store up treasures in heaven. If we're commanded to do so, it must be doable. Now, verse 21 may be referring to either Jewish or Gentile people selected as Levites. If Jewish, it might mean that those who are not Levites will be selected as such. Which that would be unusual. You know, we know in the Old Testament, Levites, you know, they were from that tribe and there was no Second guessing that you did what God said. But if it's Gentiles who are going to be these Levites, that's earth shattering, then a Jewish mindset, that would blow their minds To have a Gentile functioning as a Levite, that's too much to take in. And look at verse, I think it's 20. And how they arrived at Jerusalem. They're riding just about anything that we carry them. I think the modes of transportation in that verse emphasize the variety of people, the variety of people that will be coming to the kingdom of God. will come to be arriving at least. No one is left out. I think that's part of the part of the uh reference here. I particularly like the fact that cars aren't mentioned, but we can't make too much of that. And then verse 22. For as the new heavens and the new earth which I shall make shall remain before me, says the Lord, so shall your descendants and your name remain. God will always have a people for himself. And forever it will be a combination of those he chose as a race and those who are later drafted in or adopted, as we're told in Romans. And there'll be no envy or strife, only peace like a river. Forever. Forever. Forever. And God is here saying that the new eternal dwelling he created is for a purpose. It is to house his people forever. God will have people forever. And he truly has prepared a place for them, just like Jesus said. And this new Jerusalem will come out of heaven already for the people of God to dwell in together. Now, the drum roll of the book is drumming, and we're coming to the culmination of God's words through the prophet Isaiah. We're preparing to move to our next field of study. Now there's something very interesting here. I don't know if our culture is abnormally averse in negative things. So I never say anything negative, you know, get more and more of that. Maybe it's true of every culture, I don't know. But God mixes the positive and the negative with great regularity In fact, some might even say from our cultural perspective that he is downright negative. He uses contrast constantly, and he's about to do it again. In the sections of Isaiah's writing, he consistently ended the sections with the fact that the wicked have no peace. That's been a theme through the whole book of Isaiah. The wicked have no peace. And we see it here again. We need to take note of that. It must be important for us to know and think about. Maybe it's to protect us from the seduction of wickedness. Maybe it's to fuel the fuel that we need to keep us from envying the wicked Or maybe it's for us to fully get the point that God will ultimately be glorified and no other influence will be allowed to interfere. Verse 23, and it shall come to pass that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, all flesh shall come to worship before me, says the Lord. Now this immediately brings up a question in my mind. Scripture tells us that Christ will be the light in the New Jerusalem, that there's no need for the sun and the moon. How will we know when the Sabbath is? And the new heaven and the new earth must have a moon. I don't think it pays to get too dogmatic on any of the points of the specifics of the new earth because I think much of it is beyond our our realm of imagination. But it's interesting. It's interesting what we're told here And what is verse 23 saying? Is it saying that on each of these events people will come before God to worship him? Or is it saying that people will be coming to worship him all the time? All flesh is coming all the time to worship him. I don't know which is true. But one thing I am sure of, there will be no shortage of worship of God in eternity. There'll never be a shortage of worship of God or opportunities to worship God in eternity. We will not need to long for the day of worship while we go through the grueling process of the other things. We will have entered into God's rest for eternity. Think about the implications. Everyone will come to worship God and thrill to worship God. We'll no longer need to keep a vigilant eye on each other to make sure we don't fall into sin. Rebuke and reconciliation will no longer be a factor in our relating to each other. There'll be a unity of purpose that we simply can't imagine now. Peace like a river will overtake us and surround us. No more doctrinal disputes and concerns or doctrinal error. The elders and fathers and mothers can get the break they've been longing for. It 'll be amazing. Now, I believe all of us would like this passage to end here. We want it to end in this amazing picture of peace and love and fellowship and what God is going to do. But God and his sovereignty did not choose where to end there. I don't think any of us really want to criticize his choice. This is how he ended the book. Verse 24. And they shall go forth. These are the people who have been saved. Shall go forth and look upon the corpses of the men who have transgressed against me. For their worms does not die, and their fire is not quenched. They shall be an abhorrence to all flesh. No. I have no idea how this will be experienced or when. It looks like a continual thing here. And we wonder how can eternity be so wonderful if this is part of it? And I can't give an answer to that question. I don't think it's going to work out exactly like it looks here. Given a lot of other scripture, lots of other places, we won't be reminded of those things we're told of our previous life. So exactly how this works out, I don't know. Some things we are not giving answers to. But we have to understand the dangers of turning our hearts from Christ. It's deadly. We cannot allow our hearts to stray after things of this earth. We can't allow our fantasies as the wonderful things that we can have distract us from this eternal rest. that is provided to us. The picture in verse 24 is the culmination of idolatry. The picture of verse 24 is where all idolatry is headed. The picture is what happens when humans go their own way. And that's not how our movies and media portrayed. Following our hearts only leads to wonderful things in fiction, but in reality it leads to corpses and punishments. We cannot believe our world's message. The message it holds out to us every day in its media. The world lies. This picture in verse 24 is the end. Our eternal reward and the unbeliever's eternal punishment are both presented with great clarity by Isaiah. We need to consider this danger. We need it in our minds to gain a full grasp of the reality that we live in. God did not include this for some kind of shock factor. This is the reality to be avoided at any cost. And this is the reality that many of our associates on this planet are facing. Will we pray for them? Will we ask God to provide us opportunities to share the good news? And will we commit ourselves to absolute surrender to the will of our Father? Isaiah has been calling out to us since March 5 of 2017 when when Brad did the introduction sermon. So it's over two years now. Our idols and fears and trusts have been thoroughly addressed. We've been called to true worship of God. I pray that none of his message has been lost on you and me. And that we have become a body of believers that more thoroughly glorify Christ now than we did when we started. Let's close the prayer. Lord God, we thank you so much for your kindness and grace to us. We thank you for your word that tells us what we need to know, whether or not it's what we want to know And that you look out for our best interest and you call us to yourself and you convict us of our sin and you warn us of the the consequences of the idolatry that is in front of us. You show us through so many ways, what we're made of, and what your Spirit calls us to. And the wonderful grace and the picture of Christ that we we see coming through the book. And uh the amazing grace that is portrayed from beginning to end, as if Isaiah is sort of a small bible in itself with both the Old and New Testament in it. Lord, we thank you. You have been so kind to give us this. We ask that you would help us to glorify you as a church. And that we would portray you well in the world around us by our obedience of you. And by our trust in you, and by our eternal optimism of what you do in us and through us, and for us. And give to us. In the face of a world that only has wishful thinking. Help us, Lord God, to glorify you In even an iota of the way that you deserve to be glorified. In Jesus. And we are