I uh I think you find it's a little harder to sneak out the back here and be unnoticed as it is in your church. I have uh uh studied several weeks ahead in our text, and I think it might be helpful uh to you now if I explain to you what I've been seeing. And I I I mean I feel like I'm the most privileged person in the world to be to have the privilege of doing this. But uh as I've been going through this has been coming clearer and clearer from the text And it'll give us a framework to put this teaching on as we hear it this morning. If I were to summarize the lesson in John 6. 22 to the end of the chapter, which is where we are , It would be this. When building a church, preach the word even when it might seem hard to understand or hard to hear for an unbeliever. Don't appeal to, cater to, or tolerate fleshly motivations in the hearers. Completely rely upon the Holy Spirit to change the hearts in some of the hearers, and they are the church. Let me say that again. When building a church, preach the word even when it might seem hard to understand or hard to hear for an unbeliever. Don't appeal to, cater to, or tolerate fleshly motivations in the hearers. And completely rely upon the Holy Spirit to change the hearts in some of the hearers, they are the church. Build on them. That's what Jesus is doing in our text. Last week we looked at the will of God that Jesus came to do. Remember? And it's wonderfully simple. But it's very interesting the order that Jesus puts it in. This is the Father's will, he says, that I should lose none that he gives me, but raise it on the last day. That everyone who looks on the Son and believes Should have eternal life, and then I will raise him up on the last day. So first we're given the source of a human's salvation. The Father is the source of salvation. The Father is giving people to Christ. And how does the Father give them? What is God's method of giving people to Christ, to his Son Well, it says they look to the Son in faith. They believe in Christ. That's his method. Those are the ones that have eternal life Now Christ is giving us this above the sun. Remember in Proverbs we learned above the sun and below the sun? So you've got above the sun is where God sees things from. And this is the above the sun version from where God sits. Then we get the below the sun version From where we sit. The Father gives these people miraculously by his choice prior to anything else happening. Then they look on the Son. And believe, and they have eternal life. Everyone that the Father gives will believe. Everyone that believes was already given by the Father. The order is important. There are many that would say that because the person looks on the Son and believes, that is why the Father gives them to the Son. But the order here tells us it's because the Father gives them. That they then look to the Son in faith. Armenians and Calvinists both believe that God gives regenerated people to the Son And we both believe that a person must believe in Christ to have eternal life. We share. The difference between the views is the order in which the things happen. Calvinists believe people have faith in Christ because God has given. Armenians believe God has given because people have faith in Christ. That's the difference in a nutshell. Another point to be emphasized here is something we touched on last week. Christ came to save people forever. He said that's his mission He came to save people forever. Whenever you hear any doctrine that says that Christ came to do something on earth that will not be forever, be suspicious. The Father's will is that Jesus takes us to be with him. That's his mission. And praise God for that. What a wonderful thing. What a wonderful thing. Alright, so let's move on. How does the crowd respond to this amazing news of Christ's mission? How do they react to the best news that you could ever hear? This is way better than a political takeover and free food for a lifetime, which is what they're looking for. We're talking about eternal life, and how did they respond? Verse 41: So the Jews grumbled about him. Because he said, I'm the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I've come down from heaven? Do you remember what grumbling is? We talked about that uh a while ago. It's it's being deprived of what you want. And ascribing your situation to a character flaw in your provider. It's often directed to someone in authority over us. And rather than asking for what we want, Straightforwardly, we blame our authority for us not already having it. That's grumbling. Well, these Jews are grumbling. What they wanted were earthly things. And Jesus hasn't given them earthly things. And what he wants to give to them is himself. He is clearly offering them spiritual things. He's offering them spiritual life. And they're thinking, what can we do with that? That doesn't keep the Romans at bay. That doesn't give us a peaceful surrounding. The kids can't eat that. That won't make life better. So what do they do? They attack Jesus' character. They bring him down a notch. They're saying Jesus isn't something special spiritually. He's just like us He's just a human, just like us. He lived in our neighborhood. We know his mom. We know his dad. They're just people. So Jesus must be just people. The claim that Christ came down from heaven is simply unbelievable to them. That's the logic here. Now, isn't it sad how the fact that they had seen Jesus do impossible things Isn't it sad that that never gets pulled into the evidence panel? But I guess we can't be too critical. How many things can Christ give us by his grace? Yet, when one difficult situation hits our lives, we can quickly cast light, a bad light, on God's character. Like, how could he? How could he do this to me? If God did this to me, he can't be a good God. You know how quickly that can snap in our minds. And there isn't a dimesworth of difference between our worst tendencies to do that. And the tendencies of these this crowd. Now the crowd had enough evidence to draw them into an investigation If they were thinking rationally and straightforwardly, it should have called them into this well Man, Jesus is doing something nobody else can do. But instead, they're taking only a small part of the evidence and they're drawing wrong conclusions. But Christ addresses them again, and it's not friendly banter that he gives them. Verse 43, Jesus answered them: Do not grumble among yourselves. And this is the punchline. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. Jesus answered them, do not grumble among yourselves. Jesus is essentially telling them, Stop talking. Because if you keep talking, you're going to keep grumbling. Uh have you ever dealt with or been arguing with someone and you suddenly realize that there aren't enough words in the universe to make a difference in what this person thinks? Because they've hardened themselves into their position. Political conversations are often like this. If we happen to be in a position of authority, like a parent, we do well to say Just stop talking. Because getting them to be quiet is absolutely the best thing you can do at that moment. Jesus issues a command. He says, stop grumbling. Why is this not worth an argument? Well, Jesus goes on. Christ knows that what he is dealing with in these listeners is not a reasoning problem. It's a spiritual problem. And you can't fix a spiritual problem with reason. What you need is a miracle To fix a spiritual problem, you need a spiritual solution. You need an awakening. And without it, you're wasting words. And I believe that's why Jesus says this. No one can come to me. It can't be done. That person can't come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And when he does that, I'll raise that guy up in the last day. Jesus is saying, you aren't hearing me because God is not drawing you. If he were drawing you, you would hear me. If he doesn't draw you, you can't hear me. You're showing by what you are doing what side of the fence you are on. And Jesus is simply reading the fruit. He doesn't need to climb into their psyche to figure out how to talk them into following him. That's a waste of time. Guys, have you ever snapped off one of those deck screws that have threads on the point? But then they go to a place where they have no thread at all. Like there's an inch worth of place that there's no thread at all. They're just smooth. And then once you break off the part with the threads, You can spin that baby all day long. It's not going anywhere. It's not coming out. It's not going in. It just sits there and spins. Well, that's what it's like when you're talking to a person who is spiritually dead until God wakes him up. When his eyes can finally see that screw will start to grip again. The word of God has an effect Now we need to remember that Jesus knew the hearts of men. We need to be careful in our approach with people. As long as someone will listen to God's word, as long as we can have conversation with with a person about God's word, we keep speaking. We keep speaking. But we need to know that we are always on a miracle to happen in that person's heart. And if that miracle doesn't happen, that screw is just going to keep slipping. And again Christ says, and I will raise him up in the last day. What a wonderful assurance. If the father starts it, the son finishes it If the father starts it, the son finishes it. No one's half saved. If a person is saved at all, they're saved forever. And it clearly was not our decision that got us in, so there won't be any decision that will break that bond if we are in Christ. It was his decision to put us there. Now we could over time display that we never really had that study. We could prove ourselves to be tares instead of wheat. But if we start as wheat, we end as wheat. That's what he's saying here. Let's continue. Verse 45. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. And they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Jesus is paraphrasing here Isaiah 54, 13. And it says, All your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. This is another way of seeing God's drawing of people. Here in Isaiah, it refers to God will teach them. He connects their minds with content in a way they can't ignore it. It's that supernatural work again that God does in a person's heart. The content is made compelling to the human by God. Every person who comes to God will be supernaturally compelled in their minds to come to Him They are drawn, they are pulled, they are taught, they're irresistibly acted upon. There are lots of ways of describing this, and Scripture describes it lots of ways. But it's always the same. Again, we see that God moves first, and then the human is compelled to act accordingly. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father, every person that God is moving on to act. They will act. They will come to me, Jesus is saying. Now, how do we know who God is acting on? They're the ones that are coming. It's fairly simple. They're the ones that are coming Verse 46, not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. Now we've talked about this in Sunday school a little bit. Jesus clarifies here that these people are being taught by the Father. These people are not seeing the Father. They're being taught by him, but they're not seeing him. The father's not showing up in a robe and teaching them. No, that status is saved for the father's equal. Christ is clearly speaking of himself when he talks about he who is from God. I hung out with God, he's saying. Now, when Christ says he is from God and he has seen the Father This is one of those statements that Jesus knows people are going to balk at. Nobody's going to buy this unless God has drawn them, unless God has awakened them. The only people who would believe such a thing are being drawn by Christ , drawn to Christ by the Father. And really think about this a little bit. Imagine it. Christ is saying, I know what it's like to look at the Father and live. I know what that kind of close communion with the Father is like. You guys don't know that, but I do. That was my home. That's where I came from. Christ is either crazy or he is God in the flesh. You can't read scripture and come out with a different version of Christ. He is either crazy or he is God in the flesh. No alternative logically This is a claim that's too bizarre to believe, except for the fact that Jesus makes bread where there is no bread, and he heals bodies that can't be healed, and he walks on water, for goodness sake. So this naturally leads to what Christ says next. Verse 47 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. Remember our truly truly 's? You know, Jesus always introduces a truly truly, and then he blows their mind. And he's doing it again. Jesus is saying, if you believe what I'm saying about myself, as bizarre as this sounds to you, you have it. You have eternal life. You must have had this miracle of the Father drawing you happen to you. It had to happen to you because you would not believe this otherwise. He's reached into your soul and he has taught you. This is astounding. Most of his listeners were excluded. They didn't believe. But there were still the human miracles in that crowd that did. There are always some. That's the work that our Father is doing across every people group in our world. And if it hasn't gotten to him yet, he will. Because there'll be people from every people group in eternity. Verse 48, I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I'm the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he'll live forever. And the bread that I'll give for the life of the world, that's my flesh. Jesus is painting a contrast here, and he's pointing out a similarity. Jesus is like something, and he's very different from something He is like something and he's very different from something. Jesus is like the manna. Jesus is not like the manna. Now let's go back to the wilderness once again. Have you ever been desperate for food with no idea where it would come from? Um I think of Caleb right off the bat. He might wonder if he didn't pack enough food how that's gonna happen. But I'm thinking most of us have never been in that situation, at least for long. God has extremely blessed us to live in this nation where we have cupboards that have more food in them than what we need. We might have a month's worth. We at times had more than a month's worth. And uh when is the last time you thank God for the fact that we are that truly blessed in this regard? Most of the world is not that way, but we are So we truly have to use our imaginations here. But the Israelites had left Egypt where at least they had food. At least that's what they said. And some of it they remember as being pretty good. They had leeks and bread and other items. They even had meat. Now they were slaves and they had no freedom, no rights, and they were getting beat regularly. But they had food. The selective memory is funny thing. So now when they're in the wilderness This is not what you might call fertile ground. It was called the wilderness for some reasons. It's also called desert at times. Uh I think even Yule Gibbons would have starved. Most of you don't know who Yule Gibbons is, probably. He was the one of the first people who wrote books about living off the land. Okay, so there's truly as little food, and there's probably over a million Israelites out in this barren land, and they th they're looking at it and they're thinking. What are we going to do? How are we going to feed our kids? What can I do to take care of this? And then their next thought is, why did God do this to us? You know, you see it happen. He's not going to take care of us, he must not love us. Isn't that all very human? Very much like us when we're not walking in the Spirit. But then God provides mamma. And this is nothing like anyone has seen before. It falls from the sky. No one has to do any work except to gather it. It's almost like the Garden of Eden all over again. God provides. Well, Jesus is like this. Okay? This is the part that Jesus is like. Jesus is the bread that God provides to meet the spiritual need of any human. People are lost without him. They have no capacity to get on their own what they need. They're going to die without him. They have nothing to give to earn this food, to earn him. They don't deserve him. They're completely reliant upon the grace of God to provide him And here he is, in the midst of their need and their suffering, God's gracious gift. They simply need to believe in Jesus. That's the work that he called them to. Believe in him. That's how Christ is like manna. He is God's gracious gift to meet their need when they have nothing but their need to offer up to God. How is Christ not like manna? If the Israelites gathered up manna day after day, one thing was sure. One day they would be too old and too unhealthy to gather up the manna. The manna would not feed their souls, it would only feed their bodies, and it would keep their hearts ticking for a few years more, but one day it would stop. It was not a permanent solution. It was not an eternal solution. Christ, on the other hand, is not like that. He offers eternal life. In fact, following Christ might actually cost you your physical life. It was during the time I was studying this that Charlie Kirk was killed. And uh it looks to me like he was killed largely for his religious beliefs. But even those were No matter what, it was all an extension of his Christian life. The manna of Christ did not keep his heart beating. But Charlie will live forever. The real point is that Charlie will live forever because he ran to the manna of Christ. He ran to the bread of life. Our whole text for the last several weeks has been based on which bread you want. Which bread you want. The crowds wanted the physical manna. Christ kept pointing them to himself. The crowds wanted their best life now on planet Earth. Christ kept opening, offering life forever with himself. He offered superior life. This life, at its best, is just a taste of the good that is to come. It's never intended as the goal. It's only the path. What do you want? What do you want? If you could pick between the physical and the spiritual, which would you pick? Seriously, what do you daydream about? Maybe even while the preacher rambles on. What do you daydream about? Which thrills your heart the most? Getting stuff on planet Earth or looking forward to what Christ has in store for you now and forever? That's the choice the crowd had in front of them. Which bread do you want? Do you want Christ because you think He'll make this life better? Do you want the bread of this life? Do you want the water of this life? Do you want the things that this life can offer? Is that where your heart is fixated? Is that what your soul wants the most? Do you want Christ? Do you want life without end with him in a world of complete joy, beginning now? Do you want a fellowship with Christ and His people forever? The person who craves for what this world offers may want Christ, but he wants Christ for how Christ can improve his life here and now. He wants Christ to improve this life. He wants to add Christ onto this life to make it better. His concern is not primarily about the kingdom of heaven, it's the kingdom of mine. He likes Christian concepts as long as they serve to increase the benefit in this life. This is important. Look at how Ephesians describes the difference between believers and non-believers in Ephesians 2, 1 through 3. It says, And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. Following the course of this world, following the Prince of the Power of the Air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the flesh and the mind, and were by nature Children of Rat, like the rest of mankind. You know, it's interesting in this text that there's no list of terrible things that the Ephesians were doing. Although we know that many of them were doing horrible things, but no, it's talking about what is driving them to live. They were the passions of the flesh. And what were they doing? They were acting according to the flesh. They had desires in their minds and they did them. That's all. It wasn't complicated. That's all. Some of them were probably very, very nice people. The sins they were living in may have fit well in their society. Pride, self-centeredness, fear of others, the desire to impress others, they don't look so bad. They don't work out so bad for the society around us. And Paul is telling us about the control center. The control center is the problem. And the control center is the natural sinful state that we were all Born into. Every single human being in this planet was born into this state. They wanted wheat bread instead of bread of life. They wanted water in their pictures instead of living water in their hearts. And in that state, no matter how good they look to the rest of the world, Paul basically said, This is you By nature, children of wrath, like everybody else, unless God calls them to themselves, calls them to himself. They don't want Christ, not really, not for what Christ came to offer. And in reality, in the state they are in, they can't want Christ. Their hearts are incapable of wanting Christ for who Christ truly is. But in Ephesians 2, 4 through 6, that's when it kicks in and it gives us the rest of the story of the Ephesians. But God, but God, I mean You can't read the Bible without realizing that but God is the most important phrase in it That's where the action happens that we most need as human beings. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, and there's no good reason for it Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Who did that? But God did that. The major point in these verses is that God made them alive. Mixed in these verses is the how and the why, but the main point is that it is God who did it. When they were unaware of their need. In Romans, I think it says, when we were enemies of God, he did it. That's the story of every Christian at Ephesus. And every Christian ever born again. It's the story of every one of us if we are in Christ. We were living by our natural desires. As children of wrath, but God made us alive to him. Friends, look at your life this morning. What is it that you crave? What is it that you long for? What is it you think about most in your waking moments? What drives you? That's very important. It doesn't matter if you're very young or very old. Where is your heart? When you're sitting here in church, where does your heart go? What do you daydream about? If you know that it's not Christ that's the center of your life, call out to Christ. Call out to him. He's happy to meet you where you are. Call out to him. If you're a believer, call out in repentance for slipping away from Christ as your first love, as the center of your world. If you've never come truly to Christ to receive Him as the King of your life, do it now. There's nothing to stop you. And I can guarantee you. If you feel a deep urge to surrender yourself to the Lordship of Jesus Christ, the devil didn't put that urge there. God may God may be calling you for the first time in your life. He may be calling you for the millionth time in your life. Do business with him. Receive the grace of Christ by faith, believing that what Christ did on the cross will save you when you call upon him. Think about this. Christ said, The bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. Christ wasn't forced to give his flesh so that we could have eternal life, life-sustaining bread He didn't have to. Just the fact that the Father provides human beings with physical bread is more than we deserve, living as children abread It would be a mercy to simply allow us to live for 70 years and then suffer judgment. That would be a tremendous mercy by God. He could have done just that, but he did not. He gave his flesh, he gave that life that the natural man would never give up, that the natural man lives for. He gave it up We have to run to him. In our passage, Jesus says we must eat this bread. We must eat his flesh. He's clearly talking figuratively, spiritually. And instead of getting the point and receiving Christ's offer, the crowd got up And they got caught up in the words he was using, and they lost their chance, at least that chance, to come to Christ. Don't allow that to happen to you. Let's close in prayer. Oh Lord, we