I'm afraid I'm gonna get too old and I won't have pockets big enough for all my glasses. Our next section consists of two chapters, chapter 46 and chapter 47. Chapter 46 shows the idols of Babylon. That's where we're at this morning. The idols of Babylon. 47, which hopefully next week we'll touch, shows the fall of Babylon. And the two are very closely tied together, as one could imagine. Now, look at the Ten Commandments In Exodus 20, here's the first one. Now God could have put them in any order, but this is the first that he chose. Verse 3, Exodus 20, you shall have no other gods before me. You shall have no other gods before me. We've got to ask ourselves, why? Why this? Why first? Why is this? Why does this hit the top of the list? Why would God put that there? In the New Testament, Jesus said the most important command is to love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and sin. If that is the most important thing for human beings to do, then it makes perfect sense that the most dangerous thing to do is put something else in that place. We can love God, which we were created for. We have this glorious opportunity to love God. It's where our hearts are safe. It's where our destiny is wonderful. It's where our lives are the most meaningful. It puts us where our lives are protected by God and by God's word. It is, in a word, life to us. We have new abundant life, guaranteed life. All of that comes in service to God, in worship of God. In loving God. And we can love God, or as we've seen in a few sermons, we can love anything else. Anything else. We can shape an idol out of anything that God has made. We can love other human beings to the place that we will sin if sinning is required to keep their favor. It's pretty much idolatry. We can make another person into an idol. We can make an idol out of our spouses or our parents or our kids. We can make idols out of stuff that God has created. We can worship the pleasure provided by the created things. We can worship the accumulation of wealth, thinking that this will provide security. that we so long for. We can worship just about anything else that is important to us. So there's the love of God, and there are all the competing loves, all the idolatries. But we don't fare so well with the idolatries. They don't have a good payoff. God sustains idols always lead to our destruction. You can't have one without the other. You can't have an idol without having its destruction. If you worship idols, you set yourself against the one true God. He takes it personally. If you're a Christian, you'll find that such a pursuit will have a destructive effect on your life until you bow to Jesus' Lord in every area of your life. The path of idol worship in your life will leave a path of regret and damage. We can probably all tell that story. You'll have spent much of value that you could have trusted to God for his purposes, and what he will have to show for it are tears and heartache. If you're not a believer, you'll find that whatever else false God you worship, whatever you look to, to give you what only God can give you, what only God promises to give you That thing will lead you to eternal destruction. So for a Christian, it's extremely dangerous, and it leads to great regret. For the non-believer, it leads to hell. So it's frightening stuff. Hosea 8. 4 tells us with their silver and their gold they made idols for their own destruction. They made idols for their own destruction. Now, if anyone were to tell you, here are the ingredients for poison, really good poison. Kills you really quick, a little painful, but it's it's good stuff I would uh and they and they tell us, you know, I'd like you to put it together, you do it exactly like this. You put this here, you put this here, stir them together. We would look at that person as if they were crazy. Like, why in the world do I want to drink poison? But the devil does the same thing, and we think that we're somehow smart to trust him We think we're smart to suspect that God is holding out on us in some way for this pleasure or this pursuit of this way of meeting our needs that we feel so strongly compelled to have or to do. So we build our own poison, we set up something in God's place, and we give ourselves over to it, lock, stock, and barrel, while it destroys us. Well, it's such burdens on our shoulders that will never go away. The sin we commit will be forgiven if we're believers, but the opportunities for faithfulness will never come back. We'll never have them again We do well to take this to heart. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall have no other gods before me. God's hearing is God. Love the Lord your God with everything you've got. If we only did that one thing, we would have almost everything else in our lives lived. If we did that one thing. Love God with everything you've got. Our brother Ortland has uh some wonderful words here. Can't leave him. He says, Silver and gold are good things. Beautiful things, valuable things. An idol is not, in essence, a smelling monstrosity. It's a good thing God created for us. So how does the good thing go bad? We corrupt it by the way we perceive it and feel about it. This is pretty insightful. We corrupt it by the way we perceive it and feel about it. Not in our formal conscious commitments, but in our functional, emotional commitments, we exchange the creator for something created. We trade down because the gift seems more real and more rewarding than the giver. That's idolatry. It's a matter of the heart. The prophet Ezekiel said, the heart went after their idols. Whatever good thing your heart goes after, if you prefer it to God Himself, it is an idol. Let's look at the gods of Babylon now in verse one. Says Bel bows down, Nebo stoops. Their idols were on the beasts and on the cattle, and your carriages were heavily loaded, a burden to the weary beast. They stooped down, they bowed down together. They could not deliver the burden, but have themselves gone into captivity. It's interesting that the idols of battle and do carry the Babylonians. The Babylonians carried the idols Babylon used to have a New Year's celebration where the most important gods were hauled through the streets. They were celebrated for all the wonderful things that they had invited to the Babylonian people that year, and they're looking forward to a brand new year of these wonderful idols. One would think that the first clue to the problem was in the fact that the idols were not mobile. That would seem to be an important thing, wouldn't it? If you were picking out a god, you should at least have one that should be able to go from one place to another. These idols couldn't do anything for themselves Have you ever noticed that we rarely choose our idols because we are convinced logically that they are effective in the long run? No no uh no one worries because they know uh you know it will protect them from bad things. Well let me let me rephrase that. Nobody goes about worrying because they know that by worrying this is gonna protect them from the thing that's gonna happen. No one chooses a life of pleasure because those who choose lives of pleasure always have the happiest and healthiest lifestyles. No one chooses to make an idol of a person because we know that's the surest way to have a long-lasting and good relationship. No, we feel compelled and we follow our compulsion. That's how our aisles get set up. It's not as much about thinking as it is about wanting, desiring, needing Here we see the most important gods of the Babylonians are bowing down, defeated by the one true God. That's the picture we see in verse 1. The things that the Babylonians worshiped failed the worshippers. Their hopes were bashed. Their glory was shamed when Cyrus came in. Their false gods did not deliver the burden. And there's a play on words there. You know, you have these people delivering the idols, but the idols never delivered the people. When confronted with real life and the one true God, the idols fail They're seen for what they are. Fiction. How slow we are to learn This is true of everything we set our hearts on, apart from or competing with the worship of God. We're only guaranteeing future disappointment. We really need to get this, and we keep saying we really need to get this because it's so hard to get. Our hearts are so tricky. As hard as it is, we need to get this through our head. Anything that is not received gratefully by us from God's hands, anything that we cannot faithfully thank God for. Anything contrary to the obedience of God's stated will is going to be a certain disappointment. Just a matter of time in the Christian life. An easy example are believers who have knowingly chosen to enter into marriage relationships with unbelievers. There's no question about God's will here. But old heart has so many compelling reasons And at the bottom is the perception that one's greatest fulfillment will be found in this relationship This is what one needs. This is what one must have. This is what a person's soul deeply wants. Yet nearly every person who has ever done this and is still a believer after many years would give the advice don't do it. Don't yoke yourself with a non-belief. It'll bring you misery. You will regret it. It will not give you what your heart longs for, even though right now it promises everything God may be merciful. He may bring that person to himself. He may actually provide a good relationship and his goodness to his children. He certainly does those wonderful things. But that's not how you go about serving God by setting up an alternative God. You'll live to regret your unfaithfulness. And that's just an easy example to prove a point. But the point can be made with any idolatry that we choose. It all is the same. Idolatry disappoints And idolatry must. Because there's only one true God. Nothing else can deliver what our souls need. If we only believe this, we could flee our lives, free our lives of all kinds of future misery. Our temporary idols will one day bow down, just like these idols in verse 1. They're insufficient to provide our souls with what they need. They will never deliver you, and they will never deliver on what they promised. Now look at the contrast in verses 3 and 4. Listen to me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnants of the house of Israel who have been upheld by me from birth. Now this idol sorry this God is delivering. This God is carrying up. Who have been carried from the womb. Even to your old age I am he, and even to gray hairs, I will carry you. Not like these idols that you need to carry them. I will carry you. I have made and I will bear. Even I will carry and will deliver you. When is the last time you even had a thought that you needed and needed to carry and sustain your God? You know, it's absurd to us. If you know any theology , hopefully we know a lot by now. You don't think, well, man, God needs a hand here. I better help him out of his chair. When's the last time you thought God really needed your assistance so he could get around where he needed to be? If you understand God at all, that is not even a possibility. If we exist, we are being upheld by God. In Him we live and move and have our being, Scripture says. It started a conception and it will never end. Our God does require you. That's where true security comes from, if we'll allow our hearts to hope in him. That's the kind of relationship we were designed for. The hearts of believers are built with a vacuum that only God can fill. This is a God that will never bow like in verse 1. This is a God who will never be conquered. This is a God who is fit to be called God. And then he goes on. In verse 5, we see that God has no competitors. There's no one like God. No, not one. There is God and there is everything else, like we've been saying. And everything else may be worshiped like a God, but that does not make them a God. It just makes people stupid. Again, in 6 and 7, Isaiah points out the absurdity of idol worship. The absurdity of idol worship, we see this over and over again, but its source is man, and it cannot save man. Man needs a God that can save man. Mankind needs a God that is bigger than itself, outside of itself, so this God can intervene in the lives of men. Verse 8 is a cry for reason. A cry for reason. Reason does not cause us to go after other gods. Good, solid, logical reasoning will not get you bowing at an idol. Our passions do, our cravings do, our compulsions do Look what God calls upon here. Verse 8. Remember this and show yourselves men. Recall to mind you transgressors. What God is saying here isn't very complicated. He's saying think. Just like my brother used. Think. Use your head. Reason this out. We sometimes get the idea, I think, that God is compassionate regarding the reasons that we follow our strong feelings in compassion, sin and idolatry. It's like God will believe the things that we expect other people to believe when we say, You just don't know how hard it is for me to do the right thing here. You just can't know unless you're in my skin how difficult it is here to be faithful. You know, I I sort of have to do this then Well, I don't know of a single verse that shows God's compassion for believers choosing sin. He can empathize for how hard the struggle can be because he was tempted in every manner like we But there's no empathy for choosing to fail. At least I don't know any verses like that. After all, it cost Christ his life so he could be victorious. God's not going to play games with that. If Christ gave his life so we could obey, he's not going to pity us for choosing to fail. He will forgive us. But that's not going to fool on his heart strings. God is impossible to fool. We are easy to fool. And we will nearly always believe what we tell ourselves. I don't know if you've noticed that in your life. For some reason, we always trust the source when we talk to ourselves. Should we? We don't have any evidence we should, but we always do. But God calls us to reason. He says we need to remember. Remember. That is intentional brain activity. We need to show ourselves as reasoning human beings that can be led by reason. The word for show yourselves men means something like put yourselves on a firm foundation. It's an appeal to acting like we were designed to act. An appeal to act in a way that is solid, not to live by our impulses. We need to exercise our thinking, not our excuses. We don't need to better recite our reasons to disobey. We need to more clearly understand and believe God's reasons for us to obey We need to gather people around us who will believe what God says rather than what we say when the two come into conflict. I love how the Bible addresses it. Well I I sort of. Our culture would say that we must address people as wonderful individuals that they are, that we know that they are, in order to appeal to them to become a more wonderful individual. God doesn't feel that mean. He addresses us as we are. Humility is always called for when we are addressed by God. I don't know if you've noticed that, but God says, do this, you transgressors. Do this, you transgressors. Why did he say that? Well, I suppose it's because that's what we are God never flatters his children. We're never told we're wonderful, and here are the ways we can be more wonderful. No, it's more like we're prone to wonder, and this is how you can remain safe. We're prone to sin, and here's how you can be faithful. The assumption is that our flesh, what comes naturally, always leads us away from God and not toward him. Our hearts are idle factories, always leading us to worship the creation rather than the creator. And we have to constantly be proc processing truth in a factual manner to keep reoriented to the reality of God We have to think. We have to use what God says, believe it, and act as if it's true. Do you want to be on a firm foundation? Think correctly. Allow every thought to be directed by the words of God. Don't assume that any response that rises up within you is a good response. Maybe it is, maybe it's not. Always check it with the words of God. That's what these people are called to. They're challenged to think right. Now, where does God direct them? Verse 9. Remember the former things of old, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is none like If you want to think correctly, start with what God has done. Our culture tends to not value the things of old. We think that the new things are the best things, the truest things. Things like understanding and wisdom are not necessary skills in our current environment. We need progressive things, we need technical skills, we need innovation. That's what we value But when God wants people to begin to think with a firm foundation, he doesn't point them to look inside. He doesn't point them to look outside. He points them to look back. We need to start with creation and work our way to where we are now. That's where we'll find wisdom and perspective. Then we can look at what God has done in our lives while we veered left and right thinking to meet our own needs, and we need to look at how God graciously put it into our plans And brought us back to himself time and time and time again in our histories. That's when we begin to understand just how powerful and gracious our God was to us and is to us. Then in verses 10 and 11, we're shown how God, how everything God says will happen. He's calling the shots. The other so-called gods have their followers trying to get the future. Not so with God's people. Verse 10, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times, things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand and I will do all my pleasure. Calling a bird of prey from the east, the man who executes my counsel from afar off, a far country. Indeed, I have spoken it, I will also bring it to pass. I have purposed it I will also do it. This goes way beyond God saying, I know what's going to happen in the future. There are some who explain God's foreknowledge in salvation as God knowing something ahead of time. And then He plans with that knowledge in mind. But we can see in our text this morning that's not how God explains what he does. And the word for poor knowledge in Scripture is not referring to factual knowledge. It's referring to relational intimacy. In fact, the you know the same word to know is the one that's used for sexual intimacy So it's not that God knew about people ahead of time. It's not that God knew what people were going to do ahead of time. God knew most people ahead of time. He really loved them ahead of time. It fits much better with how God describes his actions here in Isaiah. In verse 10 we see that God declares things well before they have happened. God has the book of Revelation completed before he begins the book of Genesis. That's what God is like. But look closely at verses 10 and 11. He says, My counsel shall stand and I will do all my pleasure Calling a bird of prey from the east, the man who executes my counsel from a far country. Indeed I have spoken it, I will also bring it to pass. I have purposed it, I will also do it. God intended to happen. God predicts it will happen. Then what? Does God watch as it happens? No. He is far more active than that. God makes it happen. I will also do it. I will bring it to pass, he says. Those are active words. I have purposed it. I will do it. God does not predict the future as much as he predicts the future and announces his intentions ahead of time. Do you realize the security this truth can produce in your life, no matter what you might face? Do you realize just how solid this makes our lives? It can look very shaky, but it's as certain as the intentions of God for you. Your life is not happening to you. God's plans are happening to you. Sure, much of it has to do with living in a sinful world. It's not the best of all existences. God never says it's it is. In fact, he promises it's better. There are things that are necessary now that will not be necessary later, but they're still in God's hands. Now, ask yourself this. What thing do you need in your life? What thing do you need God to do in your life? That is bigger than God raising up a political leader to bring an end to the political or the Babylonian role. What thing do you need in your life that is bigger than getting Cyrus into power and conquering Babylon? Do you not think that was a pretty big undertaking? It took over a hundred years to set the stage and put all the players in play. Now, do you need something bigger than that? Do you really think that God does not have the resources to shape your future in the way that is best for you and all your fellow believers? We say we believe this stuff. But in the heart of our hearts and in the places where we find ourselves having to make quick decisions. Do we? Do we really believe this stuff? Do I think God can take care of all the bad things I can imagine happening? And why is it that we can spend hours imagining bad things happening, but we can't spend hours imagining the good things that God might do Why does God so seldom get the benefit of doubt in our minds? Why do we so much prefer the gods of our own making than the tested and true God? That has come through for us every single time. Verse twelve. I think we get a little bit of it here. Listen to me, you stubborn harder. Yeah, yeah. That's gonna close some problems. Listen to me, you stubborn-hearted, or far from righteousness. I'll bring my righteousness near, it shall not be far off. My salvation shall not linger, and I will place salvation in Zion, for Israel my glory Well, God sure is negative, isn't he? How does he expect to get a following when people are making choices about which God they're going to choose and he keeps calling them names? Again, God never apologizes for describing his creation as his creation is. We need to humble ourselves if we ever hope to have a good relationship with God. Jesus told one of his best friends on earth, get behind me, Satan. If we're to be serious in a relationship with God, we need to be very serious about loving truth, no matter how it might hit us. Sometimes tough truth is the tool of tough love. God loves us enough to tell the truth about us Our problems, just like the people in Isaiah's day, are often due to the conditions of our hearts more than they are the conditions of our heads. We can think right, we have a lot of good information, we just will not humble ourselves to allow it. Who of us wants to be addressed by God as you stubborn-hearted? But who of us does not deserve to be addressed by God as you stubborn hearted? Again, we can't miss what we've seen over and over again. God does not wait for us to become righteous. Praise God. He does not wait for our self-improvement programs to have dramatic success before you act. No, he says, I'll bring my righteousness near to you. I'll bring it. I'll bring it. That's what God has always done to save his people. That's what God must do if people are ever to be saved. We need a righteousness outside of ourselves. It is not caused by us, it is not produced by us, it comes to us by the intention and the will of God. And the grace of God. And it's offered to us. And it's not offered to us when we are near to God's righteousness, it's offered when we are far from His righteousness, when we are sinners. When we are choosing a life of sin and think that it's a good deal. We receive it when we have no hope in ourselves of ever attaining it. Christ came to save sinners, not righteous. When these people heard Isaiah, they probably thought he was talking about political salvation. And in context, maybe that was part of the application. Cyrus was going to arrive, and there's a certain rightness about that that we alluded to earlier. But the bigger salvation The more important salvation, the salvation of people's souls, was just around the corner. It may have been hundreds of years, but it was one of the next significant acts of God in saving his people. God is not slow to act as something slowness. He's moving to stay, and he will move perfectly in his perfect time to do so. Now look how Isaiah ends his discussion about the idols. I will place salvation in Zion for Israel my glory. People place their salvation idols in their worship notes all of the time. We're continually setting up the next thing that we think will bring us happiness and content. But God's going to do a work far better than any of our attempts. He will, by his grace, place his salvation smack dead in the middle of his people and his city. And this stiff-necked people are going to kill Christ. And by so doing, will play a part in allowing all people everywhere to be saved. And why is God going to do this? He says, for Israel my glory. Ultimately, why do the people of God hold such importance to God? Because they are the people he has given the earth to represent himself with. And by glorifying them, he glorifies himself. We see it again and again. The story is all about the goodness of God And it's especially about his goodness to people whose only contribution to their salvation is to initially run from it. What would happen? What would happen? If we really acted like we think God and God alone knows how life should be lived. What would happen if we clung only to his words, his direction, his instruction as our guide's delivery? What would happen if we really believed that apart from his word and guidance, we really don't know anything of value at all? All of our desires and cravings and compulsions are inadmissible evidence regarding how we should live or what we should do. If I understand it correctly, this is how the normal Christian life should be lived. With Jesus as Lord, Lord of everything. This is true discipleship and God expects it. Why? Because God is worthy. It looks like maybe God has given us another week to work on it. Heaven seems that way. I pray that God would give us greater and greater success in this process of glorifying himself this week by bowing to his lordship. In every area of our lives. Let's close the prayer. God, you are so good. You give us so much truth. We're thankful that you do. We're thankful that you keep allowing us opportunities even though our failure rate is so high. And then you call us to yourself, and it it's you that bears the burden. It's you that does the carrying. It's us that are called to trust and obey. God, we ask that you would continue the work that you are doing in our lives. That you would break us down, break our idols from their spots. Help us to see them and call them what they are. And give up on them. And hold tightly to you. And submit wholeheartedly to you and obey everything that your word tells us as we see it. And Lord, we know that's your will. We know we can pray this prayer and expect it to be answered by your power. So we ask it, expecting this week, to see your hand at work in our lives. And we praise you and we thank you. In Jesus' name, be loud.