What we see this morning is how darkness responds to light. And we see that the darkness's greatest desire, when it's fulfilled, leads to its greatest curse. The Pharisees would like nothing better than for Jesus to disappear. They longed for him to go away. They wished he'd never shown up. They want their lives back to normal. They want their lives of prestige and power, wealth, and Jesus is just a huge interruption That they can't tolerate. They want him to go away. And yet when he goes, and he is gonna go, when he goes They'll have no more life. They'll have no more opportunity. If they rid Jesus from their lives, Jesus is not gone. He's just gone from them If they don't believe in Christ, there will be no other opportunity to be saved. The Pharisees were showing that they wanted Jesus to go away. They wanted this light to stop shining in their eyes. And they certainly didn't want to go where he was going because they just wanted separation from him. They wanted his influence to stop affecting their lives. What they didn't understand is that their whole eternity would rest upon whether they would one day go where Christ is or not. We saw last week that Christ's followers were promised that they would go where Jesus is going. Not right away, but that they would go. But these Jewish leaders, they want nothing to do with it. They should have been begging Christ, please come let us let us go where you're going. We can't bear life without your light. But that desire simply was not part of their fabric. Verse 22. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself? Since he says, Where I'm going, you can't come. Previously, I had proposed that these Jewish leaders were projecting what they would do on Christ. They projected earlier that Christ would save his life, he would regroup politically, he'd give it another shot by by siding up with the Greeks in the dispersion. That was their theory about what w what Jesus' plans might be, uh, because it would be what they would think. Now it's likely they're understanding what Christ is saying a little more clearly in this text. We can't be sure we get the right take on the passage. There are several ways of understanding it. But I like John MacArthur's the best. What do we know that the leadership is planning to do with Christ at this point? They're going to kill him They they're not unclear about that. They have stated their intentions. They plan to kill them. They already made that clear. So the leadership, how they're responding to all of this might be like an inside joke to them. You know, when you know something that's other people don't know and there's a couple of you who know it and you can kinda laugh about it and nobody else has any idea what you're laughing about. So it could be, yeah ha ha, he's gonna cut us off ha ha ha by killing himself. Ha! Well, that that would certainly work in their opinion, since the Pharisees all agreed that if a person kills him him or herself, that person is going to darkest Hades That was their theology. In their mind, suicide was a trip to whatever they viewed as being the greatest punishment. And since the leadership saw themselves as the heroes of the Jewish faith, they believed that they'd be rewarded. If they actually believed in eternity at all, the Sadducees didn't, but they believed that they were on the right side of things and Jesus was on the wrong side of things. So if Jesus was suggesting that he was going to kill himself, these self-righteous Pharisees certainly could not and would not follow him. But the whole time, the joke is that Jesus won't have the chance to kill himself because the Jewish leadership is fully intending to do that job for him. So this is a very morbid joke to them. That's a possible way of understanding it. Again, it could be that the Pharisees were still projecting how they would do things unto Christ. And let me explain. In a lot of cultures, humiliation is worse than death So the leaders might be projecting their own pride upon Christ by saying that Jesus would rather kill himself than to face humiliation of a failed claim of the Messiahship. So Jesus shows up to be the Messiah. He obviously things aren't going well. He's getting too much resistance, so he's going to kill himself. Maybe they thought that Jesus could read the writing on the wall and they knew that things were going downhill for them. He could see where things were headed. That's a possible motive for why the Pharisees said what they said. This reminds me of the story of one of King David's enemies. I don't know if you remember it. Remember Ahithophel. Ahithophel. Not many kids name that anymore. Ahithophel. He was one of David's trusted counselors. But when Absalom rebelled, Absalom his son rebelled, Ahithophel betrayed David and he sided with Absalom. And this Ahithophel was a pretty sharp dude. He gave really, really good advice. Really good advice. But David advised one of his loyal friends Hoshai, H-U-S -H-A-I, Hoshai, I had to listen to it in the Greek in the in the Hebrew to find out how it said. Hoshai to remain with Absalom to give bad advice that opposed the wise advice of Ahithophel. And that's exactly what happened. After Hoshai influenced Absalom on his first decision. Against what Ahithophel had suggested, Ahithophel could instantly see how the future was going to unfold. Ahithophel wasn't good at picking sides, but he was a master at seeing where the events would lead. Scripture says that after seeing this one event, the one decision, he went home, got his affairs in order, and he hanged himself. He preferred the hangin' he'd give himself over the hangin' he was going to get when later David returned into the city. He could see from this one event how everything would happen, and Ahithophel preferred to control his own destiny. So the Jewish leadership may have thought that Christ was reading the events the same way that Ahithophel would Or the way the Pharisees might read it if they were in Jesus' shoes. But of course, they were wrong. We know the rest of the story. Jesus had no intentions of killing himself. Now, there's always a danger when reading these passages that we might assume that the Jewish leadership were just sincere and they were sincerely wrong. Now I think probably the way we've gone about this, none of us are thinking that right now. But it it'd be easy to read it and think that. We might assume that just a little more or a little kinder communication from Jesus would work all this out. But Jesus keeps giving us the inside scoop. He reveals these men's hearts. These men love darkness over the light because the light reveals their wicked deeds, and they don't want to expose what's really going on in their hearts. They hate life, and that's why they hate Jesus. And that's why Jesus responds to him as he does. In verse 23, he said, You're from below, I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. Here Jesus again lays out the source of all the problems. Now, I sometimes find it funny and sometimes it's infuriating when idealistic folks talk like all the world's problems could be resolved if we would just communicate better. Neville Chamberlain was the United Kingdom's prime minister as Hitler was building up power. Mr. Chamberlain was all for discussions and diplomacy and conversations with Hitler. Thinking that Hitler could get what he wanted and the UK could get what they wanted and they'd all just be happy by talking At one point, Chamberlain said this: how horrible, fantastic, incredible it is that we should be digging trenches and trying on gas masks here because of a quarrel in a faraway country between people of whom we know nothing. Nothing. Chamberlain did not understand the nature of man or the nature of evil or the nature of Hitler. Christ does. Christ describes all humanity with utter clarity. Everyone. Everyone is either currently from above and a member of God's kingdom, or he is from below and a member of the world's kingdom. Everyone, there are zero exceptions. And no amount of conversation will reconcile the differences because the positions oppose each other. We cannot reconcile the world's kingdom with God's kingdom any more than we can reconcile the devil with Christ. Words by themselves, words by themselves will accomplish nothing Only the Holy Spirit can make the necessary changes to reconcile wicked hearts to Christ. The gospel, the words, along with the Holy Spirit. is what we rely upon. We're looking for a miracle, and we keep coming back to that. And Jesus makes the case stronger and stronger. When we present the words, we're looking for action in a person's heart that is supernatural. We're looking for a miracle. Now, this can be misleading because there are many pleasant, polite people who are of this world. This is one of the harder things for our kids to understand when they hit the college, you know, and being in the in in that world. At least I I think that that's accurate to say. Um many are content to let us do our own thing and they do their thing and they're happy to be around us. We're other human beings and they'll relate to us in friendly ways. And many are nicer, friendlier, and more generous than many Christians. Certainly. than me. So that's all true. We should teach this to our children so they're not confused because truly it can be a little confusing. So even though these kind and gentle people may not be in a place in their lives where the light of Christ causes overt hatred in them , Know that it's there. They carry that trigger. You just may not have pressed it yet. Something that is vitally important to them when Christ stands against it to them, if they ever understand that They are going to respond either by receiving Christ or hating Christ. You push it hard enough. And again, not everybody's being pushed that way. And if Christ's claims cross that point, these people will reveal their true heart toward him and his. Now, I thank God that we live in an environment where we have so much peace to be able to carry out our duties to Christ. It's a tremendous blessing. Most of the world doesn't overtly hate us. But we must understand this underlying truth that it's only waiting. It's waiting for opportunity. Every person is either a servant of the devil, most being completely unaware of it, or a willing and very aware servant of Jesus Christ. Every person either fits best into this world's kingdoms based on the values of what's visible and attainable here, you know, they're bought into what's what's here, what can be seen, all of that kind of stuff, or they fit best into this coming kingdom. Of absolute righteousness. They fit into one or the other. And where we are from Determines how we respond to life in Christ, where we are from spiritually, determines how we respond. To life and Christ. Christ knew that the Pharisees could not understand Christ properly because they were from the wrong kingdom. They were living for earthly motivations. And that put them outside of anything that they could understand of the functioning of the Son of Man. It was just beyond them. After Jesus told them where they were from and what they were of, he then tells them why they cannot go. Where Christ is going. Verse 24, I told you that you would die in your sins. He doesn't leave it at that. He goes on, for unless you believe that I am He You will die in your sins. These leaders thought that they would be blessed in death and Christ would be cursed in death. Christ is telling them how it really is. When you reject the light, you only have darkness left. That's an absolute truth. You and I should walk through this life with great clarity. A person either is committed by faith to Christ, believing that he has secured his or her salvation by Christ's death on the cross. Or they are in disbelief, unbelief. And when they die, every sin that they ever committed will be held against them to damn them. That is the state there are non-believers in. I remember as a child in a red station wagon. I'd love to know like what it was actually. All I remember is a red station wagon. And I remember leaning over the front seat to talk to my mom and dad. And I bring up people's names that I've I had encountered, that I had noticed, and I would ask them about various people, and I ask them Is that person a Christian? Is that person a Christian? And it would break my heart if they weren't. Because I knew that person was damned. I knew that person was doomed. I knew it would be awful for them. I sometimes think I lost something of great value over the years. I've become comfortable around people Who are destined for hell I suspect that the day after I die, I will see how proper it was. To be so brokenhearted at the lostness of people Christ made it clear, and we must keep it clear. There are only two eternal destinations, and the difference lies in what we do with Christ. We either trust our very life to him in faith or we live in disbelief. The kind that never makes enough of Christ to be willing to give our lives to him You are on one side or the other this morning. Every single person here. Doing good is not the method of being received. Believing in Christ. is. Faith is. Works follow for sure, but faith is what gets us through the door. And ultimately it's not even faith that gets us through us door through the door. It's what Christ did that does So verse 25, so they said to him, Who are you? I'd like to say that these Pharisees are amazingly dense. But I find my own track record of believing and applying the obvious truths of Christ has not been stellar. And I suspect that maybe I'm not alone here. I gather from this that they, as the self-perceived authorities, are demanding from Christ, who do you think you are? You know, when he asked when they ask this question, it's more. Who do you think you are? They obviously know that his name is Jesus And they think they know where he's from, and they're and they're probably aware that Mary became pregnant prior to marriage. So what they're asking is more than that What they're asking is, which authoritative figure prophesied in the Old Testament do you claim to be? I think that's really the question. And I think that's how Jesus understood it. Had this been a sincere question from someone whose interest in the Lord was kindled by the Holy Spirit, I'm sure Jesus would have been very patient. But in this case, he is not very impressed. Jesus said to them, just what I've been telling you from the beginning. They say, Who are you? He said, Well, just what I've been telling you. Every now and then I used to get an email, especially at work, requesting information that I had already gone through all the trouble of sending them previously. So I would forward the original email so they can see I've already sent it to you and put as per below or something like that, because I wanted the person to get the idea that maybe they should read my emails if I take the trouble to send them. I think that's the tone we're supposed to get here. Jesus has told them over and over who he is, but they don't want to hear it. The beginning referred to here is not the beginning of the world. This is the beginning of Christ's conversations with the Pharisees, not the beginning of time. And Christ has made it clear to them over and over that he was sent from God, he was claiming to be God, he is the Messiah, he is the prophet, he is the Son of Man, but they want to act like the problem is all on Christ's lack of revelation. He didn't make it clear enough yet. He's unwilling to communicate. I would have been instantly angry at this point. if I were him, but clearly I am not him. Verse 26. I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him. I think Jesus is telling his audience here that the problem is not his unwillingness to reveal things, but it's in their problem of hearing it. They don't hear it. They just don't want to hear it. Jesus could talk to them all day, and they would hear nothing that they needed to hear. The leaders have been judging Christ all day long, and they're judging him wrongly. Christ says, I have plenty that I could judge, and my judging is right. But what you need to know is I'm not playing any political games here. I'm not dancing to your drummer. I am true. I speak what is true. I do not have hidden agendas. I'm not at all like you. I'm not at all like you Pharisees, and I'm not at all like you religious leaders. Not at all. When I say it's true, because I was sent by one who is true to do something that is true. There is complete transparency in what I am proposing. Proclaiming. What I say to others is what I heard from my Father who is in heaven. Oh, that we could say that with our lives. All that there was never any hiding or deception in what we say to each other Or even to ourselves, or sometimes even to God. Or that our lives were such that we would have no embarrassment or disgrace if everyone saw everything. That's a huge statement. True is what we strive for as Christians, but true isn't always what we get. With Christ, he could say that what I say, what I do , what I think, they're all congruent. I say to the world what my father said to me. I think what my father said to me. Christ was never ashamed of anything that he ever did. He never felt like he had to hide anything he did. Can you imagine that? Might we all strive to live such a life that if every moment was televised, we would have nothing to hide or be ashamed of? Yeah, we don't want pictures in the bathroom and stuff, but you know what I mean. You know that those things that we are doing That would be living like Christ. Verse 27. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father. Of course they didn't. This is getting to the place where it's hardly worth mentioning. The Jewish leadership they weren't discerning of truth because conforming to truth was not their objective. Verse 28, so Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you'll know that I am he, and that I do nothing. Nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. Jesus is prophesying here There will be some in the leadership that will eventually believe in Christ. There will be some in this godless leadership who will believe in Christ. But they will not believe by Christ's words. It's going to take place in Christ on the cross, watching how he handled his suffering, seeing the darkness and the earthquakes, hearing about people rising from their graves. Hearing about the curtain in the temple ripping from the top to the bottom. Hearing about Jesus' body disappearing. Then there'll be some of this hard-hearted, unbelieving crowd who will believe in Christ. And it will dawn on them that this is what was prophesied. Christ never did anything that was self-serving. Everything on his agenda to w was to serve his father's desires and his father's designs. Everything. And everything that Christ was headed toward this end, he was nothing, nothing like the Jewish leadership. Everything Was submitted. Everything was obedient. Everything was scripted by the Father Himself. Now there's something we might not pick up on this passage in English though, where it says, you will know that I am he This is again the I am phrase that God used to describe Himself, and they would have recognized it by the language in Greek here, whatever language it was. Jesus is saying It's at that point that you will know that I am God. When you put me on the cross, it is at that point that you will know that I am God. You'll really get it in your heart of hearts. That is salvation. When we turn to Jesus Christ as God, as our rescuer, as our Savior. as our Lord. Now unfortunately at that time it's going to be too late to fellowship cr with Christ in the flesh. You're not going to have any more question -answer times with Jesus in the flesh. It'll be too late to ask him the questions they should have asked. By that point, Jesus will have revealed who he is, and now these men will know who they are. Men in desperate need of a Savior. Just like all of us. Verse 29, and he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. If the leadership thought that Jesus was desperate enough to commit suicide, Jesus is telling them he's not desperate at all. I'm not desperate at all. He is perfectly secure in his father's love. He's perfectly secure in his father's fellowship. There has been no disaster. There's nothing he needs to adapt to. He's not suddenly finding out, oh no, my plans are shattered. Nothing like that. Everything was expected. Jesus' Father is orchestrating every event. He is with Christ. He has always been with Christ. There's never a reason to panic. There's never a reason to fear. The Father is always with the Son. And Jesus gives us a why. I always do the things that are pleasing to my Father. I always do the things that are pleasing to my Father. I wish I could say this. Do you? Don 't you wish you could say that you've never failed the Father? Don't you wish you could say that you trusted him each step of the way? Don't you wish you could say that you obeyed him? Even when it was hard, even when it meant not pursuing those things that our heart felt desperately like they had to have Christ never leaves us, but we do distance ourselves from him at times by our sin. He doesn't leave us, but we distance ourselves from him and grieve his Holy Spirit in our disobedience. Christ is the only one who can say that I always do the things that are pleasing to him. Oh, that we would take that as a challenge. To live without regret. To live by obeying Christ at every point that we are aware of. That is the Christian life well lived. Oh, it's so good that Christ was not like we are. It's so good that his obedience was perfect. It's so good everything he did was pleasing to his father. I suppose we should chew on this a bit. We too have the capacity to please our Father. I mean, sometimes I find that hard to please. I don't know if you've ever experienced that, but you think I can please God. I can have an effect, sort of, you know, on God that He would be pleased. By me, he allows that privilege, that influence by me Now, we don't do it perfectly, but that shouldn't stop us from doing it imperfectly. As a church, how wonderful it would be if we obeyed him at every point of awareness. If we never violated our consciences, if we submitted at every point. That's the goal. That is walking in the Spirit. Saying yes at every point. We can't do that. Christ has enabled it. Christ is worthy of that. We don't have any excuse. Sin's power plug is unplugged. If Christ hadn't done that, yeah, we'd have an excuse. I'm sinful. I can't help it But we have the capacity for perfect obedience. I wouldn't expect it too much. We always know when we fail it's our fault. But we have that capacity. Praise Jesus. He was perfectly obedient. What can we do this week? To follow his example. What do we know is holding us back? What needs dealt with? Now here was the result of what Christ said. Verse 30. As he was saying these things, many believed in him Now we don't need to read much further until we find out that flesh still reigned in these people who were pro-Jesus This isn't the kind of saving belief. I wish it was, but we find out in the text that it's not. Being pro-Jesus is never enough. What flesh can add to the cause of Christ is pretty much nothing. So for a human to use his reason capacity and come up with like a plus sign next to Jesus in his mind where he's going to say good things. And said bad things about Jesus, that pretty much amounts to nothing. You and I want people to come to Christ, so it's easy to rejoice when we see anything that looks like a positive response. to Christ, a positive response to the gospel. But we need to always keep in mind that there is a lot of false belief. There is what is a human-generated belief. And it will always be a disappointment. At some point, it will give up on Christ because it loses its fleshly payoff. And we'll see this as we continue in our text next week or the following week. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we run.