Matthew, book Matthew. I just I just want to start off with a quote um one prayer. Um I think prayer it it turns into I don't know let me just read the quote and and then you can see why what I'm saying uh this quote's really challenging. Um Even when I read it, I just keep reading it and it just keeps really provoking my heart, and I just want to read it to you. It's Rob Robert Murray McShane. Uh a Scottish pastor a long time ago, he says, A man is what he is on his knees before God, from nothing more I'm gonna read it again. Because it's really bothering. Now I'll even rephrase it. A man is what he is on his knees before God, and he's nothing more. And I don't put this quote here to shame us, because I think if you're anything like me, I think we all struggle in prayer. I think prayer is actually one of the harder disciplines. I'd say it's actually the hardest discipline. This past year for me, I just want to bring you in a little bit to my life where I've been, just so you can see kind of why this Part was challenging. When I talked to Ziggy a couple months ago, we were talking about prayer, why it was so challenging. This past year um I didn't lose him. He's a he's a friend of mine uh that left. He's a pastor, he's a friend, uh left. Crew, I worked with crew, as most of you know. We were removed from our meeting location. We were kicked out of the house that we had had. Uh we've lost our academic advisor twice for two different reasons same different reasons, but um both of them left. We had two worship leaders step down. We've had our sound system removed from the school. The school said that you can't have that. And with all of my life feeling like it's kind of crumbling out from underneath of me, the thing that I didn't think would crumble as much was my prayer life. And maybe you're like me. Maybe your life's actually together and maybe you feel like your prayer life is similar. But I was shocked that the most crippling thing in my life to do was to quit praying. That's the thing that I did. You may ask, well how how is that? How can you do ministry apart from prayer? And that's a good question. I'm still trying to figure that one out. The thing is you can't. My problem in my life, though, was not my situations. My problem in my life was not enough zeal. And my problem in my life was not my method of prayer. I'm convinced that prayer truly is the hardest discipline, and here's why. Maybe you can relate. Prayer is um So you have preaching. Let's give preaching for an example. People say preaching is hard. Preaching's easy. You want to know why prayer is harder than preaching? Because I've never stood up here, even when I've forgotten a thought, I've never forgot that I was preaching. But I have been praying and I forgot that I've been praying. Maybe you're like me in that way. Prayer is harder than service, because we can be in the act of doing it, in communion with God, and we'll forget what we're doing. Let's read what Jesus says in in Matthew six, starting in verse one. I'm sorry. Uh Sorry, starting in verse five. Starting in verse five. Matthew six. We're just going to read a little bit. We're going to see that Jesus is talking about prayer. He recognizes, I think, that prayer is extremely hard for the life of the believer. And he says to them, he says to his disciples, he says, and when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, Jesus, when he says, but when you pray, recognizing that it's hard. Go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. But that's not going to be our talk tonight. So Jesus gives some warnings of some things that the Gentiles were doing. We're not going to look at even that Because that's the negative side of prayer, what we ought not to do. Now we're going to look at what is the positive? What is Jesus calling us to do? So this prayer that he sets forth for us is the model by which the Son of God, the God man, gave us To pray. And it's approximated by some that these words of the Lord's Prayer are some of the most repeated in the English language. These words have been repeated and said aloud in a myriad of different settings. It's even funny. We used to pray this prayer for some reason before we would go out for football. I still to this day don't know why on earth we did that. But either way, we did. We for some reason said the Lord's Prayer before we went out, like it was some magic incantation. And it's not that. But it is the method, it's the framework, it's the ladder by which we hang the rest of our prayers. You know, I I moved to Frostburg about two years ago, and for some reason in Frostburg they like to blow the fire whistle all the time Well, a friend of mine who once moved from Alabama, he said that he said that in Alabama when you blow the fire whistle, that means that there's a tornado coming. So you can imagine like somebody walking and being in Frostburg, I remember Thomas always used to talk about it. He said that he moved up here and he said the first night he was up here the fire whistle went off. Because I thought the fire whistle goes off five times a night. And what's funny is the fire whistle means what's it mean? Danger. When you hear it, you're like, oh, danger. But not in prosperity. I don't know what it means actually in Frostburg. I would like to tell you I know what it means. I have no clue what the fire whistle in Frostburg means. I think it means there's a fire, but I'm not sure exactly. But I'll tell you that when I go, if you ask me, if you were to say, hey Daniel, how many times did the fire whistle blow last night? I couldn't tell you. Because what's funny is we hear it. I hear it, and it means danger. Yet I've tuned it out And I think what happens sometimes with the Lord Prayer is we hear it so much, we hear it in so many settings and so many places, and it becomes like the fire whistle. It doesn't mean anything to us any longer. And I don't think Jesus meant it to do that. That's not what the purpose of the Lord's Prayer was for. And these words can fall on a deaf ear, and I don't, I urge you, I don't want that to be the case for us. These words can become lame and they can become boring and our prayer life. Maybe you even recognize that your prayer life Just seems like you're praying the same old thing about the same old thing about the same old thing, time after time after time. And maybe that's where you're at. Because I've been there. I think I'm even there sometimes, I feel like throughout the day I'm even there. So let's let's just stop for a minute and let's pray that God would come and that He would speak to us through His Word. And let's look at we're only going to look at verse 9. That's all we're going to be looking at. Because there's not enough time to cover all of this. And then we're going to spend some time actually practicing it. So How about we pray and then we will jump in actually to our verse that we're going to be looking at. So if you will, let's pray. Father, we're looking at prayer, the model of prayer by which you set forth for us. Through the lips of the Lord Jesus. And God, we confess, I confess, Lord, for us, that prayer is not easy. And yet, Lord, you knew that. You know our insufficiencies. You know our inability. And yet you love us. Father, hallowed be thy name. We pray, Lord, now, that Father, our hearts would worship you In spirit and in truth. Come now, Lord Jesus. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Let's look, just look with me. How about we read all of it just to kind of give us a background for it? But we're only going to be looking at verse 9. So he says in verse 9, pray then like this. He's given us the negative of things not to pray. Don't heap up words, don't do these things. Now he's given us the positive. Pray then like this, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others your trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. But we're only looking, just a reminder, we're only looking at verse 9. So Jesus begins the prayer, but the model of prayer. He's not praying as he prayed because he says, forgive us our debts. So obviously he can't be praying the same thing that he prayed because he didn't have this. So it's kind of hard for him to do that, but he's giving us the model for prayer. And he begins prayer by saying whom we're addressing. And sometimes I I think I even approach prayer sometimes like this, and I come to God and I'm like, Lord, it's it's me again. Like he's forgotten who I am. Or here here I am, Lord, like he doesn't know who I am, like he didn't create me. But this is not where he begins. He starts with our Father. And he tells us that we should also begin in this way. Because I think it's this. This is the basis for our prayer. When we come to God, this is the basis for our prayer. This is the basis before God that we have. Just like things can become drab and boring, and this verse can be drab and boring, it shouldn't be. It ought not to be that way. Because there's several implications with it, and the first is this. It's claiming that we are God's children. For some of us, we grew up in Sunday school. We sang songs about this, so it doesn't, it kind of once again, there's the fire whistle. I don't know if you're like me, I grew up, Jesus loves me, we could all finish it. He loves all the little children of the world. He's got the whole world. We can just go on and on and on. And there's the fire whistle again. The fact that we are children of God, there's the firewall again. It sounds and we don't even recognize it. And if you're familiar with the scriptures at all, which most of you probably are, you will know quickly what the word says about who we are. But we forget what it means. The problem is that at the fall, our first father, Adam, was in perfect relationship with God. It said that he would walk in the cool of the day with him, like a friend would walk with Adam and Eve. They were in relationship with God and they would be with him. But when sin entered the world, this relationship was what? It was shattered. And we could all sit here and we could pontificate on how sin entered the world. And I sometimes ask students, I'll ask them, what do you think the idea about the idea of sin is? What what what's the big what's the big deal with sin? Does sin really have an effect? Because everyone believes there's sin. I don't I haven't met one person actually that says there's not sin. They all kind of agree that sin's legit. And they'll say that it brought pain into the world. It makes life worse, it makes bad things happen. And those are all true in a sense. But the biggest, the the root of all these things Is that we have a broken relationship. That the relationship that was once there is no longer. The huge tension of the Old Testament is that we could no longer be in the presence of God. We could no longer dwell with him in close proximity. And there you go through the temple, you get into the tabernacle, you get Mount Sinai, what was it? They could not dwell with God. But when Jesus enters the scene, he says that he's coming to write the bong between us and God. We can look at myriads of myriads of myriads of verses. And the Bible says that in the first Adam came sin and death, but through the second Adam, Christ Jesus, came life. And he is able to bring reconciliation when he went to the cross, suffering in the place of sinners. First Corinthians 15 says, For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection from the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. And this is what this is what you this is what theologians call the doctrine of adoption. Tim Caller says it like this. He says, the image of adoption tells us that our relationship with God is based completely on a legal act by the Father. You don't win a father. I'm not a father, so I don't know. You don't win a father, and you don't negotiate for a parent. Adoption is a legal act on part on the part of the father. It is very expensive and costly only for him. And there is nothing the son does to win or earn the status. It is simply receipt. So for Jesus to literally start and say, when you pray, pray like this. Our Father. Don't miss it. Don't let the fire whistle be going off right now. Our Father. I I have a friend who who told me a story one time and he said that um he had a friend even that went into the Congo because they had a son uh who they had had adopted. Um He just recently told me this story. He said that he said that um the cong I forget what the Congo 's government actually is called. It doesn't really matter. But they wouldn't release the child over to him And he said that the father would would fly over to the Congo, and he had the papers, he had the legal documents that this child is his, but the the government would give it. So the so the father went and He took the son from the orphanage and he brought him back home. It's beautiful. And we can all sit and we'd get warm fuzzies inside, and it's beautiful. But the truth of that is, the beauty of that situation. Is that that's our story folks. Friends, that that's our story ten times over. But what happens, this is where it gets the story gets even better. What was funny is he said that the child when it came home when he came home from the Congo Would actually go out in the backyard and he would eat mud and he would eat dirt. And they would he would lay, he would catch him, they'd try to put him in his bed at night and he would sneak out and he would go lay on the ground because he wasn't used to a bed And friends, I'm I'm c I'm concerned and I'm I find it in my own heart that crops up that that's what I do. That God has sought me and redeemed me in Christ Jesus. And what do I do? I'm in the backyard eating dirty. Forgetting who my legal, my legal position before God, what Jesus tells us to call him, our Father. That means mine and your Father. We can call him Father. Romans 8, 14 through 17 says, For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. But you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The second thing I think I want us to see is this. It is claiming that we can now know God intimately. Obviously I I'm not a father, I don't know, but some of you who are. Beautiful thing. I'm not sure how many of you grew up with great fathers, maybe you didn't, it doesn't really matter, but we all kind of know the role of a father. Fathers and mothers are meant to be in close proximity to their children. They're meant to be in intimate roles within the family structure. And the idea that we can know God intimately is completely different than anything this world understands or knows. Religion is all about doing the right things in the right ways to in effort to please God. Religion tries to appease God and make him do what we want him to do. Religion lives in a world that is always always striving to do more because it's never enough. But the gospel declares something different. The gospel is the good news which should impact the very nature that we pray. Our prayer lives should be marked by this gospel. As we saw, adoption is a legal act by the father which brings his children into the family. J. I. Packer says it like this. He says, he considers adoption, he said this is the highest privilege of the gospel. Higher even than justification, because the richness of the relationship with God that it brings. Let me say that again. Because he said it's higher even than justification because of the richness of the relationship that it brings. With God. He says it like this. He says, in adoption, God takes us into his family and fellowship. He establishes us as his children and heirs. Closeness, affection, and generosity are at the heart of the relationship. To be right with God the judge, justification is a great thing. But hear this. But to be loved and cared for by the god by God the Father, adoption is great. Let me say that last part one more time. To be right with God, the judge, justification, is a great thing. But to be loved and cared for by God, the Father, adoption, is great. So when Jesus beckons us to pray, he says, pray like this, our Father. My Father, your Father. We can come not because we deserve it, but because he said, You're mine. Because I'm going to adopt you So for Jesus to tell us to start off by praying, our Father, he's inviting us in. In this moment, in 2019, he's inviting us in. Jesus says in John 15, he says in his beautiful, or John 17, I'm sorry, John 17, 11, he says that, and I am no longer in the world. This is his prayer, the high priestly prayer. But they are in the world, and I'm coming to you. Holy Father, hear this. Keep them in your name, which you have given me That they may be one even as we are one. The first half of this verse looks at the imminence of God. God's ability to be here and be with us. Our Father, intimately, his nearness to us. He's so near to us, he has made his spirit to dwell inside of us. As Galatians 4, 6 through 7 says, and because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba , Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. Now we turn to the second half of what the first statement of what Jesus says. Pray then like this. Our Father, where is he located? Is he just our Father down the street? No. Our Father in heaven. And the second point is this the essence of prayer is praise. Let me say that again. The essence of prayer is praise. The second half of this verse is dealing with God's transcendence. So we see God's imminence in the fact that he's a father, intimately drawing us to him. And in the second half we see in heaven. And Jesus goes on further and he says, hallowed be your name. In heaven, God's transcendence. And for the for you who don't know what transcendence means, because it's me who doesn't know what transcendence means most of the time. The common dictionary definition states that transcendence is existence or experience beyond the normal or the physical level. This may seem like a big word to you, and if it is good, it is. It is a big word. I'm bad with big words most of the time. But it all means, all it means is that God's existence, which is not constrained by time or space. And if you notice, Jesus teaches us to start with our basis before God, but then immediately moves to what? What's he immediately moved to? And let me ask this question as well. How much of our prayer is spent in requesting things of God? It's like I'm sending him a grocery list of things that I need, like he like he already doesn't know what I need. How often? Look, and if you just look over the whole prayer, there are three times. Of all these verses, of all the nine verses you have, three of them he asks for something. He says, give us this day our daily bread, forgive us our debts, and lead us not to temptation. Three, what's the majority of your prayer life look like? For Jesus, what he's saying is the majority of our prayer life, the motto by which we ought to be praying is this, it's adoring who God is. It's adoration. He's declaring that he is high above him. You are the God of heaven. You are far above me. So how else do we see the essence of prayer is praise? Literally the next verse, hallowed be your name. To hallow something is to honor us holy. It's to regard with honor and declare it is greater than anything else. And I want to take us real quick to the example of Job. We all, I think, have an understanding of who Job was. Job was a guy we read in the book of Job that has everything taken from him Kids die, wealth is gone, he loses everything. And he comes to the end, you come to the end of the book of Job, and Job gets to the place where he's basically saying, What's the deal, Lord? What are you doing here? What I think would be a very humbling experience, maybe go to the end of Job at some point and see he spends however many chapters from 38 on telling Job what's up. Who are you to darken my door? Who are you? Were you there when I formed the foundations? No. And the answer to all of those questions is no, of course not, because I'm not the God in heaven. Because he's transcendent. And you know what? We do the exact same thing as Job. We may not have everything stripped away from us, but we come and we're like, Lord, what's going on? What's happening? Look at this situation, look at that situation. And what Jesus is declaring in this model of prayer is praise. We ought to get off of our own thinking and put our eyes onto who Jesus is. To put our eyes onto the King of heaven. We rush into prayer with our grocery list of requests. And we want him to do whatever we're asking him to do. And I think what Jesus has wanting us to come back to is praise. Let me give you an example. I I think I think for me, at least, speaking for me, this is why I do this. Maybe you're the same. There was there was once a uh a dad who took his uh son into a kid into a store. You can just picture the toy aisle at Walmart. And I think what happens sometimes is we believe, and I I think deep down, that God's like this. It's like He He's walking me down the toy aisle of my life, and there's my career that I could be praying for, and now Lord I want that. Walking down the toy aisle and he's like, look at all these things, Daniel, that you can have. And you know what I think I really believe about who God is? Because I believe he's like the father that gets to the end of the toy aisle and says, Alright, let's go home. I just wanted to show you all these things that you could have, but I don't really care for you, and I don't really love you. That's what I believe deep down in my own heart, I think each of us believe, is that we forget God's goodness. We forget that He's good. So when just like Job, when life kind of strikes us, it kind of hits us on the back of the head, we get all we get all Lord, what about this? Here's this situation I have in my life. We forget that God is good. We forget that He's not the God like we are. He's the God of heaven. The song puts it, there's a song that puts it really well. It says he's the God of who sees all the galaxies, creates them, knows them by name, and yet bends his ear to hear our every prayer. And we forget that he cares for us. We forget that he who wants our good and his glory. But more than our good, he wants his glory. And I'm just like the kid who thinks that dad doesn't really love me. I forget that God is good. And maybe you're like me in that way. Because I think Jesus is addressing the human nature in this moment. He's fixing it in the model of prayer by giving us all of this praise. Our Father, here's our basis before you, because of what Christ has done. In heaven, hallowed be your name. Starting all the time, beginning with hallowed be your name. I just want to ask you, what is your prayer life look like? I'm not coming to you as someone that has experienced or even expert this expert like an expertise to this at all. I come to you as someone who who desperately needs to learn to pray. So I I'm gonna m we're gonna move into a time of actually practicing this. The model I want to set forth forth for us. So if you want to, you can turn with me to Psalm thirty-four. Er I'm sorry, Psalm twenty twenty twenty-three. Psalm twenty thirty-four. Psalm twenty-three. And what I want to do, I'm not saying that this is the fix-all. This is not the catch-all what I'm going to lay before us. And it's not even something that I came up with at all. You can go look at it for yourself. It's something that a guy named Don Whitney, Donald Whitney, um came up with in praying the Bible. It's actually super old, this method of prayer. And what it is is It's a book called Um Praying the Bible. And it all it is is praying Scripture. It's learning to model our prayers after the prayers of Scripture. And maybe like I said, I mentioned it earlier, but We tend to pray, I don't know about you, I I'll speak for myself, because that's all I can speak for. Because we tend to pray the same old things about the same old things. Every week we may come together and we say, man, mom 's still sick, dog died, and like every week and it just becomes this thing of, here it is, here's my request, Lord. Feeling like we're individualistic in our culture. We need to pray these like self-thought-through prayers of like, how should I pray? I need to pray originally. And the reality is God has given us a prayer manual. He's actually given us the and I'm just going to point to the book of Psalms. You can pray other parts of Scripture, but I'm going to give you the easiest one, because it's the book that was meant to be prayed. It was the book that was meant to be sung. And praying that way, the way we usually do, is often boring. And when prayer is boring, when we don't feel like praying, And when we don't feel like praying, it's hard to concentrate on prayer and to pray for very long. So this problem, our problem is not that I think, I'm convinced, our problem is not that prayer, that that we Our problem is not that we pray about the same old things. To pray for about your family, your future, your finances, your work, your schoolwork, your church and ministry, and current crises is normal. These things are your light and God calls us to pray them. Our problem with prayer. Our problem with prayer is not that we pray about the same old things, but that we say the same old things about the same old things. Let me say that again. Our problem in prayer is not that we pray the same old things, but we say them in the same old ways. So what's the solution? I mentioned it. Fundamentally it's simple. It's learning to pray God's word back to God. Yeah, and you almost have to start and ask the question, what's the purpose of prayer? Are we changing cable just asking the question in a minute? Do we really change God's mind in prayer? And we can sit and we can question, like, do we really change God's mind in prayer? I don't think it really matters. And I think we can sit and we can pontificate on praying, changing God's mind, and I don't think that matters Because the reality is, is God has given us His words to pray back to Him. And I think it's important to see as well that prayer is also commanded. If he expects and invites all his children to pray, then consistent, meaningful prayer must be doable. By all kinds of people. So here's the solution. When you pray, pray through a passage of scripture. And I'm gonna show you. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna show you. So I'm I'm actually gonna show you, and then I want you actually just to take five minutes. Actually you can take ten minutes even if you want. And I want you to just go and I want you to practice it. I want you to take Psalm 23 and I want you to walk through Psalm 23. Let me just give you a couple things to put coat hangers you can put your jacket on in this sense So when we pray, how you start is you start and you pray literally God's word and you just say it. And here's here's the thing, here's the trick with it. You don't have to be a theologian to do this. You don't need to understand the passage in its fullness because what we're doing is we're letting the scriptures shape our prayer. We're letting the scriptures be what shapes the way that we pray every time. Because what happens oftentimes is we come and we have the same old thing, the dog died, grandma's sick, same old thing. And here's what we see is the scriptures are different each and every day. There's whole models you can look at, but I'm convinced it's not the model that's the problem. Another way of putting it is the scriptures, the songs, can be the railroad tracks for the train in which we're driving, which is prayer. You should not not pray things because if it's on your heart, if it bothers you, the Bible calls us to pray for it. So it's how do we do that? It's the train tracks by which we drive the trolley car of prayer. So let's just start. In Psalm 23, it says, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. So if you if you read that, you hear those words and you think, man, that doesn't mean anything to me. Okay, you know what you do? You just keep reading. reading. Maybe you get to verse 2 where you've had a really stressful week. It says, He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. And and even at that moment maybe you're like, man, nothing in my life right now is still. Everything's crazy, dog died, grandma's sick, it's life's crazy. So in that moment God's word is drawing us to pray for stillness, even in that moment. You could pray, Lord, help me to see that you lead me in still waters. By still waters. And then you know what? When you get done with that, and you're like, man, I have nothing more to pray concerning that, you know what you do? You just keep reading. You get to verse 3 and it says, He restores my soul. And maybe in that moment, that's the thing you've been longing for all day long. This is the goal of prayer. praying this way is not trying to get through large amounts of scripture. It's not trying to get to a certain point. It's truly going through your day or going through whatever is on your mind and praying. And letting God's word literally shape the way by which you pray. And the things by which you pray. So he restores my soul. Maybe in that moment you you know a friend who doesn't know who doesn't know the Lord So you can pray, Lord, here's this person that's been on my heart. You keep bringing them up to my mind. You can say, Lord, restore this man 's soul to yourself. Or maybe even your own soul needs restoring. Lord, restore unto me what you promised. Here in your word. Just like the psalmist is praying, restore, he restores my soul. So maybe you pray that. Maybe you need to keep, but maybe you get to that point and you're like, ah Done with that? Keep going on. You just keep reading. You just keep praying. All things that are on your mind. And I'm not saying this is just not an all-inclusive way by which you should I'm not saying you should pray like this at every moment, but I'm saying that we should never pray, John Piper always says this, you should never pray with your Bible closed. Because it's God's word to us. We should never pray with our Bibles closed. Because God has said his word, we should say it back to him. So I'm gonna give you guys Let's just take five minutes. And I want us to just go around. I could sit up here and talk to you about this all day long, but the big the best way you can see about this is in your own personal life. to just take Psalm 23. It's a simple Psalm. We know it pretty well, I think. The goal is not that you're theologically accurate. The goal is that you are praying what is on your mind and on your heart. and letting God's word shape it in that way. So you guys can go walk around if you want to. You can sit right where you're sitting. That's fine. But I'm I will call us back. I I'd have to ring the bell actually if we just want to walk around or you can stay right where you're sitting, that's fine. But um yeah, I will give us about five minutes.