We have an amazing capacity as humans. No matter how much we have, we have an amazing capacity to be discontent and to be satisfied. The richest people on earth are often just as unhappy as the poorest. Ecclesiastes is a real eye-opener for us. It describes life on planet Earth as lived apart from God, and it stamps it with a stamp of utter vanity. Vanity. I often think that the secret to happiness in our current conditions is having low expectations. That's not the secret to joy, but happiness depends on our circumstances. Joy doesn't Having good friends, good food, and good health are about the best circumstance we can hope for here. And they're often very fleeting. And even when we have those things, we seem to be obsessed so easily with those things that we do not have. We have an enormous capacity to be miserable. Part of our problem is where we have set our hearts, our minds, our treasures, our money. All of those things reveal us. They reveal our hope, what we really hope in. Matthew 6, 19 through 21 says, Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where it neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Many of the problems we have in our Christian lives are the result of expecting this life to provide us things that we think we have to have. Is there something that has derailed us this morning? Is there something we are distraught about? Is there something we just can't get over? Ask this question. Has God promised you better in this life? Has God promised you better in this life? If you thought you had a week to live, how would your perception of this problem change? This sermon was prepared hours before Mary had her stroke. We need to be reminded that our lives can change on a dime. They really can. We do not know what our future is going to bring here and now So with what you're facing, has God promised you better in this life? Does God promise you something better in the future that makes going through what you're going through in this life worth the price? And we absolutely know the answer to that. Yes, yes, he has. God does not call us to live for today, or tomorrow, or next. Week or next month or next year or next decade. That is not what we are to be living for. Any of those focuses will take us down the wrong path. Any of those focuses will derail our lives and cause us excess minute misery. The focus from the beginning of the Bible to the end is beyond the horizon. Every description that we have of our lives here is one of sojourners making their way through someone else's homeland in order to reach our homeland. And the earth as it is is not enough. This is one of those Sunday school truths that we find so easy to spout and so hard to believe. You and I are to live with eternity in view every day, all the time, and every decision. Do we live here and now? Yeah, obviously. Do we have obligations and things that we must think about here and now? Certainly, certainly. Uh the person that doesn't provide for his own house is worse than an unbeliever. We're told in scripture we have lots of responsibilities here, we have lots of things we have to do here, we have lots of things we need to think about here, but none of this is intended to distract us from where our hope lies and from our where our help comes from. The Christian life cannot be lived apart from a continual eternal perspective. You cannot live the Christian life the way that it is intended to be lived without a continual eternal perspective. It's our hope for what Christ will provide us in the future, based on that which Christ has provided for us in the past, that empowers us to live the faith that we are to live right now. Isaiah is going to provide us a wonderful glimpse into why living for Christ is worth it. He's going to show us what God has in mind for his people, and it truly is glorious. It is beyond words. It's better than we can hope or imagine. Our sister Mary is sitting on the verge of the most wonderful event imaginable. Mr. Ortland adds another perspective as well. He says the life that you've always longed for, but has always eluded you Almost just kept out of reach. That life is what God is preparing for his servants. The place to which God the place to which is God taking us The place to which God is taking us is the human experience that defines the very meaning of joy. C. S. Lewis came to this conclusion. If I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world. If none of my earthly pleasures satisfy it, that does not prove that the universe is a fraud. Probably earthly pleasures were never meant to satisfy it. but only to arouse it, to suggest the real thing. I must make it the main object of my life to press on to that other country and to help others do the same. Verse 17, for behold I create a new heavens and a new earth, and the former shall not be remembered or come to mind. I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former shall not be remembered before it come to mind. Behold is to be one of those stop you in your tracks words in Scripture. It's saying stop and look. This is the sound that comes right in for an emergency alert for us in scripture. You know? That irritating sound, you think, man, I better listen to this. God is saying, stop and look at what I have to say. Look at me while I speak to you. You gotta get this, he's essentially saying. I create new heavens and a new earth. The word for create here is the same one used in Genesis. It's interesting that the word implies effortlessness, and it points to something fundamentally new. In 2 Peter 3, 10 through 12, we're giving some insight. 2 Peter 3, 10 through 12, it says, But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise and the elements will melt their firm and heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? Looking for and hastening the coming day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with urban heat. I've read that some believe that the earth's surface will be vaporized and the earth will be off-scoured and that the recreation will happen there. They base it on some scriptures that didn't come to mind as I was studying this. But ideas seems to say the Earth and its atmosphere will be completely destroyed and recreated out of nothing. I don't know, and I don't think it matters all that much. But what does matter is that everything that we come into contact in our day-to-day life will be new. When we are in eternity, everything we touch will be new. Now, think about that a little bit. How many beautiful things have you seen on this earth? I've seen the Grand Canyon a couple of times. It's almost impossible to take a picture at that place that isn't majestic. You could be the worst photographer in the world and you're going to get good pictures. Because it's simply that beautiful. It's amazing I once got a chance to be at the peak of uh a mountain in the Rockies. And in the Rockies, uh, the mountains are steep. They come to a point, they're not rounded like ours are. So when you get there, you can it's like you can see forever in both directions. And it's just astounding. You know, it takes your breath away. And then they're all amazing flowers that contain such exquisite beauty, and they often live and die without a human being ever seeing them and appreciating their beauty. And we could go on and on about the just majesty and the beauty of what God has created on this first go round. It's all a reflection of who God is God loves beauty. It's part of his nature, and it's conveyed in his creation. Now when God created the earth the first time, he knew full well what was going to happen to it. He knew what us savages would try to do to it. He also knew what he would do to it, with earthquakes and tsunamis and natural disasters at his disposal. He knew all that, and yet it's just absolutely amazingly beautiful in place. Now, can you just imagine what a world will be like that he creates for his people to live in forever? Wow, that will be amazing. We have a lot to look forward to. That's probably the most massive understatement that I could possibly make. And that's the point. As Second Peter said, therefore since all these things will be dissolved, all this stuff is going to be gone. What we're used to. What manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness, looking for and hastening the coming day of the Lord when everything is going to be new? We're living on a planet that's going to burn up. This existence is not meant to contain us forever. We should live with the eternal dwelling in mind. That puts all of our temporary suffering in its proper perspective. So God is going to create a new heaven and a new earth. The heaven referred to here is probably the atmosphere, maybe extending to the galaxy. But it isn't intended to convey that where God lives needs to be remodeled. That's not the point. Now back to Isaiah. And the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind. Are you ever going about your day and something happens that remind m reminds you of something terrible that happened? Maybe it's something you did, maybe it was something that was done to you, or maybe it was something that happened to you or somebody else. And it just pops into your head and instantly hurts or grieves you or embarrasses you or humiliates you or whatever it is. My life is full of those things. And I assume that everyone my age has them. Younger people might not have lived long enough to have many. I don't know, but I do know that the promise here is for something better. It's for something bad. Will this not remembering or coming to mind happen in an instant? Or will it be will it be a result of gradual healing? I don't know. I hope it's an interest. The tree of life is for healing of the nations, and that's going to be in in in the new uh Jerusalem. So maybe healing is needed in eternity. I don't pretend to know how all that works, but whatever the case, we will one day Be free of the burden of our history. And that is wonderful news. You ever watch the news? What are they going to show in eternity? There's no dissension, there's no crime, there's no moral failures, there's no government waste, there's no opposing parties. There's no one in power that does not deserve to be there. There's no injustice, there's no disease, there's no suffering. No, those are those are part of the things that will not come to mind. Wow. And an amazing kindness will rule every day. There's nothing there newsworthy. Maybe we'll have documentaries that will play about all the places in each other's lives where we exhibited virtue in a world that can't even spell the word. Maybe we'll get to see what Mark or Jeremiah or Sarah did in their work world that was different because they loved Christ Maybe we'll see documentaries of all the mothers who didn't care what the world thought of them. They chose to devote themselves to the welfare of their children at an economic loss to their family income and their personal status in the world. Or maybe we'll see those selfless acts of service that were done in our body that we never knew about. The quiet things that got done in the background, and we know we did them, you know who you are, who did them, but nobody else does. Those are just examples. But those acts of faith are true in all of our lives, no matter what path God has chosen for us, and they may be the crowns we throw at Christ's feet. Those are the good things, you know, those are those are the things that that are news in in in eternity. There's none of this none of this other stuff to distract us. There's a lot about this life I want to forget. There's a lot I want to remember, but there's a lot I want to forget. I want it to never surprise me again. And that's the kind of eternity that we are promised. An eternity where our path does not ever surprise us again. Now one more thing. It's the earth that will be recreated along with its surrounding heaven. And that new earth is where we will live. Randy Althorn's book was very helpful, at least to me, about this. The existence that we will have for eternity is not so different than the one that we have now that we cannot imagine what that existence will be like. Our bodies will be different, our environment will be different, our sin natures won't exist, Christ will rule and there'll be no sin press Those things are hard to imagine. But we'll exist in bodies that are similar to the ones that we have now. We'll have we will have things to do that are work-related like we do now. And I suspect we will get get satisfaction from the work that we do then just like we get satisfaction from the work that we do now. This will be like the best of planet Earth with none of the downside. That's basically how heaven is is portrayed to us. So it's not sitting on a cloud, strumming a harp. Which seems like the most boring thing in the world to do. But it will be real life, really live without sin, in worship and fellowship with God. And people, unbroken and unhindered. Verse 18, but be glad and rejoice forever in what I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem as a rejoicing, and her people a joy. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and joy in my people. The voice of weeping shall no longer be heard in her, nor the voice of crying. The verb tense here is present. Isaiah is telling these people, because of what is in the future, be glad and rejoice now. And continue doing that until you get there, you know, until you get to eternity. What joy that must bring God when he sees his people Who really believe what he says. Well, we rejoice now because of what is coming, because we trust him. We don't think he lied to us. He told us the truth. We may be in awful circumstances, but we are rejoicing because we believe these things God promises like they are true and worth the wait. Because he says so. Then Isaiah tells us that God is creating both the environment that believers will live in for eternity and the people who will be living there. And they are a joy to the believers and they are a joy to God. Everything's a joy. Scripture constantly reorients us to this idea that God is doing things primarily for his glory and his pleasure. But fortunately for us, because he is loving, it gives him pleasure to love his children. But we can't, we cannot in any step in a way start getting the idea it's because God owes us something or because we're so lovely or that we've earned anything from God. No, this is all about God. God is creating a place that he loves with people he loves. Amen. He gives enjoy. I do madness in it sometimes. Look in the mirror. That person could give God joy. We're called to rejoice, to express our great joy about what God promises to do for us. And God rejoices that He is doing it. One of the problems with sin and rebellion in a Christian's life is that God deserves better. One of the problems with sin and rebellion in a Christian life is that God deserves better. There's no reason that we should disturb God's joy in his people. But Scripture tells us that we do have that ability. We can grieve the Holy Spirit. We can take the rejoicing out of God's experience in loving us and replace it with grief. Have you ever loved someone and their decisions caused you grief? Then you know exactly how the sins you have chosen to do have affected God. We need to think about this. We need to use this as fuel to deeply repent of those things. We need to fully understand the seriousness of choosing to live in disobedience to God. Ultimately, he will fix us. But faith gives God pleasure now. Faith gives God pleasure now. It allows him to freely rejoice in his people like he promises to do in eternity. And oh how wonderful these verses end. The voice of weeping shall no longer be heard in her. Nor the voice of crying. Weeping speaks of mourning and humiliation, and crying refers to the cry of distress. Notice that the end of weeping is not promised in this life. If that's what we expect from God, we're going to be disappointed by God. That's not the deal. That is not the promise. In fact, some of our lives' tears may be caused by God as He disciplines our unwillingness to listen to Him. Or he causes us to process just what a big deal sin really is. He'll make us cry. He'll help us cry in that regard. He may drive us to it by his mercy to tears. Sometimes these things are actually a cost of following Christ, of being faithful to Him, like in the Beatitudes. Blessed are the poor in spirit, blessed are those who mourn, blessed are the meek. Blessed are those in hunger and thirst for righteousness. There's crying here. It's an existence that warrants tears. Tears are expected. But God holds out to us as divine inspiration in existence where these things are absent. No more. Gone. Verse 20, No more shall an infant from there live but a few days, nor an old man who has not fulfilled his days. For the child shall die 100 years old, but the sinner being one hundred years old shall be accursed. Now I've seen three interpretations of this. The first is that this passage is limited to the Israelites returning to their land and everything is talking in exaggerated tones about just how good it is. Then this makes sense because there's still death. You know, this mentions death, and we've got to do something like that. The second is that this is often seen as a passage about the time of the millennial reign of Christ Where believers and non-believers coexist with Christ ruling them. And this is certainly a possibility, but then the creation of the new heaven and new earth are sort of out of order The third is that the language here is not meant to be seen in its negative form, but only in its positive. It's poetic language about people living along and uh and and wonderful life and the faithless having no life at all. Could this also be one of those typical Isaiah passages that part of it speaks of one time period and another speaks of another time period? Frankly, I don't even pretend to know for sure what it is. And you know the those people who do have you know some pretty good arguments, but the other guys have pretty good arguments too. But if we keep it in context, it seems to better fit a poetic kind of meaning. The emphasis is that people will keep living. We know in other scripture that believers will live for eternity. There'll be no death whatsoever. Now that's impossible for our finite minds to grasp. Basically, if there are mornings, the mornings never stop. They just keep coming. When you wake up, do your thing again and again and again, and just they don't stop. Don't we need to uh protect our minds? Don't we need to prepare them? And again, this was prepared uh before Mary had her stroke. If if there's someone we love, we pretty well have to consider what we will do when they die. If we don't, we haven't thought rationally and we're setting ourselves up for mental distress. We live in a world where stuff breaks, things wear out, things crash, and people die. There are all kinds of mop and rust in this life. We've got to understand that Christ is worthy of our lives no matter what he allows to enter our lives. If there's anything that we will be unfaithful to Christ if he takes away, that thing is an idol, or at least it stands in danger of being one. We always live in this danger while we are here. We live amidst suffering and loss. The world is made of that stuff. Isaiah is holding out to us the only remedy in our thinking that will allow us to reconcile ourselves to that loss and that suffering. The fact is It's all temporary. It will end one day, and every obedience and faithfulness in this life will be seen to have them have been wise and reasonable. And every faithless disobedience will be seen to have been foolish and selfish. Verses 21 through 23. They shall build houses and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build and another inhabit. They shall not plant and another eat. For as the days of a tree, so shall be the days of my people, and my elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labor in vain. Nor bring forth children for trouble, for they shall be the descendants of the blessed of the Lord and their offspring with them. Now again, this passage has this difficulty. Will there be children born in the new earth? Will we need to build houses? Maybe this is referring to a different time. But we can be certain that there will be no vanity in eternity. There'll be no vanity and eternity. Every work will last. There'll be no moth and rust to destroy that. There'll be no curse. Carlo, we won't need to lay down plastic for the weeds there. Of course, we won't be married any longer, so you probably won't care as much what I do. But uh no no labor shall be in vain. No labor shall be in vain. Wow, what an adjustment Some of you helped me put on new shingles on the roof on the N Street house. And I just drove by and I started to curl. That's vanish. Yeah, that is vanish. Unfortunately it's not my problem. For which I thank. But that's how I did. But that is not how it will always be. I don't know what meaningful work we'll have for eternity besides praising God. But whatever it is, it won't be like the work I do every day, and it won't be like the work that you do every day It will last. Every effort will bring forth good truth. And then look at this, verse 24. It shall come to pass that before they call, I will answer. Before they call, I will answer. And while they're still speaking, I will hear. The wolf and the lamb shall feed together. The lion shall eat straw like the ox. And thus shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. Have you ever prayed for something for a long time and God didn't answer it? But you thought that you were praying for something that you wanted. You know, it's not like you were even praying selfishly. You're praying, God, I believe you want this, I'm gonna keep praying And that's good for us now. And it's something that we can expect. Even if we're correct about God's will, we're often wrong about God's timeline. Even when we're right about his will, we're often wrong about his timetable. You know what I mean? You pray for it, you pray for it, you mention it forever. And then finally, usually when you least expect it, it happens. And you say And you sometimes you can even see why. You can see why you had to wait so long, and why it happened when it happened, and all those things. That is not how eternity will be. When we ask it, it will be better than McDonald's. You'll get the right order. You know? You will get it now. Our orders will always be right and they'll be on time. Before we call, we'll get what we were going to ask. That's the ultimate customer service. Delays are necessary now Sometimes it still will grow. Sometimes it's because the other person isn't ready yet. Sometimes it's because the answer could have unintended consequences that we could not possibly foresee. But in eternity, there are no longer any of these obstacles. God can give us what we ask for, and it will not be asked according to fleshly desires, so it cannot give us any harm when it gives it to us. It'll not be asked according to the harm of anybody else. God is free to answer immediately and positively for our good because He loves us. And that's just like God. That's just like God. That's what God would be doing now if there weren't so many obstacles that it would destroy us for God to answer every prayer we've ever asked. I am so thankful there are lots of prayers that He did not answer For me. Verse 25. The bad news, Diane, is that there might be serpents in eternity. I thought maybe you'd see that right off the bat. Um the good news is they won't bite you anymore. Uh kids might put them in your desk drawer, but they're they won't hurt you. The curse is over. Maybe we'll all be vegetarians, but it is so wonderful. We can roam anywhere on the new earth and we're never in danger again. Carla pulled over to check a tire in a remote parking lot. She called me as we talked and she just, you know, was saying, I really, really don't feel safe here. So she drove back into, I think it was Moorefield, to be in a public place. And this reminded me that this world really is never safe. It is never really safe And it particularly is not safe for women and children. There are predators of all kinds roaming about. But this world that Christ has prepared for us. There are zero predators of any kind. Right? Not even mosquitoes. You know, it's just mind-boggling. This kind of world. If there are Rockies in this new world, we'll be able to back back to our heart's content without any fear of bear attacks. You know, it's people stuff like that. It's hard. It's hard to imagine how good life will be What a reward. And we might not even need a backpack. I don't pretend to know how to take every verse of this passage, but I'm confident to proclaim that God's goodness rings out in every verse. We can trust him that he will make whatever he has us facing right now worth It will be worth it. He's infinitely good and good to his children. We do well to obey him, even if it means giving up what everyone else seems to Be free to have. Even if it means paying prices that others don't need to seem seem to me to pay. We are just visiting this planet. We are passing through. The world has no lasting treasure. Any treasure there is our relationship with Christ and our relationships with each other. That's it. But Jesus, now that's a whole different story. I want to close with a few words from our brother Orban. We're gonna have to say goodbye to him soon, and I'm not looking forward to that. Every day you and I are tempted to throw this soap away. But what for? This broken down since the race world. It isn't working. What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him , that's what we believe. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you for your wonderful promises. We thank you for painting a picture. of the future that we can wrap our minds around at least to a little bit. Enough to get us excited about it. Enough to let us have a picture of the love that you have for us. What you have in mind for us, the joy that you get out of your people, the desire that you have to have that joy for eternity. Not just for us, but for you too. What an amazing thing. We have to use the old help us. to allow this truth to grip our hearts to where it changes how we see everything And that this change is processed on a daily basis to seek eternity for what it's worth and to see how temporary everything else is that we are facing. And help us to challenge each other with this stuff, with this truth. To remind each other of what it is that we have in store for us, even when we're facing the worst of the worst. That this life can dish out. We thank you, Lord God, that you have an eternity prepared prepared for marriage And that you are looking forward to her presence with you. Scripture says that. That pleases you to have them be with you. We thank you for the work that you did in her heart to draw her to yourself. We thank you for her faithfulness to you and standing in her faith. And uh Lord, we just thank you that we know that she will be facing that reward and seeing you and being with you. We praise you for that. We thank you so much. As it allows us to face the hardship that we face. Lord, just use your word in us this week. Use us in each other's lives and use us in the world to represent you. Amen. Glorify you well. In Jesus' name. Amen.