Second Corinthians 6:1 says this. We then, as workers together with him, also plead with you not to receive the grace of God. in vain. Not to receive the grace of God in vain. Have you ever considered what it means to receive the grace of God in vain? How is that even possible? Doesn't the grace of God mean unmerited favor? We can do nothing to deserve it. So really, doesn't that mean there's no expectation with the grace of God? Doesn't that mean that there's no necessary effect in our life with the grace of God? Can't we just receive grace and what we do afterwards makes no difference? Isaiah will show us this morning that grace must have an effect. Grace must have an effect. Grace must change us. If it doesn't, the problem is not with the act of grace that's being held out to us. Our failure shows that we've never really received that grace. We were not really a recipient of it. James tells us that faith without works is dead. In other words, if there are no works, there is no faith. Isaiah will show us what that means from God's perspective. I read this quote in my study that said it pretty well. It says, if all we want out of God is acceptance , Without transformation, we're receiving his grace in vain, and our Christianity is worthless. Our text this morning is fairly easy to break into an outline. Verses 1 through 7 gives us the picture of God's grace. Verses 8 through 30 describes the effects of receiving God's grace in vain. The text goes on to give us six woes and four their fours. So it's it's fairly easy to break down. Now it's good to notice right at the start that the word woe in the words of one of the commentators does not just denounce our sin But it laments our sin. So every time you see that word woe, you are getting the picture of a guy that understands how bad this is. Isaiah had the heart of God toward his people. He feels God's pain when he calls out sin, and he feels for those who are going to suffer God's wrath. He loves both his God and his countrymen. He ministers as we should. He delivers his warning with feeling. He feels the woe. Now let's jump into the text. Verse 1. Now let me sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved regarding his vineyard. This prophet is about to sing a simple song. When he delivered the message, he probably sang this little song. Maybe it was a song that was well known at the time. We don't know, but he sings it. You're fortunate this morning in the fact that I will just read it. The vineyard is a well-used symbol of God's people. These people. probably knew that instinctively. When they have would have heard vineyard, they would have picked up, hey, this is talking about us. So what's the song? My well-beloved has a vineyard on a very fruitful hill. He dug it up and cleared out its stones and planted it with the choicest vines. He built a tower in its midst and also made a wine press in it. So he expected it to bring forth good grapes, but it brought forth wild grapes. That's probably the end of the song. What we have here is a story of unresponsive love. Look at the imagery. Who did all the acting here? Who did the heavy lifting here? The beloved. The beloved did it all. The beloved did every single thing to have a vineyard that would produce good fruit. It was a good hill. It was well prepared soil. It was good stock. The vineyard was well protected. Expectations of its success were invested in. It's not like this was a half-hearted deal. Everything was there expecting good grades to happen The wine press was there. It was ready to make wine even before they planted. It would have been clear to all parties that the vineyard creator had a reasonable expectation that his creation would bear good fruit. What we have here is a picture of God's work toward the Judeans, specifically. God has done everything necessary to expect that his people would respond by producing good fruit. That they would respond by obeying God, by doing what he commands, by worshiping him and him alone. There's no flaw in the acts of the vineyard maker. This is true of all mankind as well. Every charge of mankind against its maker is a bogus charge. God is not guilty of any of the things that he is commonly accused of by humans. He has done everything for those he has created to respond by loving and obeying him. But they in large part do not. Where verse 2 says that it brought forth wild grapes, another and probably better translation says stinking grapes or rancid grapes. So it isn't that the great the grapes that it produced are grade B instead of grade A. These grapes are so bad you've got to get rid of them now, immediately. They're offensive They require instant removal in order not to corrupt the vineyard. We need to understand that those are the only true fruits available. There are the fruits of the flesh and the fruits of the spirit. One stinks to God, the other is pleasant to him. What Isaiah says next is very important, and we can't miss this. In verse 3, he says, And now, inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge please between me and And my vineyard. So God's basically saying, okay, judge between me, the creator of the vineyard, and the vineyard. God draws men to discern something. And look at what it is. Judge between me, God, and my vineyard, who are actually the same people who are doing the judging. They know it, you know. He's he's saying, Judge between me and you. God is essentially saying, There's blame here. You know, those people who always say, judge not that you be not judged, you know, isn't that irritating? when they quote that to you as if you shouldn't have a brain in your head, as if you shouldn't be able to determine what right and wrong are. God doesn't know anything about that. He's saying here, you judge. You judge between me and the vineyard. Someone's responsible for the evil outcome in this imagery. There aren't unlimited responsible parties. There are only two parties here. It's either God the creator, the vineyard maker, or man the creation, the vineyard. And it's very clear in this imagery who is to blame. The problem is in the creation, not the creator. But we think, wait a minute. Now we come in with our good theology and we say, how could they come to God if God does not call them? How can they see if God does not remove their blindness? While we know those things are true, we must at the same time See that God holds human beings responsible for their decisions no matter what state they are in. God makes it very clear that it is not the vineyard creator's fault that the grapes put out offensive grapes. The grapevines put out offensive grapes. We must understand this about God. If we're to judge properly between God and man, we must get this point. Those who reject God's message are responsible for their rejection of it. Those who choose sin over righteousness are responsible for what they choose. Those who reject Christ are responsible for their failure of receiving him. God says so. How do we make all those parts fit in theology? I don't know. I don't know. We talked about that in Sunday school a good bit. But that's what God says. That's revelation. And it takes. Supremacy over our logic. Then Isaiah goes on with the proofs of why this is so. Verse 4. What more could I have could have been done to my vineyard that I haven't done in it? Why then, when I expected it to bring forth good grapes, did it bring forth wild grapes? If mankind were to have their evil separated out of them, if if somehow you could suck evil out of people If they could see the world without their own evil thoughts and motives, I think they would suddenly see this point very clearly. They have no reason to disbelieve God. Creation screams of a creator. It's not just a subtle hint, it screams of a creator. The rocks don't have to cry out. In a sense, they already do. It is a sheer act of blind faith to believe that creation zapped itself into existence. If we were free from our own sin, we would see that there really isn't anything more our Creator could have done To show us that he exists, then to give us a creation with the complexity and the detail of ours And then the fact that human history in Western culture bases its tracking of time back to the existence of Christ, what more do we need as a springboard to direct our intellectual pursuit of finding out who Christ is? What more could our Creator do to create a people who should love and serve Him? The answer here places the blame of rejection on the creation of God not the creator. No matter how we understand our theology, we have got to believe this. Verse 5. And now Please let me tell you what I'm gonna do to that vineyard. I shall take away its hedge and it shall be burned and break down its wall and it shall be trampled down. I'll lay it waste It shall not be pruned or dug, but there shall come up briars and thorns. I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain on it. For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his pleasant plant. He looked for justice, but behold, oppression, for righteousness, but behold a cry for help Isaiah brings great clarity here. First, he tells us what the fate of the vineyard is. He is talking about the country and it's going to be invaded The land itself is going to become desolate. The people will become desolate as well. The men are the pleasant plants, but they aren't pleasant at all. They're a huge disappointment. Again, we need to see here what God is so upset about. It's a recurring theme in Isaiah. It's something that Brad pointed out in the introduction to Isaiah. It's something you can't miss if you study the book. The vineyard creator, God, looked for justice and righteousness out of his creation. That's the fruit he was expecting, and he had every reason to expect it. These are the good grapes, but instead what did he get? He got oppression and a cry for help. Oppression and a cry for help. Have you ever looked at what your authority, maybe your parents, maybe your husband, maybe your church elders, maybe the government, maybe your employer? Have you ever looked at what they have you looked at your authority and expecting uh looking at what they're expecting out of you and think It isn't fair. It isn't fair what they are doing to me. It isn't fair what they are expecting of me. This isn't right They're not looking out after my best interest. They are exploiting me. They're using me for their advantage, and I have no recourse. There is no one but God I can appeal to. Well, that is what Isaiah is describing. I doubt that any of us have have experienced it to the degree that they have But the people of Israel, the little people, were in this position. The poor and the vulnerable, the least of these, were being exploited. And there was nothing that they could do about it. They were being taken advantage of because they could be, because might made right, because the people in power could get away with it. All they had left was a cry for help, and they cried to God, and God heard them, but I'm sure he did not respond in their timetable. This is not the fruit that God expected. This is not the fruit that God demanded. So God shows it no mercy. The people are going to be decimated. This vineyard is going to be destroyed. And verse eight Woe to those who join house to house. They add field to field till there is no place where they may dwell alone in the midst of the land. In my hearing the Lord of hosts said, Truly many houses shall be desolate, great and beautiful ones, without inhabitant. For ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and a homer of seed shall yield one epha. Here is woe number one. Now, is it a sin to buy real estate? Obviously not. Not in and of itself. Is it a sin to be wealthy or to be good at making money? No, that isn't the point. But is it a sin to trust your plan to provide for yourself even when it contradicts God's law and other people's good? Yes, for sure, that is a huge problem when we place ourselves and our benefit at the expense of everyone else The woe is to those who have ignored God's laws and the good of their countrymen in their earthly kingdom building. These people have used their wealth to purchase land and buildings to the place where there are some who have no place to live. The law of God was real picky about real estate, if you read through it. It was to remain in family lines so that this kind of thing would never happen in God's people. But these real estate tycoons ignored that law. They exploited the poor and they took control of the lands with no intentions of returning it to them or giving them the benefit of its use. They had a great business plan and it would have worked, but God would not allow it to work. He had had enough. God punished the people who built these houses. He saw to it that these wonderful great houses that these people had spent all this time and money on were going to be completely abandoned. How? Well, the land had to produce crops to sustain the lives in these houses. Basically, that's how they made money. So God caused the crops to fail. Ten acres of a vineyard was producing five to eight gallons of grape juice. Now I don't know a whole lot about vineyards, but I gotta believe they gotta come up with more than that to break even. And a homer of seed would produce one-tenth of a homer of produce. It would have been wiser to just eat the seed. So they're planting, you know, they're they're planting a bushel and getting back a quart, essentially, or something to that effect. We need to understand that ultimately God has the final say. Drought will destroy any country if it lasts long enough. No one's plan is foolproof. At the end of the day, it's God who controls the rain. So woe to these entrepreneurs who exploit the poor Their plans are going to fail and ruin them financially. Now, woe number two, verse 11: Woe to those who rise early in the morning that they may follow intoxicating drink. who continue until night till wine inflames them. The harp and the strings, the tambourine and the flute and wine are in their feasts, but they do not regard the work of the Lord, nor consider the operation of his hands. I read a good quote about this. It says that the gospel explains that there are basically two kinds of people in the world. sensate, those who live for the senses, and spiritual. Romans 8, 5 and 6 says, for those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. The sensate, and this is still part of the quote, the sensate mentality is drawn to entertainment, while the spiritual mentality is drawn to worship. Isaiah condemned Judah's unreasoning passion for one thrill after another, because a visceral approach to life quenches the Holy Spirit The gospel says, do not get drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. The power of grace does not lie in spiritual moderation, but in deep repeated gulps of the Spirit. And that kind of excess does not dull our minds, it sharpens our awareness so that God becomes real to us. End of quote. There were those in Judea who were facing judgment because they were living for their pleasure. Now again, is it wrong for a Christian to enjoy the pleasure that God provides him in this life? No, that's not the point. But it is wrong to orient one's life around pleasure to allow pleasure to be the thing that we live for, for it to be the capstone of our lives. And that's what these people are doing. Their real problem is revealed in verse 12 where it says, they do not regard the work of the Lord, nor consider the operation of his hands. That's the problem we need to avoid. The most important commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. We can't allow pleasure to ever replace that love for God. What about us? Do we live for pleasure? If we were robbed of the expectation of our favorite pleasures in life, would we feel like life has no meaning? Let me ask that again. If we were robbed of the expectation of our favorite pleasures in life, would we feel like life has no meaning? That works its way back into the study of idolatry that we've been talking about. Now we have two therefore's coming up in 13 and 14. Verse 13, Therefore my people have gone into captivity because they have no knowledge. Their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. Then verse 14, Therefore Sheol has enlarged itself and opened its mouth beyond measure, their glory and their multitude and their pomp, and he who is jubilant shall descend into it People shall be brought down, each man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled. But the Lord of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God who is holy shall be hallowed in righteousness. Then the lambs shall feed in their pasture, and in the waste places of the fat ones strangers shall eat. Isn't this interesting? The people have gone into captivity because they don't know anything. They're ignorant of God. That which should be their world. They're ignorant of. And their honorable men are famished. The drunkards are famished. All of the gods that Judea has worshipped have let them down. They're getting the exact opposite result of that which they had hoped for. We really need to understand this. We can get away for a while worshiping foreign gods, pursuing something other than God to give us happiness. We can get away with that for a while. But there will come a day, if we're believers, that we will wish with everything that we are that we would have never pursued that path. We'll wish that we had remained faithful to God. We'll regret saying yes to our alternate loves and alternate paths. Those things will make us pay. Idols always have a way of making you pay. In this case, it may have resulted in permanent punishment of these people. This isn't discipline. This is punishment. To believers, it will mean a severe correction at some point in our lives. A point where our false worship comes back to haunt us. In verse 17, we find that God gives his choice land to strangers. A poor person will stumble on to that which the rich people had prepared for themselves. Imagine yourself One of the poor outcasts that didn't happen to be in the the Assyrians or the Babylonians taking you captive and they're wandering around and they come upon this mansion. that has nobody living in it, has has a uh you know uh a vineyard or whatever else set up for them. It's it's like uh it's like the The lepers who went outside the camp and stumbled on to all the all the goodies that were left over by the the army that had left It's like you can just imagine the setting there. It's like wow, you know, this is this is pretty cool That's what's gonna happen to these these rich people who have made all their great plans, they have invested all of their time and energy into their wonderful plan for success. They're out of there. They're history, they're gone Verse 18, Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as if with a cart rope That say, let him speed and hasten his work, that we may see it, and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near and come, that we may know it. This is describing the people who are pulling sin behind them like they're towing it with a rope. That's what it's describing here. It's like they they're they value their sin so much. That they've got a rope hooked to it and they're pulling it with all they can. They're making great effort at keeping their sin. They're committed to their sin. But even worse, they taught God in their cynicism. They're essentially saying, let God do something about it. You know, we hear from Isaiah, God's going to do something about it. Well, let's let's let him do that. He hasn't done anything yet Woe to the person who taunts God is basically what this is saying. God will not remain inactive toward them forever. While at the present they serve his purposes, they will not always partake of his common grace to all people. They may not be allowed to breathe God's air for much longer. Punishment is pending. We should never ever think that because we're getting away with a sin, that we will continue to get away with it. Never think that if you're getting away with a sin, that you will continue to get away with it. God will deal with our sin. He will deal differently with believers and non-believers, but neither will be pleasant. Believers will be disciplined, non-believers will be punished. We've got to never mock God, even in our minds. No one ever gets away with sin, ever. If you think you're getting away with sin, you aren't. It's just a matter of time Now for the last three woes, verse 20: Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own sight. Woe to men mighty at drinking wine. Isn't that a wonderful thing to be? Mighty at drinking wine. Woe to men valiant for mixing intoxicating drink, who justify the wicked for a bribe and take away justice for the from the righteous man. Look at the progression of woes here. They go from reversing God's evaluation of life and reality. Okay, that's the first step. They reverse God's evaluation of life and reality. And they move to a worship of their own wisdom in verse 21. And then in verse 22, to becoming heroes because they are the best at escaping reality. We have a progressive fall from truth represented in these three verses. A progressive fall from truth. Once the kingpin of objective truth is removed, once we begin trusting our human perceptions and reasonings as a basis for life, We are on a downward spiral to where the heroes are those who are the most hedonistic. Look at our culture. Who are the heroes of our culture? Who get most of the you know the the media time? Are they heroes because they're so virtuous and self-sacrificing? Hardly. Because they're godly? Not exactly. They're heroes to our generation because they represent what our culture wants out of life. They represent what our culture wishes they could have, but they can't. There really is nothing new under the sun. It has always been this way and it always will until Christ returns. But the problem again was that the people Isaiah was addressing were the human beings that were writ to represent to God or to God to their people. These were the people That were, they had the responsibility to God to represent God to the people that they were to be serving. They were to provide justice, but they were too busy looking after their own pleasure. They were too busy partying, and they ended up selling out justice for their own personal gain. And the wicked ended up winning, and the righteous ended up losing. We've got to see that. This is the theme in Isaiah. This is the primary reason that the people were destroyed in justice toward the people of God. So what will happen? Verses 24 through the end of the chapter. The two more therefores Therefore, as the fire devours the stubble and the flame consumes the chaff, so their root will be as rottenness, and their blossom will ascend like dust. Because they have rejected the law of the Lord of hosts and despise the word of the Holy One of Israel. Notice they're they're despising God's word. And by despising God's word, they despise God's person. Verse 25: Therefore the anger of the Lord is aroused against his people. He has stretched out his hand against them. And stricken them, and the hill hills trembled. Their carcasses were as refuse in the midst of the streets For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. He will lift up a banner to the nations from afar. And listen to this, he will whistle to them from the end of the earth. Surely they shall come with speed swiftly No one will be weary or stumble among them, among these that are coming to destroy Israel or Judah. No one will sleep or slumber, nor will the belt on their loins be loosed. Nor the strap of their sandals be broken, whose arrows are sharp and all their bows bent. Their horses' hooves will seem like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind. Their roaring will be like a lion. They will roar like young lions. Yes, they will roar and lay hold of the prey. They will carry it away safely and no one will deliver In that day they will roar against them like the roaring of the sea. And if one looks to the land, if behold darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened by the clouds. Wow, look at the picture here. God 's people rejected the law of God. God's people despised what God told them to do. In essence, they rejected God. They determined to pursue the path that they thought would bring them ultimate satisfaction. That's what they did. And look what happened. We sometimes react like things on the world stage are out of control. Well, they may be out of our control. And they may certainly not be what we would prefer. But look at this. God whistles God whistles like you whistle for your dog. God whistles, and the Assyrians and the Babylonians come hustling on their way to do exactly what God intends for them to do. And they fulfill their part perfectly. There isn't even any laziness in their approach to the duties that God has called them to do. Now do they think they're serving God? Oh no, they see they think they're getting what they always wanted. That's how God controls the activities of the devil's kids. We need to understand this. Things are not out of control. They are just out of our control. God is going to punish the wicked. God is going to reward the faithful. That is going to happen. That is going to happen. He doesn't promise to do it in this life, but it is going to happen. Along with this, we've got to understand what's important to God. God 's children are the most important thing on this planet. To God. God 's children are the most important thing on this planet to God. You and I need to be very careful how we treat his children. He takes it very personally how we treat each other. If we love God, we'll treat his children specially. We will love them. We will pay a cost to do that which is in their best interest. Because that is what Christ does. If we do not, we'll find that we look out after our own best interests at their expense. That's always how it works out Either we're looking out after each other at our expense, or we will find that we are using other people at their expense to serve our selfish interests. Which are we doing? Which are we doing here at Ferndale? What secret attitudes do we foster? If others knew what we were saying or thinking about them, would they be encouraged or would they be harmed? People are what God loves. And how we treat them is a big part of what God notices, of what God takes stock in. So in conclusion, what is God getting out of his vineyard here at Ferndale? He did all the heavy lifting for our success. What proceeds is God getting for his labor? Is he getting the fruit that he should be able to expect? Is he getting Galatians 5, 22 and 23 fruit? Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control? That's what he expects. That's what he planted. That's what he provided for. How do we live our lives? Is it based on the implications of God's truth or is it a pursuit of pleasure that looks a little different than the world around us? Do we prioritize the things that last forever or the things that please us now? I guess the question for the week is: Is God getting his money's worth from our lives? Is his vineyard production what it ought to be in our lives? Let's close them prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you lay out what matters to you. We thank you that you show us that you are in absolute control of every area of life. We thank you that we can rest in a God like that. And at the same time, Lord, we ask that you would help us to be adequately fearful in the way that we should be. So that we can have wisdom, that we can have the proper perspective, and that we know that we must serve you. We have the opportunity to, we have the blessing of doing so. And at the same time, there's a fearfulness that we should have when we choose to do otherwise. Help us to see our world with the accuracy that Scripture brings to it, that we will glorify you and trust you every step of the way and everything that we do. And we ask that you would help us this week to glorify you more by trusting you more and obeying you more. In Jesus name, Amen.