All right. Have you ever been presented with two paths where one was clearly the right path and one was clearly the wrong path? Maybe it had to do with a relationship that you knew to be wrong. A relationship you knew you shouldn't pursue, but you very much wanted to. Maybe a commitment to a job or a hobby. Maybe it was an addiction of some sort. Maybe it was beginning something that you knew was sinful but wanted to continue down that path anyway. Maybe it was a path of thinking wrongly. I think we've all had this kind of test, and it is likely that we have all failed this kind of test. Do you remember how strongly you wanted that wrong thing? And if anyone addressed you at that point, you would have been hard-pressed to be civil or reasonable about it. You would just want to silence the dissenting voice so that you could go about following your heart and pursuing that wrong path. Or maybe you've watched as someone you love did the same thing. You could see them making their destructive choice, and nothing you could do would stop them. What we're looking at this morning is a person who is doing this very thing. Ahaz is faced with a decision. He can follow God and submit to God and trust God. That's what he's being called to by Isaiah the prophet. Or he can do the things that he thinks will have a better outcome He will follow his own path to his own happiness. He can follow his heart. It's a choice of one of the two. We're going to see just how resistant the human heart can be to every reasoned appeal this morning. And at the end of the day, reason doesn't explain what we do. Living in a fallen, sinful world is a better explanation for much of what we do. And we'll see that fact illustrated clearly in just a few verses. Are you facing a tempting, sinful path this morning? Are you playing with a poison in your mind? Are you examining a pathway that you greatly desire, but you know is sinful for you? Then Ahaz is the example to see. Watch carefully what the end of this path is for those who follow Ahaz 's example. Look at verse 10. Moreover, the Lord spoke again to Ahaz, saying, Ask a sign for yourself from the Lord your God. Ask it either in the depth or in the height above. This is a very unusual request by God. God is saying to Ahaz, pick a test to prove that I'm able to do what I say. Go ahead. Pick any test. Below, above, doesn't matter. You pick a test. I'm I'm I'm giving this to you AS. You see what's happening here? God is graciously offering to Ahaz any evidence that Ahaz may need to believe. He's offered to be tested in any way that Ahaz would see fit. He was offering to overcome any obstacle of unbelief that Ahaz might have. God doesn't offer such a thing very often. Essentially, God is tempting Ahaz to disprove Ahaz's own disbelief. That's what he's doing. God knows that Ahaz has no intention of trusting and obeying God. And Ahaz is probably justifying his faithless response in his own head with his own line of reason. He's probably telling himself that he has a good reason for taking this path of disbelief And Ahaz's reasons probably include the idea that God is not capable of delivering him and the Judean people against the threat that is up against them. Because he doesn't believe that God has that kind of power. He doesn't trust God. So God says, try me. Here I am. Try me. Let me show you that I can meet any test that you come up with. Let me show you that your reasoning is flawed from the beginning to the end. Let me re-educate your decision processes Let me make being smart easy for you, Ahaz. You can try me out before you trust me with the really important things in your life. Watch how I perform in a test before you really risk anything of value to you. It's kind of like test driving a car. Some people say that following God is the process of blind faith, but they don't know anything about faith. What God offers Ahaz is as far from blind faith as is possible. God is allowing Ahaz to test drive his faith. He's offering Ahaz to see if trusting God works in a test. God is offering to remove any obstacle to reason that Ahaz may put up So what do we see? Does Ahaz say, well, what do I have to lose? Okay, God, I I want you to do this thing that I've thought of, so I can see with my very own eyes that you can really perform this miracle that we really need No, that's not what we see. Verse 12, but Ahaz said, I will not ask, nor will I test the Lord. Why does Ahaz respond that way? At first glance, we might think that Ahaz is respecting God and will not put God to a test But that is not at all what it is. As we read more, we find out that is not the case. What we see in Ahaz is what we see in anyone who is already committed to a course of action. Ahaz doesn't want conflicting truth to what he already believes and intends to do. Ahaz says with his actions, I really don't care what the truth is. I don't care what will work best. I don't care what God wants for me. I don't care what God will do. I don't care about what God wants me to do. I have plans of my own and I'm committed to them. I have no intentions of giving them up, no matter how stupid or ineffective or wicked they might prove to be. Now, when we see Ahaz do this, we can see easily just how evil that is We can see how awful he is acting. We can see the utter foolishness of making a stand like this. The big problem here is that we don't see it the same way when we put ourselves in that very same position. We don't see that we're being a little ahaz when our favorite sin looms in front of us, testing and tempting us. And at some point we say, I'm going to do this. It's the same attitude as Ahaz. And we rationalize and we make excuses and we lie to ourselves about what we're doing. But God is in full. We're just playing Ahaz. We even know plenty of truths that would keep us from pursuing that evil, but by golly, we're going to do it anyway We all know from experience what the a has reaction is. At least I do. I'm assuming that we're all in this together, maybe not But I'm assuming that we've all been there. It's the peak of folly and arrogance and ignorance and wickedness. It's all the things that we know better than to do. But we reject all the truth that would keep us from the path we want. We ignore the dissenting voices and the proofs of our foolishness, and we pludge ahead, we plunge ahead with our own plans. Maybe it's a path of self-satisfaction, or pride, or lust, or pleasure, or self-pity. Or revenge, or bitterness, or laziness, or hatefulness, or jealousy, or rage, or fear. And we can go on and on Our paths of sin can be very varied, but the attitude when we commit them is the same We want what we want, and we don't want to be distracted by the truth. We don't want the truth to change our plans. Sometimes we think if only we had it only if only had someone been telling us the truth, we would have chosen differently. But often that's just self-deception. Often the truth would have been just a nuisance if it had gotten in our way. We often would have had a way of getting around it. Most of the sin that we choose and chose, we chose because we think it will make us happy or give us something that we really want. Most of the time we knew enough truth to keep us from the wrong paths. The problem is that truth won't change our commitment to that path until we choose to believe the truth at the expense of our temporary pleasure. A person telling us the truth won't change our hearts when our hearts want to sin. Only us wanting the truth more than we want something else will change us. Only love for Jesus will make us want to change our paths. Truth by itself doesn't do that. When we love Christ, we will love the truth. And when we love the truth, the truth will change us Ahaz was offered proof that could have guided him in the right direction. It would have been rock solid proof that he could have been completely confident in because he saw with his own eyes It would have won every reasoned argument regarding what he should do next. But that's not what Ahaz wanted, so he rejected it. Now, what did God think of it when Ahaz stuck to his path even though God had offered him everything to change his mind? We see that in verse 13. Then he said, Hear now, O house of David, it's a small thing for you to weary men, but will you weary my God also? Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Ahaz was the personification of the house of David. So he was David's legitimate heir, and this was addressed to him. Isaiah here lies out the that lays out the seriousness of the crime. Had Ahaz just been responded to Isaiah, that would have been one thing. And it would have been bad enough if it'd been reses resisting a prophet of God like that. But that's not what Ahaz is doing here Ahaz evidently believed that what he was being offered by the prophet was really from God. He must have believed that God was offering through Isaiah this chance, a real chance. To test God. So because he was believing that, his response was really addressed more to God than it was to Isaiah. Ahaz was wearying God. This wearying means to wear oneself out, to get weary from trying. Have you ever had someone that no matter how hard you tried to minister to them, they were going to stay on the same path that they were on? There's no amount of truth that would change things. We have some people at work who are convinced that people are out to get them. And those people, it's an odd thing, but it doesn't matter how many times you talk to them and show them an alternate way of viewing the same event An alternate way of seeing the truth, they revert back to their default position. They're not going to be changed from it. And you can weary yourself, you can wear yourself out on them because it won't have any effect. They see the world in a certain way and you're not going to change it. I've been told that when I was a very young uh child, my dad would take me out of almost every church service to spank me. And I would imagine he would have described that as a wearying effect, a wearying thing I think they they were all surprised that I turned out, you know, out of jail and having a job and all that sort of thing. How do we weary the people who try to minister to us? How do we weary the people who try to minister to us? How do we choose not to believe what they are telling us? How do we resist responding to their ministry? Well, if they're representatives of Christ, what we are doing to them is what we are doing to God. And that's serious. If we are wearying out those who are ministering to us, we are probably also wearying out God in this sense. Who are we tiring out in their efforts to make a point in our lives? So in Ahaz's case, even though he would not ask for a sign, God is going to give him a sign anyway. At this point he says, Well I'm going to give you a sign. I don't care if you want one or not. What's the sign? Now this is odd. It says, Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Curds and honey he shall eat that he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land that you dread will be forsaken by both her and her kings Now, does that sound familiar to you? Does that verse sound familiar to you? It should. It's a prophecy of Christ. Now, how can that be? How can we be sure? Well, Matthew said so. He told us that Christ was the direct fulfillment of this scripture. In Matthew 1, 20 through 23, it says this. But while Joseph thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Now, how can this be? Doesn't the sign that Isaiah spoke to Ahaz mean anything to Ahaz? Wasn't it addressed to Ahaz? Wasn't it supposed to affect Ahaz? Isn't that the point? Yes, that is the point. This prophecy, like many others like it, has a dual purpose. It was assigned to Ahaz, and it was assigned to the nation of Israel much later when Christ showed up. Some have used this prophecy to try to prove that Christ was not born of a virgin. The word in Hebrew for virgin also means young woman. So it could be interpreted either way. And they would say that since this prophecy was fulfilled the first time by Isaiah having a son with his wife in a normal sort of way. That means that the same thing could happen with Christ's birth. Therefore, Christ didn't have to be born of a virgin. And if that was the only verse addressing the virgin birth, we'd be hard-pressed to put up an argument. But the New Testament tells us that Mary conceived without having been with a man, and that it was of the Holy Spirit. So we can take this word virgin in its alternate meaning. What a wonderful prophecy this was for us. It promised Christ to us. A child would be born in order for us to have God with us. Sometimes it seems too good to be true. I don't know about you, but sometimes when I'm sitting around thinking about this, I'm thinking, this is just amazing. This I mean we know the doctrine and we can state the doctrine and sometimes that hardens us to the reality, the supernatural reality Of God being with us. It's astounding. It's it's more astounding than any science fiction movie could ever be God came and dwelt among us, and no one would have known from a distance that he was any different from us. He was so much like us. No glow, no halo, nothing like what you see in the old paintings, just God with us. According to Scripture, we as humans are in the same shape as Ahab in this story. That's kind of interesting We didn't want God. We weren't pursuing God. We weren't pleasing to God. We only wanted to live our own lives, our own ways. But God intruded into our lives. He gave us a sign, even though we didn't have the good sense or inclination to ask for one. We also had brutal enemies threatening us, just like Ahaz did. We had something more dangerous than armies. We had our own sin nature looming large against us. It was doom that was inescapable There was no place to hide from God when He served justice on us for what we had been and what we had done. But unlike removing a threat temporarily, like in Isaiah's or in Ahaz's case Like God did for Judea. God sent his son to save his people from their sin for all time. All time. There's nothing temporary about Christ's salvation. He provided a permanent rescue from the most dangerous enemy in the second sign. And he graciously took hold of our souls and called us to himself He changed our hearts until we desired what he had to offer. So by and large, we are Ahaz in the story, receiving a precious sign before ever having the sense to want one. And receiving a rescue that we could never deserve. And now we have Jesus, and God is with us. As for Ahaz, the sign was completed for him when Isaiah's son was born in Isaiah 8 , Isaiah chapter 8, right after the end of the chapter we're in. And I'll read that. Verses one through three, I believe. Isaiah eight, one through three. Moreover, the Lord said to me, Take a large scroll and write on it with a man's pen concerning Maher Shallow Hashbaz Don't name your kids that Maher Shalashbaz And I'll take for myself faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah. Then I went to the prophetess and she conceived and bore a son. Now, in this case, the prophetess is the virgin that is being spoken of, which is Isaiah's wife who had already had a job. Then the Lord said to me, Call his name Maher Shalel Hashbaz, for before the child shall have any knowledge to cry, My father and my mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria, will be taken away before the king of Assyria. Now, Maher Shalel Hashbaz means the spoil speeds, the prey hastens. The spoil speeds and the prayer or the the prey hastens. Odname. Now, how does that have anything to do with Emmanuel, God with us? Well, look at what was happening here. Remember the threat that Ahaz is trying to protect himself from. He's responding to Ephraim and Syria getting ready to attack him. Well, Israel's son is going to be a testament to the fact that God was with Judea. Before the child reaches the age of speaking, The two enemies that they're afraid of will be conquered and looted by Assyria. So God will carry out all of his promises regarding this specific threat. And Isaiah's son will display that God truly was with them in the way that he sped about their destruction. But Ahaz will already have made a huge mistake by this point when when God removes that threat And he was going to appeal, uh Ahaz was going to appeal to Assyria to protect Judea and Syria. from uh I'm sorry. He was going to appeal to Assyria to protect Judea from Syria and Israel. So you've got Assyria, the big bad boys You've got Israel and Syria, the little bad boys, and you've got Judea, uh, that's Ahaz people. And uh I liked how one of the commentaries described it. He said it was like two mice fighting, and one of the mice calls the cat to help break up the fight. That's what Ahaz did. He called the cat. And he was not careful to do nothing, like Ahaz remember, had already told him, be careful to do nothing. So the cat is going to make that mouse pay. But back to the sign of being born. This was also promised in verse 15. Where it says, curds and honey he shall eat, and he that he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good. Um For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land that you dread will be forsaken by both our kings Now this is another odd thing. As I was reading this, I got the completely different picture of what it would mean to somebody in that culture. Curds and honey sounds to me to be a pretty good diet. I mean, sounds all right. Well, what I found out was that these are foods that you would eat if you were poor. So this could mean that Judea will not be in its heyday while this was happening. But the timing is clear. There's going to be a nine-month pregnancy, and then less than two years later, this deliverance was going to happen. So he's basically saying it's going to happen right away. It's going to happen in a time period of probably less than two and a half years. It will be before this child has knowledge to determine right and wrong and is able to speak. We're given both of those clues in those two passages And all of us who have kids have a general idea of when that might be. So it's obviously a very young child. So God is giving Ahaz this sign Ahaz wouldn't ask for it, but God's given it anyway. Ahaz would not trust God. He blatantly and stubbornly refused to trust God, but God would satisfy himself and give a sign anyway. It isn't like Ahaz's refusal could stop God from doing what God wanted to do. I think that's kind of the point here. And look what God promises Ahaz. God is going to deliver Judea from the current threat, and he's going to give a sign to show that it was him who did it. But look at what Isaiah says in verse 16. He said, the land that you dread will be forsaken. The land that you dread will be forsaken. There's a big point here. Here's another example to avoid. Here is Ahaz worried about a credible threat. He is dreading what the approaching armies are about to do to Judea in his imagination. He would have been able at this point to give all kinds of good reasons for being worried about the enemy at his gates Think about it. He knows that they're gathering. He knows they're right across the border. He would have probably made anyone who tried to correct him look stupid by pointing to the reality and the seriousness of the threat But no matter how smart it may have looked, worry is always stupid for a Christian. First, because God forbids it Second, it misses an opportunity to exercise our faith in God's promises. Third, because worry can't accomplish anything. Fourth, worry always has a destructive effect on us. And fifth, worry wastes the time that we could be using for something positive. In Matthew 6, 25 through 33, it says this, Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feeds them Are you not of more value than they? Which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field how they grow, they neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of them. Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. That is the verse that Ahaz failed so miserably at. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. What potential threat are we dreading? We need to get this in our heads. God does not sympathize with worry. His ministry to us in worry is not empathy. Worry is sin. Worry calls God a liar to God's face. It's a blatant disregard of his character. And it should have no place in our thinking. It isn't smart. It isn't defendable. It's sin. We do well to catch it early on before it has a chance at a foothold in our imaginations. I like what Mark Twain had to say about worry. He had two quotes that I like. He said, I've had a lot of worries in my life, most of which never happened. And the second is worrying is like paying a debt you don't know. Worry is like paying a debt you don't owe. There's a lot of wisdom here, but even more in what David said in Psalm 27:1, where he says, The Lord is my light and my salvation. And then he says, Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? That is exactly where Ahaz needed to be coming from. He needed to orient toward who he had on his side, but he chose not to. Isaiah 7, 10 through 25 is the rest of the text, and we'll finish with this. An explanation of this. The Lord will bring the king of Assyria upon you and your people and your father's house, days that have not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah. And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord will whistle for the ply that is in the farthest part of the rivers of Egypt and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. They'll come and and uh all of them will rest in the desolate valleys and in the clefts of our rocks, and all of the thorns and the pastures And he goes on to say several other bad things that will happen. But it goes on to say that it shall be from the abundance of milk they give, um, that the man will eat curds, and for curds and honey everyone will eat will is left in the land. It shall happen in that day that where wherever there could be a thousand vines worth a thousand shekels of silver, it'll be for briars and thorns. And it goes on again to give some more description of how desolate a place it's going to be. We need to consider this. God provided a rescue from Judea's present danger. But he did not rescue Judea from the consequences of Ahaz's faithless appeal to Assyria for help, for an alliance. So he did rescue them from the little bad boys, but he was not going to rescue them from the big ones because they had appealed to them for an alliance. When Ahaz crossed that line, there was no going back. Look at the imagery here. God whistles and Judea's enemies come hustling in. Isn't that ironic? People in power think they're in control. Uh you listen to them talk and it's like they think that they are in charge of the universe or something. But they have no idea what's going on in spiritual realities. They're serving God's will as much as as when we are, when God requires their services. We can't make a mistake about that. When God wants the services of of the the Trumps and Obamas of the world, he gets it. They're just doing it unwillingly and unwittingly. They receive no reward for doing so. Their motive is not love for God, often it's hatred. We should never get the idea that this world is out of control. Things aren't. The picture that Isaiah paints is of a land that was once wonderful and beautiful and productive, but now it's desolate and worthless. The vineyards are gone and the work to rebuild them would be considerable, not worth the trouble essentially. But now the person with the cow and a couple of sheep are at the top of the food chain. In the past, the world uh this would have barely been enough to feed the servants. You know, in good times, a cow and a couple of sheep would have been poverty. You know, you'd barely get along. Now it feeds the whole family. There's lots of an uh there's lots of land now for the animals to graze in. You know, you always gotta find the upside. There's lots of lots of land now because nobody's living on it So they do pretty well. And due to all the briars, thorns, and brush, there's plenty of places for bees to make their hives, which isn't overly appealing to me. But there's lots of honey And that's a good thing. But this this land now is only a shadow of what it was in the past. You almost get the idea that now the land is not a blessing to the throngs of Judeans. Like it was at one time. It wasn't like the thriving Lord's people that would have been the envy of the other nations surrounding it. It's now only a blessing to the outcasts and the rejects. The vagabonds. That's what God's land is left for. The Judeans as a whole abandoned living for their God. And then the leaders abandoned justice and took up idols. The mindset of the people became more and more godless until now Ahaz culminates this rebellion by rejecting God's offer to change his mind and his heart. Ahaz refuses to even allow God to have a test in his life. He refuses to allow God to show what he could do for Ahaz. Ahaz follows the path of his own choosing, like we're so inclined to do. He follows his heart instead of following God. And God starts to whistle for the things that would show Ahaz what a foolish thing it is to reject the provision of God. I'd like to close with a quote from one of the commentaries. He said, we should be asking ourselves, am I trusting God right now where it counts for me? If we welcome God as our ally and yield to His way, His timing, His control, His glory He will fight for us and we will have no regrets. He never lets faith go unmet I like that quote. God never lets faith go unmet. But if we set our own terms, we'll fight alone. Jesus said, according to your faith, be it unto you. Moment by moment, that is the key to life. Let's close by singing Be Still My Soul. It's in the black Meet still my store the Lord is on your side. Bear fashion leaving the cross of free pushing Please do your God to order and provide in every change to be faithful. Be still myself your best, your heavily friend. Through the thorny way leads to a joyful land Me there, my solo, yogata undertake To guide the future as he has the past, your hope your God 's let nothing shape. All their mysterious shall be bright at last, keeping my soul away and still. Beast in my soul, yeah , When we shall be forever with the Lord, when this appreciation fears are God. Sorrow for his love 's curious joy is restored. Be still my soul when changing years are past. All safe and blessed we shall be high. Lord, again, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the bad example of Ahaz. We thank you for showing us what the end is. When we choose to not allow you to be the trusted source of all life in our lives. When we choose to resist your truth, your promises, and cling to our own ways of handling things, cling to our own plans and strategies. Cling to the path that our hearts provide for us instead of your word and your guidance. Lord, we know that you are trustworthy. We know that you are worthy of our whole lives. Lock, stock, and barrel. And even in that, there is not like a repayment for the grace that you have shown us because such a thing is impossible. But that we have the golden and glorious opportunity to live like people who believe you. Lord, we ask that you would help us to do that this week. Live in a way that clearly is delineated from the rest of the world because we don't care what it is we come up with. We trust you and we know that you have something good in store for us as we cling to you and live for you. So help us to be the people who respond quickly to your call, respond quickly to your guidance, and just to trust you from the bottom of our heart. And make decisions accordingly that honor and glorify you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.