Now remember our setting this morning. Jesus and the eleven have just celebrated the Passover. Judas has left the group to do his hideous work. And now Jesus does a very significant thing. What he does could only be done by him. He's moving the church from the old covenant to the new covenant. He's opening the gates of heaven by faith in the completed works of Christ. He's giving a symbol that represents the fulfillment of everything that God has said and done previously in Jesus Christ himself. I doubt the disciples understood just how profound this was. This would grow on them over the years. From this day forward, God's people would not need to celebrate the Passover and eat the Paschal lamb. They could now worship the Lamb of God. Verse 22, and as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them, and said, Take eat, this is my body. The phrase, as they were eating. tells us that this happened somewhere in the Passover ceremony. It's most likely when they would have been eating the roasted lamb. At this point in the meal, Christ left the prescribed agenda, and they would have been extremely sensitive to that because they would have known the routine. They would have had the Passover routine down and memorized. He reached over to the unleavened bread, which would be more like a cracker than bread. It would be flat and crisp. And he took some. And then he prayed over the food and he blessed it. That wasn't unusual for Christ to do. He's done that plenty of times. And that's where we come up with the tradition of praying before we eat Which is an excellent way of displaying a difference that Christ has made in our lives, and it often leads to opportunities to testify of Christ. Although in high school it also led to the food disappearing from my tray when I looked up when I was done. But anyway, so Jesus took the bread. And he prayed over the pieces that he took, and then he broke the bread. Then he passed it out to his eleven disciples, and Christ said, Take eat, this is my body. The first thing to note is that this would have been unleavened bread. This would represent the separation from the world's leaven, the world's sin. Leaven was generally a bad corrupting influence in Scripture. So the bread that Christ hands out, the bread that represents Christ, is without leaven. Christ's body is without leaven, symbolically without sin. The second thing to note is that Christ broke the whole into pieces so that everyone who ate the bread was eating from a piece of the whole. They were participating in a unity, and that unity was the design here. They were in a sense all eating from the same whole. Luke adds that Jesus also said, This is my body given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Now, at this point, we're looking at words that have ended up being fighting words over most of the history of the church In fact, even today, you could have fighting words on this very sentence. The Roman Catholic Church taught what is called transubstantiation Transubstantiation. This teaching says that the bread and the wine actually turn into flesh and blood of Christ when eaten and drank. So basically something happens and they could actually scientifically scientifically test this substance from the time it enters your mouth to the time it hits your stomach and it actually changes into something completely different They took what Christ said literally instead of symbolically. I believe it was Luther and Zwingli who fought vigorously over this issue Luther argued to take it literally. He said there was no reason not to. Christ said it. You take it that way. End of story. Zwingli argued to take it figuratively. Over symbolic or symbolically rather than literally. Along with this came the issue of how to understand the Lord's Supper Does it convey grace? That's the theological way of expressing it. Does it convey grace? And that's another fighting work fighting terms. Again. Or is it merely a memorial that's intended to reorient us to the reality of who Christ is and what he did? So is it something that transacts grace, that actually imparts it, does something, or is it a reorientation of our minds? Both the Roman Catholics Many Presbyterian churches as well as many Reformed Doctrine Scholars believe that when a person takes communion An actual transaction happens whereby the eating of the substance conveys grace into your life and heart and mind and all of that. It's like a grace pill that transfers God's grace to us when we eat it. There's a trail of logic that leads them to this conclusion, which is pretty much a part of what is called covenantal theology. It's one of the reasons why I I disagree with covenantal theology. I don't have much use for it. It has holdovers from the Roman Catholic Church that I think the reformers didn't have the heart to let go of. I have a major problem with communion conveying grace in this kind of a transactional manner because it's so different from the rest of the Christian life. Or our experience of God's grace, you think about your own life, it's largely associated in every other instance with what? Faith. Faith is how grace gets conveyed to us. We act according to what God has said, we believe it, we live according to it. And we experience God's grace. We're saved by grace through faith, Scripture says. In other words, we receive that grace as a result of believing, of having faith Of an exercise in the mind. We are sanctified by grace through faith. We grow by believing what God says And disbelieving our impressions or experiences or desires or whatever it is that goes counter to God's word. Everything that happens spiritually in our lives happens in relationship to what passes through our minds. and solidifies in our hearts. Yet here the reformers would have us believe that another method of receiving grace is available to us. We can essentially get a spiritual shock by taking communion. And then those who oversee that communion have a power to withhold this grace. They wield the power of grace. I just can't see how any of the passages about communion would require such an interpretation in light of what Christ said. The Baptist position has always been that the Lord's Supper is best defined by the word Christ used when he said in Luke, do this in remembrance. of me. Do this in remembrance of me. Communion is the expression of remembering who Christ is and what he has done for us. The power comes not from some mystical charge received by eating and drinking, but from the mental reorienting and reprioritizing of our lives as we think about our Savior and our Master. This view of communion is completely consistent with the rest of our Christian life, the life of faith. The power resides not in the carrying out of a tradition. But in the faith that the believer has in the Lord that he is remembering. The importance is not as much as getting in getting the bread and the wine into our stomach. But in getting the thoughts of faith into the mind and the heart. Also, for those who stress that when Jesus says, This is my body, that we can't do otherwise than to take this literally. I'd have to ask about how about when Jesus says he is the door or he is the vine? Must we then regard him as an oak plank or a grapevine? I mean obviously that would be absurd. There are times when it is clearly figurative, and I think in this instance it violates nothing to take it figuratively, and it violates something when we take it literally. I really like what Warren Wearsby has to say here. He says, what then did Jesus accomplish by his death? On the cross, Jesus fulfilled the old covenant and established a new covenant. The old covenant was ratified with the blood of animal sacrifices, but the new covenant was ratified by the blood of God's Son. The new covenant in his blood would do what the old covenant sacrifices could not do. Take away sin and cleanse the heart and conscience of the believer. We are not saved from our sins by participating in a religious ceremony, but by trusting Jesus Christ as our Savior Our Lord's command was, this do in remembrance of me. The word translated remembrance means much more than in memory of, for you can do something in memory of a dead person, yet Jesus is alive. The word carries the idea of a present participation in a past event. Because Jesus is alive, as we celebrate the Lord's Supper, by faith we have communion with him. We see that also in 1 Corinthians 10, 16 and 17. This is not some magical experience produced by the bread and the cup. It is a spiritual experience that comes through our discerning of Christ and the meaning of the supper. And there's another quote from Hendrickson. Our Lord desired that by means of the supper he instituted , the church should remember his sacrifice and love him. should reflect on that sacrifice and embrace him by faith, and should look forward in living hope to his glorious return. Surely the proper celebration of communion is a loving remembrance. It is, however, more than that. Jesus Christ is most certainly and through his Spirit most actively present at this genuine feast. His followers take and eat. They appropriate Christ by means of living faith and are strengthened in this faith. End of quote. So uh I there are an awful lot of scholars who would agree with what we're saying this morning, and there are some who would violently disagree. Verse 23. Then he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank from it. And he said, This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many. After breaking the bread and giving it to his disciples, Jesus takes a cup of wine. He then gives thanks for it and he passes it around. The word for giving thanks is Eucharistio, which is where the word Eucharist comes from, that is a pretty much a Catholic description of the communion. Now notice that they all drank from a single cup. Again, it's very clear that there's unity in this memorial. And this is simply how they did the Passover. They would spread the cup around We all partake from the same. Everyone has the same thing. There is nothing in this memorial to differentiate oneself. To make oneself superior to anybody else. You're all sharing of the same thing. It's Christ who is superior. And we're either all in or all out. You either take that cup or you don't. There aren't any degrees. Then Jesus described what the imagery means. The wine is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many. My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many. This would have been pregnant with meaning for the disciples. When Christ said the phrase, my blood of the new covenant, the disciples probably would have thought immediately of the Old Testament passage in Exodus 24, 8. And it says, And Moses took the blood, sprinkled it on the people, and said, This is the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you according to all these words. So this first covenant was sealed in blood. Moses said this after reading the book of the covenant in the hearing of the people, and they had all agreed to live by it. So the old covenant was sealed with blood. Now the new one is too. But this time it's not the blood of sacrificed animals, it's the blood of Jesus Christ Himself. The disciples would have understood this in terms of a sacrifice. They knew that it implied death of something innocent for someone guilty. They understood that. The word diathe, or something like that, means testament or will in classical Greek, but here it translates the Hebrew verit, which means covenant. It is that relationship of lordship and obedience which God establishes between Himself and men. That's a covenant. And the blood of the covenant is the sign of its existence and the means by which it is effected. So the covenant itself is a relationship of lordship and obedience which God establishes between Himself and men The blood of the covenant is the sign of its existence and the means by which it is effective. That was by Taylor. Bible scholars would have expected this new covenant at the time. They would not have understood all that it meant, certainly, but it was predicted in Scripture in Jeremiah 31. 31 through 34, where it says, Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant, which, by the way, they broke, though I was husband to them, says the Lord. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their minds. The new covenant, I will put my law in their minds. And write it on their hearts, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. They'll all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, says the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Notice what is predicted in this new covenant. There will be an internal presence of God's Word. It will be in them due to a change of heart, a supernatural change, something that only God could accomplish in their lives. Scripture tells us that believers are made new. I think that's what it's talking about. We now have a proclivity to obey rather than to rebel. We have truth revealed to us by the Holy Spirit that was promised. And instead of a national existence where people were born through bloodlines into an earthly kingdom, Now people will be born spiritually into a kingdom where everyone who is in that kingdom has experienced the same change. They are now God's people. Every believer is a true follower of God. God is our God, and we are his people. And every one of those people will have a living, breathing relationship with that God. We will not be so reliant upon the lone prophets of God who are needed to convey God's words in the Old Testament. All believers are in direct relationship with God. And the wonder of it all is that Christ Himself will truly forgive our sins. In a way where they are no longer able to be called against us. The forgiveness that we receive through Jesus Christ is such a legally binding done way that it would be unjust to call those sins against us now. This is all new The sacrifices that were given in the past would only cover sin by faith, looking forward to something future going to happen. This covenant grants complete forgiveness, forgiveness in such a way that we cannot be held accountable. for that sin that was forgiven by Christ. So this new covenant was being looked for by those who knew prophecy. When Jesus mentioned it, the disciples may have known what Jesus was saying was earth shattering. It was the turn of an era. And it was the end of religion as they knew it and the beginning of something infinitely better. There's also something else to notice here. He says, This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many. The logical question to ask at this point is why did Jesus not say the blood of the new covenant that is shed for all? Arminian theology says that Christ shed his blood for all, but it only counts for those who receive Christ. And and you know I'm not trying to say this is absolute proof, it cannot be any other way. All I'm just saying is this is one evidence Sovereign grace theology says that Christ's atonement was only ever for those who had become his children. The theology is called limited atonement. The verse in our text would seem to back the sovereign grace view. Certainly, Christ's sacrifice is held out to all as the opportunity of all opportunities for human beings to become right with Christ. But it accomplishes exactly what it was intended to accomplish, and it is perfectly effective in what it was intended to do. Christ's blood saves every child of God and no others. One more thing, the disciples would have understood that since Christ was talking about shedding his own blood to bring in this new covenant. This blood would be a blood sacrifice. He was talking about giving his life. He was talking about death. He wasn't talking about giving some blood. He was talking about his death. Verse 25, Assuredly I say to you, I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. Now Christ has made it perfectly clear. His normal days of eating and drinking are done. This is it. The phrase the fruit of the vine is normally understood as wine used at a feast. They just called it that, the fruit of the vine. So Christ is not just saying he will no longer drink any wine. He is saying the next time he celebrates a feast will be in the kingdom of God. The next time he parties is going to be in the kingdom of God. Matthew 8. 11 says this, and I say to you that many will come from east and west and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. Isaiah 25, 6 says, And in this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all people a feast of choice pieces, a feast of wine on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of well-refined wines on the lees. Revelation 19, 5-9 says, Then a voice came from the throne saying, Praise our God, all you his servants, and those who fear him, both small and great. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, as the sound of many waters and as the sound of mighty thundering, saying, Alleluia, for the Lord God omnipotent reigns. Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready. And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. Then he said to me, Write, blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true sayings of God. You and I are called to believe some pretty astounding things. We're expected to believe by faith what God says. And if we believe, we can't help but live accordingly. We live differently. It can't be helped. That's what faith does. It has to happen. Faith changes living Faith changes how we think. Faith changes how we live. Christ said that he was going to drink wine in a kingdom celebration. And that was the next time he was going to drink wine at a celebration. Then we're given some details of what that celebration will actually be. Many are going to come to it. In fact, every person saved by grace, by faith, will be there. Your aunt will be there. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob will be there. Along with many more. So we see there will be many entering into eternity. The feast will be made up of good food, choice food. So we see that even in eternity we'll enjoy good food. That's a pleasing thought to me. I don't know about you guys. Why make mention of the quality of the food if the quality doesn't matter? We'll still have things in eternity that we understand and appreciate. And it's difficult to imagine better chefs than God Himself would have employed for this purpose. I mean He's He's had plenty of time to pick them out Then in Revelation we're told, Praise our God, all you his servants, and those who fear him, both small and great. This is written to us. This is what we will be commanded to do. It doesn't matter who you are. If you're in Christ, you have a place at this table. And the purpose is to praise God. That's what we're for. It doesn't matter if we want thousands of people to Christ or if we're martyred the day after we come to Christ. We're to praise God. Why? What's the context? Verse 6, and I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, as the sound of many waters and as the sound of mighty thundering, saying, Alleluia, for the Lord God omnipotent reigns. The greatness of God is the context for this banquet. The Lord God all-powerful reigns. The Lord Almighty rules the universe. That's the context. But what good does that do to us? How will that benefit us? We've got to ask the all-prevailing human question here: what's in it for us? What's in it for me? The writer doesn't leave us in the dark here. He tells us very specifically what's in it for us. Verse 7, let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready. And to her it's granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. And he said to me, Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. What an understatement And he said to me, these are the true sayings of God. Every believer, every God fearer, whether great or small, has been invited to the marriage of the Lamb. We're invited to a wedding ceremony where we are the bride and Christ is the groom. This is better than being invited to watch a wedding It's not really one of my favorite things anyway, but we're invited to be in it. And not only that, we're the second most important thing in the wedding. The groom is the most important. It's he who has the power to grant this honor to the bride. It's he who does the choosing. It's he who has honored us by choosing us. And then we clothe ourselves with the evidence of our salvation. We clothe ourselves with the good works that God has produced in us through this salvation, this powerful salvation that He has granted us. All of our evil works would have been wiped out to be remembered no more. They're forgiven. Now we're only clothed with the good works of faith that we're created for and that were we were prepared for us to do from the beginning of time Ephesians 2. 10 says, For we are Christ's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. That's what we were created for, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. It's very, very difficult. I have a real problem with anyone who separates Christianity from good works. You cannot do it. Christians were designed for good works. They're never saved by good works, but they are saved to good works. It's intended in God's design, and not only that, the good works were prepared before we were. Then Revelation says, Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Christ is going to be drinking wine with us here at this supper. I think we can assume this is what Christ was talking about when he said that he will no longer be drinking celebratory wine. until a special event in the kingdom of God. We need to think about this. What weight has Christ given us to carry that will not be found to be a small thing compared to that day? When we suffer temptation now, or distress, or pain, or persecution now, it isn't pleasant. Of course it's not. In fact, it can be downright awful. But we've got to keep our perspective at all times. How does our temporary suffering compare to the permanent state of blessing that God has prepared us for? Consider that we may have, say, 70 years of suffering. Consider it to be a continual life of suffering. That would probably be the worst case scenario. We suffer every day Seriously, then compare that worst-case scenario to an absolute eternity of blessing. Would you not say that the reward is worth the price? Yes, we all agree that the price can be exceedingly difficult, but no matter how difficult, an eternity of peace and joy and happiness is worth whatever temporary suffering we may have to face in this life. This is the reasoning of eternity that we have got to keep in our heads. We need to orient to it. We can't become fixated on the here and now We can't do it. It's dangerous. Christ promises what we need in the here and now, but he promises what we crave for in eternity. Every believer has been invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. We're going to party with God. We have a seat reserved for us. We don't have to fight any lines. There's a seat with our name on it. We have reservations. We have no need to stress at all. And not only that, it will be exactly where God wants it to be. I sort of doubt that any of us qualify for the right-hand seat to Christ, but we will be somewhere at the table. And what better table to be at? What more could we ask? This life really is a passing mist. It's short-lived. It's here and then it's gone. That's a truth penned by anyone with any insight whatsoever. But the marriage feast of the Lamb is the beginning of an eternal state of blessing And that's worth living for. That's worth sacrificing for, and that's worth dying for. And Jesus has been waiting for his next drink of wine for it to be with us. A line in John Prime's song comes to mind at this point, How Lucky Can One Man Get? In our case, how blessed can one person be? How blessed Can one person be? Verse 26. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Christ is about to walk to his death. He knows it. But he stops here, and what does he do? He sings a hymn. Sings a hymn with his disciples It was probably part of the hillel traditionally sung at the Passover. It was a praise song to God. What a wonderful way for Christ to keep his perspective in light of the suffering that he is about to face. Here's an excellent example to follow. We do well to sing God's praises, no matter what difficult thing looms in front of us. Uh let's let's close with a song and then a prayer.