This morning we're going to start with a math problem. It requires that you know percentages. And and Brad, you delay in your answers, all right? Because you've got to give them a chance. From what I understand, a shekel was worth the average man's monthly salary. So a half a shekel is one half of a man's monthly salary. For the sake of making the problem easy, let's assume that the average monthly salary is $2,000 a month. What would half of that be? Just simple. You can. Yeah, it would be $1,000. So a half a half a month's wages, a half a shekel would be $1,000. Okay, the temple tax of any man over 20 years would be a half a shekel. Now this is based on a law in Exodus, Exodus 10, 13, and 14, and it says this: this is what everyone among those who are numbered shall give. Half a shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and a shekel is twenty giras, which I don't know what that is. The half shekel shall be an offering to the Lord, and everyone included Among those who are numbered from twenty years old and above, shall give an offering to the Lord. So this is a tax. It's a temple tax And this was to be used for the atonement of the sins of the people. And we see that in Exodus. Exodus 30, 16. It says, You shall take the atonement money from the people of Israel and shall give it for the service of the tent meeting, that it may bring the people of Israel to remembrance before the Lord. So as to make atonement for their lives. Okay, so far so good. God established this tax to be used to atone the sins of the people, or to be used in that regard. It was paid around the Passover, and it's interesting that both the rich and the poor paid the same amount. I think that might be because every human being is in equal need of atonement. Sure, some sins are more notorious than others. Some are considered by God to be more abominable than others. Some sins have greater consequence. than others, but all sins have this in common. They are all equally damning. So every soul is the in the same need to be made right with God. They all have the same need. So God requires this tax and the tax is collected when worshippers come to the temple. Now here's the trouble. These Jewish people lived at a Roman-controlled area that's pri the primarily used Roman coins Well those Roman coins had an idolatrous image on them, at least most of them did. They would either have images of mythical gods, or they would have emperors' faces with idolatrous titles. So they were deemed unfit for use in the temple of the one true God. You couldn't have that garbage coming into the temple and being used for something holy. That was their thinking. So when the common person got his pay, it was in a coin that could not be used at the temple. So these men needed to convert the Roman coins into coins that could be used And there were two kinds of coins that could be used. There were temple coins and there were Tyrian coins. Swapping out the coins is what the money changers did. Now, these money changers, and here's where the second part of the math problem comes in. Now, these money changers would charge a lot. Up to twelve and a half percent. Okay, what's twelve and a half percent of a thousand dollars Anybody. So you As a Jewish worshiper would work for half a month and you get a thousand bucks. And these money changers would work for a few minutes and they'd get 125 bucks. If they did that eight times in one day, they'd have made a half a month's worth of wages. And these Jewish worshippers needed to have the coins. They had to in order to worship God. They needed to swap them out in order to obey a direct command from God. So these money changers were making a killing based on the sincere desire of people. To worship their God properly. So that's the situation with the money changers. The same sort of thing was happening with the animals used for sacrifices. These Jewish families would be traveling for days to reach Jerusalem, and it was terribly inconvenient to carry their own animals with them. Imagine taking your cows on that trip. So they would purchase them when they got to Jerusalem. And again, this was all required in order to obey God. They needed an animal for a sacrifice for their sins. So the vendors selling the animals would sell them at exorbitant prices. And again, they were taking advantage of sincere worshippers. Now, instead of setting up their booths outside the temple, which they could have done, they all wanted prime real estate. They all wanted the best place. Being inside the court of the Gentiles made it very convenient for the Jewish worshipers to buy what they needed without any additional trips. Now keep in mind, if you were a Gentile who had proselytized into Judaism, the court of the Gentiles was as close as you could get. To God. It's as close to the Holy of Holies as you will ever get. This court was provided for them as a place where they could worship by God. And right there, in an area intended for Gentile worship, is the Jewish Walmart. And we need to understand all of this in order to understand what Jesus did. Verse 13, the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now the Gospels cover three Passovers. This is the first. And Jesus cleared the temple on the first and the third. So John tells us about the first time. Now the Passover would have been an exciting time for the Jewish people. It would be like our church camp on steroids if you were a kid. You'd be going camping, and then you'd be going to the big city. For the adults, it was probably one of the most meaningful spiritual activities of the year. The most devout followers of God would do their best to be there. That's the place you wanted to be if you were following God. And Jesus was going. Verse 14: In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons, and the money changers were sitting there. Okay, we understand what Jesus was looking at. There are two problems. The first problem is the location that they chose for this business. It was in a place of worship Imagine if we had a table in the vestibule back there, and the first thing you would do when you came into the door was exchange the offering you wanted to give this morning. into silver dollars and in order to get the silver dollars you had to have to pay twelve and a half percent. What impression would that create in your mind about church? Imagine how you begin to regard the whole process of worship. It's like it would sour your view on what's going on here. How would it make church j wouldn't it make ch church just look like a money-making scheme? And I've talked to people who believe that about church, and that's unfortunate. Not only was the location bad, though, the nature of the business was bad. It was an exploitation of sincere worshippers. It's like the hucksters who tell people to send money to this TV smooth talker in exchange he'll personally pray for you and rain down blessings in your life. It's the same kind of hucksterism It was that sort of thing. John doesn't tell us about this side of the problem, but Mark does in Jesus' second purging of the temple. In Mark eleven, seventeen he says, Then he taught, saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations, but you have made it a den of thieves? So Mark gives us the slant that the business that they were doing was not the way it should be done. A thief steals something that is not his. Jesus' view of these vendors was that their exploitation of the sincere followers of God qualified as theft. They were taking money from people that was not theirs and was not earned. It's quite likely that there was A fair exchange rate and a fair sales price that would not have been considered theft Because these people were providing a service and it cost money to do it, it cost time to do it, and there was a profit that was, you know, uh uh uh appropriate But they'd gone beyond that. So the very nature of how they were running this business was bad. Then it says in 15, and making a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. And he told those who sold pigeons, Take these things away, don't make my father's house a house of trade. This temple should have been filled with the sounds of worshipers calling out to God. This temple should have been filled with the sounds of humans worshipping. This temple should have been filled with one of the spots where the presence of God would be evidenced by all those who were purely worshiping God. It should have catered to the Gentiles coming into God's presence in worship. It should have been the easiest place in the world for God to receive the worship of those in the world that came to save. The blessed Gentiles who were grafted into the vine. It should have been that But no, those were not the sounds that were heard. All that could be heard was the bustling of sheep and goats and cattle and birds and all the smells that would be associated with that. And the vendors trying to keep the lines moving along. And it'd be easy to imagine the Gentiles being squeezed out to make room for the paying customers. Jesus looked at this and he got stirred up. He was thinking about what his father deserved. His father deserved the true worship that these Gentiles wanted to offer up. God had designated a place for them for this purpose and for this purpose alone. The Father is worthy of praise. But the business of worship had squeezed that out. It had squeezed out the one thing that mattered, the one thing that God wanted. So Jesus gathered some cords. These were probably the cords used to tie up the animals. And he made a whip out of them. Now you can you can make up any kind of Jesus in your mind that you want to, and our world comes up with some doozies. And you can imagine what Jesus would do however you want. But if you want to be accurate, you do well to read and study what Jesus was like and what Jesus did do. If you think that resisting an evil man with force is one of those things that Jesus forbade in the Sermon on the Mount, and he's talking carte blanc about everybody, you'll have a problem here. Jesus did not turn the other cheek here. He was very aggressive, and his whip threatened violence of some sort And it was clear that he was not going to allow anyone's defense to stop him from what he was doing in the Father's best interest. Jesus at this point was a force to be reckoned with. Here was a holy righteous anger. And I issue a warning. I think that kind of righteous anger is very rare with us. I don't think you can trust just because you're angry, it's righteous. Most of the time it's not. But in his case it was. We need to be real careful about that. But given this was Jesus, we know he wasn't just losing his cool. He wasn't losing control. He wasn't losing anything. This was controlled, specifically directed, righteous rage. Look what Jesus does. He drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and oxen, and he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. And he told those who sold pigeons, get these things out of here. This tells us that Jesus didn't just drive the animals out. He drove the vendors out, too. Jesus was hurting them, herding as in H E R D. Hurting them. You can imagine him going back and forth like a sheepdog with this whip, swinging his whip at the animals, probably incentivizing the animals to move on. We can imagine the vendors running after them, trying to keep all track of them, because they're probably going all over the place and they're thinking, Man, I gotta get them back. We got sheep and oxen making a beeline for the exit You can just see people scrambling to get out of the way. Well when that's done, Christ gets him out the door, he goes back, and he finishes the job. And we can see him walking up to the money changer tables with the vendors wondering, well, what's Christ going to do next? He can't herd the coins out of the out of the temple. You know, what's he gonna do next? The whip 's not gonna work Well Jesus grabs the side of the table and the vendors, you can just see him thinking, oh no, he's not gonna and sure enough he does. He sends the coin sailing all over the floor Now, this may well have been the highlight of some of the less sincere Gentile worshippers at the time. I doubt that the money changers were the only ones helpfully picking up the coins that day. But there goes the money that these vendors love so much, the precious profits that they've earned. And we can be sure that those vendors will not set their tables there again on this day. They don't want this to happen again But look at those who sold pigeons, and this gives us a little bit of insight. This gives us a great insight into how Jesus was doing this. He was creating a great inconvenience to the vendors of the sheep and oxen money, but he never removed what they had from their ownership. The sheep were still there, they just had to gather them up. The oxen were still there, the the coins were still there. He was demanding that they remove their business outside the temple, but he was not preventing them from having To drive the sheep and oxen would require some work to gather them back, and the same was true of the coins. But Jesus didn't let the pigeons loose Why not? If he would have done that, he would have deprived these men of the opportunity to have a business at all. The worshippers did need to purchase the animals, and somebody had to sell them to them. So the animals had to be available for purchase. Jesus was not at all out of control like we sometimes get when we're angry. Everything was determined and intentional. At the end of the day, Jesus may not change how these vendors did their business and it was a needed business, but he for sure would change where they did their business. As long as he was around. So Jesus told the pigeon sellers to move their business. He flipped nothing, he drove nothing. He just let them know that they needed to move and they needed to move now, and my guess is they did Then look at what Jesus said to the pigeon vendors, and this would have applied to all others as well, but the pigeon vendors were the only ones left. Don't make my father's house a house of trade. Don't make my father's house a business place. A space that is being used for worship should not at the same time be a place of business. Worship is the act of giving to God that which we think He is worth. Business is the act of trading something of worth for something of the same worth. In worship, you give because you have already received. In business, you give in order to receive Worship is spiritual and heavenly. Trade is worldly. Now that does not make trade bad in itself. Business is necessary Scripture teaches that businesses run God's way, they're fine, they're good. And Christians should get involved in those things, but it must stay in its proper sphere. Jesus did nothing to destroy these businesses, but he absolutely prohibited it to hinder worship. Now we need to ask the question: how does business and worship get mixed in our culture? How does business and worship get mixed in our culture? How do things that are being presented as places and times and events of worship get mixed with a for-profit motive? What ministry is there that you cannot receive unless you provide a profit to the one giving it? What ministry can you not get unless you buy it for more than it costs the minister? As far as I can figure, anything that requires profit to the minister is no longer primarily a ministry. Not that's demanded. The profit motive moves it from ministry to a business. It may be a business that might minister to people, but it's still a business. Now I doubt that many of the authors of Christian books or Christian music bands have considered this. Some do. Some do. Some still have free will offerings for concerts. Some still give away an online version of their books for free. Some uh conferences still offer all their recordings for free to anybody who wants to get them. And I have tremendous respect for that. The word ministry is often used flippantly. I used to attend a college whose motto was price preeminent. We used to joke it was cash preeminent If you had the cash, you could go. It's good to examine those things called ministry to make sure that the primary focus is ministry. If it is, the ministers will do their best to make it available to everyone free of charge somehow, or at least at cost. At least that's what I currently believe If a band wants to provide Christian entertainment and charge for a ticket and make a profit, there's nothing wrong with that. It can be incredibly profitable, and so it is. But that in itself isn't a problem. But it is no longer a ministry. And if they begin to call it a ministry, they might be inviting their tables to get turned. That's a big deal. Verse 17, his disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. Zeal for your house will consume me. We don't know when Jesus' disciples remembered this. It may have been after Jesus raised from the dead, that seems to be when they remembered most things, the Holy Spirit opened their eyes wide at that point, at some point, so that they could write Scripture And they were discovering all kinds of things about Jesus now. We see in this encounter how Jesus looked at the world He saw it through eyes concerned with the glory of God. He walked into that environment, and the glory of God is what caught his focus. There are several examples of that in Scripture. Godly leaders often saw the world that way. They were often gripped with their circumstances that way. Think about David when he saw Goliath taunting the Israelite army. Most people saw this man as an undefeatable foe, a force in nature, a fighting machine. It inspired fear in them because they were seeing it from their perspective. But look how David saw the situation in 1 Samuel 17, 26. And David said to the men who stood by him, Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? David saw Goliath as violating the glory of the one true God. He saw Goliath through God's eyes Not through the eyes of flesh. And he assumed that since Goliath was God's enemy, God would slay him. And he did so. He was right. Oh, that we would see our world and our lives through the eyes of God, through the eyes of God's word, through the eyes of eternity. That we would live to defend the glory of God. That starts in our own lives by not allowing our temples To have things in them that detract from God's glory. And when we see those things, we attack them by faith, like David did or like Christ did. Getting them out of there, getting them taken care of, getting them removed, will not allow them to set up camp in our hearts. We have zeal for God's temple. And we when we see sin In the church, we make it our mission to help our brothers and sisters to turn those tables over and to drive out those sheep and oxen. I'm sure there were some other faithful Jewish people at the time whose hearts were vexed by this business happening in the temple grounds. They may have thought about it and complained about how wicked these vendors were and how wicked the leadership was that allowed these vendors to be there, but none were driven to drive it out. No matter what the cost. None took to heart God's glory to the degree that Jesus did. Oh, that our zeal would increase in our lives. To remove all of the obstacles to the glory of God in the temple of God, which is us, individually and corporately. Now there's something interesting here. What Jesus did would have really stirred things up. The Jewish leadership would have been angry because it was their circus. They had given permission to these vendors and they were probably making a cut. So they would have been quick to act, but what Jesus did wasn't enough to alarm the Romans, because Jesus didn't hurt anybody So the Roman gu guards aren't gonna run in and start, you know, um showing force. In fact, Roman soldiers, if they had seen this happen They may have taken pleasure in seeing this obvious abuse of sincere worshippers happening to be Gentiles put to an abrupt end. It probably appealed to them. But it says verse 18, the Jews said to them, so the Jewish leaders came to him, what sign do you show us for doing these things? Obviously, these people, these Jewish people, are not sincere people coming there to worship God. These people would not have needed to be told. They probably got it right away. They probably thought, praise God, this mess was removed from the temple. But the leadership, they approached it differently. Maybe they knew what they were doing was controversial. Maybe in the, you know, maybe they had a conscience. Who knows? So they didn't attack Jesus first. Their question seems to say So if this was as distasteful to God as you say it is, show us a sign that you have the authority to do this. Show us something supernatural that will prove that you're representing God by doing this. We know from other instances that these people wouldn't have believed no matter what Jesus said, so it wasn't a sincere request. John 12, 37 says, But although he had done so many signs before them, they didn't believe in him. Well, Jesus wasn't going to cater to him at this point. They were not sincere. In a few verses, we'll see that Jesus knows what's in the heart of men. And had they been sincere, they would have gotten a different answer, I think. But if they had been sincere, they probably wouldn't have needed to ask the question. Seeing these people driven out of the temple, they would have been saying, We we shouldn't have allowed that to happen. We knew we shouldn't have allowed that to happen. But they would have known Jesus had just looked after his father's glory just like the Jewish leadership was responsible to do, but wasn't doing So Jesus does give them, tell them about a sign to look forward to in the future. Jesus answered and said, Destroy this temple, and in three days I'll raise it up. Jesus also referred to his death and resurrection as a sign later in his ministry. In Matthew 12, 39 and 40, he said, But he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Now, as Jesus often did, he spoke something that his listeners would not understand. And he knew it when he said it. But his followers would have a light bulb turn on years later. Jesus knew what effect it would have on the religious leaders. It was just going to make them angry. And it wouldn't teach them anything. Now, they were in the temple at the time. So naturally, these leaders are going to assume Jesus is talking about the physical building. He doesn't appear to even try to explain to them what he was talking about. So I think it's safe to assume that Jesus was saying this for the sake of his disciples. The greatest sign that Jesus ever did, and he did a lot of amazing signs, it was to lie dead for three days and then to raise from that. That's a sign he gave to the whole world. And most of the Jewish leaders still did not believe This resurrection is the primary difference, or the most obvious difference, between Christianity and every other religion, the empty tomb. It's i if it didn't exist, Christianity is bogus. The fact that it did exist is the thing that lets us know we're barking up the right tree. Well, the religious rulers didn't get it at all, and in fact, they later referred to this claim of Jesus to try to get them in some kind of legal trouble. But they weren't sincere, so they weren't worth the trouble of explaining it. And they weren't humble enough to really want to understand, so they responded as proud humans are so prone to do. Then the Jews said, well, it's taken forty-six years to build this temple, and you'll raise it in three days? Right, ha ha. The blinded heart tends to apply perfect reason everywhere except where it's needed Rather than have a heart-to-heart talk with this miracle worker, and they knew he was, rather than question themselves about the decision to place all those vendors in the court of the Gentiles Rather than humble themselves and ask Jesus what he really means, they take his word and make fun of him. Yeah, Jesus, you're gonna con reconstruct this building in three days. Right, when it's taken us forty-six years and it still wasn't complete. Ironically, they completed it right before they destroyed them. Right before 70 AD. These men just revealed themselves. That's all. That's all that happened here. Verse 21, but Jesus was speaking about the temple of his body. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had spoken this, and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. Here we find the reason that Jesus said what he said. It's interesting that the disciples did not remember this prior to Jesus raising the dead. And this isn't like a primary point, but it's it stood out to me as I was studying it. It was only afterward that they remembered. But Jesus said what he said about his death and resurrection, so that the disciples would believe in Scripture and they would eventually believe in Jesus. That was what it was done for. It's good to know that just because something we say doesn't take root immediately, that doesn't mean it never will. Probably half of what Jesus said did not take root in the disciples until after his death. If that's how it was for Jesus, we can certainly expect in our ministries, in our s our talks with fellow humans, It's going to be the same way. We're a little dense. Takes a while sometimes. But God gets through what God wants us to get. Another note, interesting note is this. Imagine what would have happened if the disciples would have remembered what Jesus said and believed it before Jesus rose again. What an enormous burden would have been lifted in their lives. They could have spent those three days, not in mourning, not in freaking out. But in anticipation of his coming back to life, our slowness to believe often fills our lives with griefs that believing his promises will free us from. Our slowness to believe often fills our lives with griefs that believing his promises would free us from. Oh, what peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pain we bear. So as we close, what will our zeal for God cause us to drive out of the temple? What is stealing the glory of God in the temple of our bodies and in the temple of our minds and the temple of our church that needs removed? What are we putting up with that's drowning out pure worship to God? What is competing with it for space and time? And whatever it is, it's truly worthy to put some whips to it, to do anything it takes to remove them from that space. And also, where are the places in our lives where, because we will not rest upon the promises of God We are fretful simply because we will not believe God. What hours or days or years are we wasting because we stubbornly refuse to walk by faith and we want to cling to sight? What we feel and what we perceive and what we fear and what we think we have to have. Trusting in the promises and the character of God might free us from a boatload of misery. What situation are you in this morning that has not been placed there by a sovereign and loving God? That is amazing how much our perspective can change with just that one truth. What situation are you in this morning that has not been placed there by a sovereign and loving God? If it's in your life and it's for your good, what reason is there to fret? The only way we can maintain our fretting is to remove our eyes from God and His promises. Let's pray. Lord, what are we allowing in our lives