Isaiah is an interesting book. From beginning to end, it tells the people of Judah that they need to repent. But from beginning to end, it never uses the word repent. Jeremiah does, but Isaiah does not As I was thinking about that and studying, I came across a sermon on the internet that discussed repentance in ways that were very challenging to me. I'm afraid that I've not always been very accurate with the word repent in my preaching. And I thought that now is as good a time as any to fix that, given that we are in a book about repentance. Now, as I was thinking about the sermon this morning and just now sitting back on that chair I'm I'm second guessing a few of the things that I have studied, which is not a good position for me to be in right now. But anyway, uh I welcome you all to study it and uh maybe in Sunday school or throughout the week or whatever. We can discuss any points that you see or have studied and see differently than what I have come upon. And I truly do welcome that. Our text in Isaiah is very interesting in how it lays out repentance. I'm not going to exhaust the text this morning. I actually chose it only for the emphasis of repentance But we will go into it a little bit. First in verse 18, God appeals to the listeners by saying, Come now and let us reason together. Come now and let us reason together. The word for reason means to argue, to convince, to convict, to judge, to reprove, like we talked about in Sunday school. None of those things are real popular in our society anymore. But uh that's that's the word reason. The word usually refers to the clarifications of people's moral standings, which may involve arguments being made for or against them So God is going to reason with humans. He offers it out. He holds that out to us. Let's reason together. He's going to appeal to their minds in order to initiate a needed change in their lives. That's how God normally works with his people. That's normally what sanctification in the life of a believer involves. Reasoning. He gives them content for their minds that is accomplished accompanied with the Holy Spirit's enlightening. And in this instance this morning, it's the first step in repentance for these folks. Then God holds out his forgiveness as being of greatest importance. He's talking about sin. He holds that out as being the greatest problem. And uh then God is offering this amazing solution. He's offering forgiveness of sins. Now look at how God defines the options available to human beings. Either A willing and obedient or B refuse and rebel. Let's look at these. Willing and obedient. Willing. Willing is a verb meaning to be willing, to consent, to acquiesce. To be acquiescent. Acquiescent. To yield to desire. Its primary meaning is to be positively inclined to respond to some authority or petition. So we are willing, we are essentially willing to submit. And then the word obedient. The word obedient is a verb meaning to hear, to obey, to listen. To be heard of, to be regarded, to cause to hear, to proclaim, to sound aloud. The verb basically means to hear and in context expresses various connotations of hearing An example of its use is in Isaiah 1. 2, where it says, the heavens are commanded to hear, O heavens, to the prophet's message about Israel. So the proper response to God's reasoning with man that God is offering to us, God's offer of forgiveness of sin Is for the man to have an attitude yielding to this God. This man must be prepared to bow to this superior. Along with that must exist both the hearing and willingness to obey what God has said. A man must hear what God says and be willing to do it. Now, what's the evil alternative? What's the opposite of being willing and obedient? Refuse and rebel. Refuse, the basic idea of this word is refusal or rejection of an offer. Remember the offer that Christ made to the rich young ruler? He told the man to first go and sell all he had and then return and he could follow Christ. The rich man rejected that offer. He went away sad. He didn't want to follow Christ at that price. He rejected the offer. Rebel. Rebel is a verb meaning to be rebellious. In one instance, this word spoke of a son's rebellion against his parents, but in all the other instances, this word was used of rebellion against God. Which provoked God to action. Rebellion is more than falling into a sin or making a mistake. Rebellion is the decision to do what one wants to do, fully knowing that God says no, or refusing to do that which God says we must do. It's an attitude of continued refusal to submit to the authority of God. So when God was calling these people to repentance, he was calling them to a willingness to submit themselves to God. and to be obedient to what he says, which is contrary to what they have been doing, and it's opposite of refusing that offer and intentionally doing some alternative. Repentance is a change of mind due to God's reasoning with man that results in a change of attitude That happens directly resulting from that change of mind. Now let's look at the words for repentance. Remember that one of the last things that Christ told his disciples was that the repentance and remission of sins should be preached everywhere. The repentance and remission of sins. In Luke 24, 46, this is one of the last things he said to them. He said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead on the third day, that the repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. The word for repentance is matanoya. Matanoya. A change of mind. That's what it means. Repentance is a change of mind. As it appears in one who repents of a purpose he has formed or something that he has done. A change of mind. That change of mind by which we turn from, desist from. That's the definition. Christ said that this message of repentance had to be preached in all nations. So the message of repentance and remission of sins is a synonym of the message of the gospel. Certainly, this can't be a second message. You know, Christ didn't say go preach the gospel to all the world and then go preach this other message of repentance and remission of sins. This is the gospel. Now Are there other ways to describe this gospel? Yeah. The New Testament is chock full of those. A more important question is: can the gospel be presented without using the word repent? And we need to think about that a little bit. Can the gospel be presented without using the word repent? Well, Jesus Himself did such a thing in John 3. When Christ was presenting the gospel to Nicodemus, Christ never used the word repentance. What word did Christ use? Well, let's look. John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Whoever believes in Christ. So Jesus here is presenting a message of belief. What do we do with that? Was Christ not preaching the gospel properly? Was he avoiding the messy topic of the problem of our sinful condition? No, not at all. I mean, the answer is obvious in the question. Look at what Christ says later in that same text, John 3, 19 through 21. And this is the condemnation that the light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one practising evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be clearly seen, that they have been done in God. Christ is not avoiding the fact that people need to do business with their sinful hearts. He even says that the only way that people will live in the light is if they are doing good deeds in God. They have changed their ways. That their their belief has changed them to the place that they are now living differently. So it isn't like Christ is preaching an easy believism gospel where all that needs to happen is you pray a prayer and sign a card and have a change in doctrinal position. Christ describes a life change in the one who truly believes. He's basically saying if you believe this, if you really believe this, if it gets into your soul, it's going to have a life change in you. This life change is so big that the deeds this person is doing are evaluated as deeds that are done due to the power of God in his or her life. Those who have not believed are living in a love of darkness and they don't want their deeds revealed. Those are the all two alternatives that Christ holds out. Now, this might be a good time to point out what verses 17 and 18 say. John 3, 17 and 18. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He who believes in him is not condemned, but he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. It's very important for us to know if we have ever believed in Christ, if we have ever submitted to Him, to His Lordship, and received His death as the payment for our sins. If you've never committed yourself over to him to be a follower of his, if you've never changed your mind about sin and begun the process of turning your back on it. You're living in God's condemnation. That's what this is telling us, and that's a very big deal. That is the biggest bad news on this planet. Succome to Christ. Receive the reason that He offers us. Receive His offer of salvation today. Believe in Christ. Okay, we must assume that Christ was preaching the true gospel in John. This gospel of repentance and remission of sins. If that's true, how do we understand repentance based on what Christ said to Nicodemus? The way I understand it, belief must entail the concept of repentance Belief must entail the concept of repentance, and repentance must entail the concept of belief. They are two faces of the same coin. How can that be? Well, we need to remember what the definition of repentance is. It is changing of one's mind. When we truly understand what believing in Christ really means, we begin to understand just what a monumental change in mind that really is. One of the quotes from this Curtis Hudson, who is who I bar borrowed much of this material from, who happens to be a a preacher in a denomination that I probably wouldn't care a whole lot for, but I think he touched on some things here Anyway, one of the quotes is: Faith and repentance are the same. They are not two separate decisions. One cannot trust Christ as Savior without repenting or changing his mind. The very fact that he trusts Christ for salvation shows that he has changed his mind regarding sin, salvation, and God. I think Mr. Hudson is partly correct. We can't truly trust Christ for the salvation offering He gives us without having a radical change in how we see ourselves and how we see God. It's impossible to love God and love sin at the same time. It's impossible to be willingly compliant to God, as our Isaiah text commands, and to be rebellious against him at the same time. It's one or the other. It's to change our mind about something and to turn our back on something else It's to believe something and disbelieve something else. Mr. Hudson says that faith and repentance are the same thing. I think he's technically wrong here. But they happen together, and one cannot happen without the other. They are not the same, or you would define them the same. They are not defined the same. Faith And repentance are not given the same definition, but they are connected in such a way that one cannot happen without the other. We must be very careful how we present the gospel. This distinction must be clear. The worst thing we can do to a person inquiring about their own salvation is to present them with an idea of believing. That only adds Jesus to their life. Like an exercise routine that might be inconvenient at times, but will help them to enjoy their lives more. We cannot present the gospel that way. That is not belief. And that is not repentance. A person in that condition is not likely to truly enjoy either their salvation or their sin. They'll be wasting time. If this is a person who's not going to be saved, they'll waste time trying to do good things from time to time. If they're going to be saved, they'll have wasted time in sin that they tried to enjoy, but God would not allow it. We don't do anyone a favor to wrongly describe a saving faith. We can't lower the price of admissions so that we fill the halls. We must disciple those we bring to the faith, and that discipleship involves helping them to obey like we obey. It's a sad thing when the church allows people to flounder in this no-man's land of belief, wandering between the two enemy camps. One of the most helpful sections of this sermon that I read is where the author dealt with faulty ideas about repentance. I love the simple reasoning applied here to make his point. I'm still questioning uh exactly how the point should be made, but He's got some some truth here. He said, we've heard some well-known preachers say, if you want to be saved, repent of your sins, turn of your sins. If turning from your sins means to stop sinning, then people can only be saved if they stop sinning. And it's unlikely that anyone has ever been saved, since we don't know anyone who has ever stopped sinning. Interesting reason, worth chewing on. Sloppy thinking leads to sloppy speaking. Sloppy speaking just spreads more sloppy thinking. And sloppy thinking leads to slopp living We need to think about this word we use so often. What does the Bible mean when it says repent? If we're preaching a message of repentance, and by that we mean primarily to turn from sin, especially if we think that we do that as a condition for salvation, we're left with a huge problem. Here's another quote from the sermon. Several years ago I read a book by a professor at a fundamental university Under the chapter on salvation, he said, quit your sinning and God will give you a new heart. I hope that makes our antenna jump up. He presented repentance as turning from sin I wrote this dear brother and expressed my concern, knowing that such teaching frustrates the unbeliever and makes him think that salvation is unattainable, since he cannot live a sinless life. This professor wrote back that he had repented and that he had turned from his sins. When I wrote to ask if he had sinned after he was saved, he he was caught. He had to honestly answer the question and admit that he had. I explained that if he had sinned after he was saved, then he had not turned from his sins. He had only turned from part of them. That is, the ones that he had not committed since he had been saved. He then agreed to change the statement in his book. And this is still in his quote. If repentance means turning from sin, and turning from sin means to stop sinning, then a person must live a sinless life in order to be saved. And if that is the case then nobody could ever be saved because there are no perfect people. There's some things in that statement that we gotta watch for. It's this is one of those things that I as I was sitting back here thinking about. I thought we need to delve more into that than taking that its face value. But it is true. If you are trying to repent in any way to be saved You've got a boatload of trouble because that's not how it works. And he goes on to explain exactly that, and this is good. He says you don't get better to get saved. You get saved to get better You can't get better until you do get saved. In reality, one can begin living better only after he is saved. When the individual trusts Christ as Savior, he receives a new nature. 2 Peter 1. 4 says, whereby are given unto us exceedingly great and precious promises. That by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature. With this new nature comes new desires and a new power to make the desires a reality. This repentance that we are commanding is a bigger concept than to stop sinning. What we're preaching is a complete change of mind about everything that we wrongly think about God and ourselves and our sin. I've tended to always assume the word repent was primarily referring to repenting of sin, confessing sin, feeling remorse, especially feeling remorse about sin. But that's not always true. We've got to judge by the context what we are to repent about. God is said to repent lots of times in Scripture. And yet, if we apply that to the definition of sin is repenting of sin, or the definition of repent is repenting of sin, we've got a huge problem. Because now God is repenting of sin. God was never repenting of sin. He was changing his mind. He was always repenting of a plan of action that he had chosen. He was changing his mind about what he would do. Now, kind of as an aside, odds are that's more of a figure of speech for our benefit than an accurate description of God's decision-making process. Why would God, who always knows everything, change anything that he had planned? But for our benefit, it's described in a way that we can relate to. But we get the idea that God moves in our favor, in our benefit, even when things seem stacked up against us. But again, we need to look at the context the word repent is in In order to know what the word repent is referring to. Another misconception about repentance is the idea that we must experience extreme sorrow if we're truly repentant. Another quote from the sermon. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 7. 10, for godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation, not to be repented of. Though godly sorrow may bring about, this is still his quote, though godly sorrow may bring about repentance, it's not the same as repentance. We've heard well-meaning preachers tell of their experience of salvation and describe their weeping and sorrow and how miserable and low down they felt before they were saved. In doing so, they suggest to the unbeliever that he must feel a certain amount of sorrow before he can be saved. If that's the case, then how much sorrow must a man feel, and exactly how much must he weep and moan before God will save him? This kind of teaching suggests to us the false idea that God is basically unwilling to save sinners, and unless one softens the heart of God by his tears, then God will never accept him and grant forgiveness for his sins. This next quote is good. He says, the problem is not that God is adamant and unapproachable. The problem is that man will not respond. And I think that that's very accurate. The great evangelist D. L. Moody insisted that the inquirer was not to seek sorrow, but the savior. The death of Jesus Christ on the cross and his shed blood is sufficient for the forgiveness of sins, Ephesians 1. 7 says, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. So, repentance can't be measured by the amount of emotion it produces. Humans are capable of producing all kinds of emotions We can cry like crazy when we're caught with our hand in the cookie jar. I think all of us as kids have uh may be able to remember it, and I'm sure our moms can remember it. We can also cry when we think crying will win us sympathy instead of rejection. But that's not repentance. Theoretically, repentance could come with no emotion at all. Maybe to the more cerebral types, it can be experienced as simply being terribly wrong about something. I was wrong about that, I'm changing my mind, I am now wanting to be right. To others, the realization of living wrong and the feelings about it could come years apart So, repentance is not measured by the volume of sorrow produced, but it's measured in the change of behavior that is consistent with the change of mind. It brings to mind where the um James talks about faith. And he basically says faith produces stuff. You can know it's faith because it produces stuff. If it doesn't produce stuff, it's not faith. The same is true of repentance. The same is true of this change of mind that happens. I used to drink diet sodas. At some point I believe that those sodas are worse for me than any other choice that I could be making. I now do not drink diet sodas except on rare occasions. I repented of drinking diet sodas. I changed my mind about it fundamentally. That change of mind did not produce a lot of emotion, but it did produce a change in my behavior. So that's pretty much on the repentance side of things. Now what does repentance look like? Given what Scripture tells us and the records that Scripture tells us, what does it look like? Even when it involves repentance of sin, which I think most of these are, we see that it takes various forms. It's not always a cookie-cutter response like we would like. It doesn't always look the same. We're going to look at four kinds. These are a bit arbitrary, but I think they reflect some of the things that we see in Scripture. First, we'll look at people who knew that obeying God was a big deal. These people are living with a desire to obey God. That's what they want to do. They want to obey God, but they were unaware of the specific sins that they were committing. They were ignorant of God's commands. So they want to obey. They understand it's important to obey, but they didn't know what to obey. Let's look at what happened to King Josiah. The king had never read scripture before, but the book of the law was suddenly discovered where it had been hidden, and Josiah had it read. And this is what happened. In 2 Kings 22, 11, it says, Now it happened when the king heard the words of the book of the law. He was no longer ignorant. When he heard the books of the law, he tore his clothes. The king immediately then acted by getting his spiritual people to inquire of God for him. So, like I said, King Josiah was a man who wanted to please God. He truly was acting in ignorance, but when he read the law, he was instantly and severely convicted of his own sin and the sin of his people. Very specific conviction over those specific sins that were read. We see a similar thing happen with King David Now his is a little more complicated, but Nathan the prophet went to King David and put his sin to David in a way that he was able to instantly, suddenly see it. In uh 2 Samuel 12. 13, David responds, I have sinned against the Lord. Psalms 51 reveals David's heart about the ordeal in 51, 1 through verse 4. It says, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to your loving kindness, according to the multitude of your tender mercies. Blot out my transgressions. Which at that point I think David could have put names to. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is always before you. Against you you only have I sinned and done this evil thing in your sight, that you may be found just when you speak, and blameless when you judge. Again, David wanted to please God. He had that mindset, but somehow these particular sins escaped his notice. He was ignorant of them. When he saw them, he was stricken in a way that he was unlikely to forget. His conviction was specific. He knew which sins he had committed and was confessing them. Now, let's look at the second kind of repenter. Sometimes Christians know what sin is. They aren't ignorant that they are committing it, like God says Josiah and David were. But they're not truly convinced that committing those sins is really that big of a deal. These people often have not grasped or have not retained the importance of the Lordship of Christ. God's commands are more like suggestions on how to live. These people experience conviction and repentance a different way. It usually isn't sudden and specific. It's usually gradual and general. They repent not so much of a specific sin, but in their careless way of living Their conviction won't be a lightning bolt of revelation. It's more like a gradual awareness of a condition. This is what was written to the church in Sardis. Revelations 3, 2, and 3, it says, Be watchful and strengthen the things which remain that are ready to die, for I have not found your works perfect before God. Remember therefore how you have received and heard, hold fast and repent. Therefore, if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief, and you will not know what hour I will come upon you. These people were probably not repenting of a specific sin. It says, remember the things you have received and heard. They were told to repent and get back to the state that they used to be at. Many Christians find themselves in a state where the problem isn't so much that they don't know what's wrong. They just don't really care. They don't see how what God says is all that important. The people in Corinth seemed to be exactly this kind of people, or at least this seemed to be their problem Paul's arguments in in uh Corinthians aren't so much at what things are sin. It's not like he's going out of his way to explain to them what is sin. He's explaining to them why they shouldn't be doing it. The why of it, that sin is a big deal. It may involve confessing specific sins, but it's often more a confession of a heart condition. This will tend to be started by a gradual seeing of oneself as we truly are, and then a confession that the way that we are living is not right. This confession is not so much a result of ignorance about what God says. It's a confession that we simply didn't care enough about what he said. This may be a dramatic event, but it'll probably not be one that happens out of the blue. And the focus on the sins confessed will be more about the state of our heart, the condition of our lives, than the technicalities about what we have done. Next is the third person. This is the person who knows what God says, understands that what God says is important, but this person chooses to sin anyway. 1 John 1, 8, and 9 describes the process of confessing sins as they're done. 1 John 1, 8 and 9, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. This repentance of sin is done item by item. This person wants to please God, knows what God says, but fails anyway. They know what needs confessed. There's no confusion there. They agree with God quickly They're not choosing to continue in any known sin. It's not like they have committed their life to this sin and they're saying, I don't care what God says This these people care what God says all the time. Or well, not all the time, but you know, how a general idea of how we are In fact, they desire to remain in the light, and that light continually exposes their sin. So their confession is specific and often and usually not very dramatic. This is what most Christians experience who have been saved for a long time. We've become used to the idea that we're sinners. If somebody comes to us and explains to us that we have done this sin, we're no longer shocked. Because we know we've been dealing with our sin long enough that it doesn't, you know, we can't say, Well, that's not like me. We we know it is So we say, you know, you're right, I'm wrong, I have sinned, I should not have. I will confess this to God, I confess this to you. That's the mentality that a Christian develops over time It's not like we we've never sinned and we won't sin. If anybody says that they haven't sinned, they're a liar. We're just not telling the truth about ourselves. Living in the Christian life is a struggle with sin. If it wasn't a struggle with sin, it wouldn't be called a struggle. You know, we wouldn't this wouldn't be called a fight. So this does not You know, point any kind of perfection. There there's no scripture that leads us to believe that we are going to reach any nirvana or any special spiritual state in our lives where we will no longer sin. We struggle with it. So this is a this is the repentance that we do daily. This is the repentance that is part of the, I would say, the normal Christian experience. We confess quickly and specifically. And our minds are changed And we come back to the port of our mind being changed. And we keep reorienting to the fact that our mind is changed. And the last is the fourth person. This is the rebel. This person knows what God says. He understands that it's very important, but he has zero intention of doing what God says. The prodigal son is the best example I can think of for that His repentance was general, it was dramatic, and it probably took a process of his own failure before he got to the place where he was ready to give in. and surrender. But we remember his story, and he basically said, Anything is better than what I have now. Going back to my father is a whole lot better than anything that I've chosen in my whole rebellious life, and I am turning at this point and I'm going I'm going back to that. I hope this is a helpful, uh it's been helpful in understanding that repentance of sin doesn't always look the same. It isn't always experienced the same. It isn't even always focused the same. And that's okay. As God gets hold of our hearts, he'll draw us back to himself Sometimes our repentance actually tells us more about the state of our hearts than anything else we can remember. It's also important that we understand that repentance is not singled on sin. We need a change of mind in so many ways on so many things. But the one thing is sure, when we believe in Christ, truly believe in him with all that we have, it will change everything about us. It will change thinking, it will change attitudes, it will change actions, expectations, focuses, our hopes, our dreams. This change of mind will produce changes in us that we would never dream of. We can't limit repentance to merely the cessation of specific sins. Repentance changes who we are. Repentance is a change in belief, and our belief is the core of our salvation. Everything that is right in our lives and everything that is wrong in our lives traces its way back to the same source, what we believe. Our successes and failures trace their way back to what we really think in our heart of hearts. Truth in the inmost places, which is what God wants for us, truth in the inmost places sets us free. Lies in that same place, chain us to behaviors and attitudes that only hurt us and others. I'm suggesting an experiment this week Every time you're tempted to sin this week, every time you are aware of being tempted to either do what you should not do or not do what you should do, ask yourself this question. What do I really believe about this thing? What do I really believe about this thing? Not what does the Bible say I should believe What do I really believe? When we find differences, that's where our repentance is best focused. That's where repentance will have its greatest result. We don't need to be distracted by whether we feel bad enough. We simply need to ask the question: Is Christ worthy to have us change what we believe based on what he has said? Is he worthy of repentance at this point in my life? Maybe we'll have some stories for our fellowship next week that we can share with each other in our free time. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, I ask that you would Draw us to the truth. Anything that uh was inaccurate this morning, I ask that you would uh draw to people's attention as uh As uh forcefully as harshly as needed to be done, so that the truth wins in the end. And we ask that you would clarify in our thinking. What repenting really means. It has to be important. It's a synonym for the gospel. So, Lord, we want to know what the repentance and remissions of sins message. really means. And we ask that you would help us to repent. We know for sure we're called to do it. You've given us the command over and over again. So we ask that you help us to repent in a fashion that most glorifies Christ in our day-to-day living. And help us this week as we uh As we challenge ourselves to do that, to learn what it is that would most please you so we can do it. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.