I just love this story. It displays the guy on the street standing up to the hypocritical religious establishment, and he's schooling them. This man was who was born blind and is now healed cares about truth and he cares about common sense. He doesn't care at all what the religious elite think about him. That is not a concern to him. And he won't be talked out of knowing what That what happened to him is the best thing that ever happened to him, no matter what anyone else thinks And the man that did this to him is worthy of more loyalty than all the others that passed him by all of these years. Don't you find yourself loving this guy when you read the story? And do read the story. It's in John 9. Up to this point, we brought out that Jesus saw this man, and the disciples saw that Jesus saw this man, and the disciples asked a question that held a very wrong assumption. They revealed that they thought, for the most part, in this life, you get about what you deserve. If there's calamity, you must have sinned to deserve it. The backside of this is if you're blessed, you deserve to be blessed. And Jesus corrected that assumption. While sometimes people are being disciplined for their sin Sometimes God draws attention to your sin by causing you pain. And sometimes people are facing the consequences of their sin. The choices we make are sometimes responsible for the pain we experience. Often, suffering happens not for those two reasons, but so that God has a chance to show off Who he is in your life and in others. And that's the case in this story. This man is blind. He was born blind with a purpose. Nobody knew what that purpose was until this day. He was born blind so that Jesus Christ could display his power at this moment. This man was born blind so that you and I can learn about Jesus this morning by reading this story. That is why he was born blind. And this prop for displaying God's power was being prepared over two decades before this happened. Here is a man born for a miracle. When you think you have life figured out, think again. Unless God tells us why, we don't know why. Think about that. You could have asked the why question. Why was this man born blind? You could have asked that question a million times about this man's blindness and gotten a million answers, but none of them would have been what Jesus said. No one would have guessed that man was born blind so Jesus could show off. No one would have guessed that. You and I are given the inside scoop about the purpose of suffering. From Scripture, and we talked about that last week. Now let's go to our text. Verse 4. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. Alright, the disciples were looking backwards. And they were asking, why did this happen in the past? Christ is looking forward. He sees the same thing and he asks, What must be done? He's thinking what must be done. I think there are applications even this, you know, in each verse of this story. I it's amazing. But when when you suffer And you determine you're not living in sin, and it's not a discipline of God, and the suffering is not the direct result of a sin that you've committed, and it's some kind of consequence to that sin The wrong question is to ask, why is God doing this to me? Why is God doing this to me? The right question is, what now? How am I to do the works of God now? We must work the works of Him who sent me. What is that work? How am I to do the works of God now? How am I to help this person who is suffering? Or how am I to get through this if it's me? What do we do next? What now? And without doubt, the what now is going to require work. If you try to wrongfully escape from your suffering, and plenty of people try that, what you are doing is avoiding the work That's required to properly work through your suffering. If you choose this path, you will be left with unresolved issues in your life. That won't go away until you are willing to come back and do this work. All kinds of symptoms will arise in your life to inform you that there is something deeply wrong. If that's the case, there is work to do that you were not willing to do, so get willing to do it. When we suffer, we've got to apply God's medicine. God's word. God's truth We have to find a way to trust God and think right and even thank God, not for the suffering itself, but that God is at work in the suffering. If it could not be used for good, a good God would not allow it. If our suffering could not be used for good, a good God would not allow it. That God is producing something in us. That God will not allow effects of the bad on us to remain bad. He is working it for good. He promises that over and over again. If it is someone else who is suffering and you ignore it You're avoiding the work of helping another person to relieve their suffering. You're avoiding your work that needs to be done in the light of their suffering. In this case, this man was suffering physically because he was physically blind, but he was also suffering spiritually because he was spiritually blind. There was work to do. That's how Jesus saw it. And notice that Jesus didn't say, I must work the works of him who sent me. That was true, but no, he said we must work the works. He was going to commission these men, and these men were going to pass Christ's commission on to us We are in the hands and feet of Jesus now. That work was passed on to us. We all have important work to do From the youngest Christian to the oldest, and it's the most important work in the world. We're to be doing the works of God. For us, primarily, that consists of our own sanctification, our own spiritual growth, and evangelism and discipleship of those around us. There are more responsibilities as well, for sure, that Scripture gives us, but those are the lifelong focuses of God's children. This is all true. But in this text, Christ is referring to the work that Christ was specifically given to do along with the disciples. And healing was one of those works. Christ was showing to the world the validity of his claims to be God in the flesh and to being the Messiah. And he says, while it is day, night is coming when no one can work. This answers the question of when is it the right time to do God's work? And the answer is right now. Right now. More than anything else, this sentence is urging urgency. Day provides opportunity to work. Night removes that opportunity. Now, what night is Jesus specifically referring to in this passage? Given that Christ says in the next verse, given what Christ says in the next verse, we know that Christ is talking about the period of his life on earth. And then his death. And his death was the darkness. As long as as Jesus had life He was ministering. He was doing God's work. He was doing things that no one had ever done before. And this miracle of healing the blind man was perfectly one of those. Jesus was the light of life. He was the light of the world. When he died, the light would be gone for a short time. The disciples would all huddle in a room, discouraged and powerless. There would be no more of these walks with Christ. Christ's earthly work was finished when Christ said it is finished. Then it was very dark for three days. Now, while that is the most direct understanding of our text. I think the application can be stretched to apply to our lives now. Albert Barnes says this, from this we may learn first, it is our duty to employ all our time in doing the will of God. Second, that we should seek for opportunities of doing good and suffer none to pass without improving it. We go but once through the world. And we cannot return to correct errors. Man, sometimes I wish we could. But we cannot return to correct errors and recall neglected opportunities of doing our duty. And third, we should be especially diligent in doing our Lord's work from the fact that the night of death is coming. Alright, so Christ goes on to say in verse 5, as long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world It's so good to read Scripture in context. It removes so many of the mysteries. It lets us know what the day and the night is that Jesus refers to. Now, Jesus never ceased being the light of the world. That's not what the passage is intended to say. Jesus is still the light of the world. What it focuses on is the immediate opportunity he was providing people to see clearly. Christ was shining brightly while he lived among us. It would never be the same once he was gone. If we s if we could see a graph of the spiritual representation of truth on the earth For three and a half years that Christ lived on that planet, that line would go off the chart, whatever chart you had, no matter what the parameters of the chart are. When Christ was here, that was how much light he was. If it were expressed in the intensity of light, that three years would be a blinding flash. This was the greatest opportunity that man would ever have to see God until Christ returns. That's what's being said. And it's being said in front of a man who had no light whatsoever. Jesus says, I am the light of the world. Standing next to a man who has no light at all. This man was the epitome of no light. Blind both physically and spiritually, standing right next to the light of the world. So on this day, looking at this blind man, having work to do that God had given him, particularly signs that proved his divinity. Be in the very light of the world, looking at a man in total darkness , Christ got the word. Verse 6. Having said these things, he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. And then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud. No matter how you put this, this is gross. There's no pretty way of saying this. Christ picked up dirt, he kept spitting on it until it was mud. Why? The commentaries are ripe with possibilities, but none held any authority. Nobody really knows. I think it's because Jesus healed the man with clay just like he formed the first man out of clay. I think it was an allusion to his creation. He was claiming for himself credit for both creating the first man's eyes and creating this man's eyes. Along with that, he was humbling this man. I go through a holistic doctor who uses a lot of alternative medicines. But if I had a problem and he said, just wait there. Then he went out in the yard and he came back with a handful of dirt and he started spitting on it. I w I think I'd tell him I'm not that sick. Come on, honey, it's time to go. S Spurgeon had a sermon on this. And this point, and as Spurgeon can only do, he made an excellent sermon out of this. His point is that putting mud on the man's eyes had similarities to the presentation of the gospel. People view it as foolish. They view it as beneath them. It was humbling to this man. The result of it is not due to the method, but by the one who commands the method. It was very interesting. He he might be right about that. Maybe that's why Jesus chose mud. I d I don't know. No one really knows. But we know that Christ did this. He packed the man's eyes with spit mud. Verse 7 and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent. So he went and washed and came back seeing. Okay, this pool, you know, a lot of people say, oh, the Bible isn't real and all this stuff. Well, this pool was recently excavated. They didn't know it was there. Now they know it was there. It's fifty meters by sixty meters. It had stairs leading to it. And the history of this poll is told to us in 2 Chronicles 32:4. King Hezekiah was fearing a siege by the Assyrians. The most valuable commodity during a siege when they would surround your city with an army and not let anyone in or out. The most important commodity then is water So the king had a tunnel built from the Gaihan Spring under the walls of the city, and the water filled this pool. So uphill from the city, there was a spring. It flowed downhill into this pool. This was also the pole that the high priest drew from during the Feast of Tabernacles. The pole was named Sent, probably because the water that was sent to it was sent outside the walls. In the Feast of Tabernacles, it symbolized the blessings of God sent to Israel. And in this case, it was probably symbolic of Christ, who was sent from God. Notice here that the blind man heard the command of Jesus and he obeyed. Jesus said, Go, the man went. That is what faith does. Faith is trust in the character of God to where you believe what he says and you do what he tells you. I think this phrase came back seeing The man came back seeing is probably one of the greatest understatements of the Bible. Think about this man. His world was one of darkness As a result, he could not work, he could not provide for a family, so he could not have a family, he could not worship in the temple. Surely he felt useless And there's not much harder on a man than feeling useless. Think of how you would feel being him. And then after washing the mud off his eyes, he opens them, and his brain is like bombarded with images that he could have only imagined in the past, and they would be starkly different than what he imagined them He sees light, he sees colors, he sees shapes, and just like this, just like that, his whole world opens up to him. So while we read, he came back seeing, this does not capture the song in this man's heart. His whole life has just been turned around by a miracle of God. I would think it would be even difficult for him to walk. He's never been he'd never before seen where he was going. You know how that is? If you ever wear bifocals And you look down and you see different than you see straight ahead and you start tripping down steps and stuff. This is like that on steroids I read this on the internet , couldn't resist, asked AI what what a person experiences if they were born blind they could suddenly see. And it said this. People who gain sight after lifelong blindness often report these things. A flood of visual information that they cannot interpret. Difficulty recognizing objects, even familiar ones. Trouble understanding depth, size, and distance. Emotional overload, overload, overload, joy, fear, or even distress. And it it says a cat a classical case is a man blind since infancy whose sight was restored at age fifty-two. Even though he could technically see He couldn't make sense of what he was seeing at first. All right, let's go on. Verse 8. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? And some said, Biz he? Others said, No, but he's like him And he kept saying, I'm the man. Don't we chuckle when we we read this? Here's the crowd, here's humanity. It's so typical. His neighbors are looking at him in disbelief. They're looking at something that everyone knows is impossible. So it can't be. If it's impossible, it can't be true. Some ask a question, isn't this blind beggar that we've seen regularly? Isn't it him? And it makes you wonder how much attention his neighbors really paid to him. If they weren't sure it was him, it shows us what kind of relationship they had with him. Is this the man? How could it be? Then others, probably those who had a relationship with the man, People who maybe sat with this man and viewed him as a man, not just an interruption as they're walking to the temple. Maybe they were his friends. Maybe they sat and talked with him from time to time. They said, yeah, it is him. I know it's him. I know him. And this is him. But then there's the skeptics. They don't believe in miracles. God doesn't do that kind of thing. Let's be rational now. Yeah, it looks like the man, but it can't be. It's it this is impossible, so therefore, it can't be. This is probably a hoax. Someone's hoping to make money or something. They showed up as a lookalike and now they're gonna scam someone somehow Yeah, the crowd is always the crowd. And that's precisely why we should never follow the crowd. But here is this man who can see for the first time, and this is comical to me. You can just see him saying I'm him. I'm that guy. I was born. I know. I was there. I mean it's me. You want me to cry out for alms so you can recognize my voice? Come on. I'm him. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes bo opened? And it looks like the ex-blind man convinced them enough to give them a give them a chance to tell them how this could possibly be so. Okay, explain it to us. How did you go from where you were to where you are? If this is really you. Give us a detailed explanation. You know, give us something scientific here. Give us something We can sink our teeth into. And he answered, The man called Jesus and made mud and anointed my eyes, and he said, Go to Saloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. You you read this and you can almost hear the crowd saying, right. Right. I can see how that would work Come on. Make mud, plaster your eyes, wash it off, press so you can see. I don't know about this. This sounds hokey. Well the key fact in the man's explanation is not the method. It's the man. This man called Jesus did this The man is the only factor that could change the result from the man being muddy to the man being able to see. So they asked the most logical question. They caught on to this. They asked the most logical question. They said, Where is he? Now, can you think of a dumber thing to do than ask a blind man for directions? He didn't know where anything was. This poor guy. He had to be shaking his head by now. You know, this is almost a comedy routine. I was blind when I left. I came back. I'm trying to sort all of this out and he wasn't there. Okay? So the ex-blind man, he reduces it down to, look, I don't know. I don't know I absolutely love the simplicity of this man. He isn't going to get stuck into the concerns of this crowd. He's not going to play any games with them. He doesn't know much. But what he knows, he knows very well. And he's not about to lie or pretend or act or anything. Well this w this just won't do for the crowd. They need to consult the experts. We don't know what their motives were. But we do know what the motives of the Pharisees are. And these people, if they were being kind, would not have done this, I don't think. But in verse 13, they brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. Now give them the way the next verse is worded. This was probably the day after or several days after the man was healed. You don't pick that up on a surface reading, but I think that's what is implied here. There's so much we don't know in this particular verse. Did the neighbors and onlookers take him because he wanted to go, but he had no idea where it was, because he didn't know where anything was. I'd never seen the city before. Or did they take him to get him in trouble? Or did they take him because they thought it might change the Pharisees' mind about Jesus? Maybe your motives were good. Recently I tried to help help Munir by finding him some ministers to fellowship with, and all I accomplished was to put Munir on the radar screen of some spiritual hucksters in his country. All good intentions do not lead to good outcomes. Anyway, let's go on. Verse 14. Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. Now let me ask you. If you were blind for twenty years, would you seriously care about which day of the week you were healed? And if you love this man, would you care about the myriad of nitpicking rules that your leaders had come up with about the Sabbath? Would that be your first thought? Of course not. Rejoicing was called for, awe was called for, worship was called for But the Pharisees, rules are rules. And Jesus broke the ones that they had come up with and ticked them off. Jesus had made mud from his saliva and some dust. This violated the rules the Pharisees had made up regarding the principle of not needing bread on the Sabbath. You gotta love that. And then Jesus gave medical treatment. This viol violated the rules the Pharisees made that prohibited giving medical treatment on the Sabbath. Unless a person's life was in immediate danger. Obviously, this blind man's life was not in immediate danger. And some rabbis even taught that it was not permitted to anoint one's eyes with sab On the Sabbath. How these men had ruined the Sabbath The day that was made for man. They made it a minefield of prohibitions, not a day of rest and worship. We all focus on what we love. How so many of them love the power that their rules gave them. And that's what they focused on. How they love their self-righteousness. But the blind man, they didn't love him so much. And Jesus, they outright despised him. Verse 15. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and I see. Most assuredly, these Pharisees had already received preliminary reports. They already knew the story. But they were checking it out with the most first hand witness you could get. And again, you gotta love this ex-blind man. He doesn't storytell, he doesn't elaborate. It's like the old detective show Dragnet, which probably two people in this room have seen , where this police officer continually says, just the facts, ma'am, just the facts Well that's what he gave them. Just a fact. Verse sixteen Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. Here is the first small ray of hope. The first group draws a conclusion based on a bad assumption. The second group asks a question based on mostly a good assumption. The first group assumes they know all they needed to know to draw a conclusion All the evidence that they need, they've already seen. The second group allows for more facts before it draws its conclusion. The first has a bias that they're committed to defend. The second group wants to find out what is true. Now the first group looks more authoritative. Okay, they're sure of themselves. They have a clear answer. They act like they know. There's a certain kind of appeal in that. A certain kind of appeal in certainty. There are lots of dogmatic preachers who have a firm conviction that what they're teaching is right and what everyone else is preaching is wrong. And that's very good when it regards the most important things that are stated the most oftentimes and when the truths are absolutely correct Like the core of the gospel. That's preached over and over and over again. There is no room for dispute. If you don't believe it, it is because you are outside the truth. That's good. We proclaim the gospel that way all the time, and that is good. Speak with authority, those things scripture makes that clear. But there are some who are absolutely know how the end times will unfold, and they'll show you their charts and quote you their scriptures and sell you their books. And they are confident. Absolutely confident about some things. I don't think Scripture gives us nearly enough information to be so confident. Sometimes that attitude can get pretty scary, especially when they begin telling you who is in or out of the Christian club based on their peripheral beliefs. There are churches where if you do not believe in the pre-trib rapture, you can't join their church. That is a peripheral belief. It is not core. And there's lots of things like that. But there's an appeal. It's my way or the highway. It's this way. It's simple. There's no need to consider alternative views, even though they're coming from the Word of God. All right, these Pharisees know that God made the Sabbath day, and so they gave rules on how to keep it. The Jewish religious leaders over the years had helped God out, that's how they would have viewed it, and made rule after rule on exactly how the Sabbath should be kept. And they took it past what God Himself had said. Their assumption was that the rules that they made were as holy and binding as God's law, because the extra rules would help. Help you obey God's law. So they demanded that people keep their rules That is legalism at its core. That is legalism at its finest. It's sort of like where Scripture says dress for to especially to women, dress modestly. And then we come out with a rule book that says this is how long the dresses have to be, this is how thick the the fabric has to be, blah blah blah. You know, it's that same kind of thing. That is legalism. Their logic was simple. Jesus should keep the Sabbath rules because good Jews keep the Sabbath. The tradition has as much authority as Scripture itself because the tradition is trying to help Scripture. Jesus broke their rules, therefore Jesus is condemned. He is not good. How can he be good? He's breaking the law of God. He is not good, he is not from God, he is not the Messiah. How could he be? He did not keep the Sabbath. That is their reason. That is their box. They're not going to open their eyes to anything outside of that box. That's it. But the second group said, whoa, whoa. This guy wasn't picking up stiff sticks on the Sabbath for his own comfort, like the guy in Exodus was. This guy was doing a miracle that has never been seen in human history. This is an extenuating circumstance. We are required to give this a second look. God might be trying to get our attention here. Everyone could see that no mere man could do what Jesus did. The logic is compelling that God must have done this. God must have done this. And why would God choose this man to do a miracle through if this man is an evil man? That is a wonderful question. That is a wonderful question that should get you to the truth. They're saying maybe our formula is broken Maybe we got something wrong. Maybe our assumptions are wrong. We need to investigate this. We need to answer this question. Why did God heal a man born blind through Jesus Christ? Maybe that's a ray of sunshine in this dark place. What we've seen in this story this morning is that everyone must do business with who Jesus is. And we all do. Some of the crowd were looking into the truth. Some of the crowd were flat out denying the truth. Some of the Pharisees were condemning Christ. Others are captivated by the mystery of Christ. Who was this man? Our ultimate eternal destination rides on what we make of this man, Jesus Christ. The truth does not depend upon whether we recognize this truth to be true. It's true whether we believe it or not. We don't have to realize how much is at stake for there to be much at stake. What we think has no bearing on what is true, but what we think about Christ has complete bearing on where we will spend in eternity. Everything rides on a response to Jesus. And there will be a division, just like in this story, there will be a division. When Christ comes back, there will be a division. The sheep and the goats will be separated eternally. This division is necessary. And this division, unlike the one in our text, will be permanent. There will be no changing positions after that final division. Have you placed your faith in Christ to save you? Do you understand that saving faith in Him is the only way to enter into His eternity? Let's pray. Lord, give it the wisdom to be dogmatic on those things.