You know what one of the problems is with lies? You can't always tell her lies. And our flesh's natural response is often to treat them like they're true. We look around, we weigh the evidence We even think we're being smart. We draw a conclusion and then we act accordingly. And we do all that without ever consulting what God has spoken often. Or we know what God said, but we don't let it overpower what our flesh has spoken, or what the enemy has spoken. Sometimes the lie comes in a threat, like in our text this morning. So we worry and fear and come up with earthly strategies to deal with our fears. Sometimes the lies are offerings of something better. And we allow our flesh to crave that thing and to become fixated on it until we have to have it. The lines come packaged in all kinds of believable packages. But if the message does not come from God, we cannot know if the message is true or not. But we can always know that they're true if they do come from God. This morning we have a powerful example of a carefully packaged lie. All the props are set to make it look like a fact. All the statistics line up on the side of the line. Everything the eye can see says it's true. Any thinking person who did not hear from God or know God would be convinced that it was true. All the people with good creeds, but no faith, would have been swayed by the situation. And everyone is listening to the lie, and everyone's choosing. Just like we do every day. Look at verse 13. It says, Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria. Thus says the king. So that's one side. Then look at chapter 37, verse 6. And it says, Thus says the Lord. Do not be afraid of the words which you have heard, which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. So, what does the king of Assyria say? What's basically the king of Assyria's message? The major gist of the message is only the king of Assyria can deliver you from harm. Only the king of Assyria can deliver you to safety. You must trust what you can see You must decide on what you think and feel based on what you see and touch. You can't help it, he says. You're powerless to do otherwise It's not faithless to just come to this pressure, he would say. You have to do it. You can't be blamed. What else could you do? What else would a thinking person do here? Now come on. And what does the Lord of the heavens and earth say? Do not be afraid of the threat that you see. Only I have the real power to deliver you from harm. Only I can bring satisfaction to your soul. There's no other source of the offerings that I provide. All other sources are lies from the devil. They'll only make you miserable in the long run, and in eternity they'll lead to destruction. This is life on planet Earth. We don't always have it presented so clearly and with such a stark contrast that these Judeans did. But this is the decision that's always before us. We live by faith or we live by sight. We believe the truth, or we believe a lie. We trust in God or we trust in something else. We have peace in our lives, or we have turmoil. We're given a glorious perspective in this story, a wonderful thing. We know the ending. We know the ending. We know that Jerusalem was going to be powerfully delivered by the hand of God. We know that every person listening to the message of the enemy that day Could have gone home, ate their lunch, thanked God, and not spent another minute considering the words of the treacherous liar outside of their city. From our perspective, we know that. They didn't have to lose a minute's sleep from this non-threat. This is, I guess, fake news. That was the truth that could not be seen. It was the truth that was not self-evident. It was the truth that only came from hearing from God. But it was a truth that ended up being clearly spoken by the Word of God. Are you worried about something this morning? Are you afraid of what might happen to you? Are you afraid that the power of God in your life is not great enough to get you through the potential calamity you might experience? Just realize this. Your life does not have to be that way. Your life does not have to be that way. You're choosing it for whatever reasons. But faith sees the end where God provides what you need because of what God has said. Faith sees the end where God provides what you need because of what God has said. Flesh sees everything else. But faith takes God at his word. If we can't take God at his word, we don't have faith. We may have religion, but we don't have faith. Have you considered that if you're a child of God, every problem you have is God's problem? I saw a quote from a military bomb diffuser this week. He was talking about his attitude toward his work He he uh he was asked about the stress and he said it wasn't stressful to him. He said either I'm right or suddenly it's not my problem anymore There are other ways of looking at our problems. Do you have a money problem? It's God's problem. Do you have a health problem? It's God's problem. If God is really on the throne, and I think all of us would get that right on a multiple choice question, if God is on the throne, and if God truly does love us, we can really trust him with the problems that we face. He has taken them on because we're his children. We can really believe that he has them all well in hand. They're all serving the exact purpose that God has in mind. We can really obey God and do exactly what he says and think exactly what he says. The wonderful thing about authority There's lots of things we don't like about authority. But the wonderful thing about authority is that any problem of an underlying is ultimately the problem of the authority Isn't that a wonderful thing? We can rest in that. There are some issues where I've lost sight of that. I've become perplexed and thought that I have to solve this thing. And I allowed the outcome to be completely reliant upon my efforts. And I couldn't be satisfied until it was resolved by my hand. But ultimately I forgot about the authority of God. I've come to realize that it's not ultimately my problem to solve. It's God's. If he wants it resolved, so be it. If he doesn't, so be it. I'm not in charge. I don't need to be in charge, and there's a very real sense in which I don't want to be in charge. When I really come down around to it, when I really think about it, I don't want to be in charge. It's too likely that I would mess everything up if I were in charge. I like having a place other than me where the buck stops. Sometimes I wish I could hurry things along. I suppose we all feel that way. But that is above my pay grade. And it's above yours too. God has it all handled. I just need to trust and obey. And we're all in that same spot. So this morning we have two promises, two sources. Promising deliverance to a besieged city in our test. And this morning we have two voices calling out to us, telling us how we too can be delivered. So the text really applies to our lives this morning. Okay, let's go back to verse 12. But the Rashak has said, Has my master sent me to your master and to you to speak these words, and not to the men who sit on the wall? who will eat and drink their own waste with you. You know, there are parts of the Bible that God is a bit too realistic for our tastes, I think. I mean this is pretty hideous stuff, said we're s there's nothing idealistic about this. I mean this this is bad But look at how authoritatively this field commander is speaking. He speaks like he knows the future. He's confident. As he speaks, you would get no feeling that this guy at all questions. what he's saying. Stephen Hawking wasn't as authoritative, but he says, uh, I don't think we'll survive another thousand years without escaping beyond our fragile planet You know, he's he's saying essentially the same thing that, you know, this is how it's going to be. This is how it's it's it there's no getting around it, so we better develop better spaceships if we hope to survive very long. The devil always wants us to focus on the doom and the gloom that man can produce, or that time and chance can produce, or that the devil can produce. God always wants us to start with our focus on the doom and gloom that God promises to produce if we don't submit to him. Matthew 10, we've we go over this often, but it it's just I don't know , maybe so uh apt for our times. Whatever I tell you in the dark, speak in the light, and whatever you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops, and do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. but rather fear him who is able to destroy both body and soul in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin? And not one of them falls to the ground apart from your father's will But the very hairs of your head are all numbers. Do not fear, therefore, you are more valuable than sparrows. We got that. We're more valuable than sparrows. Look at the wisdom of what Jesus says here. He's not saying it's stupid to fear. But he's telling us how to make sense about what and whom to fear. Fear God. Start there. That's essentially what he's saying. And once you've implemented that fear and taken it to its logical conclusion, you won't have anything left to fear. You get that right, everything else falls into place. If we go where the fear of God will take us We will make sure to get right with that God, that fearful God, that powerful God. And when we get right with that God, we have nothing left to fear. In our text, the Assyrian field commander is prophesying gloom and doom as if it is an unavoidable event unless they surrender to their enemy. He's speaking authoritatively from his experience. But he was not to be feared. He was not to be believed. Because he was speaking against the one true God. He was speaking a message contrary to the word of God. Verse 13, then the Brabhaka stood and called out with a loud voice in Hebrew and said, Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria. Thus says the king, do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you. Here it is. Here is the message of the enemy. The message of the enemy here is don't trust the people you speak for God because they cannot give you the thing that you want most in life. Don't trust the people who speak for God because they cannot give you the thing you want most in life. Now, technically, the Rapshaka was correct. Hezekiah as a political leader like Sennacherib could not deliver the people. He did not have the political power to pull this off. But Hezekiah was not like Sennacherib. He would not have been so arrogant as to promise that he could do so. Israel had kings like that, but he wasn't one of them. So technically the Rabchaka was correct, but essentially the Rabchaka was incorrect. Following Hezekiah's advice and guidance would deliver the people from the king of Assyria. Hezekiah wouldn't do it, God would do it. And Hezekiah was saying we need to trust God to do it. Do you have godly people in your life who give you godly advice and godly guide? Don't allow your circumstances to convince you that you need to stop listening to them to get what you really need in your life, even though sometimes what they say is difficult to do. If those people are speaking for Jesus, follow them and trust Jesus. Don't harden yourself against them because you have committed to another way of life. I think it's interesting how loud and how clear the message of the enemy is made here. And God did nothing to stop it, just as he will not stop the taunts of the enemies toward us. They serve a purpose. They provide an opportunity to stand for Christ. Where is the enemy tempting you to despair? This is your chance to trust Christ and prove by your confidence in Christ that you are not afraid of the enemy's faunts. Everyone will know by your response what you really believe. Even if we fool ourselves, everybody else knows what it is that we truly believe by our responses. Verse 15. Nor let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, The Lord will surely deliver us. The city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. Do not listen to Heckiah, for thus says the king of Assyria, make peace with me by a present, and come out to me, and every one of you will eat from his own vine, and every one from his own fig tree. Look at the contrast here. There are two sources offered for deliverance. Here's the one message: the Lord will deliver us from the king of Assyria. Here is the other message, only the king of Astyria can deliver you. This is a perfect test. It's perfect. There's no subtlety. There's no middle ground. There's no room to hide. This is an open declaration with a challenge to choose sides. There are many of these in scripture. Some of them are very dramatic. How about when Elijah challenged all the priests of Baal? Wasn't that cool? Or about in Joshua 24, when Joshua was preparing the people of Israel to enter the promised land. I'll read that. Joshua 24, 14 through 17. He says, Now therefore Fear the Lord. There we have it again. Start at the right place. Fear the Lord. Serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the river and in Egypt. Serve the Lord. And if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose for yourself this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your forefathers served That were on the other side of the river are the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you will dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. So the people answered and they got it right. It's always sweet when you hear, you know, massive people get it right. Whether they did it or not, we don't know. But They said, Far be it from us that we should forsake the Lord to serve other gods. For the Lord our God is he who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. who did the great signs in our sight and preserved us in all the way that we went and among all the people through whom we passed. It is God's will that we have alternative paths offered to us. It is God's will that we have alternatives in our lives offered to us. God wants us at times to be offered what only God can give From another source. We may want those alternatives to be silence. It would make it easier for us if they were. But God's plan requires the taunts of the enemy. Those plots serve as a proving ground for those who truly worship him and as an alternative for those who do not. Those who have no alternative options cannot glorify God by willingly and enthusiastically choosing for God in those circumstances And that's what God wants. I think that's what sin is all about. It is the one thing that gives us the opportunity to choose God over sin. And uh in eternity we will know better than to ever choose sin again, because we've all tasted how ugly that is. Anyway, the enemies of God desperately wish to harm the kingdom of God. We know that. We'll see it all through Scripture. They want to bring the kingdom of God crashing down. They want all that is left of the kingdom to be the kingdom of man and no alternatives. But they never are in the kingdom of God at all, ever. Can you imagine how frustrating that must be? I don't think they ever catch on, but they never succeed. Their efforts are always futile. They're useful to God. All the enemies of God can ultimately accomplish is to provide a proving ground for the children of God. And by trying the true, they strengthen it. Even when its people fail, even when they give in to the taunts and temptations of the enemy, even when it appears to be successful for the enemy. These believers gain a deeper understanding of their flesh. They learn not to not to trust themselves. They learn that the devil lies. He steals and destroys. He takes things of value in exchange for trinkets He promises pleasure and only leaves regret. He cannot be trusted. That's what a Christian learns when he's dry The devil must be resisted. Yeah, everything the enemy does accomplish is something important in the kingdom of God. That's the kind of sovereign reign our God has on his creation. Now look at again at what the Rapshak was offering to these people. Make peace with me by a present, and come out to me, and every one of you will eat from his own vine, and every one of you his own fig tree, and every one of you drink water. from his own cistern until I come and take you away to a land like your own. A land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards. I mean he's offering him the How could anyone refuse it's wonderful? Yeah. Well, did you notice when you were reading this? Doesn't that look like what God promised to his people? He offered them a land of milk and honey where they do all these same things. Isn't that odd? Have you ever considered that the devil never created his fatal thing? He never made anything to meet the needs of God 's creation. He never created anything to give them pleasure. Nothing. All the devil ever does is repackage stuff. Takes it out of the package it's in and puts it in a different package. I was thinking about how to best make this point, and I think that sex is probably the clearest of things. God offers marriage. He offers a specific way for a man and woman to enjoy what he has created. He makes it a precious commodity whereby the people who enjoy it and those human beings created by it are protected and kept safe. He keeps it in boundaries of good society, but he gives us this wonderful gift to be fully enjoyed by this creation. And it results in the giving of thanks to the Creator. But there are restrictions. In fact, God gives some very severe restrictions He tells us that he absolutely forbids his people to enjoy this gift outside of his restrictions. And most every New Testament epistle gives some mention of that. Now, what does the devil offer? The devil takes the same resources and repackages them. He removes all the restraints. He has no restriction. And by removing all the protective restrictions, he presented himself as being benevolent. Just like in the Garden of Eden. God's holding out on you. I won't. I'll hand it to you without restrictions. But what he accomplishes is he turns something God created to be precious. and special and important and malleable into something cheap, something easy, something destructive, something full of regret, something of no value and no restraint. He uses it to destroy both the value of the gift and the safety of those who participate in it. That is always what the enemy of our soul does He can only repackage and remarket God's stuff. He doesn't have any good of his own, and we can know that it's never for our good. When the devil offers it, you can always know there's a hook. It's never for our good. It will never do us any good except as an opportunity at some point to repent. That never changes. That will never change. The Ramsacka was only offering God's people what God's people had already been promised by God. It's better when it comes from God. It's always a step down when it comes from the devil. But there are two big differences. First, the king of Assyria would not have delivered upon his promise. His goal wasn't to enrich the lives of the Judeans. His goal was to take their land and everything that they had of value and to use them for his benefit. And second, by accepting the terms of the king of Assyria, they would have been owned by the king of Assyria. They would never again be free to serve their God as they had in the past. Of course, that isn't mentioned in the deal. Full disclosure has never been one of the devil's strengths. He's very good at telling us what we want to hear, but he rarely says more than that. The devil's deals always have a hook in them intended to punish those who choose to trust him. So the offer was made. The devil's repackaging of the promised land was being offered, and the alternative described was pure and certain punishment if they did not accept this offer. Then verse 18, beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, The Lord will deliver us. Has any of the gods of the nations delivered its land from the hand of the king of Assyria? And then he goes into all of the lands that they've conquered, and you can see that mystery. I mean they took them over, and those all those lands had their idols. The greatest weakness in any argument is a wrong assumption. It doesn't matter how logical an argument is. If one of its assumptions is wrong, the argument is going to be false. The argument's assumption here is that Jerusalem's God was a God like all the rest. Now, if that assumption had been true, the argument would have been true. It makes sense that lands A, B, and C had gods. Their gods did not protect them from Assyria. Therefore, it is likely that God D will not protect Judea from Assyria From Assyria. But the God of Jerusalem was not an idol. So the assumption was wrong. He is the true and living God, the God who made heaven and earth. In fact, there are no other gods. They're just pretend gods. Now, this is all well and good as we read this several thousand years later, but put yourself on the wall listening to this message from the devil. How are you going to respond? Because everybody there was making up their minds. You're on the wall hearing this and seeing this. What are you going to do? This force is threatening everything that you hold dear. It seems to have great power to carry out the threat. It's attacking your God with impunity, and God does not strike him dead. Everything you see screams of your destruction, of your need to give in, of your need to submit to the devil. What would you do? What would you believe? If we think the threats that we face are big, most pale in comparison to this threat, this looked like certain destruction. How would we have done? The question comes down to how do we do now? How do we do when we see things of value threatened? How do we do now when we can't see how we're going to take care of ourselves? How do we do, what do we do when we think an outside force might take away something we love? That's what they're being threatened here What do we do when all the evidence seems to say the enemy will win? What do we do when the devil's offering us the things our heart craves in competitions to the offerings of God? What do we do now? That's what we probably would have done then. When faith is placed in God in a setting like this. It creates a huge expectation that God is going to do something amazing. That's the opportunity that a trial this clear gives us. And that's a lot of times what that opportunity is in the trials of our lives. It expects God to do what only God can do, what we have failed to do. It expects God to do. I think maybe we've lost such an expectation. What do we really expect God to do in our world? What do we expect Him to do in our lives? Do we expect to languish in the same state of defeat tomorrow that we experience today? Do we expect that he will do nothing to draw people to himself? Do we expect that he will not draw us to people and draw people to us who need to hear about him? Our text this morning is not showing us something new about God. God has always been this kind of God who delivers on every promise. What's different is that these people are being put to the test. The choices are clear and immediate. They need to decide right now who they'll trust. I'm convinced that God wants to do more in my life. He wants to do more in our church. He wants to do more in our community. And he wants a people who expect that God is going to deliver on his promises. He wants people on the wall who say, I know that God is going to do what God says he'll do. I know that the enemy cannot withstand the attack of God, the work of God and the power of God. I am not afraid of the threats of the enemy. I am not seduced by the offerings of the enemy. And because of that, I am going to align my life, my minutes, my work with that which God says he will do. We don't see that at all happen a whole lot of times in history of God's people, but when we see it, When we see God's people expect that God will move to do what he has promised to do, we often see God do some very amazing, very impossible things. Like he's gonna do in next week's text. Those who put their hope in God will never be disappointed. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you again for your word. We thank you that it shows us clearly what we need to be and do. It shows us that the threats of the enemy, no matter how truthful they appear to be and how much evidence that they have in sight They are lies to destroy us, and they're an affront against you, and that we are all the safest and best. To simply believe you and to trust you and to count on your actions before they happen because they know we know that they will because you are you and you say that they will Help us, Lord God, to be the kind of people who the world can't figure out because we're we're really marching to a different drummer. We believe what you say even when we can't see any evidence. That it's true. We just know who you are. Lord, may we glorify you with odds like that. In the in the In the face of any of the trials that we go through, any of the temptations we go through, God, we don't want it. To reflect that you are not trustworthy. We don't want to reflect that we are some kind of victims here We want to reflect the glory of God, that we are the most fortunate people in the face of the globe to have been chosen by you to have our sins taken care of by Christ. God help us to live that way. Help us to, this week, whatever's holding us back, Lord, we ask that you would attack it, that you would show it, that we can't get around it, that you would do business with us. In a way that will end up glorifying you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.