I'm still using John MacArthur's consolidation of the the Gospels that contain the story as my text. And we've got as far as Mark ten, Mark five verse ten, of Mark's account last week. We'll take up from there this morning. And it says, and they begged him earnestly that he would not send them out of the country, nor command them to go into the abyss. Now it now it begins to say they begged him. Instead of single tense now it's um it's plural. They begged him. No longer is one demon speaking. Maybe they all took turns using the man's speaking capabilities. But the words are strong. They are begging Christ with everything they have because they know that Christ has complete power over them. Isn't that interesting? Even the demons don't believe that there is a battle between God and the devil. That's up for question. They knew that there was no question at all. If Christ commanded something, it was going to happen just as he commanded. Their master, the demon's master, the devil, was powerless to do anything about it. Christ is the strong man here. Notice also that the demons believe in prayer. They're praying to Christ to spare them. Their position is not our position. We know that God loves us. We know he'll give us good things. We know that his heart is bent in our direction if we're a child of his. The demons didn't know that They knew that Christ was going to one day destroy them, and they didn't want that day to be this day. So they begged the only one that has power to save them. Now isn't it interesting here that they had the sense to follow Christ's advice, Christ's command, when he said that we shouldn't fear the one who can take away our lives, we should fear the one who can cast us into hell. The demons were doing just that. They were afraid of Christ. And they were asking for something that's hard for us to fathom. Don't send us out of the country. Don't command us to go into the abyss. Maybe it would have been more difficult to find people to embody outside of this area. I've read that the country in this area would have been referring to desert, that they were saying, please don't cast us into that. They don't want to be in a desolate space. They don't want to be without a body. At least that's how it looks. So we can see that this would be a bad situation for them that they hope to avoid. We don't know why the demons don't want to be disembodied. We don't understand that. I don't know that we're given any directive in scripture that we can understand it. But uh we can see also that there's a far worse other alternative. Don't command us to go to the abyss. The word for abyss means bottomless. The word is also used here in these other passages in Revelation. Revelation 9. 1. Then the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star falling from heaven to the earth. To him was given the key to the bottomless pit. Yabid. And he opened the bottomless pit, and smoke arose out of the pit like the smoke of a great furnace. So the sun and the air were darkened because of the smoke of the pit. Revelation nine eleven. And they had as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in Hebrew is Abadin, but in Greek he has the name Apollyum. And everything I understand is that's the devil. Revelation 11 7, when they finish their testimony, the beast that ascends out of the bottomless pit will make war against them, overcome them, and kill them. Revelation 17, 18, the beast that you saw was not and is not, and will ascend out of the bottomless pit and go to perdition. And then Revelation twenty verse one. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key to the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand. He laid hold of the dragon, that serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan. And bound him for a thousand years, and he cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal on him, that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years were finished. But after these things he must be released for a little while. As you can see from these texts, nothing good comes out of or goes into the bottomless pit. It's a place of torment. It's a place of locked access. It's a place of evil. And it's a place that the demons do not want to go. They'd rather go anywhere than to go here. Maybe it's because they can be locked into that place of torment. Maybe it's because they would be close to their master. We don't know why, but we know that they fear and dread that place. Now let me ask if the demons who know what that place is like Are we afraid to go there? Do we really want to see anyone we know go there? Today is the day of opportunity. Today is the day of salvation. We would be wise to use every opportunity that we have where we can present the truth that God may use to rescue our associates from this horrible fate. And going on. Now a large herd of swine was feeding there off a good way off from them near the mountains So all the demons begged him, saying, If you cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of swine that we may enter them. Now I've I've read varying reports about who inhabited the land. Some say they were all non-Jews, but some say that there were some Jews scattered into the population. If the residents there were all Jews, it would be a it it would be a problem if a Jew had anything to do with pig farming. Because that was unlawful. So it would be easier to understand why Christ would allow the destruction of their livestock if they were owned by Jews. If they were Gentiles, then it becomes a little more mysterious, but God is God, He can do what He wants. But anyway, this is what happens. The demons are looking at three options. One, get sent into the wilderness. Two, get sent to the abyss, or three, enter some pigs. So, to a demon, evidently living in a pig is better than having no body at all. So the demons go back to praying. They tellish praying, but they beg Christ to allow them to enter the pigs, knowing that Christ holds absolute power in this situation. If he says no, it's no. They can't fight against it He's absolute. They can't do anything without Christ's permission. And it goes on to say, at once Jesus gave them permission and said to them, Go. Then the unclean spirits went out of the man, entered into the herd of the swine, there were about two thousand, and suddenly the whole herd of swine ran violently down this deep place into the sea and perished in the water. Again, we see the absolute power that Christ has over these demons. They wanted to go, but they could not go until they were permitted. If you ever think the devil can make you do something, if you're a believer, you're wrong. He can powerfully tempt us, but Christ always has the power. Greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world, Scripture says. So all at once, all of the demons pour out of the man and enter the pigs. Now, if you were watching, you wouldn't see demons. You would only see the natural, not the supernatural. You would see a man acting very erratically. And then suddenly you would see a bunch of pigs acting very erratically, and the man suddenly calmed down. I believe that's the point of the pigs. These pigs would have been worth a small fortune. Wealth was often measured in farming societies by livestock, and these pigs represented a large share of a lot of people's wealth. There were likely many owners who would pay a few pig herders, which really I should have said pig feeders, to tend all the pigs together. What is just about to happen will be a financial disaster spread across all the members of the local community But had the pigs not been there, we would not have had a testimony to the truth of the many demons released from this man. As it was, an onlooker could count pigs. An onlooker could not have counted demons. Had the pigs not been there, there would have been no way to verify what had just happened The leaders may have taken back up their party line that Jesus could do what he did because he was in cahoots with the devil and it was all a big act and he was just trying to do this stuff to, you know, to to get a show. Uh, demons are still demons and they're still in this man, but it's all pretense. But the pigs removed that question. The onlookers had visible proof that these demons were real. They really did not want to come out, and they were really made to come out. And they really went into pigs, and it looks like it drove the pigs nuts. We don't know how many demons there were, but we do know there were at least two thousand of them. It's at this point that jokes can't be avoided. Brad brought one up earlier, but what we see here in our story are two firsts. The first recorded incidents of swine flu And the creation of doubled hands. I think Brad would have probably thought something was wrong with me if I didn't mention that, so I felt obligated. Now, when these demons entered these pigs, things went crazy. Scripture doesn't tell us why it happened this way. I think that maybe a man, because he's a rational creature and not a creature of instinct, is able to find a way to survive even in the most frightening of circumstances. You think about when something really e something comes upon you and you feel extremely stressed and and maybe uh shocked or afraid, um We have a tendency as humans to figure out a way to per to uh keep ourselves intact. We want to survive. And so we use reason even in the face of strong strong emotion to often accomplish that. We hold survival as a high priority, even when full of adrenaline a human can decide what he's going to do. But an animal reacts without thought of the consequences. Now the shores on this side of the Lake Ga Lake of Galilee are very steep and they were bordering on being cliffs. When an animal's wounded, it'll often run downhill. It'll more often run downhill than uphill. I think the pigs panic. And the demons, while knowing how to control a man, didn't have time to read the owner's manual on pigs. They had maybe never steered a pig before. So when these demons entered these pigs, the pigs only knew one thing. Whatever it was that wa just happened to them, they wanted to get away from it. So they ran downhill in an absolute panic and didn't stop running until they were swimming and didn't stop swimming until they were dead. Now the odd thing this morning is that these pigs are an example for us to follow These pigs would rather die than being in the company of a demon. And that's exactly the attitude that we should have toward evil. While we must use our minds and we should never be as mindless as these pigs, we do well to avoid evil with the same tenacity that these pigs did. Now, just imagine being between the pigs and the crowd. And you watch you're watching all of these pigs stampede. Over the cliff, into the water, and they they all drown. I think if you'd have turned around to face the crowd, what you would have seen are a crowd of people with their jaws dropped down to their belt. Amazing. Just utterly amazing. I doubt they were thinking, oh yeah, I saw that coming. You know, there's probably not a single person in the crowd that would have ever thought that they would see the spectacle that they had just seen And you talk about ambivalence, about having mixed feelings. This would have been a perfect example. Maybe it would be a good definition for ambivalence. The new definition for ambivalence would read, ambivalence is watching a man being treated of a demon and watching all your livestock drown. You know, because that's what happened. There's another lesson here that we don't want to miss. What does Scripture tell us about the wages of sin? Yeah. What do you think the people in this crowd picked up by what they saw? You think that maybe they got the point? Sin leads to death. Demonic influence leads to death. I doubt anyone who saw this display would have quickly forgotten that relationship. So that's the setting. Now what happened? When those who fed them saw what happened, they fled and they went away into the city and told everything in the city and the country, including what happened to the demon-possessed man. And behold the whole city came to see what it was that had happened. Says those who fed them, those who fed them. I guess you really don't herd pigs. We were talking about it in Sunday school and uh Mark has a little bit of knowledge about it and he he has seen that you don't hurt bigs much. So you just beat him. That was the job that the prodigal son ended up with Feeding pigs. So these guys just saw all those pigs, pigs that they were responsible for, run off the cliff and drown. What would you do if you were them? You would go tell the owners as quickly as you could so that the owner could come out and do business with the guy who is responsible for killing all his pigs. But these guys did not want to take the raft for all those dead animals. Obviously it wasn't anything they did wrong. So they ran to wh wherever the owners were and they told the whole story. And we can see that they went into the city and the country, so that would have us believe the ownership of these pigs was pretty pretty widespread. And it's a pretty common thing. That's how you deal with your animals. You'd bring them all together and then you'd all of you together would pay a few guys to take care of your animals. You certainly wouldn't want one guy taking care of one pig, so they they worked it out that way. And look what you see These guys told the whole story. They told the good and the bad. They don't just say that Jesus killed all their pigs. They told them that Jesus cast out demons and the demons killed the pigs Jesus was doing a good thing. You can almost hear him say, you know, when they approached the owners, that do you want to hear the good news or the bad news? The good news is that naked guy that was so scary and mean and awful that used to bother us, I don't think he'll bother us anymore. The bad news is we're not going to be feeding pigs anymore. They're all dead So what happens? Exactly what you'd think would happen. The whole city wants to see this. This would have been a very big event, and it would have affected very many of the people in the crowd. So then they went, they came to meet Jesus, and found the man who had been demon-possessed and had the legion, from whom the demons had departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind. We can guess that when it says they came to meet Jesus, that this was not all favorable. It could also be that they came to see who had killed their pigs. It's possible they came to meet the man who cast the demons out of the demoniac. It's just like today. People come to hear about Jesus for all kinds of different reasons. Only some of them are good reasons. Now when they arrived they saw something impossible. These people knew of the naked demoniac for years. He had been a nuisance and no doubt the talk of the town, and every kid knew to avoid that section of town. And you know how we are. When we have a person pegged at something in our minds, we really don't expect for that to change. And most often it doesn't. But as Christians, we've got to keep something in mind. Our God is the God of the impossible. Even in our lives, even in people's lives that we know very well, even people who have been a certain way all their lives can suddenly become something very different when God is at work. We need to keep that in mind in our ministries to one another. Don't ever conclude that since a person has been one way, that they will always be that way. We must leave room for the Spirit of God to work in us and in those around us. I think in marriage it's sometimes the hardest place to apply this. If a person has hurt us over and over again, we get to the place where we lose hope that God could ever change that person. And we get cynical. And that just makes the problem worse. We need to take a look at this demoniac sitting civilly at Christ's feet and remember he can change anybody. He can change anybody. He truly can. So here's just the biggest troublemaker this town has ever known. Here's the person you could always count on to be unruly and disgusting, and he is exactly the opposite. He's now back in his right mind. He's now functioning more like a law-abiding citizen. And more than that, he's a new person. He has a new heart. He's a follower of Christ. He has known his depravity and has been granted God's grace. So his life will never be the same. He will never be degraded by demons again That is so much like what Christ has done in all of our lives. Our stories may not be quite so dramatic, but the major storyline is the same. I once was lost, but now am found. Was blind, but now I see. Notice that he was in his right mind. Any mind that is controlled by or given over to the influence of the enemy is not right. Satan will torment a person mentally if he's allowed to. He will have us perplexed and anxious and fearful and lustful and full of rage and full of revenge if he only can. He does not want us in our right minds. He does not want us at peace at Christ's feet. He does not want us peacefully paying attention to what our master said. He does not want us in a state of contented rest. Yet that is exactly where Christ will put us if we will submit to his leading. He would have us all peaceful and restful at his feet. He would put us in our right minds. To be in our right minds is to think soberly, self-controlled, seeing things as they truly are and reacting accordingly. That's the process that we go through that's called sanctification. Now, naturally, the townspeople were thrilled for this man that he was set free from demons, weren't they? Well, not exactly. Mark says, and they were afraid. This means they were terrified. They were shaken in their boots. They were struck with fear. Fear overwhelmed them. Jesus sh he had just shaken up their world. In the past, the bad person lived in the tombs Now this bad person is no longer bad. These people didn't know what to think. They didn't know how to view their world anymore. In the past, anyone who threatened their livelihood was bad. Now here's Jesus who killed all their pigs, but he's good. Then we're told in Mark that now the witnesses retold how Christ had cast the demons out and they went into the pit. Goes on to say, and those who saw it told them by what means He who had been d demon-possessed was healed and about the swine. They probably told how the demons talked to Christ and how Christ talked to the demons. And they know they are standing in the presence of an awesome spiritual power, a power that even the unruly forces that kept this man enslaved for years could not stand up to. Jesus had no chains or shackles, but he bound this man in his love. They simply are not ready for their world to be shaken like this. And it goes on to say, then the whole multitude of the surrounding region of the Gadderines begged him to depart from their region, for they were seized with great fear, and he got into the boat and returned. Evidently, people kept filing in from outlying regions, and as they arrived and heard the stories, they all agreed. Jesus has to go. Why? Well, most of the commentators say it was uh because of a prophet motive. They didn't want to lose any more pigs if Jesus did this again. But I don't believe that's the case. These people were afraid. They weren't angry. They were scared to death of Christ Why? Well, maybe they knew intuitively that they had a lot to be afraid of. Maybe it's their own sin that made them so afraid of Christ After all, they would have likely seen Christ as a Jewish leader. These people were probably not Jewish It's obvious that they had nothing that prohibited them from raising pigs, in animal forbidden by the Hebrew law They may very well have thought that they should uh that that they stood condemned in front of this man who clearly shows the ability to punish sin. Maybe they didn't want them him to punish them. Maybe they were thinking what the demons were saying. Have you come here to torment us? That seems to me to be the most likely reason for their fear. Jesus was powerful spiritually, and they were afraid he would use that power to harm them. Which in some cases ultimately would be true. Some of those people would ultimately be armed in the last judgment by that very same Christ. But Christ is not one to stay where he is not wanted. He doesn't barge into our lives against our will. So when he was invited to leave, he left. This is also true in our lives. Christ could force us to obey as believers, but he doesn't. As believers, we are free to disobey Christ. But we will discover, either through Christ's discipline or sin's consequences, that we are foolish to do so. And we are always wise to say yes to Christ, even when it is very, very difficult to do so. We do much better to invite him in than invite him to leave And as I say this, I I want to couch that in in terms also that if you are a believer, Christ will accomplish what he has in mind for your life in your lifetime. And that uh there will be a difference that he makes in your life. So those people that might preach a message that says, Oh, you can be a Christian, accept Christ as Savior and never accept him as Lord that's that's pretty much nonsense. If you've got the power of God in you, there will be changes that he accomplishes in your lifetime. Now, up to this point, we've seen two incidents of begging in this story. The demons begged Christ to be allowed to enter the pigs, and Christ said yes. The crowd begged Christ to leave, and Christ said yes. Now, look at what comes next, and if you don't know the story, I think it'll surprise you. Now, the man from whom the demons had departed begged him that he might be with him. So here's the guy clothed, sitting in his right mind, having had the demons cast out of him, and he begs Christ, let me stay with you, let me come with you, let me go wherever you go. I want to be with you Look at this. This is the perfect disciple. This man has been saved from incredible things. And all he wants now, all he wants is to be with Christ. Now think about it. If you had been demon-possessed for years, would you not want to have the security of being around the person who had cast those demons out? Wouldn't you feel safe around that person who had protected you and cast out those demons that had haunted you for so many years? Might you not be afraid that those demons would come back and you wouldn't know what to do And wouldn't you be the be with the one, wouldn't you uh want to be with the one who showed you the grace to remove that burden from you? All those years, that's probably the one thing he wanted day after day more than anything else. And now he's free. He wants to be with Christ. Can any of us blame him? We would too. It's a wonderful desire. So naturally, Christ says yes. No. However, Jesus did not permit him, but sent him saying, Go home to your friends and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you and how he has had compassion on you. Wow. Who would have expected that? Jesus says no. Now let's look at the why. First, Christ sent him. He did not send him away. He sent him to. Christ saved this man, and Christ had a mission for this man. That's always how it is. If Christ saved you, he has a mission for you. And he said, Go home to your friends and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you and how He He has had compassion on you. Go home to your friends. The actual Greek word really means those who are yours. It could just as well be kinsfolk as uh friends. It would be more like saying, go home to your people The home to your people. What Christ is telling this man is that Christ is restoring this man to his family and his friends. This man has not been doing any duty toward his family. He has not been loving his friends. He was incapable of it. But Christ is sending him back to first share with them the good news of Christ. Think just how br how heartbroken this man's friends and family were. Maybe they had gone to see him at some point to try to speak reason to their friend or their their uh son. But they could see that he was not in his right mind. Now he's coming back to them fully restored. He's a person who can now give and love and reach out to his friends and family. Christ sent him back to show off the grace of God to this man's people. And he wanted them to tell him, he wanted this man to tell them two things. Two things. One, what great things the Lord has done for you. Christ wants the man to show what kind of power the Savior has. He has absolute sway over the devil. He can cast out the devil with just a word. There's no struggle, just absolute authority. This man could surely have said, if Christ can set me free. Christ can set anyone free. If he could forgive me, he could forgive anyone. Isn't that still our message today? Isn't that really the essence of what we have to say to non-believers? And the second thing, how He had compassion on you. The Lord is powerful and the Lord is loving. Tell your family and friends just how compassionate Christ is. The people in the crowd probably didn't get this when they showed up. They didn't understand it. They feared Christ. But Christ's message to this man's family is that Christ is compassionate. He can be called upon no matter who we are and what we have done. Isn't that still the same message that we carry today? Call upon Christ. Call upon him to save you. He is a compassionate God. If you call upon him, he will surely save you just like he did me. That's what we call out to our associates. I look forward to meeting this man in heaven and hearing the rest of his story. I'll bet it'll be a great one. I wonder how his restoration to his family and friends went I bet it was pretty dramatic. I bet there are a lot of stories in that. But we're just given a little bit more of the story. And he departed and began to proclaim in the capitalis throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for him in all marvel. This man may have taken the term your people in its biggest sense possible, because we find he went to his people. He traveled in the capitalist region, which is a ten cities region. And he did exactly what he was told to do. He went about bragging about Jesus. He told people just what Christ had done for him. Wouldn't it be nice to have a verse like this written about us? Would it say we proclaim to all that would listen the great things that Christ had done for us? Or would it say we are not willing to make waves and upset people? We wanted to avoid conflict. We wanted to avoid anything upsetting. This man is an excellent example for us to follow. No. Did he have any effect? Well, remember those people who asked Christ to leave? This is what happens on Christ's next trip to Decapolis. In Mark 7. 31. Again, departing from the region of Tyre and Sidon, he came through the midst of the region of Decapolis to the Sea of Galilee. Then he brought to him one who was deaf and had an an impediment in his speech, and they begged him to put his hands on them. Here are those same people from that same general area begging Christ again. Where are they begging him this time? Help this person. And he took him aside from the multitude and put his fingers in his ears and he spat and touched his tongue. Then looking up to heaven he sighed and said to them , Hephatha, that is, be open. Immediately his ears were opened, and the imp impediment of his tongue was loose, and he spoke plainly Then he commanded them that they should tell no one, but the more he commanded them, the more widely they proclaimed him, naturally. And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. He makes both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak. He does all things well. What a wonderful quote. We don't know for sure, but it's quite likely that this saved demoniac prepared the way for Christ's ministry in this land. He truly went to his people and proclaimed the power and love of Christ. And they heard it. And they began to see God from a different perspective. What a wonderful model we're left with this morning. We have this man who was obsessed with sin, who is found by Christ. Christ restores him, and everything about this man changes. He is suddenly at peace with God and with himself. All of his restlessness is gone. He's in his right mind. All of his craziness is gone. And he's telling everyone he knows about Christ. Isn't that just a wonderful picture of discipleship? It's like an encapsulated form of what real discipleship is like. And notice that there are two things happening at the same time. The man is sharing the gospel while portraying a changed life He is sharing the gospel while portraying a changed life. Some people share the gospel, but their lives are so out of control that no one's convinced of the power of God to change anyone for anything. Some people have changed lives, but will not face the discomfort of presenting a message that might be received badly. This man is a perfect example of doing it right, and an example that we would do well to follow. Let's pose in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for what you do in people's lives when you draw them to yourself. We thank you that you have the power to accomplish the impossible. And we thank you, Lord, that you even change people like us in ways that people would think that we can never be changed. Maybe even ways that we have tried so hard in the past to change. But you will accomplish it. And you have the power to accomplish it. And we must walk by faith, trusting that you will accomplish it. We thank you, Lord, that you you give us this man's example and you show us your intentions toward him. And that we can learn so much about you and so much about what you do in our lives through him. We ask that you would help us to become the kind of person that he is A person who has a changed life, and a person who is very quick to share the goodness of God to others. So we ask that you will draw that to our attention as we walk for you this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.