All right, let's do a quick review. Uzziah died. He was uh not a good godly king, but he was a good competent king. Isaiah had a vision where he saw a throne, and that throne was filled by God, not some earthly king. He saw the glory of the place. God was praised by angels. Isaiah saw how pure worship of God looks. And the place was shaking and smoking. Isaiah does what humans do when they confront the true God, at least uh uh any human with any kind of smart impulses, they get scared because they see the difference between what we are and what God is. And usually our moral failure takes front and center in our minds when we encounter God, because that's the big obstacle between us and our relationship with this mighty God. So Isaiah is undone because of his sin. He thinks he is done for. He thinks he is toast. And that's where our text starts this morning. It says, then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a live coal which he had taken with the tongs from the altar. Now, first off, look at the delivery method. This would have been enough to freak anybody out. This being takes in his hand a live coal from the altar, at least he he picks it up with the tongue, puts it in his hand. And uh now this uh this coal from the altar, there's some question about that, was this coal part of an offering that was on the altar? Or was it the fire, part of the fire, that uh the offering would have been placed on? And we don't know. All we know is that it was hot and it had come from the altar. Now, what's an altar used for? It's normally used to burn offerings granted because of somebody's sin. I mean it Generally, the altar is associated with sin. We need that altar because somebody's got to offer a sacrifice. So maybe that's the point here Something had to be done about Isaiah's sin problem. Now, was this a specific sin or a general heart condition? We talked about that a little bit last week. We can't tell for sure But we know for sure that this is about sin. Now notice something here. Where did Isaiah ask God for help? Where did he ask him for mercy or forgiveness? He didn't. He just stated his heartfelt condition. He knew one thing. He was a goner if God didn't do something to help Isaiah. That's really the starting place in any of our salvations. This is the place we must all get to before we can really do business with God. We must know that we need God to do something. And we must want him to do it. And how wonderfully uncomplicated all that is. God did not make any suggestions to Isaiah about how Isaiah should change his behavior. He didn't lay any conditions down as to what Isaiah must do before God would have a relationship with him. He didn't, because God has always known that there is nothing we can do to rid ourselves of a single sin. Our awareness of need is all that is required for God to move in our behalf. Maybe Isaiah didn't know what to say. Maybe Isaiah thought he was too undeserving for God to do anything for him in light of his current condition. Maybe he just accepted his faith. We don't know. But whatever Isaiah understood, what we see reflects the words of a hymn written by Joseph Hart in 1759. It goes like this, come ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sore, Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power. Come ye thirsty, come and welcome God's free bounty. Glorify. True belief and true repentance. Every grace that brings you nigh. Come ye weary, heavy laden, lost and ruined by the fall. If you tarry till you're better, you'll never come at all. Let not conscience make you linger, not of fitness fondly dream. All the fitness he requires is to feel your need of him Lo, the incarnate God ascended, pleads the merit of his blood. Venture on him, venture holy, let no other trust intrude. I think that poem captures it really well. If you tarry till you're better, you'll never come at all. All the fitness he requires is to feel your need of him. I love those lines Isn't that all our stories, if we were to tell them? Maybe when we first came to Christ, we didn't understand the weight of our sin. I think probably that's true for most of us. But those who are Christ will have that burden laid on them. Maybe it's gradual, maybe all at once. But if we experience the one true God in any degree, the same thing will happen to us in one form or another We will see our sinfulness. We will see our lostness. We will see how much grace it really did take to save a person like us. We aren't worthy. We can't be made worthy. And we are completely dependent upon God doing something for us because we can do nothing for ourselves And that's what happens here. Without asking, we I mean it's implied that Isaiah wanted it. He may not have known what to ask, but it's implied that he wanted it. God sends an angel to meet Isaiah's need He sends a resource to remove the obstacle that Isaiah was facing in his relationship with God. And how merciful it was. And then verse 7, and he touched my mouth with it. And said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your iniquity is taken away, your sin is purged. Isaiah had said that his sin was in his lips, so on his lips was where the coal was placed. Now clearly this was not a physical cure. I mean the the cure for sin isn't to go out and get a hot coal and stick it on your face. It isn't like this physical coal took care of a spiritual problem. The problem was a spiritual one, and the cure had to be a spiritual one. Coals don't remove sin. Even burnt bulls and goats didn't accomplish that. Only Christ could do that. So this coal had to symbolize something bigger and better. Maybe it was the purity of sacrifice from the altar that was intended in this symbol. After all, that's what it takes to take away our sin. What can wash away our sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Whatever the case, the cure was effective. It immediately eliminated the obstacle to Isaiah communing with God. Isaiah could now put that sin aside, enjoy that relationship with God. Now, would that sinful action or attitude cease to be part of Isaiah's history? No When God takes away our sin, he is taking away the obstacle of it, the penalty of it, not always the memory of it or the consequence of it. We need to be careful in how we understand God forgiving us and us forgiving one another. Forgiveness does not change our history. Forgiveness changes our destiny. It removes the obstacle to our relationship with God. It removes the sin from the list of charges that God has against us. That list is wiped clean by the righteousness of Christ, and that is more wonderful than anything that we could really hope for. It was way more than anything that we would deserve. I think that one day our sinful memories will have their sting removed from them. They'll be past hurting us. But I can't imagine the memories completely disappearing. Carla and I were discussing that, and she can, but I can't. Because without them, we would be tempted to forget about God's rich grace toward us. And I believe that's why sinful saved humans have been allowed to remain in this cursed planet for thousands of years Every one of us will come to God's kingdom with our own special tribute to the grace of God. We'll all have a story. Of how amazing grace saved a wretch like me. Revelation twenty-one talks about that place and it says And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God, and that's what we just saw in Isaiah, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God Himself will be with them and be their God, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain for the former things have passed away. That's what we have to look forward to if we're in Christ. We too have had the forgiveness of sin applied to our lives if we're in Christ. The word for purge in our text means to make atonement. And that's exactly what Christ did for us. He made atonement. So we see that God did for Isaiah what Isaiah needed without Isaiah even asking. Again, we can assume that he wanted it and he knew that he needed it. It was very gracious of God to provide it immediately, even before Isaiah asked , so that he didn't have to suffer by waiting for it. It's important to note here that Isaiah needed to experience this forgiveness prior to what follows for at least two reasons First, before we experience God's forgiveness, we are not qualified to be a servant of God. Before our sin is dealt with, we can't accurately represent God We don't have a message. We don't have a hope. We have nothing to say. All we could say is, God is great and I deserve judgment. That's all we could say. We wouldn't know the rest of the story. The second, before we experience God's forgiveness, we are not willing or able to serve God for the right reasons. Before we understand that our sin is forgiven based on grace, our efforts to serve God are almost always to impress God or to earn something from God or to win something from God. And that's a very bad reason to serve God. It's backwards and it's always ineffective. We need to be forgiven before we have the right reason to serve, and then we serve out of our gratitude for what he has done for us and what he will do for us. Now, look what happens next. It isn't exactly the way I'd always understood it. It was kind of a surprise as I was getting into the context. Verse 8. Also, I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send and who will go for us? Then I said, Here am I, send me. Now doesn't this look like a conversation being held among superiors? Was it not likely that God the Father and God the Son were having a conversation? That's what it looks like to me. It's it's almost looks staged. So son, what are you going to do about the problem that we have with our people? How would you suggest solving this? A messenger? Okay, but who? Who should we send to do this important task? Who can I appoint to this task to go and represent us exactly the way we want to be represented? And it's at this point we hear a small voice from the back of the class. I'm here. I'll go. If I'll do. I 've always gotten a picture in the past of Isaiah boldly and confidently volunteering, like he was bravely volunteering for a suicide mission that was going to win the war for the good guys. But look at the surroundings that Isaiah is sitting in here. There are beings flying back and forth that he's never seen before. There's so much volume of in the worship that the building is shaken It's full of smoke. Isaiah's scared out of his mind and thinks he isn't even going to make it through the meeting because of his sin. He's undone. He's toast. His sin is dealt with by a burning coal uh by one of those flaming ones, the seraphim. And I mean, think about the burning coal coming at your face. Now, do we really think that he confidently volunteers for this important mission? The fact here that he even presumes to interfere in this important conversation is pretty amazing. But here we see it. We see the difference that the forgiveness of sin and the assurance of salvation makes in a person. Isaiah hears of a need in the kingdom of God, an act of service desired by God. Isaiah has evidently been impacted by the forgiveness of his sins. He knows he he owes his whole life to this God who has reached out to meet his need. So he does the only thing he knows to do. It's the only way he knows to express his appreciation. He says, How about me? Will I do? Do you ever look at your heart and know that you really don't want to meet the needs in the kingdom of God if it costs you too much? Do you think that selfishly you really don't want to pay a huge price to be in service to God? Why is that? Why do we think that? Isn't it because we fail to appreciate the cost of our own salvation? Don't we forget the price that was paid for us? Don't we take for granted our state of forgiveness? When we really consider the immensity of the price paid for us, really, how could we refrain from saying, here am I, send me? We allow what I want to be prioritized over what God wants. We allow the things of this earth to crowd out the things of heaven so easily, like we talked in Sunday school this morning. Again, like Jason Van Dorsen preached to us a few weeks ago, everything always comes back to the gospel. Everything always comes back to Christ dying for us in our place so that we can have life. Everything always comes back to the salvation that that God provided for us. Isaac Watts said it so well. He said, When I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died My riches gain I count but loss, and I pour contempt on all my pride. Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast. Save in the death of Christ my God. All the vain things that charm me most, I sacrifice them to his blood. See from his hands, his his head, his hands, his feet, sorrow and love flow mingled down. Did e'er such love and sorrow meet, are thorns composed so rich a crown? His dying crimson like a robe spreads o'er his body on the tree. Then I am dead to all the globe. And all the globe is dead to me. Where the whole realm of nature mind, that were at present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life. By all. To Christ, who won for sinners grace, by bitter grief and anguish sore, be praised from all the ransomed race forever and forevermore. Isn't that the truth that we fail to appreciate when when the response doesn't roll off of our lips? Here am I, send me. There are a couple other points to focus on here as well. Notice that God never even asks Isaiah to take on this job. It's kind of interesting. God never asks him to take the job. He doesn't pull him aside and say, hey, I have something really important for you to do. No, Isaiah doesn't even know if he's qualified for the task that God and someone else are talking about. All he knows for sure is he wants to. It's wonderful when the people of God respond to the opportunities to serve with this kind of reckless abandon and willingness to be spent. All Isaiah had to know is that this was a task that God wanted done. Are we that quick to respond when there is a need and we have the opportunity to meet it? And normally, if we see the need, that is our opportunity to meet it. Do we feel such gratitude in our hearts for the forgiveness that we have received that no price is too great to pay? In order to provide this service to this God who has been so gracious to us. Look at the dynamic here. There were no humans to impress. There was no one who was going to help in this task that Isaiah knew of. There were no volunteers who were going to help him. There were no authorities besides God who were going to guide his efforts. This ministry of Jeremiah's was motivated only by his relationship with God. That is what our motivation to serve God should look like. If our motives require the approval of others or the recognition of others, or even the appreciation of others, we don't have Isaiah's pure motives. We tend to want to do ministry if it pays off or if it is welcome or if it is successful or whatever what other if whatever other if that we come up with And can we know we are and we can and we can know that we're most like that most by the the times when those things that we want Along with our ministry, don't happen when we are deprived of that which we want. Our our real motive, or at least our partial motive, for doing ministry. We can easily find ourselves angry or hurt or resentful or pouty when the ministry we offer to do for God does not provide us that which we had hoped for, the reward that we hope. Imagine what would have happened if Isaiah did his ministry the way that we often do ours. Imagine the complaints that he would have had with God. But God, they reject everything I say. They don't take me seriously. They won't let me in their clubs. They won't prioritize my ministry to them. We could go on and on and on. That didn't happen because Isaiah was doing this from the position of gratitude for his forgiven state. That's where all pure ministry comes from. It comes from people saved by grace wanting to express appreciation to God for all that He has done for them. You know, people like this, you'll know people like this because they'll keep doing the ministry that God has given them, even when they meet nothing but resistance. Even when it costs them dearly to do so, even when no one will do it with them or even voice their appreciation for the efforts that they are doing. Look at those things you view as the ministries that God has given you. Why are you doing them? Is it for God alone? There are a million mixed motives we can have. There are a million wrong reasons we can have, but there is only one good reason. Why are you doing it? If we can't trace our way back to the gospel as being our motivation, we should stop now, or at least stop long enough to repent of our duplicity. When we do things for God for the wrong reasons, we'll always reveal our mixed motives by our reactions when we don't get the payoff that we expect. So watch for that in your own life. Now, also notice that Isaiah appeals to God sending Isaiah. He says, send me. Here we see the right attitude of a servant. From this point on, this is not Isaiah's ministry that Isaiah is asking God, help me with this. It is God's ministry that Isaiah has a chance to be part of, and that's how he views it. in his mind that this is God's ministry that he is doing. Isaiah doesn't really get a say in what is to be done and how it's to be done. He's a servant and he's taking orders and he's carrying them out The will of him who sends you is more important than the will of the one being sent. Always keep that in perspective when you are doing ministry. That needs to be understood. Isaiah accepted that from the very beginning. That's how he saw his life and his ministry. When he said, send me, he knew that he was volunteering for what God had in mind. How do we do ours? Do we see ourselves as ones being sent into the world? Do we see the will of the sender as being more important than our preferences? What do we do when the pursuit of happiness crosses God's will for our service, our sanctification? Whose will wins in those battles? Do we take up the cross or do we rebel or disobey? So much of this is best determined, not on the days where all is going well It's seen on the days when our soul is tormented with hard decisions to make, or hard situations to face, or hard emotions to bear, or hard temptations to resist. That most surely shows us what we really believe about whose will is really most important. That's where we display if we believe we are sent. Or if we are just meandering about in this life on our own accord, asking God to help us now and then. Now let's let's look at the progression here in Isaiah's life. This is interesting. First, we see the earthly king dying created a dynamic in Isaiah's life where he is very much he very much needed a change in perspective. So the king dies Isaiah has a need to change perspective. This change in perspective was provided by a vision of God on his throne. The vision of God on the throne led directly to Isaiah's despair about his own spiritual condition. The despair led immediately and directly to Isaiah experiencing the forgiveness of God. The experience of God's grace led to Isaiah's desire to be of service to God. Now he had the proper motivation and the proper status to do the work of God. He could now represent God. Now that he has been forgiven, he can offer his service to God in a way that God would be willing to accept. And as Isaiah carries out this service to God, he will begin to appreciate the heart of God facing the rejection of his people. There are periods in my life that I couldn't make sense of. But over time I've seen more and more how the progression had to happen the way it did. For me to get the points that God wanted me to get and to be able to serve him in the positions that God was going to place me. I believe the same is true of every believer, the same is true of all of our lives. Your story only makes complete sense when it is God who is telling it Someday we'll see it and we'll see the sense that it makes. Because only he knows what he intended at each stage of our lives. What a sweet truth we have in knowing that God has our His hands in our lives all the time. Even the things we don't understand and don't want. are playing a part in his preparation of us for eternity. If we're his. We are the only people on earth that can say this. We're the only ones who can make a statement like this. How blessed we are to know that our Saviour is controlling everything for our good. Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are the called according to his purpose. Now, Isaiah has been prepared. His life is just where it needs to be to receive the call of God. He is ready for service. So God does God give Isaiah a work to do that is going to result in hundreds of saved people? You know, a very successful work in our frame of reference? Is he going to be used to win hundreds to the Lord? Surely isn't that important work that God called him to? Surely God would not have invested all he did for a poor payoff, would he? Well, how do you read it? Verse 9. And he said, Go and tell this people, keep on hearing, but don't understand. Keep on seeing. but don't perceive. Make the heart of this people dull and their ears heavy, and shut their eyes lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and return and be healed. What? What is God thinking? How does this fit with our view of God? In fact, what does this tell us about God? God is sending Isaiah to a people who are not going to respond to him. God has given this man a ministry to do that will only justify the judgment of God against those people. It will not change their hearts except to make them harder against God. All it's going to do is give God more evidence to quote at their judgment that they had every chance in the world to repent, but they did not. Now, could God have changed these people against their will? Of course he could. But he would. Why? I don't pretend to know how all this works. I'd think I'd be a fool if I said that I've got all this understood. But at the end of the day, God does not want those who do not want him. At the end of the day, God does not want those who do not want Him. Isaiah is to shine a light, but very few, if any, are going to allow it to light their eyes. And they're lost. Everyone who refuses to respond to Isaiah's message are held guilty by God. They are guilty of rejecting God's message. It is a tragedy. But people are responsible for their decisions before God. No matter what our theology is, this is a truth. People are responsible for their decisions before God. Isaiah is to speak the truth to these people. That's going to be his ministry. And by so doing, he will harden them against the truth. By doing his job, he'll make them worse off, not better. We have to understand that sometimes that will be part of our mission as well. That will be the part we play as well. We want people to come to Christ. If we're his and we appreciate grace, we're going to want people to come to Christ. We want people to come and fellowship with us in Christ. But sometimes all that our witnessing will accomplish will be to harden those who are hearing this good news. It'll cause them to hate Christ more. Isaiah was not going to encourage people to reject God. That was not the mission he was given. As we read the rest of the book, we'll see him calling on Judah continually to repent. It's continually urging them to repent. But the effect will be just as God says, they will simply become more hardened, and they will keep hardening themselves up to the point of their judgment. Isaiah is not going to present the devil's lies to these people to harden their hearts. He's going to be preaching God's truth to these people. But it will still harden those who are supposed to be God's people. By God, they were a nation that was supposed to be his people. His true people in the midst of those are not going to be hardened. They're not going to be dissuaded by Isaiah's ministry. They will be strengthened by it. Now, what does God's word do to us? You know, we look at what Isaiah is saying, it's God's word to the people of Israel, or actually the Judeans. What does God's word do to us? Does it soften us? Does it cause us to repent? Does it cause us to run to Him? Or does it make us harder? Do we just determine more to stay on our path? Do we see God's word to us as something we just want to reject? It's something we want to stop, we want to silence, we want to get away from it Also, what do you expect in the ministry that God gave you to do? Will you keep doing it even if the effects are not what you want to see? Will you represent God even when doing so makes your life miserable? Which is exactly what happened to Isaiah. And what was Isaiah's response to what God said to him? I'm sure he wasn't thrilled. I'm sure he thought that's an odd ministry you got there, God. I I'm not sure I maybe I'm not the one to send. But he doesn't we don't see any of that in him. His only question, verse 11, then I said, Lord, how long? If I gotta do this ministry, how long do I have to do it? It might have actually been, how long is it gonna be? How long is it gonna last? He m he may have actually been more concerned with uh the people he was ministering to. Like how long do they have Isaiah wants to know how long the results will be as God says. How long should he keep at this task while the people continue to reject God? That would be a perfectly normal human response. What's your timetable here, God? And we do that all the time as well. Prophecies, because we always want to know when. What time? You know, when's that going to happen What's your timetable here? And God tells Isaiah something I'm sure Isaiah did not want to hear. This would not have been a pleasant message. And he answered him, until the cities are laid waste and without inhabitant, the houses are without a man, the land is utterly desolate The Lord has removed men far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land. But yet a tenth will be in it, and will return and be for consuming, as a terebinth tree or as an oak whose stump remains, When it's cut down, so the holy seed shall be its stump. God is basically saying, Isaiah, you're gonna preach until the end of Judah as we know it. Your job is to preach to a people who are headed for judgment. You aren't going to change it. Don't start your day with the idea that you're going to change this outcome because you're not. You will preach, they will be judged, period. When you're done, this blessed and prosperous land will be desolate. It'll be gone. It will be a memory. Now let me ask you, how would you like that job? How would you like that job? Delivering a negative message To a negative people that's going to affect you negatively, and you know there's no chance of success I doubt that many of us would volunteer for this position, but that is exactly what God is sending this messenger who suddenly and fully understands his debt to God for the salvation he has received. This is what he's sending him to do. But God doesn't leave Isaiah with no hope. And he never does, his people. He always gives us something to look forward to. Verse 13, but yet a tenth will be in it, and will return and be for consuming. As a terebinth tree or as an oak, whose stump remains when it's cut down, so the holy seed shall be its stump. It's very common in Scripture for there to be a remnant of faithfulness in every circumstance. God always has his people. There are times when he seems to have many faithful people. It will seem there are times when he has none. Remember, Elijah said, I'm alone. Well, he was wrong. There were 7,000. He just didn't know. But there are still only a few. There will be uh times when it appears there are many who speak well of God, but there are only a few who will do what he wants to do. God always keeps for himself a faithful remnant. And here God mentions a tent. So you can pick out ten people in a crowd and guess that one of them is going to be faithful to God. The obvious question to ask here is, are we it? Are you it? Are you one of God's faithful? Will you believe what he says and do what he tells you, like 1 John tells us? Are you one of his? The imagery here is of a tree cut down A mighty huge tree that has grown and established itself over the years. I mean doesn't everybody like the uh the uh a huge tree. Isn't there something gro uh majestic about that. It's beautiful to behold. But this tree is full of rot and it's coming down. And God will not allow it to stand. And what will happen? Out of that unlikely surrounding will come up shoots. The true tree will begin again. What church is supposed to look like will happen again. From the roots of the old wretchedness will come a living and vibrant faith. God will always have a people, because God is worthy of a people. They are often not powerful as the world measures power. They are often not wise as the world measures wise. They are not often rich as the world measures wealth. They're often the most unlikely lot that anyone would ever guess God would represent Himself with. And we can look around this morning and figure, yes, that about describes it. But they are the church. And God loves them. And they love God. That's the way God does things So at the end of the day, Isaiah's ministry will appear to accomplish nothing as he watches the mighty tree fall. But up from that stump will come signs of life, and God will glorify himself through it. Let's close by singing uh the song I quoted, one eleven. And I survey scroll On which the Prince of Gory dies, my riches gain I count but lost. And poor content on all my prize. Orbit it lower than I should be. Save in the death of Christ, my God All the vain things that charm me most, I sacrifice them to his blood. See from his head speech. Sorrow and love flow me go down. It is such love and sorrow meets. Or thorns composed the rich ground. With the whole realm of nature mind. That were a present part to small Love so amazing, so divine. Dem is my soul, my life, my Lord, we thank you. We thank you so much for your word. We thank you for providing the coals to Isaiah's lips. As a picture of what you did for us on the cross, how you provided us our salvation from sin. Well we thank you that you give us the opportunity now to say, here I am, send me And you have. And you've given us clear commands. You've given us a ministry that has a lot more optimistic outcome than Isaiah did. You're sending us the people to hold you out as their answer. The good news. We ask that you would help us to embrace The ministry that you provide for us to do with the pure-hearted motives that Isaiah held toward them at this point. Help us to do the right things for the right reasons because of who you are and what you have done for us. And help us to keep that in perspective all the time when we're tempted to get focused on flesh and self and payoff and all those other things. that so quickly creep into uh anything we do. Lord, we ask that you would use us as a church to honor you in our world by by acting like we truly are sin. By you with the message for them that they absolutely need. And Lord, raise us up as a church that honors you like the Like the shoots coming out of the stump, the kind of body of believers that represent what you are like in a limited fashion. We ask these things, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.