We have a couple of blankets this morning, right? Okay. We're flying this morning, four verses in one day Uh what I've been realizing is that as Paul nears the end of this passage, he's also repeating so much of what he had said earlier. So the points, while they might be new and they might be at you know, additional points in his in his flow of thought They are uh pretty much a summation of what's been going on before. Now, remember our gospel final last week, and uh how'd you do? I I hope that everybody aced it. It's probably the most important question a person can answer, so it's important to stay on top of that and make sure that you fully understand your gospel And we've certainly delved into the depths of it with Paul, so we don't really have any excuse not to get that question right. How does a person get right with God? We have got to understand that. Now, Paul continues in verse 28 referring to that same gospel, the gospel he has painstakingly presented to us. And he is using the gospel to define the Israelites on another level, from another perspective. It he has already told us that the nation has been chosen, has been elect for one purpose, and in that purpose Some of the individuals in that group were elect for eternal salvation, and some were not But all of them were fulfilling the first purpose of God. I use the fishing box as a crude illustration of that. You know, it the difference between selecting the lures and selecting the box. Both have their purpose. Then in the New Testament, we have the true church, and every person in the true church is elect for salvation. We can't always tell who the wheat are and who the t the tares are, who are the true Christians and who are just hanging out with the true Christians. But we do know if a person is in the true church, that person is destined to live forever with Christ. Now verse 28. Concerning the gospel, in this specific category, concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sake. But concerning election, from a different perspective, they are the beloved for the sake of their fathers. So the first thing we see about the Israelites is that they are enemies for your sake Now the first question we have to answer is, whose enemies? Whose enemies are there? They're enemies, but whose? Are they our enemies? Should we regard them as enemies This verse could best be translated literally to say, on the one hand, according to the gospel, enemies because of you. On the other, according to election, beloved because of the fathers. The verb in both cases is passive. The emphasis in this verse is not how the Israelites are acting. It's not about what they are doing. The emphasis is on how they are being regarded. And who is doing the regarding? It's God. God is regarding them two different ways, depending upon the perspective. What Paul is doing here is giving us more detail about what was said, what he said in verse 25 and 26 when he said that blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved. What this tells us is that God is temporarily regarding the Jews as enemies, and he is using that to bring the Gentiles in. This is a period of time that will have an end. That's what it means in verse 28 where it says, For your sake. The Jews have been cast off temporarily so we could be reconciled. So, should we regard the Jews as our enemies? No. That is not what this verse is saying. We should regard them like Christ regarded them, as sheep without a shepherd He showed us how to how to regard them. We should regard an unsaved Jewish person exactly the same way we should regard an unsaved Gentile. They simply need Christ, and we may have the opportunity to share Christ with them. So our verse is telling us how God is regarding them temporarily for our sake. But then we need to look at the rest of the verse. When we switch perspectives, when we begin to look into the timeline of history, then how does God regard them? We know how he regards them currently, but what about the future? When we look at God's ultimate purpose for them, how does God look at that Jewish bloodline? And he goes on to say, but concerning the election, they are beloved for the sake of the fathers. When we look at the Israelites concerning election Concerning God's choice, concerning what God has promised to them, concerning what God has planned for them, everything changes. God chose Abraham from all of the people on the planet to start a bloodline that would be called God's people. God made covenants with Abraham and his offspring that spread into eternity. And those promises have not yet been fulfilled. And they must be God, since he made promises to the fathers, owes it to the fathers to deliver upon those promises We were talking this morning about how can God be bound? Yes, God can be bound by the promises that he has given, because he has bound himself to them It's not that we can bind him. He has done it and we can simply get in on it. So that's what is we're seeing here. For their sake God will carry out every promise he has made to the heroes of the faith. And it says they are beloved. It is not saying that they are loving or worthy of love. It is that they are loved. This group of people have a special purpose on this planet. Individually, we can regard them just like any Gentile. They either know Christ or they do not know Christ. They are either of faith or they are of unbelief. But when we look at their bloodline, there's a consideration of them that is not true of any Gentile. There is something special about them as a people. And the difference is not how they choose to regard God. It is in how God chooses to regard them. He will someday usher what will look like to everyone who's watching, all of them who live currently in that period of time into his kingdom. It will probably be the greatest evangelistic movement in the world's history, maybe except from uh Jonah. That was a pretty big one too So we see that God's choice, God's election, has not changed. The people of Israel are still part of God's future purpose. Paul explains this further in our next verse, verse 29. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. We have to be careful in uh in passages like this that we just don't take them as a sound bite And take them out of context. I've been guilty of that with this passage. I believe the emphasis here is on the character of God He cannot change, he cannot lie, he cannot be wrong, he cannot make a mistake, and he will and his will cannot be overpowered. That is the God that we serve We sometimes want to make him so personal that God exists to to serve our whims But it really is the other way around. It is God's will that is to be done on earth as it is in heaven. And it will be When God promised Abraham that God would do something, the character of God assures that this promise will stick. As much as I like the word irrevocable, I can't see that this was the best word for the translators to use. The word actually means without repentance or without regret. It means without being sorry afterwards. So the gifts and the calling of God are without being sorry afterwards. Think about this. I have a question that would have all of us raising our hands, at least I think, you know, if we have any degree of sanity. The question is, have you ever done something that you deeply regretted later? And if if you could have gone back and changed what you did, you would have done it you know, you'd go back and change it in a heartbeat I think every one of us at that point would raise our hands, I'm sure. In fact, the older I get, the deeper and more profound my regrets become I suspect that might be true of just telling the truth and getting older. I I don't know. So when we think about God It's hard for us not to project ourselves into his actions sometimes. I mean we only understand life from our perspective. It is extremely difficult to understand it from his That's why there's a theology that essentially says God keeps coming up with ways of salvation that don't work and he has to keep changing his mind until he gets one right. Uh you know, that's obviously not a a good theology. God is not like us. He never says anything he does not mean. He never does anything that he regrets Now, there are places in Scripture where his actions are described, I believe, in a human behavior sort of way. But it doesn't mean the same thing that it does when a human does that behavior. For instance, in 1 Samuel 15, 10 and 11, it says, Now the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, I greatly regret that I have set up Saul as king. For he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried out to the Lord all night. That's one of those apparent contradictions Yet I think it's easily overcome if we realize that God was using a word to convey to Samuel the seriousness of God's rejection of Saul. It was that complete God was sorry about the state of Saul. He had profound sadness regarding Saul's state. And this must have been the best Hebrew word to make that point. But could we possibly say that God made a mistake, like we make mistakes? Scripture tells us way too much about God to allow us to believe something like that. God does not make mistakes, and he never regrets what he has done. We would do well to live our lives as faithfully as possible We would do it well to consider everything we do and say in a manner that desires to avoid future regret. That's wisdom Immaturity does what one feels strongly compelled to do right now with little thought to the effect it will it will have in the future. That is sheer foolishness and selfishness Wisdom and maturity weigh out carefully the effects of our actions, and they choose the action that will accomplish the greatest good in the future. That's what God does to the millionth degree. He does it perfectly. Now, what are these gifts and callings that God does not regret? I know this verse is is used often to refer to anything that we might call a gift or a calling in Scripture. And I'm not confident now that I've always used this verse properly in the past. We need to look first at the context that this statement is made in. We can be confident that the verse is true about the context. You can always rest assured there. There are sometimes it's also true about other things, but you're always most safe in your application in the immediate context. So first, what are the gifts that God gives and does not regret? Well He's talking about the Jewish people, so we've got to ask, what gifts did God give to the Jewish people? And fortunately, Paul already answered that question for us, probably in one of the most concise statements about what God gave Israel. Romans 9, 3 through 5. For I could wish that I myself were accursed from Christ for my brother and my countrymen according to the who are Israelites, to whom pertain the adoption, the glory, the covenant , The giving of the law, the service of God, and the promises, and of whom are the fathers, and from whom, according to the flesh, Christ came, who is over all the eternally blessed God. Amen. Okay, so we can be absolutely certain that these things are things that God gave, and he gave them in such a way that he will never regret that he did so. He will never change his mind. He will never take them back. This verse, I think, strengthens even more the position of Israel in the future. If God gave them and will not take them back, and our context is clearly talking about the physical descendants of Abraham, it must mean that these things still clearly apply to them. And some of those promises and covenants pertain to things that are still to come. And we've mentioned that several times. Now, what about the calling? We've seen the gifts. What about the calling? This word is used most often to describe God calling a person to salvation. It's not primarily about a person being called into a ministry. Although, you know, that is something that happens. God does call people into preaching ministries and things like that. So in our setting, I think we're safe to limit it to the call of God to a person or group for their salvation. Now let's take a look at a few other verses that use the word calling, just to make the point. And most of the time I was surprised when I looked into this verse and and did a simple word search that it really is true. Most of the time it's talking about salvation. When the word calling is used, it's talking about salvation. 1 Corinthians 126. For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. In the context of salvation. Ephesians 1 18. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling What are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints? Talking about salvation. Ephesians 4:1. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling. which you were called. Salvation. Ephesians 4. 4. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called. In one hope of your calling. 2 Thessalonians 1. 11. Therefore, we also pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling And fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power. Again. And Second Timothy one nine who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose, and grace which was given to us in Jesus Christ before time began. And one last one, Hebrews 3. 1. Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Jesus Christ. So I think you can see there, and this is not all of them, but it gives us a pretty good sample that when he's talking about calling, most of the time it's about salvation. But in our text, it's not referring to the calling of an individual. It's referring to the calling of a people. So its application is a little bit different. While all the individuals may not be affected, there may be huge periods of time where it seems that being Jewish made no difference whatsoever There is still an ultimate purpose for the Jew that will end in their salvation. That calling that God gave is irrevocable. It's not going to change. He doesn't regret it. And these people as a whole were called to this purpose And this purpose will not fail and it will not change. God will not relent. And that's why there must be a gathering in of the Jewish people in the end times. I I just uh anymore I can't see it any other way based on what the rest of the passage says. I think it's safe in our context to extend this principle to those of the Gentiles who are called to salvation as well. There's no stretch at all in making that application. That calling will never change either. God will never relent of his decision to save us. And isn't it a good thing? Isn't it a good thing that God is not like us Because knowing us, we would make the decision, well, I think, you know, I'll save that person but then the first bit of lip we get from them, or you know, the the first attitude or the first outright you know, I'm gonna do my own thing, I don't really care what you're you're you're saying, we would be saying, well, you're out. You know, I can find a better replacement than you to fill that spot. That's not how God is with our calling and we can be extremely thankful that it is not. When he calls us, he brings us into his family, and we are related through Christ to him and he will stick to the end. in disciplining us and doing whatever it takes to get us to be the person that he intends us to be. We can praise God for that Sometimes the way we live makes it look like we're trying to test the boundaries of God's love for us. We live in such a way as to test to see if we can make God sorry that He's ever saved us And what does it end with? You know, it's never God who has the regret. It's kind of important to remember. It's never God who has the regret. He'll accomplish his purpose in our lives. It's we who have regret. First, we have the regrets of the consequences of our sin. They're anywhere between unpleasant and excruciate excruciating. But then on top of that, how do you think we're gonna feel when we f when we face Christ face to face How do you think we'll feel when we compare how we lived our lives to how we could have lived our lives? When we compare what we did to what our Savior deserved from us, amazingly, God will have no regrets. It is we who will have regret. And it's we who will wish that we had done what Romans twelve tells us to do. It will be we who wish we had daily presented our bodies as living sacrifices, holy, acceptable to God, which is our reasonable service. It's no wonder that tears in heaven will need to be wiped away. Even the most faithful man or woman will be broken By the beauty of their Savior and their ugliness of their history. Oh, how loving our God must be, that he will have no regrets for saving people like us. Now let's move on to verses 30 and 31. For as you were once disobedient to God, yet have now obtained mercy through their obedience. Even so, they also now have been disobedient, that through the mercy shown you they also may obtain mercy. Paul shows us here the reasonableness of the Jews' salvation. The Gentiles might think, well, you know, the Jews blew their chance. If they had a chance, they blew it. They don't deserve another chance. It's only right that we Gentiles would get a chance to get in because we never really had a chance, and now we do, and that's good. Paul lays out a completely different reason The question really reduces to this. Is it right that only we as Gentiles should receive mercy? That's really the question. Is it right that only we as Gentiles would receive mercy. He says that you as Gentiles were disobedient. It isn't like you were the crown jewels of humanity. It's not like he's getting the cream of the crop here. You were rebels against God. And you got a chance, not through your obedience, but through the Jews' disobedience. You need to keep that in in perspective, you say. They blew it and you got a chance Now just like God displayed his mercy to you through those who were disobedient, isn't it just like God to display his mercy to those who were disobedient Through the same mercy that you who were disobedient received. Paul's pointing out that it's all of grace That's really what he's saying. It isn't a matter of anyone deserving salvation. Boy, haven't we said that a lot. So there's no sense even in focusing on that The Jews disobeyed, and you were rebels received, you who were rebels received mercy. Now, isn't it just as reasonable that God would show mercy to others as a result of the grace? That he has shown you. That's the essence of the argument. We can't always predict what we are going to be like. We sure know that. You know, living with spouses and family and everybody else. Sometimes we're a wild card. But we can always know What God is like. He is slow to anger. He is long-suffering. He is full of grace. He is full of mercy. Certainly, he is just. But look what he's doing in our text. If God were the kind of God who took pleasure in damning people, he could have all the pleasure he wants. He could damn every single human. You and I have done enough evil that we could be damned a thousand times over. But that is not what our God takes pleasure in. He extends mercy and grace, and it is never based on a scale of deserving anything. All we ever deserve is God's judge judgment. But no, God takes pleasure in extending his grace and mercy and saving those who are without hope. God shows off his grace. And the truth is, if he were not such a God, we would all be facing his judgment with no hope whatsoever. So the question comes down to me as I'm reading this is, what do we want for each other? Here in our body, what what do we want for each other? What do we want for the lost? What do we want for those in the church or in our families who have harmed us or miffed us or hurt our pride? What do we want for them? Do we want justice Do we want the full penalty to be applied? Or do we want them to have what we have received? Do we want mercy and grace for those around us? Sure, they have to receive it through the path of faith and the repentance that faith causes That's that's a given. It's gotta you know that person will need to get there through repentance. It's not like, you know a person should stay in a state of harming us and receive grace. That's that's not what I'm talking about. But we do we really want them at the end of the day to be gripped by God in such a way that they will receive mercy and grace. If we don't, we'd better take a pretty hard look at ourselves and our hearts because they don't represent the heart of Christ. We need to have the attitude that we want them to experience what we have experienced as well. Now, Romans 11, verse 32. This is the last verse. For God has committed them all to disobedience that he might have mercy on all. Here we have the final statement of God's intent. First we see that God has committed them all to disobedience. This word for committed means to shut up in a state. It's the error 's tense, meaning that it was done once and it was completed. God has in essence pronounced the Jews to be committed to this state All we need to do is read the Gospels and we'll see when this happened and how it happened. Matthew 21, verses 33 through 46 says Jesus is talking and he's given a parable and he says, here's another parable. There was a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and he set a hedge about it. He dug a wine press in it and he built a tower And he leased it to vine dressers and he went into a far country. So you can see it was his property, it was his stuff, it was his creation, he did everything about it, he made the thing to be a profitable business. He made it and set it up. All somebody has to do is show up and do their job. Now, when vintage time drew near, he sent his servants to the vine dresser that they might receive its fruit. That's his business, you would think that that would be pretty pretty reasonable. And the vine dressers took his servants, beat one, killed one, and stoned another Not exactly what you'd call good employees. And he sent other servants more than the first, and they did likewise to them Then last of all he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the vine dressers saw the sun They said among themselves, This is the heir, come, let us kill him and seize this inheritance They want they want to take that for themselves. They want to take this that was given to them, this opportunity that they were they were provided, and somehow make it their own, like they are the author and the owner and all of that So they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vine dressers? Then he said to them, He'll destroy those wicked men miserably and lease his vineyard to other vine growers who will render to him the fruits of their season. Then Jesus explained to them what this parable was all about. Have you never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God, this that the Jews were used to thinking that they had ownership of will be taken from you as Jews and given to a nation bearing the fruits of it. And whoever falls on this stone, and that stone is Christ, will be broken. But on whomever it falls it will grind him to powder. Now when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parable, they perceived that he was speaking to them, and they got it right. He was they were perfectly right about that. But when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared the multitudes because they looked They took him for a prophet. There are lots of other references to this as well. God committed the Jewish people to disobedience for a period of time. He responded to their disobedience by pushing their buttons to make sure they would remain in it. Mike of often described it as God greases the tracks in the direction that you want to go, and he surely greased the the Jews tracks. And he did this for a far greater purpose. He did it so he could bring everyone that he wanted. Inside the fold. That's what he's revealing in these three pat in these three uh chapters. He did it for the purpose of bringing everyone that he wanted Inside his fold. His end game plan was not for punishment. It was for maximum mercy He did what he did to show as much mercy as is possible without violating his own perfect justice. Paul is ending his reasoning about God's purpose with two of the characters of God in focus. God's election and God's mercy. And doesn't that about cover everything we need? Isn't that how we ended up being a relation in a relationship with Christ if we are truly His? And isn't that the only hope we have for salvation if we are not his? It is no wonder that Paul is about to break into a wonderful outbreak of worship Which is what the next passage next week is. And why not? He has done a masterful job of showing us that salvation has always been And will always be about the glory of God. It is not really centered in us who are saved It is centered in the character and the person of God. It is about his attributes. It is about his kindness. It is about his grace, his love, his election, and his provision. It is about grace and mercy that springs out of the deep well of who God is. So this week, as we consider our lives in Christ, I think it's appropriate to focus on praise For who God is. And we'll be preparing ourselves for how Paul ends this three-chapter section on the purpose of God for the Jews. Close prayer.