Morning when I got on the roads and saw what we were up against. So I'm glad you're here. And I'm sure the Lord won't make it worth your while. Romans twelve, two And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed. by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. To begin this morning, I'd like to mention that this renewing of the mind we've been talking about always comes from us seeing our lives differently. We have completely different answers than the world on these three questions. Who am I? What am I doing? And where am I going? Those three questions, completely different answers. Who am I? What am I doing? And where am I going? We see this over and over again in Scriptures. These are the issues that are dealt with before the apostles give instructions to people. They laid this out this framework before they gave instructions. Because it's not until we understand this platform That we can do the right things for the right reasons. First, who am I? The world sees themselves as being fellow human beings. If they're humanists, they don't know why they're here. They don't know where they're going. They're left to meander through this life, gathering whatever meaning they can muster. There is no there's a sense of meaninglessness to their existence. Apes are their brothers, and they have no heavenly father. That's a sad state to be in. But we see ourselves so much differently. We believe that we were created by God. Those who are believers believe that God has chosen them to redeem to himself. We are God's children. And as such, He has a special stated interest in our well-being. What are we doing? Well, the world is just getting whatever pleasure they can by whatever means they choose. There's nothing worth living for, so they pick those things they like and devote their lives to those pursuits. They have no clear expectation that their works will last forever. Most of them have a pretty clear expectation that they will not. It's simply an effort in futility. The world is their only home and their ultimate home. This is all they have, and it's everything to them, understandably. They are lustily trying to enjoy what little they have been given. Christians, on the other hand, regard this life as a phase. The believer is biding his time. This life is described in Scripture as a pilgrimage, a vapor. We are sojourners. We are strangers This world is not our home. We're only passing through. But while we're here, we have work to do We're to become prepared for that which is ahead. That is what God is using this time on this planet for in our lives. Does this world fail to fulfill your desires and expectations? Does this world fail to fulfill your desires and expectations? Of course it does. That's not what it's here for. So that's no big surprise. That's not what God is using this world for, for the Christian. God is getting us from point A to point B, using this life as a vehicle to prepare us. That is what this life is for as a Christian. And while we are here, we're to be doing our best to invite people to go with us. Everyone we can. Now, how about the future? Where are we going? Well, the world does not know where they're going. Many in their own self-pride think that they will have an entrance into a better place just because they think themselves worthy of such a future. or because of misconceived views about God, any God that they may have imagined, and they don't know why It isn't based on facts or promises of God that they would think such. It's just some mystic belief. Others have no hope whatsoever. They assume death is the end, and that's depressing to them, but they learn to live with it. They like to think there's something better waiting, but they really don't know They certainly have no investment in an eternal future. But we as Christians have a rock solid hope We earnestly expect, not doubtfully, not wishfully, we earnestly expect to be delivered from this world and from this life. We expect a bodily resurrection where we will be given new bodies. We know that we will be delivered into Christ's eternal kingdom by Christ Himself We fully expect to be judged by Christ, and we fully expect to pass that judgment because Christ's death for us is so rock solid. That God would be unjust if he did not accept what Christ did on our behalf. He must let every true believer into his kingdom on the strength of Christ's propitiation. So there is a sense in which we are to live like kids on Christmas Eve, waiting to find out what's going to show up under the tree. We know our hope is solid. In fact, we have been so certain that we have been storing up treasure there while living. At least that's what we're supposed to be doing. We've been doing those things that we know Christ wants at the expense of those things we might selfishly desire. Do you see that how we view the world is completely different than how those who are not believers view the world? Who we are is different. We do not have to fight for our identity. It has been handed to us. People can think we're wonderful. People can think we're awful. But it doesn't matter. We can walk confidently knowing the truth of what God says. That's what matters. People can destroy our reputations, but they cannot undo the promises of God. And that's where our hope lies. That's where we rest. We also can be confident in what we are doing. We can be content to know that most of the world is grabbing what they can in this meager life To get through. And we're facing that world completely differently. It's not a surprise when they try to take what we have because they want it for themselves. We can understand that because they're not doing what we are doing and they're not doing it why we are doing it. They're not preparing for eternity. They're not preparing to meet their maker. That's only for us to be doing. But greater than all this, we know where we're going. Over and over and over in Scripture, this is what the apostles set the focus on. To the people that they are ministering to because they know how important that perspective is to godly living. This is something we must always keep in perspective. No matter how bad this life gets, we have the promise of our reward. We can do anything for a lifetime. We cannot allow our hope to be distracted. The world is often given the power by God to make our lives difficult. He has reasons that we don't know about. But God has never, and God will never, allow the world to take away our destination. Christ will take every believer home with him. It is guaranteed 100%. So, the Christian sees his world in a completely transformed view. How do you view your life? Many of our difficulties take a different perspective when we see ourselves in light of this truth. How do we really see our lives? How do we view them? Do we view it from a worldly perspective? Or a renewed perspective. Okay, now let's move on to the rest of the verse. And this, I don't know if I said it. This is the last sermon on verses one and two, so uh I guess we better get it right. It goes on to say that you may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. The word that can be viewed in two different ways. It can mean we give our bodies and minds, and the object of that is to prove what is good. In other words, the main reason we're doing these things is to get to the end result of proving that God's will is good. Or We can give our bodies and minds, and the result of that is to prove what is good. In other words, we may do these things for other reasons. But at the end result, nonetheless, is that we prove God's will to be good. It's quite likely that it means both. Paul tells us why we should be living like this, and the only way we'll arrive at this result is by living this way. Now, what is the focus here? What is this process that we are talking about? What does it result in? What are we proving? And we are proving God's will. It's God's will. What we are shooting for is gaining an understanding and appreciation of God's will. We're heading for a destination that the world can never get to. This is more than just conduct, what we're talking about here. It's more than just conduct. It's more than getting a Christian to dot his I's and cross his T's No, the Christian life is to be lived in the conformity to God's will. So God's will is extremely important. We are to understand what God wants. And we are to live according to it. We are to live to please our God. Sometimes people get caught up in the idea that salvation is just to rescue us from hell and little else. It's to remove something, but not to add something. That's a very flawed view of Christianity. It doesn't give God credit for that amazing change that He creates in us. Others think that Christianity is primarily about taking people who have unhappy situations and making them into happy people. That falls short of the reality of salvation as well. No, salvation is so very much bigger than all of that. Do you remember the greatest command? To love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. We 're also told to be holy because God is holy. Do you get the gist of that? This is way more than a set of rules It's way more than a set of thou shalt not. It's way bigger than that. This is a target. It's an outcome that is all encompassing It requires a change not in what a human does, but in what a human is. We are truly to live for God. And the end of verse 2 is just stating this truth in a different way. It goes along with a shorter catechism where it says, what is the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. That's what we're made for. That's what a Christian is made for. That's what this is all about. We can never forget that the end that God has for us is much bigger than changed behavior It is to be a changed person from the inside out. Titus 2. 14, there are three verses here that make this a point. There's lots more, but these are pretty quick and easy. Titus 2. 14 says, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. 1 Peter 2. 9. But you are a chosen generation. You are a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people. That you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of the darkness into His marvelous light. Matthew 5, 16 Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. In our text, we're told not to be conformed to the world and be transformed by the renewing of our minds, because there is an end that cannot be reached without it. We will never get to this end by flesh. It will only happen by an act of God that changes who we are and what we do. Man in his natural state will never have the proper regard, will never have the proper attitude, will never have the proper respect for the will of God. You can bet on that. Adam and Eve allowed the serpent to bring the will of God into question. They questioned God's intentions. They questioned what God was up to. And the fall tore them from living in the proper regard and respect for the will of God. They lost it. What Paul lays before us is the path to getting it back. It is the sanctification of the Christian that gradually sees the will of God again in the manner in which it should be viewed. Now let's look at the words. Prove. Prove is to test, to try, and ultimately to approve. Romans 2, 17 and 18 uses the word approve, but it's the same word as in our text. Indeed you're called a Jew and rest on the law and make your boast in God and know his will and approve the things that are excellent. being instructed out of the law. Ephesians 5, 8 through 10, finding out is what's used here, but it's the same word. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as the children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, finding out what is acceptable to the Lord. And then in Philippians 1, 9 and 10, the word is approve, same word. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment, that you may approve the things that are excellent. That you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. We see in all these examples that the people of God are living in such a way as to discover certain things about the will of God. We are to renew our minds. We are to think true thoughts. We are to believe God's word and obey it. And there's a special specific result that will happen as we do that. We will know that God's will is true. We will know that it is good and perfect. But oddly enough, And this is the catch-the catch here that you don't notice right away. This doesn't come without obedience. You can't do this at a distance. John 7, 16 and 17 say this. Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone wants to do his will , he shall know concerning the doctrine, whether it is from God or whether I speak on my own authority. Do you see the same pattern as here as in our text? Christ was telling these people that they were not going to know if the doctrine was good by examining it. They will know it by doing it. If they will do what he says, they will prove that God's will is good, perfect, and pleasing. That is exactly what our text in Romans is telling us to do. We are to present our bodies as a living sacrifice. We're to stop conforming to the world's mold. And we are to be transformed by the believing what God says instead of what we naturally think. When we do that, and as we do that, and only as we do that Will we have an appreciation for just how wonderful the will of God is? It goes on, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God First, we discover that God's will is good. God's will is good. Now this might seem obvious, but in reality it is not In fact, I think each of us could think of a time, maybe many times, when we reacted to God's will as if it really were not good. Think about this. Think over your life. When did an event happen that you pouted or pitied yourself or sulked because of how life had mistreated you? Guess what? That was God's will for your life at that point in your life. Did you receive it as being good in the sense that it is from God and being used for something good? Did you trust that God knew what he was doing? Did you trust that God knew what was in your best interest? Or did you act like you knew better than God? That's our problem. When we react to a situation, when we think about a situation that places our perspective as having more authority than God's. Good means what is upright, honorable, and acceptable to God. Naturally, living in our old natures, we think God's will is bad, because it deprives us of what our flesh wants. You don't have to listen to much media before you determine that the world does not think God's will is good at all. God tells us not to have premarital sex. God tells those with homosexual tendencies not to practice their preferences. God restricts our pursuits of pleasures in any number of ways So the man in flesh, what's his response? He mocks God. Who are these people that would say such absurd things that I should withhold my pleasure? But the Christian has a completely different approach. At least we should. We believe that God wants the best for every single one of his believers. He is not trying to hurt us with his restrictions. He is not trying to condemn us with his restrictions. He is giving the believer the way that is best. the way that is most beneficial, the way that is most eternally satisfying. His will is good. How do you respond to what happens in your life? Do you trust God? Do you believe He knows what is in your best interests and everyone else's? Do you believe He is good? Your reactions can tell you way more than what you might intellectually say. In fact, they often do. Because like we often say, we can get, most of us here would get the multiple choice questions right But the life-living questions, the life-living tests, maybe not so good. How do you react to what happens in your life That is really what you believe about God. Take a good hard look at that. And you'll see more about yourself than maybe you care to know, but it's the kind of thing that that shows us where our minds need renewed. We have a huge problem in our world. We think that God owes us happiness. We forget that God's goal is holiness, not happiness So when we evaluate our relationships according to happiness, when we evaluate our life situations according to happiness, when we evaluate our potential futures in this life according to happiness, We're being absurd. It's not about happiness. It's about holiness. If we really believe that, we could more easily see the goodness in the will of God, the goodness in the hand of God. It may not make us happy, but if we will accept it as from the hand of God, it will most certainly make us holy. The next word we face is acceptable. Acceptable. Do you realize what this is saying? This is saying that we not only accept God's will as being good and for our good. We also begin to find it desirable. That's what it means. We begin to see what God is doing, even when it is most painful to us, as desirable. Not that we ever love the pain. That would be be stupid. But we understand that we have a God that is using our life situations for a good that we would never accomplish apart from Him using them. In fact, so much so that God can be praised in the doing of his will. David got to the place where he said, I mean, this is just one example. Psalms 119 97 Oh, how I love your law. Oh, how I love your will. How I love these things that some perceive as a restriction. How I love them. I meditate in them all day long. It's like the center of of of who I am and what I'm about. You see, David read all the things that seem so restrictive to his fellow countrymen And he saw it all as being good, all being loved. He developed a great appreciation for those things that God wants. We see it again in Psalms 1 1 and 2, where he says, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. The world's thinking. That was being conformed to the world. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law, he meditates day and night. Do you see the miracle in all of this? David delights in the things of God. And he said, essentially, all believers are going to do that. That's that new heart that was given to them. You see, this is an amazing thing. When people truly come to Christ, when Christ regenerates them, they begin to see things differently And it's truly amazing. Men and women suddenly begin to give approval to those things that they always hated. They suddenly understand and get behind the idea that God truly does know best. They begin to believe that their lives are best lived when lived according to God's will. That is nothing short of a miracle and will not happen apart from God's work in a person's life. It is truly amazing. We see a clear statement of this in 1 John 5, 1 through 3, where it says, Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves him who begot also loves him who is begotten of him. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. When we love God and keep his commandments. For this is love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. I guarantee you that this attitude will never ever happen to an unregenerate person. The unregenerate person will always feel that God is holding out on them. They're always going to believe that lie that the devil started with. God will never give them what they want. But when God gets hold of our hearts, something amazing happens. We begin to love what God is telling us. We begin to love what God is doing. And doing what He tells us to do. It's no longer such a big deal. Now granted this is a process and we're working through it as we're renewing our our minds as they're being transformed In fact, doing what God says to do becomes something we want to do. We no longer look at that as being a burden. No, they become perfectly reasonable to us. In fact, they're good. We look forward to them. Again, this is a process. You might look at your life at any point in time and say, man, I don't like what God's telling me to do today. Be patient. Keep thinking. Keep replacing the lies with truth. And it you will see it happen. It will come to fruition. No, God's will becomes reasonable to us. Good. We look forward to it. And then we move on in our text, and it tells us that we will find the will of God perfect. This is a huge concept this morning. We need to wrap our heads around this. God's will is perfect. As we face that this morning, we really have to do business with this. We need to take it to the wall, like Mike always did. Brad's name was recently drugged through the mud. The governor rescinded his position and maligned the job that he did in his line of work. Now, the question comes down to, is there some flaw in this? Was there some mistake in what happened that allowed this to happen to Brad? No. No, none. God's will is perfect. And what happened to Brad will serve as a tool in God's hand. To bring Brad to perfection, and who knows, maybe to bring other people to new life. We have no idea how God intends to use it But we can see how he has used it and we can see th the proper response to it. And Brad uh has been such an encouragement to me and an e example to follow in this situation that he has just gone through. So we we need to look at all of the things that happen from this perspective, from this sieve. And to see that God's will is truly perfect As we believe what God says about himself, as we believe what God says about his works, as we believe what God says about life events, we begin to understand, we begin to appreciate. That God's will is truly perfect. And not only is God's will perfect, his intention is to make his children perfect as well. Colossians 1, 27 and 28 says, To them God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of his mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. The word for complete in this next text is also perfect. The same word. Hebrews 13, 20 and 21. Now may the God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you complete. Perfect, in every good work to do his will, working in you what is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. And in the next passage the word for faultless is also the word perfect. Jude 1, 24 and 25. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. To God our Savior, who alone is wise, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and forever. Amen. That is what God has in mind for us. Perfection. And it will be given to us the moment we die. But we are working in that direction through our sanctification as we live. He is making us, heading us in that direction, preparing us for that final perfection that we will only attain. when we see him face to face. But that's what God has in mind for us, perfection. That is what Paul is telling us. That emphasizes his reasons for us to present our bodies as living sacrifices. To quit submitting ourselves to the world's pressures and to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. It is so that we can get the proper perspective on God's will, that we can see God for who he is and love him and appreciate him. That what he requests of us takes on a completely different light. We receive it from a God who loves us. And we recognize its value and we see its goodness. It's so that we can begin to really and totally experience God's will as truly being good and being for our good. We really need to ask ourselves, do we really experience what happens in our lives as God's will for our good? Then we will find it acceptable. Actually something that in essence smells good to us. The word for acceptable here was the same word that they talked about, the fragrance that came off of the offering to God. Do we really find ourselves glad to know that God is in charge of our life's situations? Do we face them as acceptable and pleasing from His hand? Do we see what God commands us to do as something that is pleasing to us? And then do we find them perfect? Do we really find them as the impeccable sovereign oversight to our lives? That is what is guaranteed. This is the growth that we will have as people. It is guaranteed if we will allow God to control the thoughts that go through our minds. That's what will happen if we'll quit allowing the world to tell us how to think and how to live and how to do anything. And we only think what God says. That's what will happen if we will only believe those things that God says are true to replace all the lies that we tend to pick up. I think we would do well to examine our reactions this week. Watch how you react when unpleasant things happen to you. What do you immediately think? What is the thought that follows that one? Where does it take you? Where do you end up? Does it send you into a spin? Or is it a bump in the road because you quickly reorient to the truth of God's word, to the orientation of God and His sovereign will over your life? As you're reading God's Word, how does your heart react to the commands that you read? Do you welcome them, or do you immediately resist them like you would a smell that you don't like? These are exactly the reactions that will change if we will simply submit to what God tells us to do, if we will present our bodies as living sacrifices. If we will stop being conformed to the world and its way of thinking, and if we will be transformed by the renewal of our minds. Let's close in prayer.