Yeah. It is very good to be back with you this morning. I realize how much I miss y'all when I get back. And that's uh it's a very good thing to feel that way. So what we're gonna see this morning is discouraging to anyone that wants to think that people are basically good. But if what we want to see is the marvelous character of Christ, we won't be disappointed. What we'll see are three parties. We'll see a faithless man who is in a hopeless situation. We'll see religious leaders who are clueless as to what true spirituality was all about. And we'll see Jesus intentionally stirring the pot of his persecution. What we'll see can help us. Have you ever looked at your life situation and determined by everything that you can see that it will never improve? Have you ever looked at what we might call the facts of your life and argued with those trying to help us that they're they're being unrealistic? We make the stand that nothing will ever change in in that which is causing us misery. And we get locked into that. Or another point, have you ever prioritized minor spiritual principles to the place that you have written off people who break those rules? As being less than godly, less than spiritual. Because if they were godly, they would surely keep your rules. Have you ever done that to someone? Well, Jesus is about to challenge both people. Unfortunately, it doesn't appear that it does either of the parties any good. But it can do us a great deal of good. So let's jump into the text. Verse 1. After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now remember, he was in Galilee and he had a ministry to the Galileans. John only spent a short deal of ink on the ministry of Jesus in Galilee. But in Luke 4, 14 through 9. 50 is what Luke dedicated to this Galilean minister. And Mark 1, 14 through 9. 50. is what Mark dedicated to that ministry. So it got a lot of ink. But John is largely covering those events at Galilee that weren't mentioned by the others. So John moves on to the next chapter in Jesus' life and he moves right into Jerusalem. Didn't spend a whole lot of time in Galilee Now we don't know which of the feasts of the Jews that this was. It may have been the Passover. We don't know. But the main point is that Jesus is no longer ministering in Galilee, he moves to Jerusalem, and Jerusalem is the hotspot of Jerusalem. So what's the setting? Verse 2. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate a pool in Aramaic called Bethesda which has five roofed colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. We can think of this as something like a homeless shelter for the crippled. It's close to the temple. There are structures to get them out of the elements, to get them in the shade, and the cripples would be there. Lots of them. Bethesda, the word means house of mercy. So that's what this is referred to. Bethesda, a house of mercy. And on this day it'll live up to its name. The people here are the down and outs. The unfortunate folks do not have those things that would allow them to function in a way that would give them any of the normal things that we expect in this life Imagine yourself as being blind, lame, or paralyzed. Think about that. Think about all of the things that you would not have had in your life. If you were blind or lame or paralyzed, we as human beings have a tendency to think that we've earned many of the things that we enjoy. But we don't realize that we only got them because God allowed us those privileges. Do you know what I mean? Do you ever think about your life that way? How blessed we are to have what we are? And what we have. You and I were not blind or lame or paralyzed. We weren't born in Pakistan or a poverty-stricken nation. And it's odd how egotistical we can be over things that we have no control. But really, we are what we are largely because of what God has provided for us. Well, these people didn't have that privilege. And Jesus singled out one man in this crowd to display his power and his mercy. It is absolutely amazing how someone as important as Jesus will single out one human being for his attention. And in this case, I don't think it was even for the guy's salvation. This man was an invalid for 38 years. So the guy is at least 38 years old, and I think we there's evidence that he's actually older than that. Now, one thing is for sure. If Jesus heals this guy, it's a real healing. I mean he's this guy has advertised how bad off he is for 38 years. Anyone who came to the city would know. This guy is a cripple. No one fakes an illness for 38 years. Then verse 36, when Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him Do you want to be healed? Now that on face value seems like the dumbest question in the world. Who wouldn't want to be healed? But we'll see, it's a good question as we go on Jesus knew the hearts of men. And he knew this man was there for a long time. Maybe he could see his past. He saw the many years of longing. At verse 7, the sick man answered him and said, Sir, I don't have anybody to put me in the pool when the water gets stirred up. Evidently that's when things happen. And while I'm going down, another one steps in before me. Other translations use an ancient manuscript with editions that were probably not in John's writings. They're probably additions. The King James Version says this in verse 4, and uh ESB omits it. It says, For an angel went down at certain season into the pool and troubled the water And whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease they had. So in verse 7, where it talks about the water being stirred up, uh Someone added that it was like this supernatural thing that would happen, where it could likely be, most likely was, this water would be stirred up As it would get an influx from a mineral spring that had sudden inrushes of water that would stir up the minerals And it's likely that the minerals had some degree of a healing property, but one had to get into the water quickly. If they couldn't, the minerals would settle down and be of no value. At least that's a popular theory. Nobody knows exactly. what the deal is here in this pool. Whatever the case, this man was not getting its benefit because he had no one to help him. Why he had no one to help him might reveal something about this man, but we don't want to speculate too far. Now, think about this man's answer for a bit. What the man answers does not answer the question he was asked. Do you want to be healed Instead of saying, well, yeah, I want to be healed. Of course, I want to be healed, the sick man gives Jesus a reason why he can't be healed. That's odd. He points to his human situation in time and space, and he basically says he can't get into healing water in time. So this man's mind, whether he wants to be healed or not, in his mind it's irrelevant. Whether I want to be healed or not, I can't be healed. Instead of telling Jesus that he wanted to be healed, he goes into an explanation of why he's frustrated. He tells Jesus why he can't be healed. This man sees himself as a victim of his circumstances. He's likely bitter about it. And he betrays that by what he says. Now, this man has no idea who Jesus is. He has no idea what Jesus is able to do. All he can see is his situation. All he can see are the hindrances. Do you ever find yourself in that spot? Do you ever say that I'll always be in this situation that I don't want to be in because of an earthly circumstance around you? That's all he's doing. Verse 8, Jesus said to him, Get up, take your bed and walk. And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and he walked. Now look at this closely. This man did not know who Jesus was. This man had zero faith in Jesus Christ. As far as this man knew, Jesus was just a curious onlooker asking questions about what it's like to be a cripple. Jesus didn't wait for this man to have faith in him. Jesus is a true faith healer. All those hucksters who say that you've got to have faith, and if you're not healed, it's due to your lack of faith, and they call themselves faith healers, they don't know Jesus. They don't have the power of Jesus. Jesus required no faith by the one being healed in order to heal this person. He just did the healing. The man realized something had happened. That's all the man did. He didn't even answer the questions right. All he did is receive. And he got out of there. The very thing he had longed for years and years to do. Now he could live a normal life. Maybe he could get a wife. Maybe he could have a family. Maybe he could actually gain some status. Jesus spoke healing, and healing was done Now put yourself in that man's spot. Think about this. Would this not have caused you to want to know more about that healer? Would you not have called out to Jesus and said, Who are you? How did you do this? Thank you so much for what you've done for me. That's amazing. What can I do to repay you? What can I do? But we see none of that in this man. He's just happy to hit the road and get back to his life that he left 38 years ago. I think in the end of verse 9, we get to the point of why Jesus did this miracle. There is no evidence that the man healed ever gained any spiritual advantage at all by being healed. So it doesn't appear that Jesus was hoping to add a household of believers to his followers by doing what he did. No, it looks to me that Jesus intentionally picked the Sabbath to heal a man. And he picked this man so it would be very obvious that it was a true miracle. This guy would be the best advertising for a true miracle. Now that day was the Sabbath, we go on in the text. That day was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it's not lawful for you to take up your bed Suppose you were there, okay, and you were the leader. Suppose you were in charge of enforcing the rules. And here's a guy crippled for 38 years. You've seen him over and over and over again. Maybe you've given some alms to him. And somebody heals that man. Which do you think you would have focused on? The miracle or the rules? The miracle or the rules? Wouldn't you think that maybe something's going on here that's more important than your limited understanding of the rules? Wouldn't your worship alarm go off just a little bit? We see in the rest of the Gospels that Jesus was a threat to those things that these religious leaders love. This healing should have driven them back to thinking about themselves. It should have driven them to reconsider how they were processing all of life For thirty-eight years this man was a cripple and suddenly his dreams came true. That is impossible. No one can do that. It's time to re-examine the rules and their evaluations of spiritual things. It's time they ask if this person doing the healing is actually the Messiah. Maybe they should question if the doctrine they trusted was inaccurate, their way of applying things was inaccurate. Maybe it had man-made portions to it. But no. They don't show evidence of any of that. They were sticking to the rules, whether the Bible supports them or not. That is the most deadly kind of legalism They trust their thinking about God more than they trust God. Never trust your thinking about God more than you trust God and what God's word actually says. Verse 11, but he answered them, the man who healed me, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. There's a quote from Leon Morris here that made me laugh. He said, this man was not the stuff of which heroes are made. But maybe it's not so funny. What do we do with human pressure? In this healed man's mind, the power holders are the humans who make the rules. They're the ones who decide whether you can worship in the temple or not. They're the ones to fear. They're the ones to please. Don't worry about what amazing thing the healer just did to you and who the healer is and what authority he might have What worry about what people think of you. Worry about what people can do to you. Don't we do the same thing when we conform any of our behavior to human expectations When the right thing to do is to honor Jesus, when we have an opportunity to honor Jesus, knowing that it's not going to be received well. Fear of man has the same fruit everywhere. Did Jesus not save you from an eternity in hell? Did he not perform a greater miracle and a more beneficial miracle for us? than he did for that man at that pool? Well then, isn't he worth or worthy of boldly standing up for him, even if that might offend the sensibilities of those who we are around? That's the same situation as here. Isn't that the same kind of thing that this man did When we refuse to intentionally stand for Christ, but instead seek the approval of the people we're with, aren't we doing the same thing that this healed man did? This man sees himself as having a lot to lose if he crosses the religious leaders. So he immediately passes the buck back to Jesus when they question him. He's not like the blind man that Jesus healed who stood up to these religious men. The man in our story after experiencing an unmistakable unmistakable miracle willingly aligns himself with the religious leaders and against the man who healed him. It's not he's basically saying it's not my fault I carried the map It's Jesus' fault. It's him who's the guilty party. He told me to do it. Don't blame me. Blame him. Verse 12, they asked him, Well, who is that man who said to you, take up your bed and walk? And the man had been healed. He didn't know. He didn't know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn as there was a crowd in the place. Okay, the religious leaders were clearly going after the kingpin in this crime of violating the Sabbath rules And this man is complying with their sinful pursuit as much as he is able. It's odd that he doesn't notice that none of these people ever healed him. Wouldn't that be something you add in, you know, you think of? But all of us seem to be naturally good at missing the obvious at times. I think we've all got to admit that So the religious leaders want to know who's the perpetrator so we can go give him a hard time. And the healed man has to say, I don't know. He was evidently looking around for Jesus, but couldn't see him because there was a big crowd. And it looks like the mat carrying man didn't get very far before the Sabbath police jumped on him. So, you know, this is all happening fairly quickly. They didn't miss a beat. They were on him for carrying that mat right now So they're still in the general vicinity in which Jesus healed them. He didn't get many steps before he got caught, before he was busted for carrying that map Now remember too, this man was not in any way healed because of his faith in Christ. He didn't even know who Christ was So, this is a helpful text to go to whenever you encounter some of the bad faith-healing doctrine. Jesus healed this man because Jesus could heal this man. And if somebody starts saying, I'm a faith healer, listen to him carefully. The man did nothing but get up when he realized he had already been healed. Now, the next part is very interesting. Jesus never told this man that his sins were forgiven. There are no signs that this man actually came to faith. But Jesus hunts him down later in the day in the crowd, and he hunts him down for what purpose? You know, we need to ask that. Why did he do such a thing? Verse 14, afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you are well. Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. That'd be a powerful message. Jesus gives the man a message: quit sinning, or the next consequence might be worse than the one he already had. And this tells us something. This man's condition was a result of his sin. There was a direct relationship between this man's sin and this man's misery. That is not often the case, or it's often not the case, but it was here Maybe the man was doing something sinful when something happened to cripple him. We don't know. But Jesus tells him that he would do well to change how he's living. Now, we see no indication that this man has faith in Christ. Still, Christ does not in any way affirm his saved status. So why does Christ hunt him down to talk to him? Was it because he was so concerned that this man has a nicer life on the planet Earth before he meets Christ in judgment? I don't think so. I don't think it was for the man. Let's look at what comes next. Verse 15. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. Basically he squealed on Jesus is exactly what he did. He hunted down those people who were interrogating him and said, I found him, I found him. Like he was going to get brownie points for doing the thing that we always tell our kids not to do. You know, don't tell on your brother, you know. If we weren't so aware of our own crafty and foolish hearts, this would be hard to believe This man had met Christ, the man who healed him, the man who had done the impossible. Wouldn't you think his response should be to run after Christ with question after question and thanks after thanks? Wouldn't you have some desire to please Christ and follow Christ if this had happened to you? He was just, he had just given you back a normal life. This man had hit the lottery because of Christ and Christ alone. Yet what does the man do? He immediately goes to the Jewish leaders to tell them that he now knows who healed him and whose fault it was that he was carrying his map. It was Jesus. He ran to the enemies of Jesus Now think about this. Somehow this man thought he had more to gain from Jesus' enemies than from Jesus himself. This man thought he had more to gain from Jesus' enemies than from Jesus himself. And we think, what a fool. Who would ever do that? But in a sin, isn't that what we do when we actively and knowingly choose to sin? Aren't we running to Jesus' enemies to provide for us something better than what Jesus offers? Is it not the same? I pray that the story of this healed man helps us to see just how evil it is when we cater to the enemies of Christ. And the offerings of the devil over being loyal to our Savior. We look at this man and we say, How could he do this? I would never do this. And then we look at the reality of our lives. And we have to say, Forgive me, father, for I'm often like this man. Help me to never do this to you again. It's interesting in the text that the leaders never threatened to throw this healed man out of the temple. He never lost his privileges. And that's another indication that we're interpreting the passage accurately. We find other people in Scripture who were healed and then tossed out of fellowship because they sided with Jesus. This man wasn't. So it looks to me like Jesus healed this man and then found the man so that the man would know who did the healing. He wanted the man to know that Jesus healed him. So then the man could tell the leaders that it was Jesus who broke the Sabbath rules that they had set up. The text goes on, and this was why Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. I think verse 16 is very revealing. The leaders were persecuting Jesus with the primary charge of Sabbath breaking. They were making him pay for not dancing to their tunes. Now other scriptures tell us they also persecuted Christ with other charges. But Sabbath-breaking was the prominent one at the time. So Jesus chose to heal this lame man on the Sabbath to actually escalate the conflict. It was clearly serving his purpose to escalate the conflict. Verse 17, but Jesus answered them. Okay, he's answering them, he's answering the leaders. My father is working until now and I am working. My father is working until now and I am working. We have to conclude in verse 17 that by this time the Jewish leaders were able to hunt Jesus down. They probably had people watching Jesus by now, and he was a suspicious character to them. He was a threat to their leadership And he was preaching a different doctrine and he was doing supernatural things. And they wouldn't have liked that at all. And we saw what happened when when uh one of them tried to approach uh um Jesus to sort of work things out that Jesus was having none of it with uh Nicodemus. So they hunted him down and he answered them. And for sure what he said did not lessen their concerns. He says, my father is working until now, and I am working. We'll get to that the next with the next verse. But look at what Christ is saying. He is not saying, this man is only going against your roles. He's not violating God's rules. He's just violating your rules. Christ doesn't use that defense. It may have been true, it may not. I don't know. But he doesn't use that defense. In fact, what he says basically states that Christ is working and he is working on the Sabbath. He is blatantly making the statement in a way that the leaders could not in any way misunderstand. We need to think about this in terms of Matthew 17, where it says, Don't think I've come to abolish the law or the prophets. I've not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. To fulfill them. How does Jesus fulfill the Sabbath law demands here? By resting? Well, we wouldn't get that from this text. Christ is working on the Sabbath. He's not resting. Now, normally we understand that Christ met the law's demands by perfectly keeping the laws. And there are places where that's true. But this one he did not fulfill By keeping. So he must have fulfilled it some other way. And I think that's what Hebrews is all about. And we've studied that recently He didn't keep the Sabbath, he became the Sabbath, and that's how he fulfilled it. In Hebrews four nine and ten it says, So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works, as God did from his Okay, so Christ used the healing of a man on the Sabbath and then recontacting a man to let the man know who Jesus was in order to stir up the leaders against Christ even more on this issue. But in verse four verse 18 we find out what the biggest deal was about what Christ had just said. It wasn't that he is working on a Sabbath and he he Doesn't hesitate to say he doesn't back down at all. No, that's not it. Verse 18 says, this is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him. Not only is he breaking the Sabbath, but because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father. Making himself equal with God. It was bad enough that Jesus is confessing to breaking the Sabbath, but that's not what put him over the edge. Jesus was declaring to the leaders, I am God. They understood it that way, and Jesus intended it that way, and John wasn't surprised that they got it that way. Evidently, Jesus saying that in any Jewish venue, they would have all taken it the same way. Jesus was not referring to God as our Father. Jesus is referring to him as my Father. And that was significant. Essentially, Jesus is defending himself of the charge of Sabbath breaking by essentially saying, I don't need to keep the Sabbath because of who I am. At another place he says he is the Lord of the Sabbath. Now, I can be a little sympathetic of the rulers at that point. This would certainly not be something they were prepared to deal with. It's one thing for a person to say, I'm a prophet, or I am the Messiah, in this text. But when Jesus declares himself equal to the Father, That would take a completely new search of Scripture to test it. You think about it, you'd have to challenge every one of the assumptions you ever had when you read Scripture and go back and look at it all again And this quite clearly it would be for them it would be easier to kill Jesus than to figure out what Scripture has to say about the Son of God. So they choose to claim to kill Jesus. Another thing to notice here, Jesus was not a victim. He was charting his course. He was controlling what would happen. He was very intentional here in a controversy he stirred up. It was not an accident. He was using it to eventually arrive at the cross. For us. Let's pray. Lord, we we confess to you. Lord, we have sometimes been more loyal to the crowd we are around than to you. We've sometimes run to your enemy to get our fulfillment Then we have run to you. Lord, you deserve our total loyalty. We confess our failure and we ask for your forgiveness. Lord, we've also sometimes focused on people to hang them for their sin instead of to help them out of it. We've been like the Pharisees in prosecuting others for things we think are sins and that are not sins Lord, we want to be more like you. We want to be more gracious. We don't want to be like this man. We don't want to be like the Pharisees. Lord God, please change our hearts and help us to To be enthralled with you to the place that every other thing that can be gained in this world is a far second. We thank you for the grace you showed this man, even though it looks like he never followed you or thanked you And Lord, we thank you this morning for the miracle that you have given every one of us who are in Christ. The miracle that is far greater than this miracle Thank you for raising us from the dead and giving us new life in you. Help us to live congruently to the new identity that you have paid so much to give us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.