That's how it is. All right. Have you ever been misunderstood? Have you ever been hated by people who have not taken the time to know you or understand you? Have people ever taken someone else's word about you and therefore thought of thought less of you or maybe despised you? Well, take whatever you've experienced, increase it a thousandfold And you have what Christ is facing in our text this morning. Now in our cases, it isn't that we really deserve to be respected. In fact, all of us have displayed actions and attitudes that are worthy to be despised if we were to tell all the truth. We have all done things worthy of the greatest kind of dishonor. But our enemies rarely focus on their attention on those areas. They tend to hate us for things we haven't done. So for us, it isn't that we're thoroughly worthy of respect. We just wish sometimes our enemies would only disrespect us accurately. But with Christ, he was worthy of the greatest respect. Here is a man with no regrets. Can you imagine that? A life lived with no regrets. Young people listen to this well. David explained this kind of life to us He said this in Psalms 119. 9. How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to your word. The word for cleanse is interesting in this verse. It means translucent. How can a young man live in a way where his life is translucent? Another innocent. So, how can a young man live in a way, such a way that he can afford to be see-through? How can a young man live in such a way that he does not need secrets about his thoughts or his actions? Another way to say this is how can a young man live without regrets? And not just young men, not even just young, men and women. How can you live without looking back on your life and dreading or regretting something that you've done? There's only one way, and it isn't by following your heart. You won't get this advice. anywhere on uh on most radio. It isn't by doing what you feel like doing. The way to live without regrets is to incorporate God's word into every area of your life. It's by looking at what God says before figuring out what you want to say. It's by looking at what God says to do before figuring out what you want to do. That's the only way to live translucent. There are some regrets that I have about the way I have actually tried to obey God in my life. Because I didn't understand that he really how is what he wanted done and how he wanted it done. So I've made mistakes in that. But Those things can't hold a candle to the regrets that I have where I have obeyed or disobeyed God fully knowing that I was disobeying him. Translucent living comes only from knowing and obeying God's word. Christ was holy. Christ was wisely and completely obedient. Christ never had an action that he regretted. What an amazing, translucent life that is. And yet here he is, with godless people sneering him and mocking him. If you think you've ever been mistreated by a mindless crowd, Christ was treated a million times worse and did nothing at all to deserve it. So we need to keep that in mind. Verse 26, and the inscription of his accusation was written above, the King of the Jews. We find from the other Gospels that the full plaque says, this is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And John tells us that it was written in Aramaic, Hebrew, and Greek. We touched on this, excuse me, last week. So here it was for the whole world to see It was intended as sarcasm by Pilate, but they were wrong. It was reality. It was the truth. Here truly is the King of the Jews. And one day he'll wear a crown and govern not only the Jews, but the whole world. Verse 27. With him they also crucified two robbers, one on his right and the other on his left So the scripture was fulfilled, which says he was numbered with the transgressors. Now, Mark in his normal fashion skips right through this incredible story. First we need to consider what Mark says, then we'll visit what he leaves out. Here is Christ, the King of the Jews. And how is he crucified? Even in his crucifixion, is he singled out in death as an exceptional person? Is he the only one hanging on that cross? Is he crucified as the main show on this day with all attention drawn to him? No. He's placed between two robbers The word here for robbers does not mean a common thief. No, these are fierce bandits who plundered and stole and probably left a trail of abused people in their wake. Maybe they were part of the Barabbas insurrection. We don't know. The verse 28 where it says, and he was numbered with the transgressors, is not in the oldest texts. So it may have been added after the fact, but it's true nonetheless. Isaiah 53, 12 says, Therefore I will divide him a portion with the great And he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bore the sin of many, and made in intercession for the transgressors Pilate decided to crucify Christ surrounded by common criminals. To get the rich story on the criminals, we need to look at Luke's gospel In Luke 23, 39 through 43, we're going to be here for a little bit. Luke 23, 39 through 43, it says, Then one of the criminals who were hanged blasphemed him. saying, if you're the Christ, save yourself and us. But the other answering rebuked him, saying, do you not even fear God, seeing that you're under the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong Then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said to him, Assuredly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Don't you just love this story? Doesn't it inspire hope in you? Look at what this man's salvation is based on. Consider this deeply. Look at it. Here are two criminals who deserve death on the cross This is a picture of justice. Often the Roman system actually did carry out justice. And here's one example of it. These guys had committed hideous crimes. They were caught. They were guilty. They were found guilty. And they were sentenced. And they were given a just sentence in all likelihood So here they are, exposed in their guilt on their crosses. Here are two souls apparently headed for hell, and they had an appointment to get there very soon. Now, one of the criminals vents his mockery. We see that he was blaspheming the Son of God. That's the word it uses. He was robbing Christ of his proper glory. So we can know that what he's saying is not a sincere question. Here he is, guilty of sin and guilty as sin. He's going to be ushered into eternity in minutes, and he knows it. And he looks upon the Son of God, and he chooses to mock him. In this robber's final minutes, he chooses to live as he has always lived. It's a dreadful truth, but most people die the same way that they have lived. There are very few deathbed conversions. So this robber looks on Christ and he spews out his poison. He has only a few hours to live, and he spends it spewing out the same poison he's dealt with probably all his life He says, if you're the Christ, save yourself and us. Now we've got to understand that this is not a sincere request for escape or salvation He's voicing the deep cynicism he's been developing all of his life. We've all met people like this. And we all have had the danger of becoming like this man. We see evil. We experience evil. We see very few people who are truly changed by God. Even in people who claim to know God, we can often guess what they're going to do based on their previous history and their selfish motives. And it's so sad, but so often we're right. So we get cynical and we begin to think that people do not change. We think that no one will do the right thing just because it's the right thing to do. No one will love us when taking advantage of us would grant them something that they want. We begin to expect the worst and project the worst. This robber put Christ into the position of himself. He viewed Christ as being just like us. He projected himself into Christ. He figured Christ had an angle for saying what he said. But now the jig is up and Christ's deception didn't pay off. And this robber is just trying to make Christ pay for being a fraud. And this man had learned to believe that anything that claims to be spiritual is a fraud. That's probably how he would explain things. And in many cases, too many cases, this man would be correct. We all know that. But this day, this day, he is dead wrong. His cynicism and disbelief would be his undoing. He projects selfish motives onto Christ, and he assumes that if Christ is not doing something to preserve himself, it's because he can't. It's because he's impotent. It's because he's a fraud. He can't see, this criminal can't see with the eyes of faith because he has no faith. He's just cynical. And in his cynicism he mocks the only hope for his condition. The world is full of such people These people may see a lot of truth, but they've lost the ability to discern truth that points in the direction of hope. In the end, they expect a hopeless condition and they end up in a hopeless condition. So this man puts up a test to Christ that Christ has no intentions of meeting, but not for the reasons he thinks. This man never really expected Christ to save himself or the robber. It was just poison coming out of him to make Christ pay for the claims that he was making. Here is humanity punishing holiness for being holy. Look at this man. This man represents every man who has encountered Christ but responds in disbelief or mockery. It's every man who projects his own motives onto Jesus Christ. It's every man who evaluates Christ through human wisdom. It's every man who looks at Christ and chooses against him. But every now and then, God pulls someone out of this blindness, out of this cynicism, out of this lostness. And we have a wonderful picture of that this morning. Verse 40. But the other Answering rebuked him, saying, Do you not even fear God, seeing that you're under the same condemnation? And indeed we're justly condemned, for we received the due rewards of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. Every now and then we'll run into people who the truth penetrates. They may be cynical They may have learned hard lessons at the hands of evil people. They may not even be people who are known for honesty at all points. But somehow they get pierced by this simple truth. And they won't back down. We can rest assured that when we see that, we're looking at a miracle of God. That does not happen to mankind from mankind. Only the hand of God produces that kind of a thing. So the other robber rebukes the first robber. Look at this. The first thing this man does is defends Christ. And look at how he does it. He speaks to the first mocking robber and he says, Do you not even fear God? Essentially, he's saying, it's clear by our lives that we've done what we wanted to do. We haven't cared the least about our fellow human beings. We've lived our selfish lives. But this is something different. This is a new level. We are now talking about eternal things Aren't you at all afraid? As you sit in the precipice of death, as you teeter on the edge, you're going to die. Aren't you afraid? This robber is telling a truth that we all need to hear. Every single one of us is teetering on the edge. Every single one of us is going to die. These robbers knew they would die that day. We don't know what day we're going to die, but we do know that we will die. And worse yet, we deserve it. We've sinned. Scripture tells us that the soul that sins will die. It says the wages of sin is death. We've sinned, we should die. Every one of us in this room this morning are in the same boat. We all deserve to die for our sin. But look at the insight this man had. He said this, verse 41, and we indeed justly, for we receive the due rewards of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. Notice this quality in the rebuking robber. He accepts full responsibility for his sin. He recognizes the justice of God in his condemnation. He is essentially saying, fellow Robert, don't you get this? We deserve to die. We deserve punishment. In fact, we deserve eternal punishment. What a sweet and wonderful thing when we accept the responsibility for our sin. What a good thing it is when we come to ourselves and we say, Yes, I am the sinner, like the the The guy who, the tax collector, I believe, who prayed and Christ admired his prayer. I am the sinner. Finally the truth. Finally the realization of who we really are Let me ask you this morning, what do you think the due rewards of your deeds is? What do you deserve for the way that you have lived? It's very simple. And the second robber would have answered the question right. We deserve judgment. We deserve damnation. That's a wonderful quality in the second robber. He sees himself as a sinner. He sees himself worthy of condemnation. He deserves what he is getting. How hard that truth is on our pride, but how we have got to get it. How true it is, nonetheless. How do we see ourselves? Do we deserve condemnation apart from Jesus Christ? Do we see that? If you don't see yourself that way, you can't be saved. It's only as you come to the realization of that truth that you can call upon Christ for salvation. That is a requirement. Of salvation. For to see yourself as the sinner. The second robber had it right. He got the point. And then he goes on, but this man has done nothing wrong. Here is the supernatural revelation in its positive sense. First, the second robber recognized his sin. Second, the robber recognized the righteousness of Jesus Christ. We don't know how this happened. Had he heard more of the story? Did God grant him supernatural wisdom? We all know, but this man was certain that while both of the robbers deserved to die, while both of the robbers deserved damnation, Christ was innocent. He didn't deserve to die. He did nothing wrong. Maybe this man knew that this statement was true in its deepest sense. This man truly has done nothing wrong. Ever. If this robber didn't know it, we do. Christ did nothing wrong. He never sinned, ever. He had done nothing that deserved death. He was the only man who justly earned the right to live forever. Oddly enough. But he took upon himself our debt. He was willing to supersede his own justice by taking upon himself our penalty. We don't know how the second robber knew this, but somehow he did. So this robber saw his own sin and he saw the goodness of Christ. Then verse 42, then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. This is the wonder of wonders. This robber calls out to Jesus Christ. I think it's very likely that this meant man had been in one of the crowds where Jesus was teaching. Maybe he had heard the words of Christ. Somehow this thief knew that Christ was teaching about the kingdom of God. Christ represented the kingdom of God. Maybe he heard Jesus preach the Sermon on the Mount. Maybe he was in that crowd. Maybe he saw Christ feed the multitude. We don't know. But what we do know is that on this day this man cried out for Christ to do for him what he could never deserve. Do you see that this man did nothing different than any person who ever truly comes to Christ? There are two parts to what he did. First, he confesses and recognizes and sees and believes his unworthiness. His sinfulness. He confesses that he's a sinner worthy of this horrible punishment. He admits that he is guilty of the crimes worthy of death. That's the hardest part for us in salvation. We don't like to admit our unworthiness. We don't want to see, we we want to see our goodness. We want to Emphasize our best qualities. We want to think of ourselves as being somehow worthy, somehow special. But we aren't. And when we really face the truth about ourselves, we realize that we are not worthy. Then this robber After admitting his unworthiness, his sinfulness, then the robber calls upon Christ to give to him what he could never deserve and what only Christ could give. He depends upon the grace of God to grant him salvation that he was completely unworthy of. Could it really be that simple? Could eternal salvation really be as simple as repenting of our sin and calling out to Christ to save us? Yes, a million times, yes It's that simple. This man didn't know all the theological terms. He couldn't describe sovereign grace or divine election, I'm sure. But he knew he was a sinner and he knew that he needed Christ to save him. And that's all he needed to know. So Jesus said to the thief on the cross, Well, I'll save you, but If I do, you're gonna need to win people to me, and you're gonna need to tithe, and you're gonna need to join the church, and I I need to get something for my trouble. No. No, that's not what Christ said at all. Jesus said to him, Assuredly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. I thank God for the thief on the cross. He's the perfect example of how God saves people. This man never gave tithe. He never went on a missions trip. He never had devotions. He never joined the church. He didn't learn theology. He didn't have a single thing to offer Christ. He never took communion. He didn't even dedicate his life to Christ. And think about this. He never even got baptized or baptized. That's hard on a Baptist. But he never did. And that's the first thing that a Christian is told to do. He only did one thing He called out to Christ in the faith that God had supernaturally given him. He called out to Christ, believing that Christ would show him grace. That's all he did. And that is the heart. Of salvation. We can't lose sight of this. Sure, if Christ saves us and we continue to live on, it's going to change everything about us. Of course it is. We'll want to please him. We'll obey him. It might take a while for our lives to look the way they should. In fact, they never will really look like they should until eternity. But we'll love him, and because we love him, we'll do what he says, even when it's the hardest thing we can imagine. We'll join in fellowship with those who love Christ. We'll represent Christ to those who don't know him. We'll love those who Christ loves. Yeah, all those things are true. That's what happens to a Christian. But we don't do it to win anything We've already gotten the things that matter most by grace. No. We'll do them because we have The resurrection power of Jesus Christ living in us. Because we are alive in Christ. The thief did none of the things that Christians are instructed to do once they begin to follow Christ. And yet, still Christ said to him, Today you will be with me in paradise. The thief was as saved as it is possible for a person to be, and he never did a thing. Now the translation of this verse, by the way, could be either, I say to you that today you will be with me in paradise, or it also could be, today I say to you. that you will be with me in paradise. One says what day he's going to be in paradise with him. The other says, it's today I'm telling you you're going to be with me in paradise, but he doesn't tell him what day. Depends on your theology, I guess, which way you want to take that. But either way, it's amazing, amazing good news. His eternal destiny is certain. Christ is telling this man that Christ has responded to this man's prayer of faith. I can't help but emphasize that this this morning. It doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter what you've done. You can call out just like this thief on the cross. Just confess to Christ that you're a sinner unworthy of Him saving you. And ask Him to save you, and He will. It's really that simple. If you'll trust Christ for salvation, Christ will grant salvation. Because if you're driven to call out to Christ in sincere faith It's like that uh Mike used to always talk about that turtle on the fence post. If it's up there, you know it didn't get up there by itself That's how this is. If you see yourself calling out to God, wanting to call out to God for Him to save you, you didn't put that in you. It's Christ who has already worked in you to do such a thing. Isn't this an amazing encouragement? Christ saves people. Even when those people can do nothing even to serve Christ. Christ saves people because it's like him to save people. That's the bottom line. Praise God for his indescribable gift. Now Mark tells us what else is happening. Verse 29. And those who pass by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, aha, you who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourselves, come down from the cross. Likewise the chief priests also, mocking among themselves with the scribes, said, He saved others, himself he cannot save Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross that we may see and believe. Even those who were crucified with him revile him. Remember the so-called triumphal entry of Christ into the city that we studied? This is more than likely some of the same citizens who lauded and welcomed Christ so vigorously on his entry into Jerusalem. Never trust the commitment or promises from people who have not demonstrated love for Christ by obedience to Christ. There are lots of people who say that they're for Christ, but watch them. If they keep doing those things that are against Christ, you have no reason to expect that they are his I'm not saying they aren't, but you have no reason to expect that they are his. This crowd was not spiritually committed. They were spiritually interested. There's a huge difference. They're as fickle as they can be. When Christ didn't live up to their expectations, when Christ didn't provide the life they wanted, when Christ didn't provide the happiness that they expected. When Christ didn't provide the status in life that they demanded, Christ suddenly went from Savior to heal. We read this and we think, well, that's awful. How could people be that way? And we know what's coming next. It always is. What about us? What about us? What do we do when we lose those things that are precious to us? Our health, our treasured relationships, our loved ones. What happens to the lordship of Christ when Christ doesn't produce as expected? What do we do? Are we not often like this fickle crowd? How often do we refuse to say like Job that though he slay me, I will trust him? What foolishness on our part. What fickleness. Oh, that we would be a people who God could count on. Oh that we he could count on us even when our flesh cries out for what it wants. That God would know He's demonstrated that he will follow me or she will follow me. He will do the right thing. He will obey me. She will obey me because they love me and they trust me. When our selfishness rises up and makes its demands, what about us? Oh, for the person who stands up and says, I will honor God. I will obey God. Christ died for me. Obeying him is the least I can do. That is the kind of Christianity that our world needs to see. That's the kind of people we need to be. Not like the fickle crowd that you just can't you can't know what they're gonna do next Something hard comes into their life, oh, they're gonna take their ball and go home. Then look at this crowd, verse twenty nine. And those who pass by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha, you who destroy the temple and build it in three days Save yourself and come down from the cross. Look at the mockery. Oh, how wise these skeptics would have appeared As they mocked God, because Christ was not going to come down off the cross. How they must have been proud of their logic They look at the promises of God, they look at the current circumstances, and they use the circumstances to prove that the promises of God are not true and cannot be trusted. Well, nothing has changed. This is still the reasoning of unbelief. They look at temporary situations and conclude eternal situations And they're wrong because they have no idea about the will of God. They don't understand what God is trying to accomplish. They have no idea. They can't see the big picture and they really don't want to Wagging heads is a gesture of hatred and scorn. That's the attitude that these people have. And even in their mockery, they're quoting the very truth that they're about to See, accomplished in three days. They just don't know. They don't understand. They don't get it. Christ had no intentions of coming down from the cross. Anyone who had listened closely to him would know that. But he did intend to rise in three days. And that could not be stopped, no matter how they mocked. Verse 31. Likewise the chief priests also, mocking among themselves with the stribes, said, He saved others himself he cannot save. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross that we may see and believe. Even those who were crucified with him reviled him. Here we have the top brass religious officials. And they join in. But but they don't jeer at Christ. They keep it to them to their little group. They stay in their smug s religious circle slapping each other on the back for how wise they've been on this process. Look, they say, here's Christ. He claimed to be the Messiah, but he can't even get off the cross. And here's where they require a sign. They make this their proof point. If Christ gets himself off the cross, we'll believe him. If Christ doesn't, we won't. They've got to seem like among themselves, they're just the smartest people alive. We listen to this and we think that's awful. That is awful. How faithless. But then again, we look at ourselves. We look in the mirror. Who has never done such a thing? Who has never held God to an expectation of their own making? Who has never said, God, if you love me, you'll do such and such? When we make those demands that are not based on what God has promised, we're just like this crowd. And we're in great danger of being lost. Christ was not going to live up to the man-made expectation of removing himself from this cross. And he is not going to live up to the man-made expectations of you and me just because we can dream these things up. God is God. God holds his own counsel. We do well to find out what he says and what he wants and adapt to it. Mockers don't do that. Faithless don't do that. They'll always evaluate Christ on their human created expectations. Listen to the world talk about the evidence that God does not exist because they're suffering. Just listen to that for a little while. You get the idea. They've created an expectation on God, and now they're going to proudly hang him on the expectation as if they have some kind of authority to go by They don't know the will of God. That's the problem. They'll always evaluate Christ on human created expectations. But those in whom God has infused faith will trust Christ to do what he has promised. And that's a difference. It's good to expect Christ to do things by faith. As long as he has promised to do them. And we got lots of great, wonderful promises in Scripture of good things that He is going to do. Don't ever hold God to a test you create. That is a dangerous, dangerous thing to do. Don't ever decide you will only love Christ if he provides for you those things that you desire. That's one of the most dangerous things you can do. We must simply trust him to do what he has said. Period. There's something important to learn from this event. Life events are fleeting. They're temporary. You know, it may have looked like Christ was impotent. It may have looked like Christ was cursed. It may have looked like Christ was defeated. It may have looked very dark for heaven's hero on this very dismal day. If you had the wrong perspective. It would have been convincing to eyes that did not have faith. All those things were temporary appearances. They are not ultimate reality Jesus Christ was only placing himself in the position to do the most important work in freeing his people from sin that would ever, ever be done He was about to shine the brightest light that would ever be shown by a human being. Jesus Christ In this moment that would have appeared to be absolute despair, was about to win the greatest victory ever to be won for mankind. Christ was about to conquer sin and death. And most of the world had read it had it read completely and thoroughly dead wrong They thought Christ's situation was reason for mockery, but faith believed that Christ's situation was a reason for ultimate celebration. We'll close by reading. 1 Corinthians 1, 20 through 31. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness of the message preached. To save those who believe. For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified. We preach Christ crucified. To the Jews the stumbling block and to the Greeks foolishness, but to those who are called Both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For you see your calling, brethren, that many, not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called We can look around ourselves this morning and say the same thing. We're not that impressive of a group And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things that are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not to bring to nothing. the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him You are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, that as it is written, He who glories, let him glory in the Lord.