Remember how Isaiah thirty-three is about people coming to God at last resort. Remember that from from God has forced the issue of their partial, convenient obedience to Him. They're experiencing the consequences of living their lives the way they wanted to live them Without living totally submitted to their God. And what do we see? We see what we always see. We see the grace of God. Have you ever considered that the deal that God gets from us is never fair? He never gets the better end of the deal. Ever. And he's never tripped into this one-sided deal. It isn't like he didn't know when it was getting us what it was getting. He knows us completely. He knows it thoroughly. He knows us internally. He knows the ways that we will disobey him and dishonor him. And he knew that even before he ever chose us. He knows the sins we've committed, even the ones we won't own up to in our lifetime. And he still accepts the deal. God doesn't need time to consider the inequity in our relationship. He knows going into it that our paltry repentance will never match up to his overflowing grace. He knows that right from the start. He knows that it will not be fair right from the start. We will never even fully appreciate God's grace. There will be always lingering thoughts in our heads that find us somehow worthy of what we have received From God in one way or another, in one form or another in our in our minds. We will never really hang on to the idea that our salvation is really 100% unmerited favor on God's part, 100% unmerit on our part He knows going into this relationship that his virtue will be underplayed and ours will always be overplayed. Doesn't it hurt our pride to know that God did not pick us because we were in any way a catch? Isn't it hard for us to really grasp that we were not chosen for any lovable feature inherent in our being? Have you ever had a vehicle or a trailer or something like that that you were afraid would roll away? Maybe a lawnmower, something like that. So when when we're in that state, what do we look for? You know, do you look for this perfect piece of wood that will perfectly fit under that tire to keep it from rolling? Now, you look for a lump to stop that wheel. Anything will do. That's a little bit what we need to imagine in God's selection process, except that his trailer is not slipping. He has no need for us. He doesn't even need the loan. So he picks us. And we don't know why. We don't know why. He did not choose us because we had worth. We have worth because he chose us. In our text, we have people who have given themselves to all the wrong things, and they're running out of time. They have one last chance. But they will need to come just as they are and cling to God's grace and his grace alone. That is the state they are in. That is their only chance for salvation. And what do they receive? Verse 17 is just wonderful. Your eyes will behold the king and his beauty. Your eyes will behold the king and his beauty. Isn't that just like God? Let's uh take up where we left off in our text. And remember when we saw what we saw in verses 7 through 9, God's people were getting the point, and the point was getting better. They were repenting. You could finally say, I blew it, I knew better, it was my fault, I should not have done what I did, I did it anyway Then look at God's response to them in verse 10. It's at this point when his people have told the truth to themselves and to God that God begins to move. I was talking to someone recently about something I thought might be an issue in this person's life, and he took it to heart, like few people I have ever seen, and he made the changes that he thought that faith required of him. When I talked to him next, he mentioned that a whole lot of unrelated things suddenly fell into place for him. It was as if God was waiting for him to do business with God in this one place For God to open his doors of blessing in all the others. We confess, we agree with God And then God moves. That's often the pattern in Scripture. And it's often, I think, if we think back, what God has done for us in our individual lives. Verses in eleven and twelve are God moving after Judea has confessed, and it says in eleven , You shall conceive chaff, you shall bring forth scuttle, your breath as a fire shall devour you. And the people shall be like the burnings of lime, like thorns cut up, they shall be burned in the fire. I think this is talking about the unfaithful Judeans. It's interesting here how God moves. When the people repent, God moves to destroy the unretent. That is certainly not how God always moves. But it is how he is going to do it here. In lifting himself up, he destroys his enemies. Those who resist lifting God up, he gets rid of. Then what does God do? God does PR. God does publicity. Verse 13, hear you who are far off what I have done, and you who are near, acknowledge my might. God says here, look at me. Look at what I have done. Look at what I can do. Look at what I am like. That's what God is doing here. If that were any of us, this would be sheer ugly arrogance. But when God does it, he's providing the perspective that human beings need in order to live rational, sensible lives. We've got to orient to who God is. We have to redirect our attention to who he is and what he can do. We need to see who King Jesus is before we will ever live our lives the way that we should Here God's might is the emphasis, probably because it was God's might that was being questioned by all his people. They didn't deem God strong enough to protect them from the Assyrians, so they run down to the Egyptians. And that worked out like it always does when we put God on a shelf for a while and take things into our own hands. We have to keep in mind that God sometimes arranges awful things to show off his attributes. That just shows us how important it is to have God's attributes known. The exodus from Egypt was orchestrated by God to show off his power. He wanted fear, he wanted drama, he wanted to show himself off in a way that would never be forgotten Did it work? Well, 40 years later, 40 years later, things don't last that long usually in our awareness. 40 years later, when the spies hid at Rahab's place of business Rahab reported that everyone was afraid of Israel. In Joshua 2, 8 through 11, we find out why Now before they lay down, she came up to them on the roof and said to the men, I know that the Lord has given you the land, the tear of you has fallen on us, and all the inhabitants of the land are faint-hearted because of you Now was that a mysterious thing? Well, sort of, but it was based on facts. Verse 10, for we have heard how the Lord dried up the water in the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt. And what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan, Sion and Og, whom you utterly destroyed And as soon as we heard these things our hearts melted. Neither did there remain any more courage in anyone because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven and above and on earth beneath Yep. When God wants to show off, it always accomplishes what he wants it to accomplish. Verse 14, the sinners in Zion are afraid. Fearfulness has seized the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us shall dwell with the everlasting burnings? Does anybody ever ask you what's your problem? My brother used to ask me that a lot. I I had a lot of problems. It was usually after some of my I did really stupid. But he wasn't trying to help me by asking that question. It was usually a sign of irritation. What is your problem? Here we see insights into part of our problem. We fear the wrong things. We have lists of Ethereum in our own head. They're the problems of human origin that could happen to us. They are potential threats to things that we hold important. By their nature, they are the things that we will allow to compete with God. So the threat of them is worth our disobedience. That's how we that's what how we work it out in our heads. God says, don't worry, and we say, well That's all well and good, but the thing I'm worried about is too important for me to let go. So I have to. Then we put God into a subservient role. We start telling God what we cannot afford to lose, and then we evaluate him on how well he does what we tell him We judge him by how well he believes what we believe about ourselves. It's like as long as God will agree that with me about what I tell him, then God's okay It's really dangerous for us to do this with God. We saw that again this week. We don't understand We don't understand why God does what he does. We don't know why he doesn't go by what we think we need. We don't know. He has taken precious people That we have depended upon much earlier than we thought it was or proper. But at the end of the day, God is God. And we are not. He has a goodness in his plan that we cannot see and cannot fear. In fact, sometimes we find it hard to believe. But that is what he promises. That is what he tells us over and over and over again in his word. He is trustworthy. We can trust it even when we cannot feel it. We can trust it when we cannot see it. We can trust it when we cannot figure it out We will never get where we need to be on the path of telling God what God needs to do. No. To live life right. We must start by fearing the right thing. We have to fear the right thing. Scripture tells us that fear of God Is the beginning of wisdom. We're starting to get smart when we start fearing God. Jesus told us this in Luke 12, 4 through 7, it says, And I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I'll show you who you should fear. Fear him who, after he is killed, has power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two copper coins, and not one of them is forgotten before God. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear, therefore, you are more about of more value in sparrows. In our text, the sinners in Zion are afraid. Even the play actors are getting with the program we see. They're beginning to understand that they have been afraid of what life and circumstances can do to them. And that was their focus. They were focused on the Assyrians. They let their focus be on the threats. It's time to start fearing what God can do to them. That's what Isaiah is saying here. It's time to shift your focus, keep your eyes off the external threat, and start focusing on your eternal threat. Fear is a good thing. It's a good thing when we finally get our bearings and fear God. Then we begin fearing to do those things that are displeasing to God. We begin fearing not to have God's approval. We begin wanting it badly, having to have it. We begin to fear wasting our lives on things that God does not care about. Fear helps us orient our lives properly, but only proper fear will do that. And it helps us to begin to ask the right question. And the question How can we live to avoid the punishment we deserve? That's the first question we've got to answer in order to even want to get right with God. We've got to be saying, God I don't want to be in your disfavor. I want to do whatever it takes to please you. I want to be right with you. How can I live forever? In your presence, in your perfect holiness, how can I do such a thing knowing who I am? And that's where salvation comes in. That's where we come to the point we say, I am not worthy, I'll never be worthy, I have got to receive something from you Because it can't come from me. I have got to receive your goodness and your grace from Christ dying on the cross in my place. And I receive that as my only hope For salvation. That's the most, that's the best end of fear. That's where the beginning of wisdom will get you if you follow it through. Notice. How it gets God off the hot seat. When we begin to fear God, we're no longer evaluating God Now we understand that he is evaluating us and we begin adjusting accordingly. It's not he who must live up to our expectations, it is we who must live up to his. Now look what God creates in those people who fear Him. We see none of this idea that a person can be saved without being radically changed But we must remember that the saving comes first. The power to change arrives when God calls us to Himself, when He gives us a new life, when we become a new creation. The changes needed to never happen before that event. They always happen after that event. Verse 15, he walks righteously and speaks uprightly. He who despises the gain of oppressions, who gestures with his hands refusing bribes, who stops his ear from hearing of bloodshed, and shuts his eyes from seeing evil. What we see here is a picture of virtue, a picture of goodness. This is what the walk of faith looks like. We begin acting because we are trying to please our master who sees everything we do and knows everything that we think. We fear displeasing him and we long to fully please him because this fear turns into love. This fear is redirected into a relationship with Christ whereby we are accepted and at that point our gratitude toward him becomes how can I do what we what you want? I mean Lord I'm so thankful that you would save a person like me. How what do you want done? Because that's what I want to do now. These guys are finally doing all the right things as opposed to the wrong things that they were doing and God was warning them of. And what do they get for their trouble? Is it really worth it? Will the life of faith really work out? Is it really worth the cost of what it temporarily costs us to live by faith? Verse 16. He will dwell on high. His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks. Bread will be given him. His water will be sure. What are the things you need when an enemy can't at your gates? You want a secure environment that is heavily defended, and you want a source of food and water that cannot be taken away. I think God through Isaiah is putting eternal life in a perspective that these people can really understand in their situation. He's saying, I'll put you where you have everything that is currently under attack. I'll put you where you'll have all those things that you need that are being threatened right now. I hope there's nothing else. This study in Isaiah is wetting our appetites for eternity. I hope we're getting the idea that yes, yes, Jesus is worth any price that I must pay. He's worth anything that I must endure through for this temporary life. He is going to place us in the optimal environment for a human being. We're going to have a home that fully lives up to the highest ideal of home. We are going home. It's going to be homeless at its ultimate. Jason, Aaron, Russell, and Mike have finished their races. They're as good as they are. Depending upon what happens when we die and exactly how that works out, the next thing they will see is the eternity that God has prepared for them. They are home safe. That is what Isaiah is talking about. In verse 16, we see that the saved individuals will be placed in a position immune from any threat with everything that a person needs. That's the point. But it keeps getting better. Verse 17 is the ultimate. Your eyes will see the king in his beauty. They will see the land that is very far off. Maybe we should print this off and put it where we can see it. Your eyes will see the king in his beauty. That's the reality we cling to on the worst of days. Not every day will be like this day. We will one day look into the eyes. of the one we love. We will see King Jesus in his radiance and purity. And we will know on that day that every moment we spend in service to him, in obedience to him, will be seen as worthwhile. But we will also know that we have never done enough to represent the worth of Christ. And not only will will we see the king, but we'll see the land of the king. Yeah, there is a payday. Whatever we are suffering, we will not suffer much longer. The old Negro spiritual is right. All my trials, Lord, soon be over. All my trials, Lord, soon be over. When I prepared this sermon a few weeks ago, I asked the question: what was hard for you yesterday? What did you struggle with? What will you struggle with today? I had no idea what was to come. I didn't know that I'd be able to answer that question for so many of us. But the point is still true. All the things that we have suffered through, all of our many trials, they will on that day be gone. Like Ruth prayed, a hundred years from now. This will be a blip, a distant memory. All of it will be gone, and we will have eternity to listen to the stories of grace that will surround us. And we will see the king, and our hearts will be glad. That is all true. It is truer than the tribe. We will see the king. And look at how this changes our perspective on most things that we are so afraid of now. Look at the change. Isn't this the change that you and I need now? Verse 18. Your heart will meditate on his hair. Where is the scribe? Where is he who weighs? Where is he who counts the towers? You will not see a fierce people, a people of obscure speech, beyond Perception of a stammering tongue that you can't understand. Can you see what the big mystery will be in heaven? The mystery will be: why was I so afraid of so many things? Why did I allow myself to be dripped by fears of what I could lose during a temporary life in a temporary place? How did I allow myself to live so far out of perspective so often? I knew what God said. I knew it was true. How did I live as if it was not true? All of our enemies will finally be seen for what they really are. Then Isaiah directs us back to our future present tense. It's our future present tense. Verse 20, look upon Zion, the city of our appointed peace. Your eyes will see Jerusalem, a quiet home. A tabernacle that will not be taken down, not one of its states will ever be removed, nor any of its cords be broken. Finally, the crisis of living is over at this point. We have peace inside us. We have peace with each other, and we have peace with God. We have security. We have safety. We have provision. All threats are gone. Nothing will impinge upon our worship. No force will so much as cut one of the tenth pegs Is your life situation insecure now? Is it rocky? Is it uncertain? Again, I had no idea how sad these questions would be this morning. We know all about insecurity and loss. But again, God's word is still true Our situations won't be rocky and insecure for long if we're believers. Walking through the difficulty, that's what we face, you know. That's where we are. That's what we've got to do. And we've got to do that together. God gives a body of believers for a purpose, and we've got to make sure that we're focused on that purpose. But in the end, in the end, we know where it ends, we know where we go, we know what happens. We win. We get all the things in our hearts to resign on that day. It's a promise. We know it will happen. Jesus had better in mind for us. Verse 21: But there the majestic Lord will be for us a place of broad rivers and streams, in which no galley with oars will sail Nor majestic ships pass by, for the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king, he will save us. So what's this telling us? We won't be attacked by land or sea. We've lived with enemies all of our lives. Every single one of us has. We have the enemy of the devil and his legions. We have the enemy of the world that wants all of the distortions to God's creations as things that you must have and you must have them now. And the enemy tells us we must rebel against God in order to have those things that we really want Then we have the enemy of flesh, the holdover from our old sin nature that's trained us to love anything that pleases us. It's the hook inside of us that the allurement outside of us can attach to, can attack. And how do all those enemies attack? They attack however they can. By sea, by land, they don't care. Our enemies are around us always. These temptations no longer have an irresistible power over a believer like they used to, but they still have the continual presence. On the day described in Isaiah, the presence of sin will be removed. The presence of sin and all its devastating consequences will be gone Our judge, our lawgiver, and our king will save us. Verse 23 The tackle is loose, they could not strengthen their mass, they could not spread the sail, then the prey of great plunder is divided, the lame take the prey. This is rich. The imagery here is pretty odd. What we have is a ship. That looks like a wreck. It's not even seaworthy. But it's the thing that ends up dividing the plunder. The cripples end up taking all the good stuff. I think this is the picture of the church. Aren't we an unlikely lot to be seen in the end as captors, victors, and winners? We are exactly impressive by the world's standards of greatness. None of us are incredibly smart or rich or powerful. And we don't really look like the ones that will be the last man standing. Look what Paul says about that. 1 Corinthians 1 26 through 31 He says, For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. And the vague things of the world and the things which are despised, God has chosen. And the things which are not bring to nothing the things that are. That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him you are in Christ Jesus. Who became for us wisdom from God, the righteousness and sanctification and redemption that it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Yep. We're the sloppy ship that shares the loop at the end. Well we 'll be sure about one thing. We didn't accomplish that for ourselves Verse 24, and the inhabitant will say, will not say, I am sick. The people who dwell in it will be forgiven their iniquity. We've been told some great things about this city, about this land that God has for us. But what about illness? With all this protection from external dangers and all the wonderful relationships we will have, what about our physical health? Isn't that the danger that normally robs us of life? Isn't that the great threat that gets us off? Not here. Not here. No one's gonna say I am sin. What will mothers do? I look around even our little room. I can hardly think of anyone here who has not been sick or has not had to deal with some serious illnesses, some more so than others. Well, when we arrive at eternity, us old people are going to have to find something else to talk about. Because none of us there are ever going to be sick again. For those of you who are currently dealing with an illness, allow your mind to find some comfort here. The worst your illness can do is send you to an eventual land where there is none. Not such a bad worst thing that can happen. It may make your road more tough, but it will never affect your destination if you're a believer. And look how Isaiah ends this test. The people who dwell in this land will be forgiven their iniquity. At the end of the day, that is mankind's greatest need. They do not usually see it that way. But our greatest need is the thing that Christ came to earth to do. Our greatest need is forgiveness. If that need goes unmet, nothing good can be promised to us. They have no good in the future that we can hold out to them and say, this is yours. But if that need is met, every other need falls like dominoes. It might not look that way, it might not feel that way, but that's how it is. Life without sin forever. Life free from sin forever. Sinners saved by the blood of Christ, worshiping him forever. That's not too shabby of a payhead, is Many of us have been given a heavy load to bear this week. It will be a loss that lasts our lifetimes. That's how it is with tragedy. It isn't easy and it's not supposed to be easy. But this loss , while painful, is not permanent. The next time we see Jay, we will see him as he should be. That relationship will be unhindered for eternity. We regret that God has asked us to wait for that day. But he has, and he knows best. So, until that day, we have the opportunity of taking care of God's people, helping us all to arrive at that same destination. And representing the love of God while we live. Lost always creates opportunity for the church to be what the church needs to be. Will we rise to the occasion and show off the love of Jesus while we all eagerly wait where his coming return? And our reward. Let's close in prayer. Lord, you know everything. You know where we sit, you know where we stand. You know what we think. You know what we feel. You know who we are. And you still choose to love your people. And Lord, sometimes we think you have an odd way of of showing that love, of of directing our lives, of laying out your plan and your path. And we we can't figure it. But we know we can trust you. We know that you have good in the end. And that the path, even the difficult paths, are heading somewhere. They're not just meaningless and mindless and up to time and chance, but they are A plan through process leading us to you. God help us to trust you in these most difficult times. Help us to depend upon you. Help us to lay down our resistance and surrender quickly. And trust you and look to you for that which we need. Look for you to give us what we need for this day. And to depend upon you as the giver of all good things. Help us, Lord, as a church. To represent Christ and to be your hands and your feet, and to take to take it seriously. And to see opportunity to carry out Your love that you have for those hurt. We thank you, Lord, that you do love us and that you do care for us. for us and that you are providing for us. That you would help us to honor you this week. In Jesus' name.