Last week we approached our need to seek first the kingdom of God from a different angle, if you remember. We focused on some of the Psalms, Psalm 19 especially. And we talked about the contrast of the secret sins and the presumptuous sins, the conscious sins, the intentional sins. And we talked about the value of the kingdom of God and the word of God. Remember how they're both like the pearl or the treasure or the gold or the honey. And we talked about what gets in our way of seeking first the most important things. I'd like now to circle back to the end of verse 30 in our text. And I think It shed some light on verse 33. So let's look again at verse 30, where it says, Now if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, Will he not much more clothe you, oh you of little faith? And I want to focus on the phrase this morning for a little bit, oh you of little faith. O you of little faith. What does Jesus mean by that? O you of little faith. What is Jesus talking about? Well, we need to look at the context. And we stated over and over again that Jesus was addressing true followers described in the Beatitudes. So when he says you have little faith, he is not addressing people who have no faith, zero faith. If they're believers, they have some faith. Surely there were some in his audience who were not believers, but that's not who he's talking to. He's addressing believers. Now, what would have been true about people who were following Jesus up to this point? Well, they may have, they probably saw Jesus as the Messiah in some sense. They at least believed that Jesus was speaking for God. And they were more than likely trusting him for their salvation in one form or another. Now, again, these are true followers. Now, they would not have understood it like we understand They had no no way of understanding it to the depth that we do. But they believed somehow that this man of God will be part of delivering salvation to his people. They may have misunderstood in a lot of ways, but that's where they were coming from. So on this one spiritual arena, they're good. They have the right faith on the right person for their salvation. They have the right faith on the right person for For salvation. But we see by what Jesus says that their faith is limited in its scope. It's easy to illustrate in our day. These people are Christians They really get that salvation is found only in Christ. They really get that they were lost in their sins and they needed a miracle. Christ pulled off that miracle by dying for their sins and raising again. And then he wakened our hearts. To our need. And he called us to himself. And there is no one on this earth that would get us to deny that those things happened to us in that spiritual arena. So the faith there is good. It's solid. It's reliable. It's real. Good faith. But then this pesky thing of life happens to us. Circumstances go bad. Our livelihood gets threatened. Suddenly we can't see how we're going to eat or drink or make the house payments. Maybe the car's going bad and our funds are low. I certainly know what that's like. Maybe we get ill. That certainly happens enough in our arenas. Now, how good is this faith we have? We might think, well, what does faith have to do with that? That's not spiritual. This is real life stuff. This is going to affect my here and now. This isn't about my salvation. This is about my love life. Or this is about my family. Or this is about my economics. This is about my health. This isn't spiritual. This is real. Aren't we tempted to think that way? I mean, obviously we know, even as I say it, that's wrong. But isn't that how we face life sometimes? And that is little faith. There's nothing wrong with the faith where it's applied. It works great for salvation, but it's way too little in its scope Our faith doesn't reach out to the boundaries of the rest of our lives. It sees areas that are really not God's business. They're the areas that our ability to provide for ourselves is sufficient. Thank you very much You know, that's kind of how we're dealing with God in that. There are places where we want to have faith in ourselves. Either we think God does not want involved in these areas or we don't want them to be because he may not He may not give us the payoff that we want. He may not do it the way we want. So we want to maintain some control because we we think we can get the outcome we want. Little faith is limited to specific arenas of our life. That's what makes it little. It's limited to very specific arenas. Big faith, great faith, expands the boundaries to everything in life. It trusts God for our eternal salvation, and it trusts God for our moment-by-moment provision. It trusts God not only for the destination, but it trusts God for the journey. It doesn't fight with God about how circumstances should be different. But it trusts God to show us how to approach those circumstances that He has provided for us to approach. That's big faith. That is wide faith. That is much faith. And that's what we're shooting for Mr. Jones says he met a man who said that the trouble with many believers is that they believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, but they do not believe the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think I may have quoted that part before because it's so good. Big faith sees life through the lens of all the promises of God, not just the ones about salvation The rest of that quote from Jones is worth quoting. He goes on to say that he meant that we believed on him for the salvation of our souls. But we do not believe him when he says a thing like this to us that God is going to look after our food and drink and even our clothing. He makes such statements as, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And yet we keep our problems and worries to ourselves, and we are borne down by them and defeated by them and get anxious about things. He has told us to come to him when we're like that. He has told us that if we're thirsting in any respect, we can go to him. And he has assured us that whosoever comes to him will never thirst, and that he that eats of the bread that he shall give shall never hunger. He has promised to give us a well of water, springing up into everlasting life, so that we shall never thirst. But we do not believe him. Take all these statements he made when he was here on earth, the words he addressed to the people around him, they are all meant for us. They are meant for us today as definitely as when he first uttered them. And so also are all the astounding statements in the epistles. The trouble is that we do not believe him. That's the ultimate trouble. Little faith does not really take the scripture as it is and believe it and live by it and apply it. End of quote. Isn't that well put? I still think we should hire him if we can't. I I I think it's impossible now. But anyway, I felt that I needed to do more business with this idea of little faith because it has so much bearing on seeking first the kingdom. Now, what kind of people do we want to be? You know, I don't even have to ask the question because I know what all of our answers would be. We want to be people of big faith Well, what happens when we think like Jesus says to think, or that happens? That happens when we think like Jesus is said to think. And he is telling us how to think here. And he spent a lot of time doing it, and that should get our attention. If we prayerfully and continually do our faith exercises, or refusing to allow our thoughts to follow the path of least resistance, which is what they want to do, And choosing to simply trust what God says, if we will do those faith exercises over and over and over again, we will experience change. Oh, I know. That's not the way we want it to be. That's not the way we want it to happen. We want God to do for us what He tells us that we have to do. We want a God Zap that takes care of all that so we don't have to do that exercise. be kind of like God take that you know 40 pounds off of me because I really don't want to spend the next year getting rid of them myself. It's that kind of thing. We want the practice of worry to just disappear so it's no longer tempting. Well God can do that. And sometimes he does do that, but he usually does not do that. And 1 Peter and James both tell us why The trial of our faith works patience. The exercise of overcoming worry makes us stronger and more useful for his kingdom. I wonder how much time we waste swallowing in the problem when what we ought to be doing is exercising the solution. I wonder when we see our lives from eternity, if we will see how long our problems would have really lasted if we wasted less time on not doing what Jesus said and just worked on doing what Jesus commanded more in our lives. What Christ offers us is a command, but we must not mistake its intent. It is a grace. He does not want us to live in worry. He may want us in difficult circumstances that are hard in themselves to handle. But he would not have his children live in worry. And he tells us what we must do. And again, I say this over and over again: our habits of thinking are habits for a reason. We gravitate to them. We are prone to them. We're good at them. And we are likely to need help sometimes to overcome those habits of thinking. And the Lord will provide help. And it's normally sitting around us in the church somewhere. Or maybe it's in your Christian friends from other churches, or maybe Christian specialists who are good at that sort of thing. It's here. God will provide the help that he needs for us to be the people he wants us to be. I'm thankful for marriage, well, usually, because this this woman I am married to does not see the world like I do. And uh sometimes that's like really obvious, but she knows me well enough to call out my tricky diversions to truth or my excuses for not wanting to do it. And it's helpful. It keeps me re-oriented reorienting to the truth. I mean, even when she might bark up the wrong tree, it makes me think about it. And that's a good thing. In those places Where we share the same weaknesses, where we might unknowingly encourage sinful thinking in each other, there are people around us who call the cards on that too. We all need help Because we're all messed up in our own unique way, but God's will for our lives is change in the depths of who we are. Telling the truth to ourselves, in ourselves, to our hearts. When Christ tells us not to worry, it's like when we tell our kids not to drink poison. It might be a command, but Christ never wants us to unnecessarily suffer. And worrying is avoidable suffering. Now let's jump to today's text. Verse 33. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. The word for seek means to vigorously and earnestly pursue something. To vigorously and earnestly pursue something. So to say, seek first is almost a double emphasis. Not only should you pour yourself into this pursuit, but you should pour yourself into it like nothing else. On first glance, I think we're wise to read it like this. Jesus is saying, you know how all of a non-believer's life gravitates first on making sure they take care of number one? Do you see how there's nothing more important to a worldling than their own interests, their own survival, their own provisions? I've often noted in business that to most employees, something that will earn them $50 more doll in their pocket will get way more effort than that which will gain their business $5,000. Flesh caters to flesh. Flesh is absorbed with it with its surviving and thriving. They seek it in earnest. They seek it whenever they whatever they determine that it is with seriousness and determination. What Jesus is saying here is take all that seriousness and concern and insight and focus and pour it all into knowing and serving God. Or a shortened version would be don't worry about stuff's relationship to you. Worry about your relationship to God. Don't worry about stuff's relationship to you. Worry about your relationship to God. It's like Jesus is saying, you're worried about your bank account and your house payment. Let me tell you what to worry about. Worry about your relationship with God. And now worry is not the right word in that sense, because we need not worry with our pursuit of God. We can be perfectly confident that if we seek Him in spirit and truth, He will surely answer our call So there's none of the uncertainty that worry carries with it. But there is the intensity of pursuit. And I think that's the emphasis. The intensity of pursuit. Humans are usually pursuing something. And if you listen to a person for a day, you'll hear what it is that they're pursuing. The question is just, what is it? What is it? Now, what Jesus is saying here isn't exactly new. Remember when he taught us to pray, he said we start with our Father who is in heaven. Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Then we ask for food. Seek first a kingdom. First orient to the good, the godness of God. That's where we start when we're first seeking the kingdom. The first thing we do is orient to the godness of God Get your life in the proper perspective. See your life in light of the godness of God. Don't let the cart come before the horse. Realize that all of what your all of your life is really about. See the big picture. And once you get that orientation, you can begin to ask. And once you get that orientation, you can begin to think right, to worship right, to pray right, to think right, to live right. Now notice too that seek first conveys a sense of drastic effort. Drastic effort. And this seeking is not a new concept. Here's the Lord's appeal to his children who would abandon him, who would seek first for other things in Deuteronomy of all places. Deuteronomy four, twenty-nine through thirty-one says, But from there you will seek the Lord your God, and you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul. When you are in distress and all those things come upon you in the latter days, when you turn to the Lord your God and obey his voice, For the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not forsake you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers, which he swore to them. God expects people to seek him. He offers no apologies that this seeking takes a lot of effort, a lot of time. It takes a wholeheartedness. God knows he is worthy of all worship. He is worthy of all our lives. Now look what he says of the wicked. There's a huge contrast here in Psalms 10:3 -6. It says, for the wicked boasts of his heart desire. He blesses the greedy. God blesses the greedy and renounces the Lord. The wicked in his proud continence does not seek God God is in none of his thoughts. His ways are always prosperous. Your judgments are far above, out of sight. As for all his enemies, he sneers at them. He has said in his heart, I won't be moved. I'll never have adversity. That's the attitude about stuff that Jesus was talking about not having. That's the attitude of stuff. That he's talking about with the Gentiles. Everything comes down to their pride and their own ability. The wicked man does not expect God to provide. That in itself would be offensive to him. He is saying, I'll control my environment so expertly that I'll never have a need for anything, especially God So we we see the seeking that happens when a person gets serious then too. When that happens, God, instead of being in none of this person's thoughts, It takes center stage in a person's heart. That's the seeking kingdom first. When a man is not a child of God, we see the opposite of that. God doesn't even get near the stage of this man's heart. He may be a prop in the play somehow, but he never gets a serious billing. I think we all have an idea of seeking. You know, we all know that this seeking first the kingdom, seeking is is a good thing. But the idea is a bit ghostly. It doesn't have flesh. We ask ourselves, you know, we have a tendency to ask questions like this. Do I have strong feelings toward God? Do I sometimes cry out to God with great sincerity and seriousness? And we hope that we are speaking the way Jesus was talking about. We measure it that way by our emotions, by our intents. But if our seeking of the kingdom of God was a business, would it be a profitable business or would it die from lack of attention? If our seeking the kingdom of God was a business, would it be a profitable one or would it die from lack of attention, lack of effort, lack of time? If we had a business and put in as much time and energy into it as we pour into our walk with God, how long would that business make a profit? Those are the kind of questions that reveal more truth than if we're evaluating our feelings or intentions. If our efforts in knowing God and growing in Him was a garden, would that garden be thriving or would the weeds be killing it? The point I'm trying to make is that we do not expect most things in our lives to take care of themselves. We expect that they take constant effort, constant focus, constant oversight. We we even discipline ourselves to make sure that the things that need to be done most get done. We do that in our households all the time And if we don't pour ourselves into the effort, we're not surprised at the results. When the weeds grow and take over the garden because we've not been in there to weed it at all, it's not like, oh, that's shocking. You know, it's predictable. That's what happens. But I sometimes think we view our spiritual walk differently than that. We're surprised at the states that we find ourselves in after neglecting time and effort to grow and maintain our spirituality. Why would we be surprised? I'm gathering from our text that Jesus' evaluation would be: of course you're foundering. Y'all aren't seeking. You have weak faith, little faith. You're not doing what I said to do. You think I'm supposed to do it for you, but I will not. I will do all kinds of things for those who seek. I promise tremendous reward over and over again if you will seek. But seeking is our job. I will motivate that seeking. I will work in you to will and to do. But we've got to seek. God asks us to do a lot of things, or God will do a lot of things for those who ask, but He expects That we will do the asking. We have about as much of God as we really want. That is a truth that you'll find from the first page to the last page in Scripture. We have about as much of God as what we truly want. And if we want more, seek the kingdom like we would seek finding a job if we suddenly lost ours. That puts it in a perspective we understand. Seek the kingdom like we would search out some food if we had not eaten for a day. Seek the kingdom like we would seek some shelter and warmth after we've been out in the snow all day. That's what Jesus is saying. Seek first. Brother Jones said this. We can paraphrase our Lord's words thus. If you want to seek anything, if you want to be anxious about anything, Be anxious about your spiritual condition, your nearness to God and your relationship to Him. If you put that first Where you will go. That's the result. This great concern about your relationship to God will drive out every lesser concern about food and clothing. Now, one more thing about the text, verse 33. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. We see two things we're seeking: the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Let's look at that. What's a kingdom like? You know, what's a kingdom like? A kingdom has citizens. It has its own identity. You're either in it or you're not in it. You're either a citizen of the United States or you are not. Although we're having trouble figuring that one out But it defines who you are and who you belong to. A kingdom has things that it stands for. It has things that define it. Now we know that we enter that kingdom by faith in Christ. We're brought into this kingdom. And once we are in, we are in. And we're to get um and we are to get behind everything endemic to that kingdom. We are for everything King Jesus is for. We are for every project and every goal that this kingdom has. That's part of being in a kingdom. That's our identity. But isn't this much like the difference in believing in the Lord and believing the Lord? We enter the kingdom by believing in the Lord. But his righteousness, seeking first his righteousness , that requires believing the Lord That means I must submit my will to his will in everything. Simply being a member of his kingdom Is not my destiny. God's will for my life is to be like him because I am his, his righteousness. So I must take on the righteous attributes of Christ. I think we could use a synonym here and say the fruit of the Spirit, because Christ exemplified the fruit of the Spirit perfectly The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such there is no law And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit So he's saying basically if if you're if you're living the way that you should be living and dying to your flesh and living for the kingdom of God, you begin to take on those spiritual traits. This is a Christian seeking the righteousness of the kingdom. We talked about this last week, but it is the Christian walking in the Spirit. Now, it is not enough to be identified as a citizen of the kingdom of God. That's certainly essential, but God's will is not limited to just filling in all the empty seats in his kingdom. It is God's will that we put on Christ. It's God's will that every day we live, we look more like God's Son. He wants us to be more than citizens. He wants us to be ambassadors. He wants our lives to represent him. He wants to show a family resemblance in all of his family. Romans 8:29 says, for whom he foreknew He also predestined to be conform to the image of his son. Every believer that he brings into his kingdom, he predestined to be conform to the image of his son. That he might be the firstborn, that Christ might be the firstborn among a whole bunch of people that look like him, among many brethren. Having a passport of the kingdom is not enough. God wants us to show DNA evidence, family traits of the kingdom of God, of being Jesus' brother. So while getting saved is essential, entering the kingdom of God is vitally important. I'm not trying to minimize that, is a requirement. That is only the beginning of the process. That process will continue until we die. And given the number of years that God gives most of us, there must be a lot more seeking than he once done between now and then. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you give us the opportunity to live in this flesh and to experience what we experience so that