Probably not a good thing when a a preacher apologizes before he starts preaching, but uh uh in studying this text I find that a lot of it is going to be spent the time this morning preparing for next week's text. So it's setting the scene for the parable of the soils. I think it's important uh as I was studying it, I just couldn't see anything that I could pass by because There's a important transition that's made in this text today, one that isn't real obvious at first. So we're gonna be looking into that uh pretty pretty much in depth and hopefully there's enough application uh from the text that will hold us over to next week. Usually if there's just one thing that's plenty. But uh we'll see. So Jesus begins teaching again, and he's by the Sea of Galilee, and the crowd presses in. So he gets into a boat and he sets out from the shore. He's surrounded by, we think, seven fishermen. and his twelve disciples, so he probably had no trouble getting somebody to uh put the boat out. And in this terrain he would have had a natural amphitheater. So thousands of people could hear him without a sound amplification system. One thing about the water is that sound really travels over water. Fishermen know that they can't talk too loud on the lake because you can hear what's said from uh enormous distances. So this would be a perfect place for Christ to speak because he wants to be heard. We're told next then that Christ taught them many things in parables, it says. This is the first mention in Mark of parables. The natural question is, why? Why would Christ just now begin to speak in parables? And why would he use parables at all? I've heard it explained from many people who view Christ as mostly a human and a good teacher and all that, that Christ spoke in parables because they were memorable and they would be excellent ways to cause his students to remember the things that he taught. They'll also say that they were used to make very difficult things very easy to understand. He was an excellent teacher, after all, they'll say But oddly enough, that is not at all the explanation Scripture gives us as to why Christ used parables First, what's a parable? The Greek word for parable means to compare together. It is a fictitious or real event meant to illustrate a truth about something else. Dr. Barnes, um, I read some of what he had to say, and he lays out the reasons that parables were often used. He says that the design of speaking in parables was the following, and any of these could have been true at any time. He says, first, to convey truth in a more interesting manner to the mind. Adding to the truth conveyed the beauty of a lovely image or narrative. The second reason was to teach spiritual truth so as to arrest the attention of ignorant people. making an appeal to them through the senses. The third is to convey some offensive truth, some pointed personal rebuke in such a way as to bring it home to the conscience. Of this kind was the parable which Nathan delivered to David, and many of our Savior's parables addressed to the Jews. And then Dr. Barnes lays out the fourth reason, and this is the one that we need to pay attention to this morning. to conceal from one part of his audience truths which he intended others should understand. Thus Christ often by this means delivered truths to his disciples in the presence of the Jews, which he well knew the Jews would not understand. Truths pertaining to them particularly, and which he was under no obligation to explain to the Jews. The fourth note is the one that we're referring to this morning. Let's look at a scripture where Christ tells his disciples why he is using parables. He tells them why. Matthew thirteen, ten it says, And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. But to them it has not been given. Jesus regarded human decisions and human reactions different than most of us are inclined to do. It's easy for us to think that we think what we want to think. If we're smart, we see truth when it's in front of us. And the clearer it's explained, the more likely we are to believe it. Christ presents it a very different light. He explains human decisions as having a heavenly or hellish origin. Why does Christ speak in parables? Because there are some people who are supernaturally given to know and perceive and understand the mysteries of the kingdom. And there are some people who have not been given that gift of knowing and seeing and understanding and believing. Along with that, people have histories of responding to the truth of God. And histories of rebelling against the truth of God. Again, we see the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man in this passage in a way that we can't fully understand, but we can know that that's what he said. So, why tell a parable? Well, Christ does not owe this truth that he is telling to those who have no ear for it. And at the same time, he wants to convey it to those who do have this heavenly calling. So he is not obligated to speak clearly, as that will make no difference to his earthly-minded followers. Yet he does want to convey truth to those in the crowd who do truly want to hear the truth and will respond to it. Now, what purpose will a parable serve that open truth would not accomplish? This crowd is full of people who want to trap Jesus with what he says and they want to kill him because of his teaching. And it's very clear by now that that force has been it's in full force now. They're looking for an opportunity. But if they can't understand the teaching, they can't prosecute him They can't say, but Christ said there was a sower who sowed seeds to a court of law. There'd be too many interpretations of what he said. Even if if what he was saying was exactly as they perceived it. He told several parables, and religious leaders were offended because they knew they were the evil punchline in the story, but they couldn't hang him using a parable as evidence. The text about parables that we were just reading goes on like this. Verse 12. For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he will have abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. Christ is saying, He who is given to hear the parables and the truth of God. Will be given more. In fact, they'll be compelled by the truth to seek out the meanings, just like the disciples did. Then, verse 13, therefore I speak to them in parables. It's because of that that I speak to them in parables, because seeing they don't see, and hearing they don't hear. Nor do they understand. Then verse 14, and in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled. And this is an important prophecy that we're going to look at, which says Hearing you will hear and shall not understand. And seeing you will see and not perceive. For the hearts of this people have grown dull. Their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that I should heal them This is how Christ describes the hearers that do not hear. Notice that he does not call them stupid. This has little to do with their intellect, their ability to understand concepts. It has little to do with that. They have a spiritual problem. They are spiritually blind. They are spiritually deaf. They're spiritually stupid. And why is that? Well, to understand that, we need to go back to Isaiah. He takes his quote, uh, Jesus took his quote from chapter 5 in Isaiah. To get a feel for the context of this prophecy, we need to take a quick look at what is said in the first five chapters. In it we find a people who are very religious and very rebellious. They act like good Jews, but they hate God Isaiah 1, verse 2. I'm just going to read over several of the pieces of the passage to give you an idea of what the situation was. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. I have nursed and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner, the donkey its crib master. But Israel does not know, my people do not consider. Alas, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers. Children who are corrupters, they have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked to anger the Holy One of Israel, they have turned away backward. Why should you be stricken again? You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faints. From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and pu putrefying sores They have not been closed or bound up or sued with ointment. Sued with ointment. This is how God saw his people in Isaiah's day. And this is how he sees them in 30 AD. That's the point we're supposed to get. Then he goes on in Isaiah 110. Hear the word of the Lord. You rulers of Sodom, give ear to the law of God. You people of Gomorrah. And he's talking to the Jewish people when he's saying this. So thereby they're for sure getting the point. To what purpose is the multit multitude of your sacrifices to me, says the Lord? I've had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle. I do not delight in the blood of bulls or of lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, who has required this from your hand to trample my course? Bring no more futile sacrifices. Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, and the calling of the assemblies, I cannot endure iniquity and the sacred meeting. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They're a trouble to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you, even though you make many prayers. I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes Cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, rebuke the oppressor, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land. But if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. So God is calling them to repentance through Isaiah. He's calling the people to turn from their sin. Isaiah 3. 12 As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, those who lead you cause you to err, and destroy the way of your paths. The Lord stands up to plead and stands to judge the people. The Lord will enter into judgment with the elders of his people and his princes. For you have eaten up the vineyard. The plunder of the poor is in your houses. What do you mean by crushing my people and grinding the faces of the poor, says the Lord of hosts? And then skipping down to Isaiah 5 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge please between me and my vineyard. What more could have been done to my vineyard that I have not done in it? Why then, when I expected it to bring forth good grapes, did it bring forth wild grapes? And now please let me tell you what I will do to my vineyard I will take away its hedge, and it shall be burned, and break down its wall, and it shall be trampled down. I will lay waste, it shall not be pruned or dug, but there shall come up briars and thorns. I will also command the clouds that they they rain no rain on it. For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his pleasant plant. He looked for justice, but behold oppression, for righteousness, but behold a cry for help. Woe to those who join house to house. They add field to field till there is no place where they may dwell alone in the midst of the land. This is the world of Isaiah. And by using this prophecy, this is the world of Christ. Those people who were to be leaders of spirituality were not at all spiritual. We can never allow ourselves to have blind faith in leaders. We must hold them to biblical standards. We can't think because a leader exists that they are correct. And I think we've pretty much from this pulpit over the last thirty years said the same thing over and a over again. It's the word of God that we've got to depend upon to know what's right. So the Jews of Isaiah's day and the Jews of Jesus' day were corrupt They didn't get the idea of what was truly spiritual, and that was really true of the leadership, which much of Isaiah was talking about. Then Isaiah is called of God for his prophetic work back in Isaiah in chapter 5, and he experiences his sin and is contrite Remember when he comes before um uh either the angel or the Lord and uh and and he's stricken. You know, he falls on his face But he he confesses his sin and his sin is forgiven and that's when he heard the voice of the Lord saying the next thing in Isaiah 6 9. And he said, Go and tell this people, keep on hearing but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull and their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and return and be healed. Then I said, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities are laid waste and without inhabitants, the houses are without a man, the land is utterly desolate. How would you like that as your ministry job? God was about to usher judgment to the Jews in Isaiah's day. That's what he's promising. He is about to do the same in Christ's day. That's why Christ gave that uh That prophecy, why he quoted it. The passage that Christ quoted regarding his use of parables, regarding his use of parables, was ultimately the pronouncement of judgment on Israel. The Jews who were listening would have understood this, especially the leadership. Christ was saying, This is it. I am done with them. They can do what they please, but they are condemned. Those who have no ears to ear have moved past their opportunity for repentance And I believe he was addressing that toward the the majority of the Jewish leadership. But they weren't the only ones present. Christ also said this in verse 16 of our text. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For assuredly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear it. So Christ tells the parables at all because there's still truth to be told. He's not going to quit talking. There's truth to be told, so he tells the parables, and there are still some who will hear it. There are some who will receive the seeds he is about to tell about in his parable. So he he he's going to keep throwing them. In our Mark passage, we see this, Mark 4, 11 and 12. And he said to them, To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. But to those who are outside, all things come in parables, so that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they should turn and their sins be forgiven them This is very similar to the Matthew passage, but uh Mark doesn't elaborate as much. But we need to ask here What is the mystery of the kingdom of God? What is the mystery of the kingdom of God that they'll be given to understand? Mark tells us that Christ said that his disciples would know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but he never tells us what it is. Now this isn't the first place in Scripture that we've dealt with mysteries. Now, are these mysteries things that are difficult to understand and uh that only people with deep insights can understand and perceive? Do we need a mystic to explain to us some uh some supernatural message? No, the mysteries are just unknown things, but they are easy to understand once they're revealed. That's how mysteries are usually used in the New Testament. Jeremiah came over one day and he told us some riddles to solve. And uh we were scratching our heads for a little while. At first they were complete mysteries. But once they were solved, they were really easy to understand. Well, that's how biblical mysteries are In Romans 16, 25, Paul refers to a mystery revealed. And it was the mystery of salvation through Christ. That's what the mystery was. That was revealed. In Romans 11, 25, Paul tells us of a mystery that blindness came to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles should come in. It was a mystery, but the mystery was revealed In Ephesians 3:1, we learn of the mystery of how Jews and Gentiles will be brought together as joint heirs. The mystery solved. These things aren't difficult concepts, but we could not have known about them until they were fully revealed to us. That's how the mystery is usually used. Given that the common explanation at their time was that of the Messiah showing up with military might to judge sin and to rule the world. I think it's highly likely here that the mystery of the kingdom is that it will be a spiritual messiah in a spiritual realm. That would have been a huge mystery. They would not have expected that. This kingdom will not now be political. It will not be earthly, at least not yet. And the Messiah was not going to kill to reign, he was going to die to reign. That's just one possibility of what it might be referring to. But it's something in that realm that the mystery was involved in. No one I read for knew for sure what the mystery was. So uh anyone's guess is as good as anybody else as long as it's central to the the kingdom of God. Now, we look at our text again and we jump down to verse 33. And he it says, and with many such parables he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. But without a parable, he did not speak to them. And when they were alone, he explained all things to his disciples. Christ made a departure from his earlier communication at this point. This is a turning point. This is a pivotal point, and that's why I thought it was so important to focus on it. He is no longer going to lay it out plain and simple for everybody. He had done that for long enough to display that the crowds were getting no good from it And his enemies were deriving good fuel for evil from it. We spent a lot of time on this because it's important we understand it. This is a strategic change in Christ's ministry. It is a big deal. And it says a lot about what was going on. Now let's go back to our parable Verse 3, listen. Behold, a sower went out to sow, and it happened as he sowed that some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds of the earth came and devoured it. First, the word for listen here is a strong imperative. Have you ever had your parents look at you very seriously and say, now listen? Or have you seen a coach call his players into a huddle and say, now listen up? That's the kind of command it is Now listen, he is commanding those who came for the the Jesus show that we keep talking about, you know, all the all of the earthly things, the earthly good things that anyone would have been impressed with to watch and see Jesus doing all this stuff. He's talking to the people who came for that show and uh and he's telling them to listen carefully to what I'm saying. The listener would have known exactly how to take this A very important authority has something to say, and it is very important to hear it. That is what they would have understood. It's interesting that this kind of command is also used in verse 9. And he said to them, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. He's saying again, if you have ears that can hear, listen up. It's too it it it too is an imperative command. It is a very strong command. Jesus is not beating around the bush here. He is probably talking to thousands of people, and now he is being stern. He's about to tell them something of utmost importance. And on top of that, he's going to tell it to them in a parable. And he's laying the responsibility of them understanding it on them. Back to verse 3. Behold, a sower went out to sow. It may well be that Jesus pointed to a guy who was doing that very thing. Where he was at alongside the lake would have been a place where they would have uh been sowing seed. So it's likely that that kind of activity might have been happening. Now, from what I read, it is unlikely the farming would have been done exactly like Christ described. If a sower sowed seed and didn't cover it up, he'd be feeding the birds more than anything else So, but the point of the parable is not how to farm, it's how the truth is received. So we need not get distracted by the farming method. Now as this sower was reaching into his bag and throwing out the seed, there are four soils that that this seed fell on. And it happened as he sowed that some fell by the wayside and the birds of the earth came and devoured it. Some fell on stony ground, where it did not have much earth, and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up, it was scorched, and because it had no root it withered away. And some seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, choked it, and it yielded no crop. But other seed fell on good ground and yield a crop that sprang up, increased, and produced some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some hundred Okay, this is the setting. This is the parable. Seed is distributed. Some goes by the wayside. These would be the paths around the farmer's field. They would be packed down and seeds would lay vulnerable to the birds. They it would be foot traffic that would tramp this uh dir dirt down and make it real hard. There would be nothing to cover it, and the seeds would not penetrate the ground. So that's pretty much how it would be. Some fell on stony ground. This would be shallow dirt with a layer of rock immediately beneath it. The seed would get a good start, but it had no future. Because its roots couldn't get deep enough to get moisture and the nutrients that it needed. So when it got very hot and dry, the plant would die. It had nothing to draw from. Some seed fell in the parts of the field that were not well tilled. They were still thorn bushes. And the thorn bushes were more vibrant than the plants. So the thorns would rob the plants of the nutrients and the plants would die. But some seed fell on good ground and it produced a crop. Now, a good crop would normally yield from what I understand eight to ten times what was planted But Christ used something very different. His numbers are extremely higher than that. He said thirty times and sixty times and a hundred times, and any farmer would have been wetting his lips This would be amazing farming. The farmers in the crowd would all want to know how they can get some of that ground. But This is all they were told. And they were expecting to find, they were expected, the people who heard that were expected to find the meaning of that parable. But Jesus gave them no keys to understand it. He gave them no hints. So how would they know? How would they know what that parable meant? It seems to me that the only way they could know would be to follow the teacher and ask him. There's no way they could have just figured it out. Now God could have zapped them with understanding, and maybe maybe God intended to do that. We don't know But it seems to me that what we see in the stories is that people were driven then to find out from Christ what those stories meant. Now, the religious leaders weren't going to do it. They weren't going to follow Christ and ask him about anything. Their pride wouldn't allow them to humble themselves and do such a thing. After all, they didn't need to know it because they were the experts. That was their mentality, so they weren't going to do it. Then there's the crowd that's following for the free lunch and the exciting show, which is most of the crowd Maybe they wanted to be healed or have a demon cast out. Well, they're not likely going to hunt Christ down to find the meaning. Why should they? This parable was not going to get rid of their demon or heal them or give them a free lunch So they have no incentive to go to Christ to find out what the meaning is. But in this crowd, there are going to be some who were compelled to know what Christ was talking about. They could not let the day go by without knowing the mystery. without understanding the truth that had been spoken. They must know what he meant since he was so insistent that the listeners truly listen. And they would follow Christ and they'll find a way to discover the meaning. It's they who will be given more. Verse 10: But when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parable, and he said to them, To you. It has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. He was talking to more than just the twelve. At least we believe that from at least I believe that from other passages. To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those who are outside, all things come in parables. So that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they should turn and their sins be forgiven them And he said to them, Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables? I think the ultimate application of this text. Is to consider what kind of audience we are. Do we cling to truth until we know it in order for us to do it? Is that what we are like? Are we like the ones who hear the parable but cannot allow it to sit until we know what it means because it's important to God that we know what it means? Or are we content to just hear it and let it fade in our ears? That's all the Jews in the crowd were guilty of. They didn't have the time or the interest to know the truths Christ was teaching. Well, at least that's that's what he's addressing here. I I shouldn't say that's all they're guilty of. They're guilty of lots of things But they're guilty of that. They were observers, hoping that something would be said that would aid their current lives. They wanted it easy. They didn't want to work. And that sets the scene for what we're going to be looking at next week, which is the four soils or the four kinds of hearts that the Word of God comes to. So we've set the scene for the four kinds of soil, and we'll be looking at that next week, Lord will. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it pierces our hearts. We thank you that you show us ourselves. We thank you that your word pierces us. We ask, Lord, that you would work in us to be the hearers. Who truly hear, who must know what you say in order for us to better please you, to better serve you, to better submit to you, to better honor you and glorify you in our lives. And we ask that you do that work in our hearts this week and show us the ways that we are slow to hear, slow to listen, slow to respond, slow to obey. And convict us of that sin, and move us to being quickly obedient. to being listeners who get it and who aren't content until we do get it. And we ask too that you would prepare us for next week's Sermon. Next week's teaching from your word. In Jesus' name.