Daniel Tin brought up a topic that I'd like to revisit. I promised in a prior sermon to talk about the spiritual things happening around us that we cannot see and how we should think about them. Remember in our last Daniel sermon, we read that an angel, I think it's Gabriel, told Daniel about a struggle that both he and Michael were involved in It was a great enough struggle that the angel needed help, couldn't handle it by himself. What are we to make of this? How should we approach our lives knowing that this kind of thing exists around us? We can't see it, but it exists. What are we to make of the devil's continuous activity on this earth? Well, let's go way back. What is evil? What is evil? How do we know if something is evil? Well, we take what God says about good and anything that is against good is evil. Evil cannot exist without the existence of good. Evil is anti-good. Okay, Scripture tells us that God is good. God is the embodiment of goodness. There is no gooder being than God. He is perfect goodness. By God's very existence, by God's very goodness arises the capacity for an opposite. All it takes for evil to exist is for something to oppose God. Any opposition to God is evil. So the fact that God exists and that God is good logically allows for something that opposes God. Now, God created inferior beings to himself. He first created angels, and then he created humans. At this point, God could have eliminated the possibility of evil. He could have made these beings with no capacity to decide anti -God choices. He could have easily done that. He did a lot of animals, and they don't have that choice. But wait, couldn't there be another way to be good and eliminate the possibility of evil? Is there in any other way to eliminate the possibility of evil? Could God have made goodness without by its very creation Having an inborn, logically necessary capacity for anti-goodness. Could he have made such a thing Well, we certainly do not have the capacity to imagine such a thing and still maintain any semblance of logic, of sanity In our world of sanity, if there is a good, any choice against good is evil. Maybe God could have such a capacity to create such a thing But no human could ever accuse him of not taking up an option that we don't have any knowledge of. You know, I I'm I'm thinking of all these people that say, well, if God is good, why is there so much evil? Like they have an answer for that. Like like there's a way to have uh moral human being choices and not have a possibility for evil. We can't even conceive of how that could happen. So anyway, there appears to be only one way to eliminate the possibility of evil in humans and angels. They could be made like the rest of the animals in creation who have no ability to choose to obey God or choose not to obey God. They would have not have a capacity for moral choices. God didn't choose that. He gave angels and humans the capacity to decide for God or not for God. When God created free moral agents, God created the capacity for evil to be embodied. Up until that point, evil was only a philosophical possibility. Evil could not exist in God. God could not be both good and evil at the same time. That's impossible. If God were the only being to exist, evil would only be a theory. But upon creation of free moral agents, evil became a real possibility, an actual option. And you might wonder, why am I going off on this topic like this? Well, sometimes we speak about evil as being some kind of force out there. But we see it kind of like the force in Star Wars. You know, there's this force, and it exists by itself, and then there's this dark side of this force. And this force exists in and of itself, that evil is just kind of floating around out there. Well, evil is not like that. The capacity for evil exists all on its own. But the possibility for evil that exists all on its own. But for actual evil to actually exist , As more than just a possibility, it requires an anti-God decision by a free moral agent. A creature that God created with the capacity to choose for God and against God. The angels were the first created beings with a free moral agent choice. The devil led a rebellion against God. He chose an anti-God stance, and that made him the driving force behind the anti-God motivation. His stance, the devil's stance is extreme rebellion against God. If the devil could kill God and take over, he would. The devil and his demons are the embodiment of evil. There is evil on the planet Earth first because of a devil. But then man was created. When the devil had the opportunity, he used his influence to posture anti -God options to Adam and Eve When they chose to sin, they fell under the devil's dominion. Every child after that has been born in a state of sin, a state of condemnation. dead to God and alive to their father the devil. That is not a pretty picture, but that is how the Bible presents it. So there is no evil impersonal force out there. Evil is a very personal force. It does not exist outside the embodiment of God's creatures There are evil beings who are strategically driving evil in our world. And there are evil people who are victims of the fall and then willing participants in certain forms of evil. There are no longer humans that are free moral agents. While a man is now born with the freedom to decide any option under the devil's domain, he is no longer born free in and of himself to choose God. He is inclined by nature against God. He is born in enmity with God. He is born into an anti-God state, and he is no longer freed of his own power, like Adam was to choose for or against God. He only has the capacity by birth to choose against God. It takes a miracle for a person to choose for God. Regeneration precedes faith Okay, so chapter 10 of Daniel lifted the curtain a little for us to see some things happening in the angelic demonic world. And the big question is: what should we make of this? What should we make of this? What can we learn from Scripture about how to deal with this reality that's out there that we can't see? And first off, people have a tendency to make one of two mistakes. We tend in one of two of extremes. We talk about this a lot in uh especially in Sunday school, how how walking the Christian life is is always like this middle path that you fall off on both sides in so many ways, and this is one of them. The first mistake is to make too much of the devil's power. The second mistake is to make too little of the devil's power We must stand against the devil's schemes, so it's important that we have the proper understanding of his activities. Making too much. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world The devil's like the roaring lion. From what I understand, a lion sometimes roars when looking for game in order to flush the game out. Like the game would be perfectly safe if it just stayed where it was. But it hears that roar and it frightens them and they take off and that's the end of them. The prey becomes afraid of the roar and that exposes them to the to the lion's attack. In our case, the devil pretends to have great power. But as we've seen in other passages, the devil is God's dog on a short leash. He can only do what our Father allows him to do. He is far more powerful than any of us. So we in our own strength were coast against him. But he is nothing compared to God. Often in third world countries, the devil tries to display himself as all powerful so that the tribal people believe he controls everything. He wants their fear because when he gets them to fear, fear him, he can control them and he can gain their worship. So often, ministers to primitive tribes like David Sitton need to show the tribal people that God is the powerful one. God is the powerful one. Then the tribal people will often go against the devil and respond to God's call on their lives when God calls them with his gospel. But even for us, we too are sometimes schnookered. Have you ever thought that a temptation was so strong that you could not resist it? Have you ever thought that the devil made you do something? I mean we think uh us old people. We think of Flip Wilson. Uh he was always saying the devil made me do it. is a convenient way of getting out of trouble. But have you ever thought that you simply cannot be faithful at some point because it's just too hard? What's the point of trying? I always fail All of these ideas are a toothless lion roaring to flush-out game. Anytime we believe the power and resources that God provides in our lives are not enough. To stand against the schemes of the devil, we're mistaken. Oh, we can't stand up to him in our own strength. But God gives us his word and his people and his presence and his power and his armor. As we live by faith in him, there is no temptation that has taken us that we cannot by God's power resist. That's what Scripture says. Another interesting example of thinking too much of the devil is when we begin ascribing everything bad that happens to the devil. James 1, 2, and 3 says, Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet various trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Notice what James does not say. James does not say when you meet various trials, blame the devil. He's not even mentioned. In fact, later on the passage, James gives us even more insight when he tells us where many of our temptations come from. Verse 14, but each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. By his own desire Often the demons don't need to do anything. Our own desires can do much of his work for us. If the devil and his demons were locked up tomorrow, we would still battle with our fleshly desires. Even Jesus said that a tower falling upon a bunch of men was not a punishment of God or from God. He did not mention the devil in that passage either. Bad stuff happens on planet Earth. It never happens outside of God's control, thankfully. And God protects us from bad things happening to us that would undo us in any way spiritually. We're promised that. But we have little reason to believe that most misfortunes are due to the devil and the demons singling us out for harm. Sometimes he does, but most times that's not the source of our trouble. While I may want to ascribe demonic characteristics to my cars, most of the time they stop working because they're old, not because they're demonic. I used this illustration previously about an evangelistic event I was part of and talked about used it recently. I believe. But when when young people didn't attend an event that I was involved in, the leadership of the event began walking around casting demons out of the seat. As if the demons were keeping the kids from the local area from coming to that event. And that ended my involvement. That's an example of making too much of the devil. And because of it, they responded in an ineffective way because they did not understand what was going on spiritually. I've read books and heard sermons that what we really need to do, if we're really spiritual, is to identify the oppressing demon and cast it out. We should pray against that demon. That's the secret to bringing down the enemy's strongholds. They say if you have an issue in your life, an addiction, a sinful inclination, you should identify the demon. Pray against it and cast out the demon in Jesus' name. It's interesting that we don't see any example in Paul's writing of anything like that in doing spiritual warfare. It's interesting too that Gabriel must have known all about demonic stuff. He's in the battle every day. And he didn't ask Daniel to do any of that stuff This was Gabriel's advice to Daniel, Daniel 10, 19, and he said, O man, greatly loved, fear not. Peace be with you, be strong and of good courage You would have thought that if there was a secret about doing battle with demonic powers that we need to know about, that the angel would have told Daniel. He was strangely silent on the topic, even though he was actively engaged in that battle. Now we know from scripture and from our own histories that demons exist. Many of us here have stories of seeing demonic beings or feeling demonic oppression. It's common for people ministering in places like India to report this kind of oppression in Hindu temples. You can actually feel the evil. I remember 50 years ago when I visited Haiti. You could feel it. The devil often uses this kind of ruse to scare us into being faithless and fearful. But the promises in Scripture are so wonderful in this regard. Scripture tells us, 1 John 4, verse 4, little children, you are from God and have overcome them. For he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. James 4:7 says, Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Okay, let's look at the advice that Paul gives for doing spiritual battle. We do well to look at the passages that specifically address the topic. rather than speculating from passages that do not. That's where you get all this hokey stuff on the side We'll go through this briefly. I added a link also in Slack to hear Mike's sermon about it. He's on Sermon Audio. He's got a sermon on this. this passage. You can also just look it up directly on Sermon Audio. Look up Ephesians 5, I'm sorry, in verse 10 Finally, and that's where we're going, Ephesians 6, verse 10. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. It's interesting that Paul does not say, depend upon your good intentions and your strong desire, and drum yourself up to win this battle. No, it is the Lord we run to when we need to do spiritual battle. If we're facing temptation, if we're facing a struggle. Run to the Lord. Be strong in the Lord. This is like running to your dad when a classmate picks on you in kindergarten No evil force can stand up against the resources available to us as believers if we will just use them. Verse 11, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. Notice that we're offered this wonderful armor. To be successful against the attacks of our enemy. And we can assume if we're given armor, we're going to need it. We're going to get attacks. And they are effective It 's promised. They are effective if we will put on the whole armor. Okay, so what is this armor? How do we do this? Verse 12, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. Okay, so the people are not the problem. They are symptoms of the problem, but they are not the core problem. But against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers. over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. This is a very helpful verse to use when we tend to make too little out of the devil. It's just like Gabriel reveals. We can rest assured that the headlines in the news articles do not trace back to the spiritual roots in their articles. They're not going to tell us what's really going on because they're blinded. They don't see what's really going on. But we can also rest assured that when we see evil strategies being carried out To do harm to God's people and strategies to bring the world together under one umbrella, that the greatest problem is not the people involved. The problem is the devil and the demons involved. When evil is structured, the devil is behind the design. When you see evil being strategized and mobilized, we may not know what humans are behind it, but we know that the human behind the humans are demons. Behind evil politicians and bankers and brokers and educators are demons. Behind seductive theology are demons. That's what we're battling against. People are pawns. We do well to remember that it's our job to rescue the people with the gospel, if at all possible. They are not the power behind the plan. They are the pawns. Also, demons attack us individually. They're capable of suggestion, of lies Now they're not given much leeway to do us direct harm. I think that uh at least from scripture looks like it's it's the uh uh it's the exception rather than the rule Although the devil did great harm to Job. So, you know, we we got the capacity. God can allow that to happen. Because we know, I mean, if the demons could, they'd kill us all right now. But they can't. Most of the time they attack with suggestion, with lies, with those fiery darts that we're going to read about. They may arrange our situations to put us in tempting circumstances specifically designed for our harm by them. And remember that the devil wanted to sift Peter like wheat, and he was given somewhat of an opportunity. They may use other humans to persecute us. We need to know what we're up against. Note too that the demons want to wrestle in this passage. They want to wrestle. They want to get up close and personal. There's nothing arm's length about wrestling. But our goal is not so much for us to wrestle, it's for us to stand Our goal is to stand. Verse 13, therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand firm. It's very clear there. We gotta stand. The word stand is used three times in those two verses. We will need this armor to stand. Okay, so what is the armor? And how do we put it on? Verse 14, stand therefore having fastened on the belt of truth. Having fastened on the belt of truth. How do you fasten on the belt of truth? You know, you can't go to the closet yet. I I wish we could. Wish it was that simple, but it's not Christians by nature, by new nature, grow in a love for truth. We grow in an appreciation of it. We welcome it A little later, we're going to see the short of the Lord, which is the Word of God, as mentioned. And that's truth. You know, that's for short. But I think verse 14 is more comprehensive than that. It certainly includes truth that God revealed to us in his word, but it's more than that. It's truth about our motives. It's truth about our behavior. It's truth about our intentions. It's truth about our histories. It's truth about our thoughts. It's truth about our temptations. Lies are the devil's territory. Lies are effective in deterring the help that we need to change. Lies will stop true ministry and conviction and encouragement from reaching our points of need. If we want to resort to facade, if we want to resort to lies, it's going to stop. other Christians from ministering to us the way we need minister to. Deception blocks out people's ministry to the real us, to where we really need it. It's interesting that in Colossians, after telling us a list of things to put off, we are specifically told not to lie to one another. All through Scripture, we're warned to avoid deception. We can't use as armor what the devil is using as a weapon. When we use lies to protect ourselves, we are not doing ourselves any kindnesses. We might think, hey, no problem there. I love truth. I like truth. Truth is good. Well, put it to the test. When you argue with your spouse, will you stop and consider what the truth really is? Even when you know you could win the argument with a lie. When you don't want the truth exposed, will you cheat and divert the conversation to other topics? Do you love truth enough that you won't violate it even when it's costing you to tell the truth? Even when it costs you losing an argument. It's just one example. Will you tell the truth when you know it's possible to prove it's impossible to prove that you did something wrong? But if you tell the truth, you gotta say, I did. I did. Kids, will you tell the truth even when the truth gets you disciplined? Do you want to stand against the devil? It starts here Starts here. Take the time to know what the truth is. If a person never pauses in an argument, we can usually be sure what we're getting is not the pure truth. Watch Trump respond to criticism and you will find out how not to do it. It takes time to know what the truth really is. We don't find it by giving ourselves the benefit of the doubt, by instantly defending ourselves, because everyone should know we would never do such a thing. We get it by pausing to ask the question in every conversation: what is really true? What is the bottom line truth here? What is true about what God's about what God tells us about life from His Word? What is true about my own thoughts and deeds and motives? That's where our standing against the devil starts. We tell truth. The belt is what the rest of the armor hangs on. We can have everything else, but it will be ineffective if we will not commit to truth. Standing starts with truth. And then it says, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, the devil is the accuser. And we give him a lot of stuff to work with. Revelation tells us that he accuses us night and day. And if all we had was truths, We would be in a bad spot. Because the truth accuses us too. We need protection against the condemning truths in our lives. God has given us the glorious breastplate of righteousness. Imagine, if you will, Christ sitting at the right hand of God. And Christ has a name tag, and it says Christ, you know, Jesus Christ. And on the back of that name tag are all of our names. Each one of us who is in Christ. And the devil accuses us, and Christ flips over the name tag to display our names. It looks like you're you're out of out of luck, devil. John 's hidden in me. I'm now his life. John has raised with me. Since you cannot bring an accusation against me You cannot bring an accusation against John. That's how it works. That's what we're putting on The righteousness of Christ. We're putting on our only response to every accusation against us It's not, well, I didn't mean it or you know it wasn't that bad or I didn't really do that. That's a waste of time. We say I am in Christ Christ paid for that sin. This pressplate protects our core of who we really are. What a wonderful piece of armor that is. Then verse 15, as for sh as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace For shoes, we put on something that the gospel gives us. It's readiness. Readiness. Now, how does the gospel provide us with readiness? What are you ready for when you think about the gospel? Well, the gospel is the message that removes the enmity between us and God. Now we are ready to live. We have a readiness to approach life because of the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. We can face life because the biggest battle The battle we could never win is already won. That's the gospel. It's won in the gospel. It's won by the gospel. 1 Corinthians 15, 56. The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethrons, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. Because we have the victory of the gospel, we are now ready for anything else. Without it, we would not be ready at all. With it, we are ready for what comes. Verse 16, in all circumstances, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil ones. I always thought this was very interesting. The shield of faith. The shield of faith. What happens when we believe even one of the smallest of the devil's lies? Like the lie, oh, it's okay to be bitter about what this person did to me. Look how bad it was. And this is this is only a little thing in my life. You know, it's just a little thing Again, just one example out of a million. That is the kind of little flaming dart that spreads until it divides the church. Faith says that I must trust what God says. It's a shield of faith. Faith says I must trust what God says. I must trust who God is. If he says a thought or an action is off limits, it's off limits. If Scripture says something about me and I perceive myself differently, This shield of faith will protect me from believing the wrong thing about me. If Scripture says I am an overcomer and I feel like a loser, I can by faith believe what God says. And I can keep that little idea from spreading, from wreaking havoc in my life, from getting a life of its own, and from ruining my life There are a million examples we could use. Every tiny little evil thought might not seem evil at first. But faith will stop the spread of destruction from the lies that we are tempted to believe, no matter how innocuous they might appear at first. Faith will protect us. Faith is our trust in the character of God to the point that we believe what he says and we do what he commands. Faith believes what God says when it contradicts what our hearts say. What our feelings say, what our Seamer says. Faith keeps the sinful suggestions the devil offers. From growing to destroy us, because the intention of those evil thoughts is always to destroy us Verse 17, and take the helmet of salvation. When we understand our salvation, when we really get it, and I I think all of us have over points in our lives comes with a deeper and more full realization of what this gospel is all about, of what it all accomplished in our lives. When we understand our salvation, our minds are protected from those attacks that will be hurled at us. The devil will tempt us to think that we can earn our salvation and then he can undo us once we start buying into that He can tempt us to think that our efforts will not be good enough to be saved. He 'll work on us to think less of others that we think do not perform as well as we do. We get into that mindset. But when we understand our salvation, We maintain a humble appreciation of the grace and the mercy of God. That is how we got in. Our minds then are protected. Because we understand our salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone And the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. Have you ever noticed that the armor we have doesn't seem overly dramatic? We don't have a Holy Spirit bomb that will take out the devil's headquarters. We don't have the congregation flashbang that will instantly zap our congregation with super spirituality. I wish there was such a thing. I'd like that. No. What do we have? We have words. Words. Plain old words in a book. That's the only weapon given that is both offensive and defensive While the other stuff protects us, this is what we fight with. Words. Two thoughts. That's where the battle is, won or lost, for our standing. It's the truth that we need to free ourselves from our wrong perceptions and perspectives. God 's truths, God's words. Are we faced with a temptation? What is the truth from God's Word? Are we faced with a trial? What is the truth from God's Word? Are we faced with a situation where we need wisdom? What is the truth from that book? Are we being attacked spiritually? What is the truth that God says about it We use the word of God all the time in defending our souls from the devil's attacks. We replace the lies we're tempted to believe, the fiery darts, with the words of God's truth. And verse 18, praying all the time in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication. Basically, I think this describes just being in continual conversation with God. So everything in our lives is lived in His conscious prayer. in his conscious presence. We are consciously aware of God's presence all in all of life. We allow no separation to happen to us between us and God. We don't take time out where we can pursue something that we know is out of bounds in our relationship with Christ. It's kind of like keeping contact with the command center by radio when you're in battle. We need to keep getting our orders and we need to report our status. If we break off communication, we make ourselves vulnerable to the attacks that we are not prepared for and that we cannot get the resources we need. To stand up to those things. It's being in constant contact with our God, keeping that fellowship undisturbed And then he goes on, to that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. Okay, at first we're talking about keeping constant contact, sort of for ourselves, I think. And now it's and for everybody else as well. Part of this resistance of the devil's attacks will mean staying awake and keeping in mind that we are not in a vacation center. We are not on a cruise ship. We are in a battleground. Our hearts are never safe in this enemy territory. We'd have to constantly be watching for danger for ourselves But not just for ourselves, for all those we are in fellowship with and are responsible for. You notice in here, there's no armor for the back. There's no armor for your back. We have to have others watching our back Those are Paul's instructions for what we need to do in light of the spiritual battle that's going on around us. We don't need the names of the demons. We don't need some kind of spiritual spying on our enemy. We know all we need to know about the enemy, at least if we're reading God's Word. What we need to access to have victory are the resources that Christ provided to us. through his work on the cross and his revelation of himself in the word and through the church that he has placed us in. Okay, we've dealt with making too much of the devil's activities with just a real short now. What about making too little of the devil? Satan for a long time essentially kept a low profile in our country, I think. It's rare that he wanted to draw attention to himself through active open exhibitions of witchcraft and satanic worship. I think that's changing. Now worship of the devil seems to be getting pretty cool. It's becoming more mainstream in the entertainment industry. But often Satan wants us to be sophisticated and laugh about the idea of a real Satan. That's been a popular stance for years. 2 Corinthians 11 14 says, And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. So it's no surprise if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. It's really interesting. I I heard an interview with somebody who was a Satanist and he was talking about their agenda, and it sounded like a wonderful, benevolent organization setting people free from oppressive rules and ideas. I mean you listen to it and you think, man, that sounds good. No surprise there. Also, listen to a lot of usual arguments regarding things like pro-abortion or limiting population or animal rights or gender identity. The focus is usually on being sympathetic to human beings, waiting to rescue the lives, or wanting to rescue the lives of pregnant girls, wanting to save the planet and the people and the animals in it and wanting to be kind to all those whose desires are misplaced. It consists of rescuing people out of all their bad choices. And the whole pursuit stems from a humanistic mindset that makes man God and makes God nothing. We can expect this kind of thing. No human is likely to say, or very rare humans are likely to say, I'm doing evil. I'm just a bad, bad person. I am doing evil. I'm doing evil because I want to do evil. No human is likely to say I'm only doing this because I hate the very idea of God. Most people are not even aware of those things. They do their master's bidding, knowingly or unknowingly. If the devil can't scare you out of your cover, he'll try to seduce you from it by his pretended virtue If scaring you with his malevolence won't work, he'll try to seduce you with his benevolence. He doesn't care which. He's a liar. He don't have a doll of truth. Nor does he want one. Nor does he want you to have one. He's tricky and he's powerful in his sphere, but our weapons are sure to work. They're certain to work if we'll only use them. I'd like to close with a quote. The answer to this strategy is to see the reality of what Daniel saw in chapter 10. Be convinced of the reality of the devil and his very real power. Be aware of the heavenly dimension of the struggle, but remember too that you don't struggle alone. Michael and the other heavenly figure had been engaged in this conflict together on behalf of God's people since the first year of Darius. The time when the decree to allow the Jews to return to their homeland has been issued and several years before Daniel's prayer. Day by day and year by year, there are powerful heavenly forces engaged on our side of the struggle, as well as that of the enemy There's stuff going on that we can't see, but all the stuff that needs to happen that we can't do anything about, God has already taken care of. At the end of the day, our victory over the devil is certain if we are in Christ. Lord, we thank you that you have not placed us in a position of hopelessness.