Do you know how old the oldest copy of sections of the New Testament writing is? The oldest copy? Copies of sections of the Greek New Testament were found dating 25 to 50 years after the original writing would have been signed. 25 to 50 years later, it's that close to its actual writing. There are over 5,000 ancient portions or whole documents of the Greek New Testament in existence. When we add to that the number of the ancient copies of translations of the New Testament into Latin and Ethiopic, the ancient manuscripts increased to nearly 25,000 copies. 25,000 pieces of proof of that scripture. And then if you add ancient authors who quoted the New Testament in their documents, you have 32,000 more evidences of the authenticity of Scripture. Now, how does that compare to other ancient documents that our modern textbooks and scholars trust as authoritative? Well, Homer's Iliad has 643 ancient copies Now remember that's compared to 5,000. Herodotus's history has eight manuscripts, with the oldest being dated 1300 years. After the original was written. Caesar's Gallic Wars has ten manuscripts, the earliest being 1,000 years after it was written. The history of the Peloponnesian War by I should have read read these out loud before. Thuside. Um some Greek guy. Only has eight copies, all dating more than thirteen hundred years after the original. Does it strike you as odd that people blithely speak of the Bible as a book that's just like any other book? They act like there's no evidence at all that it's trustworthy or remarkable. Yet they'll take these other books as the gospel truth, even though they contain only a fraction of the verifiable evidences of the authenticity that the Bible has. If you're ever in a conversation with someone about the authenticity of the Bible, don't allow their challenges to ride if you have a chance. Ask them if they really want to see the evidence about the validity of the Bible. Then if they do, do your homework and present it to them. Our culture has been fed a pile of nonsense in sound bites about the fallibility and unreliability of scripture. And most people have no idea uh that what they think can be proven uh no most people have no idea that what they think Basically, um People have no idea that it can be proven correct when they think it so incorrect. Challenge it. Challenge it when you have a chance. Now you might wonder why I bring this up in our text, and it's because of this. When later copies of the Bible are compared to the earliest copies, the earliest copies do not include verses 9 through 20. The scholars are pretty sure that these verses were added later, probably in 200 A. D. And probably by some well-intending foolish people who wanted this gospel to end more like the other gospels. Because Mark did end it pretty suddenly. The beauty of the history of Scripture is that we have other documents to compare the current translations to We can know which passages are rock solid and which ones are questionable. And normally the translations do us a wonderful service by including that in the footnotes. We're not left in a position of blind faith in the passages of Scripture. We can know with a great degree of confidence which are completely verifiable and which are questionable additions. And remember, our position is not that every translation is without error. We believe that the signed originals are without error. So, what should we do with our current passage? I'd like to use it as a springboard to the story surrounding the resurrection and the ascension of Christ. Then we'll look at all of the more verifiable texts for the details on what actually happened. We may mention what Mark says, but we will not elaborate on any of the teaching that Mark gives us in this section that other gospels don't verify. So, snake handling and poison drinking will probably not be added to our services. This incidentally is the only place that those two things are mentioned. I'd like to approach it this way because this is my first in-depth study of the gospel. And the gospels are the lens piece through which all the rest of Scripture should be viewed. So I'd like to take the gospel story through to its completion, borrowing on all the other gospels. And that should then help all of our studies as we go forward. So, to begin, let's look at when Peter and John see the empty tomb. In John 20, verses 3 through 10, and there's mention in Luke 24, 2. So John 20, 3 through 10. Peter therefore went out and the other disciple and were going to the tomb. So they both ran together and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first. And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen cloth lying there, yet he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb, and he saw the linen clothes lying there. And the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen cloth, but folded together in a place by itself. Then the other disciples who came to the tomb first went in also, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the Scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again to their homes. Luke 2. 42 , but they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. That's at it. Now, Mary Magdalene had seen that the tomb was empty, so she ran to tell Simon and probably John. John is the most likely candidate, although we're never given his name They were told that the tomb was empty. She told them that someone had taken the body and the women did not know where. That's what Peter and John are responding to. So Peter and John don't waste any time. They both ran to the tomb, but evidently John was a faster runner than Peter. And I doubt that was a fact that Peter focused on much. Now, when John gets there, he looks in. He would have to stoop down as the door to the tomb would not be very high. So John looks in and he gives a reporter's eye view of what he saw. John saw the clubs lying there. John just looks in. He doesn't go in. But naturally, Peter doesn't just look in. Peter barges in. Caution was never Peter's strong suit. Now, John just saw the cloths lying there, but now Peter sees the cloth that was around Christ's head lying in a different place than the rest of the cloths. John notes that it was folded. It's likely that Peter would have said, hey John, come look at this. So John goes in after Peter. And notice what verse 8 says. John saw the situation inside the tomb and he believed. Now remember, they had not heard that Christ had raised from the dead yet. They just uh They just knew that he was gone. But they saw this evidence and they believed. Now, as I was preparing this, I made an assumption. I'm as I was rereading it this morning. I'm Not sure that the assumption is right, but I'm assuming that this means that Christ resurrected. They believed that. But it dawned on me uh that they could have believed that the body was taken. at this point, because that's what was reported to them. Someone has taken the body, so they showed up, looked in, and there's no body, so they believed We don't know for sure. But if they believed Christ resurrected, we need to ask why this scene would have been convincing to them. Why did the evidence convince them of anything? Well first a grave robber would have taken the cloth and the body. It would make the body easier uh uh to bear, you know, because it would not smell good by this time, so they would have left the spices in those linen cloths on the body. Second, if they had unwrapped the body, they certainly would not have taken care to situate the cloth in an orderly fashion. Stuff would have been strewn everywhere, but it wasn't. Third, note that the clause lying there orderly also stands as evidence against the story that the religious leaders came up with to hide the truth after the fact. Now, we talked about this in Sunday school, but there's a nice story on the internet that says that it was a Jewish custom for a master to fold his napkin and it meant he was coming back. So that's what the folded head clock was intended to convey. So the story goes. There appears, it appears that somebody made that up. There seems to be no historical evidence of such a custom Now, it's very likely that what Peter and John saw was the claws lying as if Christ had simply vanished from inside them. That's probably the explanation that was immediately the most plausible when they looked in and saw what was laying there on that slab. Maybe it's the way the linens were wrapped. Maybe it would have been very difficult to recreate the wrapping without a body in the middle Also, why the headscarf somewhere else? Why the headscarf somewhere else? Well, I think it would be like evidence at the site of a suicide. If you find the gun at a different place than the body, you would know that a dead body could not do that. I think the scarf was moved by Christ to let the disciples know that a dead body did not do this. Christ was alive again, and this was evidence he left to show them that it was true. Christ was uh and the fact that it was folded or rolled, rolled actually might be more accurate. shows that it was done in an orderly fashion by someone with forethought. They could have grasped from this that not only did Christ raise from the dead, but that he could also function in the world That we accept as reality. Christ is more than just spiritually risen from the dead, he has physically risen from the dead. It might be that was used as evidence. Then verse 9, for as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Now remember, all they had was the Old Testament So what this is saying is they didn't gather from the Old Testament this connection yet. They had the words that Christ said, plenty, but they had not figured it out from the Old Testament. And then it says, Then the disciples went away again to their homes. Peter and John knew what Christ said. It was in there somewhere. But they didn't understand from the Old Testament that this had to happen. Christ had to raise from the dead. He had to. So they had to see evidence of Christ's resurrection. They didn't simply believe what Scripture said. They hadn't connected that. Christ said that the ones who believe because of Scripture Are actually more blessed than the ones who see and believe. Now, they got to see and believe. We're the ones who believe as a result of Scripture and as a result of faith. Then what did the disciples do? They went home. They went home. Isn't that often what happens when we come face to face with the most profound of truths? We go home. And that can be where this truth is ignored and dies, or that can be the place where that truth takes hold of our lives and changes us. We decide that every Sunday. We decide that every time that we have a spiritual conversation with somebody. What will we do with today's truth when we go home? We need to realize that if we want to be what we have always been, all we need to do is keep doing the things we've always done. Change happens when we commit before God to do things differently. Change happens when we add something different in the list of things that we will not leave undone in a day. Most of the significant changes that happen to us are going to happen after we go home. Okay, let's go to the next event. Jesus shows up. John and Peter are pretty sure at this point that Jesus is alive. The women have been told by an angel that Christ is alive, but no one has seen him yet. But here he comes. John 20, 11 through 18 says, But Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting one at the head and the other at the feet where the body of Jesus had lain. Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? And she said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you've laid him, and I will take him away. And Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say, teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my father, but go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, and to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things to her. This again is Mary Magdalene. She had come to the tomb, the tomb was empty. She evidently left the scene before the angels had spoken to the rest of the ladies. So Mary Magdalene had told John and Peter that Jesus was gone. Peter and John entered the tomb, saw the evidence, were convinced of something, probably the resurrection, and left. Now Mary gets back to the tomb. She evidently did not talk to John and Peter in passing. By the time she gets there, Peter and John are gone and there are no angels. Also, by the time she gets there the second time, the women have also entered the tomb as well. Have you ever felt like all hope is lost? Have you ever felt like all hope is lost? Have you felt like you're alone in your misery, even though you've been actively sharing the truth with others? Have you ever wanted company in your distress, but evidently you need to face it alone? That is Mary in our text. She's probably emotionally worn out at this point. We find her bawling outside Christ's tomb But even in this state of turmoil, she must have had a little curiosity. I can't help thinking here that she displays a womanly attribute. It's distress and curiosity woven tightly together. Maybe men are like this too, but I don't think as much. She had emotions that she needed to express, but at the same time she must have been thinking, I wonder what's inside there. So she bends down and she looks in. And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet where the body of Jesus had lain. And then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? And she said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, I do not know where they have laid him. Evidently she didn't realize these guys were angels. I don't know what it is about angels, but it's clear in Scripture that they can go incognito. Sometimes there is no doubt to onlookers that they're angels. We'll find that the other women knew immediately that these guys were angels, mostly because they were glowing, which would be a dead giveaway. But sometimes angels don't display that they're angels. We find in the New Testament sometimes you know people have shown hospitality to people. They had no idea were angels. Found out later. So some of them must look identical to humans, except I doubt that they have belly buttons. So these two angels are just sitting at the head and foot of the slab that Christ laid on. Now these two angels speak. Isn't it good to know? They know our language and can use it. I hadn't really thought about that before. But I here are spiritual beings who undoubtedly use a different language where they come from. I wonder if they actually have to learn our language. Anyway, they can communicate. And they ask, woman, why are you weeping? Maybe it was confounding to them that she should be weeping They probably heard everything that Jesus said too. And they knew what he had promised. Maybe they were genuinely curious why Mary would be weeping. It's like they're puzzled. You read her spawning really weird for expecting a resurrected Lord, but uh because you know they would have thought he said it over and over again, surely they would have gotten it. Or maybe they were asking the question and it was just setting the scene for Christ. Now I love Mary's response. There is beauty in this woman's honesty First, she knows what's bothering her, and second, she can state it clearly. If we went no further, I think we would have an application point. In our relationships, it would be sweet if if we dealt with such clarity in our discussions and disagreements. Again, I'd like to single out women here, but uh but I'm not I can't. It's all of us She's upset because she doesn't know where Jesus' body is. Verse 14. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you've laid him, and I'll take him away. We don't know why people can't recognize Jesus after the resurrection, and then sometimes they can. Nobody really knows and understands that. I suspect that Jesus controls how people see him, and he does that with some purpose. So all Mary knew is that here's some guy standing nearby. Mary does the normal routine of figuring out who would have a reason to be there. At least that's what it looks like. The gardener would be a natural choice. It would be a very reasonable expectation. Now, this man asks her the same question she's just been asked, except Jesus asks, whom are you seeking? Now, how would a gardener know she was seeking someone unless Mary thought that maybe he had overheard the last discussion? And that's probably what happened. She's just acting the way any human would act. So Mary doesn't bother to answer the question. She assumes the gardener already knows about the body in the tomb. He's the most likely person to have moved the body. He may actually have some authority in this arena. So rather than playing games with this man, she jumps right to the heart of things. Did you take him? If you did, I want to know where you put him, and I'll get him and put him somewhere where we can take care of him. I don't think there is anything kind in Mary's voice here at this point. Now maybe I'm reading that in, but it looks from the evidence of what she said. I think she's responding in cynicism and suspicion. She's evidently no stranger to this kind of behavior She responds effectively against it. It's almost like she's saying, I assume you took Christ's body. I assume you did not do it with the best of motives, but I don't want to get into that. Just hand him over and we'll be done That's not a bad response to have in the world. It's often called for, but it's not called for when you're talking to Christ or somebody that truly represents Christ. Now, I would have liked to see Mary try to take Christ's body away. She was expressing good and loyal sentiment, but in actuality it's probably going to be men that would need to move Christ's body to another location. Verse 16, Jesus said to her, Mary. And she turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say teacher. Maybe it was the way that Christ spoke her name. Maybe it was the way Mary really looked at Christ now. Maybe the first indication was that the stranger knew her name. He could not just be a stranger. That would have gotten her attention. Whatever it is, Mary saw Jesus and knew him. And at that point, it's nearly impossible to contemplate what must have gone on in her heart Here is Mary being cynical and pragmatic, accusing a man of stealing Christ's body, only to discover that all the reasons she thought she needed to be cynical disappeared. She went from assuming the worst to experiencing the best. Have you ever had that happen to you? Maybe you read the worst motives into something that someone did to you Maybe you thought the person betrayed you or was unfaithful to you. Only to realize that the person was actually doing their best to love you, to look out for your best interest. It might be embarrassing, but isn't it oh so sweet to know that the source of loving you is still alive? Isn't it sweet in times like that to know that you are free to hope for the best again? Isn't it good to know that there is a lover of your soul who is still present in your life? That is what she's experiencing. Mary responds in all honesty. All the hostility and suspicion are abandoned. She looks at Christ, recognizes him for who he is, and calls out to him in a title of honor and reverence. Even though her hopes were abashed, and he was the cause of that, she does not refer to any of that, any of the history of what she's just gone through for the last three days She simply and wholeheartedly resumes the proper relationship with her Lord, and she calls him very reverentially my teacher, my teacher What an excellent example to follow. We don't always respond to our Lord the best. I think that's safe to say. We don't always trust Him in the circumstances of our lives. We sometimes ignore him or undermine his work in our lives. But when we come to our senses and see that Christ is working out the best for us, how blessed we are when we quickly submit. And call Christ my teacher, my teacher. And even better when we really mean it When we really mean that we are trusting Christ to teach us how to live our lives, how to right our wrongs, how to obey instead of disobeying. What a blessing it is when we truly regard Christ as the teacher who we will obey and follow, whom we will give up all competing interests. That's the state of Mary Magdalene this morning. Is that how you follow Christ? Speaking of angels Is uh is that how you follow Christ? Where do you not trust Christ as your teacher? Where do you not trust Christ? your teacher? Where will you not do what he says? Now let's look at what comes next. Let me ask, who of us would not cling to Christ at this point? At this point in the story, feeling all the relief of having Christ back from the dead, this guy that you have pretty much sunk your life into following. Oh, maybe us guys wouldn't be real touchy-feely. But who would not want to settle back into a relationship of being with Christ, of being in his presence? of enjoying his physical presence and camaraderie. Who would? We all would But look at what Christ says. Verse 17. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father, but go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your God. Some people make a big metaphysical point here about it being in Christ's risen body and somehow it's like it's electric or something. You can't touch it or I don't know. I don't think that's a point. It isn't like touching Christ's risen body is going to mess up anything. I think the point is that Christ is trying to wean people of physical dependency. They would have to get used to the idea of Christ no longer being present, and they might as well start right now. Let me ask you this: which do you prefer? Having Christ with you physically, even though you would know that he don't only have influence over you and those in your vicinity, a very limited influence Or to have Christ with you spiritually and have him influence the whole globe through his people and through his spirit. That's the problem. Everyone would prefer his physical presence. I certainly would. But we can't cling to that Those who had it and loved it and were used to it, probably sometimes assumed it, they had to let it go. They had to be weaned from his physical presence, and none of them wanted to see it go. So Christ told them, don't cling to me. And then immediately he gave Mary a mission. Often that's exactly what we need to hear when we hear something we would really prefer not to deal with. He said, Go to my brethren and say to them, I'm ascending to my father and your father and my God and your God. Christ sent Mary with the message: Tell my followers this. This is what they need to know. They don't need my physical presence at this moment. What they need to know is that I'm going to go up to be with my father And not only is he my father, he's also the disciples' father. And not only is he my God, he's also the disciples' God. That would have been encouraging. In fact, it is the first encouragement that they would have had. That would have been the first message that they would have gotten. The disciples, no matter what they've been guilty of in these last three days are still believers. And Christ Himself is pronouncing that. And isn't it good to know you can screw up pretty royally as a Christian, but that doesn't disconnect us from the relationship that God has chosen us to be part of. They are still sons of the Father. They're still worshippers of the true God. Verse 18, Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things to her. Mary again serves as a wonderful example. She does exactly what she's told. Oh, how the Lord must long for this. People who will do the simple things that they're told to do. Oh, to be like Mary Magdalene. We'll find as we continue our story that the disciples thought she was nuts They thought she and the other women were making all this stuff up. Their testimony of the truth was received much like ours is in an unbelieving world. But we need to give it anyway, simply because that's what Christ told us to do. We've touched on several applications this morning, but I think one of the most useful would be for us each to come up with a plan to make sure the truth isn't lost on us. when we go home, when we leave uh places where we have been dealt with spiritually, when we have heard truth that we need to incorporate in our lives. Everything else that is important to us, we plan around. Isn't that how your life is? I mean mine sure is. Everything that is important to me I plan around. We make sure that the things that are most important to us happen. But somehow we think that the most important things in life will just happen to us. It's like we're supposed to just wake up more spiritual and more knowledgeable about the Bible. What we'll find is that we rarely have more of God than what we plan to have. We rarely have more of God than what we plan to have. We vote with our minutes what's important to us. We need to seek before we find. That's how Scripture lays it out. What plans do we have in place to ensure that truth is not wasted on us? What plans do we have in place to make sure that truth isn't wasted on us? And what plan should we have?