Alright. We've seen Christ's betrayal and his arrest. And now we come to Christ's trial, if you can call it that. We will see the biggest miscarriage of justice in human history. We're about to see the only person who has never sinned condemned to death for sin. Truth truly is usually stranger than fiction. Now, as usually the case, much is shown to us in other Gospels that's not explained by Mark, and I'll borrow from one perfect life from John MacArthur again. and put all the passages together. So it gives us the full insight of what was going on. Having arrested him, they led him away to Annas first, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. Now it was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. And Simon Peter followed Jesus at a distance to the high priest's courtyard, and so did another disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest and went with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. But Peter stood by the door outside. Then the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to her who kept the door and brought Peter in. And he went in and sat with the servants to see the end. When they had kindled a fire in the midst of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat among them. The servants and officers who had made a fire of coal stood there, for it was cold, and they warmed themselves, and Peter stood with them and warmed himself. Those who had laid hold of Jesus led Jesus away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes were assembled. Now the chief priests and all the councils sought false testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but found none. Even though many false witnesses came forward, they found none For many bore false witness against him, but their testimonies didn't agree. But at last two false witnesses came forward and bore false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple of God, made with hands. And within three days I will build another without hands. But not even then did their testimony agree, and the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Do you answer nothing? What is what is it these men testify against you? But Jesus kept silent and answered nothing. And the high priest answered and said to him, I put you under oath by the living God. Tell us, are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Jesus said to him, It is as you said, I am. Nevertheless, I say to you, hereafter You will see the Son of Man standing at the right hand of the power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his clothing, saying, What further need do we have of a witness? You have heard the blasphemy. He has spoken. What do you think? They all condemned him and said, he is deserving of death. And then they began to spit in his face and to blindfold him and to beat him, and the officers struck him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy to us, Christ, who is the one who struck you? To understand what's happening here, we've got to look at some history. And I'm borrowing pretty heavily, sometimes word for word from John MacArthur again But in Deuteronomy 16, 18 through 20, it says this, You shall appoint judges and officers in all your gates. Which the Lord your God gives you according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment. So we're talking about a uh a a judicial system. You shall not pervert justice, you shall not show partiality, nor take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the righteous You shall follow what is altogether just, that you may live and inherit the land which the Lord your God is giving you. The Jewish people as a whole tended to take this truly to heart, at least when they were doing good. They had one of the better justice systems in the world Every town that held 120 men who were heads of households could have a council that was called a Sanhedrin, and we would think of it in terms of a court. The Sanhedrin would provide legal governance to the community that it represented. It was made up of 23 men, usually many of the same men who were in leadership in the local synagogue Since 23 is an odd number, there could be no ties if they voted. The Supreme Court of Israel was in Jerusalem It met daily in the temple except on Sabbaths and holy days. This Supreme Court was also called the Great Sanhedrin. It was made up of 71 members, including the high priest. The high priest presided over the council, and the rest of the members were made up of the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes. This group had several names. They were also called the Council of Elders and the Senate of the Sons of Israel. This group was the most powerful legislative and judicial body in Israel. They wrote laws and they enforced laws. Now, do you remember at the beginning of our study what we learned about Annas and Caiaphas? This ruling group of Jews had become very, very corrupt in Jesus' death. Now Rome, who was ultimately in charge, was very careful about who they picked to allow to oversee this group. They picked someone who would serve their interests. As a result, the person in the position of high priest had the power of Rome at their disposal if they played their cards right. Now, Anis was the real powerhouse of the group. While he was no longer technically the high priest, he may as well have been. He called the shots while his son-in-law actually sat in the seat. Caiaphas was Annas ' son-in-law. Now, that's the the makeup of the people who are in it. Now back to the legal system A person who was accused of a crime had several protections to avoid being unjustly convicted of a crime. And that's always a real helpful thing in a judicial system. The trial had to be a public trial and had to be held in daylight. There had to be ample chance for the accused to make a defense. And all charges would be dropped that were not supported by at least two witnesses. And perjury is a huge deal. The law applied the prescription in Deuteronomy 19, 16 through 21. So it says this: if a false witness rises against any man to testify against him of wrongdoing, Then both men in the controversy shall stand before the Lord, before the priests and judges who serve in those days, and the judges shall make careful inquiry. And indeed, if the witness is a false witness who has testified falsely against his brother, then you shall do to him as he thought to have done to his brother. So you shall put away the evil from among you. And those who remain shall hear and fear, and hereafter they shall not again commit such evil among you. Your eyes shall not pity, your life shall be for life. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. You see the implications in that? Any false witness known to be a false witness, known to witness falsely, ends up with the penalty for the crime that he was lying about So any false witness in Christ's trial should have been immediately charged with the crime of blasphemy, which is the charge they were trying to bring upon Christ. And they should have been by their own legal system put to death. Also, the law required when enacting the death penalty that the witnesses cast the first stones. They had to own the part that they were playing in the death of this man or woman. Also, Jewish law required a full day to elapse between the verdict and the death sentence. During that time, the court members were to fast and seriously think about what they were doing. This also allowed for further testimony if any was available. So trials were never held on a day before a feast. So you can see the problem that this system of law was very good. The problem is that the law was very good with great concern for justice. But the problem with good rules is that they're just rules. They can't make people submit to them or live by them. So as we're going through our text, we'll keep an eye on how often and how knowingly the leadership was simply doing illegal things. These actions weren't just immoral. They were flagrantly illegal. It's a possibility that a person could have been ignorant about who Christ really was. But they could not have been ignorant of the laws that they were flagrantly violating in the lynching of Christ. Now, Jesus' trial had two stages with multiple facets. The first showed Christ at the hands of the Jewish leaders. First Christ appeared before Annas, and then Christ appeared before Caiaphas and the 71 Sanhedrin And then again before the Sanhedrin after daylight. Then Christ was sent to the Gentile leaders. First Christ stood before Pilate, then Herod Antipas, and then Pilate again. It's difficult to get all of this when reading a single gospel. You pretty well need to read them all together to get the whole story. Some of the things appear to be conflicts, but they they aren't. They just appear to be. Some writers didn't bother to focus on some facts, other writers did. Okay, first, Christ was taken to Annas. Why? Because Annis was the power person. Nothing happened without Annis 's full endorsement or approval. He was calling the shots. There's nothing legal about this. There's nothing judicial about this. It's just evil and it's just political. It's the first step in this spiraling injustice. Not much is told to us about what happened before Annas, but we're told what happens with Peter. Two disciples went inside an area to be closer to Christ. One of the disciples was known by the high priest and was allowed inside. and Peter went with him. John gives us more details of what happened with Annas than our text did. In John eighteen, nineteen through twenty four, it says the high priest then asked Jesus about his disciples and his doctrine, and Jesus answered him I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in the synagogues and in the temple, where the Jews always meet, and in secret I've said nothing. Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. Indeed, they know what I said. And when he said these things, one of the officers who stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Do you answer the high priest like that? And Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil. But if well, why do you strike me? And then Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. Annas was clearly trying to find something to charge Jesus with. This was the pre-trial meeting. Or some legal plan of attack whereby they could convict him. But Christ was blameless. While Annas rarely did anything in the open, Annas rarely did anything without evil purposes. Christ was just the opposite He did all of his teaching well, not all of it, but he did most of his teaching in the open. And Annas already knew what he had been teaching because he sent spies, after all, to to watch him, to learn. At his teaching sessions. So Annas had read the notes. Jesus is calling Annas on his hypocrisy here. You had me, you know what I said. Now what's you know what are you really trying to prove? Notice that Jesus doesn't answer Annas ' questions. He doesn't owe this hypocrite an answer in this display of hypocrisy. There are times when it's appropriate for us to follow Christ's example. There are many places where we are not obligated to disclose the truth when truth is not valued just because it's asked for. Then verse 22. And when he had said these things, one of the officers who stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Do you answer the high priest like that? I would not want to be this lackey on judgment day. He used force to enforce submission to an evil system that is supposed to represent God. And he did it to the Son of God. That is not going to set well. And look what he says. Do you answer the high priest like that? Well, no. Technically, Ann is is pre is pretending to be a high priest, which is probably a stoning offense in and of itself. I love Christ's response. He's essentially saying, deal with the truth of my statement. Don't just respond with force because you don't like what I said. Was what I said true or false? That's the only concern here. That's the only issue here. The fact that I won't answer this human statement is of no concern. That's essentially what he was hitting at. So at this point, Annis could see he wasn't getting anywhere, so he sends Jesus to Caiaphas, the official liar's club. And that's where the devilish work of convicting Christ can begin. Mark 14, 53. Now we're back to our text. And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes. Okay, and when was this? The middle of the night. And what do we know about a trial in the middle of the night? It is completely, utterly illegal. It's not allowed by Jewish law. At this point, someone should have stood up and said, no, we're not doing this. Even if this is the right thing to get done, we are not doing it this way. We will not violate the law that honors God and what God says for any reason. Sometimes we need to be that voice. Sometimes when we see something being done wrong and without regard for what God says We need to stand up, even though it's unpopular. And often that's going to cost us things that are dear to us. But we got to do it anyway So we they are a very bad example to follow. Jesus is in front of the Sanhedrin, or at least part of it. It's an illegal assembly, and they're working at fast tracking Christ the crucifixion. Verse 54. But Peter followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest, and he sat with the servants and warmed himself at the fire. Here's Peter. He may be alone or he may be with the other disciple that had access into Annes ' courtyard earlier. There's something to consider here. Peter seems to have gone farther than any of the other disciples in sticking with Christ. He put himself more at risk than maybe all the others. He showed greater loyalty. And what's going to happen as a result? Greater failure. We might say that isn't fair. Shouldn't greater faithfulness be rewarded in a more positive way? Well, that isn't how it works. God's favorites often seem to be the ones who learn the hardest lessons and whose sins are the most exposed. God 's training program seems more extreme for these kind of people. Peter followed Christ further and closer than anyone else, taking more risks. But it will be Peter's denial of Christ that will be remembered by most folks. Peter in his flesh went further than most people would go. But flesh is flesh. And Peter got it, he has to learn you can't trust it. Do you ever feel like you're doing more than a lot of people in ministry or in service to Christ? But they seem to look wonderful and everything they that we do comes out into the open for everybody to see. Our mistakes or failures, they need constantly corrected or forgiven. But others seem to be able to deal with their stuff in private. Well, maybe you're in the training school of Peter. Maybe God has some special work for you to do. Verse 55. Now the chief priests and all the councils sought testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but found none. For many bore false witnesses, false witness against him, but their testimonies didn't agree. Then some rose up and bore false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple made with hands. And within three days I'll build another mate without hands. But not even then did their testimony agree. Look at the focus here. Normally someone brought charges against someone to the Sanhedrin. That's how it's supposed to be. Somebody comes to the Sanhedrin and says, this guy did this thing. Now I'm bringing charges. Then the Sanhedrin was supposed to respond as the arm of justice. But that is not the role that the Sanhedrin is playing here. The Sanhedrin was not legally allowed to initiate charges, but that is exactly what they are doing. The Sanhedrin has brought a man who they assume to be guilty. In fact, he's allowed nothing other than to be guilty. He is guilty in their minds, and they're not he's not going to get out of there without a guilty verdict And they'll continue to pursue convicting him until they accomplish it. This too was illegal. That was never the way this court should have acted. But this court was no longer a representation of the justice of God. It was now being run by the father of lies. The court has a guilty verdict to give. Now they just have to dig up the evidence. No participants in this event could even pretend to be looking for justice at this point. They couldn't even pretend it. Everyone in this event was complicit in this evil. They all knew, all, every single one knew that they were acting wrongly. Then look at the witnesses. They bore false witness. Essentially all of them contradicted each other's stories. You can imagine the leaders looking at each other and thinking, it's true. It is so hard to find good help. Because these guys couldn't even lie well. What we do know about what should happen to, or what do we know about what should happen to false witnesses? They should have been convicted of perjury and given the penalty for blasphemy. This is something that God gets angry about. That's what Caiaphas should have torn his robe over, right there, when these false witnesses were wit uh testifying. What does happen to them? Nothing. Again, there is no party in this event who is innocent or ignorant. Every single one of them bears the guilt of being part of this lynching. Every one of them is aware of their guilt Now, what testimony did they bring? We talked about it. I'll destroy the temple. And what did Christ actually say It was in John 2, 19 through 21, and Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Then the Jews said, It has taken 46 years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking of the temple of his body. Now, it would be very difficult to hang Christ on that statement. Well, for one thing, he didn't say he would tear down that temple. And the false witnesses were embellishing what Christ said to make it more inflammatory. They wanted to make it sound like Christ was saying he was going to lay siege to the actual temple and th the building and destroy that building. Now that would be a crime Rome would not be pleased about. But in their embellishments of the truth, they couldn't even agree with each other what Christ actually said. We can see now why Christ was so wise in using parables and speaking in figurative ways. He was much harder to hang legally with what he said. Then verse 60, and the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Do you answer nothing? What is it that these men testify against you? Now Caiophys, who is probably used to having his way by force and extortion, reaches the boiling level. He's getting ticked off. Caiaphas has probably dealt with a lot of powerless Jewish people who had the kowtow to Caiaphas 's brutal tactics if they were to eat and if they were to be able to worship. So he's like a spoiled kid. Caiaphas stands up and he asks Christ a question. Essentially Caiaphas is saying, so what about these men are saying? to you? What about the things these men are saying to you about you? What what about your destroying the temple and in three days raising it up again? As if his force toward Christ is going to have Christ, you know, cows out of him But Christ kept silent. He wasn't going to be pushed around. And he answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, saying, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Jesus was not going to give this pretense of a legal trial legitimacy by answering the questions asked of him of this point. He kept silent. He was innocent. He had done nothing wrong. He didn't need to respond. The son of the blessed was the Jews' way of saying son of God. They tried not to use the name of God. We'll talk about that next week. Actually, we learn in other Gospels that the high priest said, I put you under oath by the living God. Tell us, are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Now, by answering this question, which Jesus does answer , Jesus accepted the oath. Christ evidently accepted it as a legitimate question for which he would give an answer. Jesus said, I am, and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven. When Jesus said, I am, this would have been recognized as a reference to when God said, I am, that I am. The words son of man were a well-known reference to the Messiah from Daniel 7, 13 through 14, and we're going to look at that more next week as well. The word power was known as a title for God in Acts 2. 33 and 7. 55. Jesus knew exactly what he was doing here. He was claiming deity and he knew this would cost him his life. We see again that his life was not being taken from him. He gave it up. He would not have had to say anything. But he said this because it was time for his condemnation under this unjust religious system and time to die at the hands of the Romans. It was time. In the fullness of time. Verse 63, then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further new need do we have of a witness? Here's the height of hypocrisy. The high priest tore his clothes. The high priest. For his clothes. This is normally done when somebody has a great deal of grief. The high priest was not allowed to express himself this way except under one condition: hypocrisy. I'm sorry. Blasphemy. We've already seen what what regard Caiaphas had toward God. He shows no respect for God or God's law in this whole trial. He knows full well he's spitting in God's face with every action of his position of authority. He hates God and could care less about true spirituality. But as religion often does, he shows great indignation, great play acting about the things of God. He rips his robe over his concern that Christ has claimed he is part of the Godhead. If this trial had any sincerity in it at all, one might have a shred of compassion. But it has none. The whole trial is nothing but a sham. Annas had Christ's death in mind as soon as Christ stopped the prophet machine at the temple courts. Christ sealed his doom when he interfered with the money machine of Anis and his cronies. Caiaphas knows which side his bread's buttered on, and he's going to carry out Annas ' wishes no matter what happens. Unless we have any sympathy on these men, we need to realize every one of them knew they were violating God's law by everything they did to Christ. They knew better, every one of them. They knew that they were responsible to carry out these legal proceedings legally. They had no right to do what they did, but they did it anyway. One application we can make from today is the danger of assumptions. The danger of assumptions. The stronger our unchecked, unverified assumptions are, the greater danger our thinking is in. And it will lead to harm to ourselves and to others. These leaders assumed that Jesus was wrong. They assumed that he was evil, they assumed he was of the devil, but they never allowed their assumptions to be checked. They never really investigated the truth regarding their assumptions. And as a result, they carried out their plans to convict the Son of God. And all the while they probably thought they were doing something good for the country. That's how Anis uh justified it in his own mind. I had a conversation with a believer the other day who was challenging some of my doctrine. And truthfully, I wanted to be angry and blow the person off. It was a very real temptation. He was attacking my assumptions. And the more I thought about it, the more I realized that to test what he was saying was was going to take a lot of work And if I'm wrong, it'll mean a lot of change. At the same time, I realize that I owe it to the truth to recheck my assumptions. I need to make sure they line up with what Scripture says, like I've thought they have in the past. Truth is too important for us to allow our assumptions to stand unchecked. The same is true for the reasons that we do the things that we do. We assume we do many things for good reasons. Or we assume that the things that we do are okay. But have we a check have we checked our assumptions? Do we know the truth about why and what we do? And the truth about what Scripture says about why and what we do. If I was the devil and I was asking God for one tool to lead people astray, I'd ask for this. The ability to insert unchecked assumptions in people's minds. If I could do that, the rest would come along quite nicely. It would even allow a bunch of so-called spiritual leaders to put the Son of God on trial and convict him. What do we assume is a true True. Let's uh close by singing number three seventy three