I was raised in an era when the church in America as a whole was not doing a very good job in teaching parents how to raise children. You might know that by looking at me. But uh there weren't many books or resources on the topic. There was no internet. There were no DVDs. There BHS had not been invented yet. In fact, there weren't even tape players. If it wasn't on a record or radio, uh parents weren't going to hear about it. At the same time, TV was gaining popularity. So now there was a new device that would pump the world right into Christian living rooms day after day. And the public schools at that time had a much different environment than our parents remembered from their school days. This created an environment that was very difficult for my my uh parents' generation They were not equipped to deal with the changes that were happening to the family and in many cases weren't even fully aware of the dangers because they were relatively new. And my generation became the first to be raised by the television. At least that's my perspective on that time, based on limited knowledge and and you know, a lot of the older folks that I had talked to. But out of that vacuum of focus and resources grew organizations whose sole purpose was to right that wrong. So the pendulum swung from one side of being not very well equipped and not very focused, uh, little focus given to raising a family by Christian means to the other side. where a Christian's priority or their primary, and some would even say their sole responsibility as a Christian is to raise a Christian family. And we tend to live more in that world with the pendulum swung to the other side. We now have lots of tools to help us raise our kids. We have resources that challenge us not to accept the stuff that the world is throwing at us. We even have a lot of good resources that challenge even how society picks a mate. and better ways of doing that that fit more with the scriptural uh concepts and precepts. It's it's a lot of good stuff. Stuff I could use certainly use when growing up. But along with all that, I fear there's a danger. The danger is making Storgay family, physical bloodline family The highest priority in our lives. How many times have you heard a Christian man say, My most important ministry is to my wife and family? Have you ever read that verse? Have you ever read that verse in Scripture? I haven't We're in danger of deifying the me and mine mentality that goes with that whole arena. And what that leads to is an abandonment of the church and our duty towards it. We live in two kingdoms: an earthly kingdom and a heavenly one. We have laws that we must abide by as citizens of the United States. We also have duties to that kingdom The same is true of our heavenly kingdom. But the heavenly kingdom is of a higher priority. It's eternal in its scope. The United States Kingdom is temporary. The kingdom of God is permanent. In the same way we have two families We have a flesh and bloodline family that we were born into and that we have maybe born children into. It comes with very clear responsibilities There are duties a husband must do, duties a wife must do, duties a father must do, duties a mother must do, and duties children must do. We fail Christ if we do not perform those duties in the manner he tells us to perform them. But that is not the highest duty. That is not the ultimate family. This family is temporary. There's nothing in the Bible I remember reading that says there will be any bloodline divisions in heaven. John Piper has a book that's called Momentary Marriage. This Momentary Marriage. And the title captures the essence of his perspective. An earthly marriage is temporary. Some spouses can make it seem like an eternity, but but it is not. And not to be mean a reflection on you or anything, um, but you are the one I know the best. Um it 's It's only death do we part. Death un un until death do we part. That's as long as the marriage will last. And our lives according to Scripture are like the lifespan of grasses in the field, like the time it takes for smoke to dissipate. They are short from the perspective of eternity. That's what our store-gay families are. They are temporary. So they're not as important as the family that lasts forever. The family that lasts forever is the church family. And I believe that's what our text is about to show us this morning. Now remember that last week the text mentioned that Jesus' family had heard about what was going on, and it said this, Mark 3, 21. But when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold of him, for they said he is out of his mind. That's Christ's family talking about Christ. Let's go uh fix Jesus because he's in a bind, he's he's going nuts So the family intended to set Christ straight. They were going to exhibit some tough love in their mind to one of their clans. We've all been in the situation where we know a confrontation is coming, and we know that it's going to go amiss because the affronted party is carrying all the wrong assumptions. And since it won't be profitable, a profitable conversation, it's sometimes worth completely avoiding. That's what's going on. Now in Mark three thirty one it says, Then his brothers and his mother came and standing outside they sent to him, calling him. And in Matthew twelve, forty six it says, While he was stand while he was still talking to the multitude Behold, his mother and brother stood outside seeking to speak with him. Okay. So we've been told what the intentions are of the people wanting to interrupt this meeting. We know what they're intending to do. Jesus' family probably has good intentions, at least the way they view it. They're simply taking their assumptions and applying them to their family. But as we said last week , good intentions doesn't make them right. They were wrong. So Jesus is in his house ministering to a multitude People are sitting in every area a person can sit in. So there's no way the Jesus family can can make their way into the house. So evidently the family tried to send a messenger to Christ to get his attention. And they're essentially summoning Christ to come outside and speak with them. Then they plan to tell Christ what he needs to do. Think of this as the compulsion of family obligations. That's what's coming at Christ. The compulsion of family obligations. They probably think when they call Christ outside that Christ should be compelled by duty to his family to tippy on out there in a hurry and respectfully listen to his mother and brothers. They probably expected their call to Christ to crop cause Christ to drop everything, everything he was doing, and to prioritize them. After all, didn't his family go out of their way for him? They probably traveled 30 miles to get there. Imagine that. Imagine if your family walked 30 miles in the heat to get where you're teaching, and they're outside waiting for you. That was the real setting. That's what's really happening here. Mary, Christ's mother. And James, Joseph, Judah, and Simon, Christ's half-brothers, along with his half-sister, are probably waiting for Christ to respond to their summons, standing outside. One can imagine their hands on their hips. At first, maybe they were uh conveying an attitude of concern to begin with, but as time went on, we can imagine that they're getting more irritated by the moment. Let's read both accounts to the end. Mark 3, 32. And a multitude was sitting around him, and they said to him, Look, your mother and your brother are outside seeking you. But he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brothers? And he looked around in a circle at those who sat about him, and he said, Here are my mother and brothers For whoever does the will of God is my my brother and my sister and my mother. And then Matthew 12, 47, a parallel passage. Then one said to him, and the first time it said a multitude, and this time it says one said to him, Look, your mother and your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak with you. But he answered and said to the one who told him, Who is my mother and who are my brothers? And he stretched out his hand toward his disciples and said, Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. Look how Christ responds. Now keep in mind that in their culture, children add a great obligation to their families and parents, even into adulthood Those in the crowd likely felt very uncomfortable now. They're waiting for Christ to respond to this summons. When we read both accounts, we see that it starts with one person conveying the news that to that Christ's family Is outside waiting for him. Okay, so it starts with one messenger, and then the crowd joins in. As if they didn't hear it the first time. You can just see it. Everyone is uncomfortable with what Christ is doing here. He's not being polite. He probably just went right on teaching. And then, as if Christ was stupid, people start reminding him that his family is outside. They might be assuring Christ, hey, it's okay if you interrupt this. After all, your family's out there. What we have here are three examples to learn from. The first is the crowd. When someone appears to have their priorities fixed on the right thing When they're walking primarily concerned with what God Himself would have him do, we would do well to not assume that we know how to live that person's life better than that person does. Here the crowd thinks that they know what Jesus should do more than Jesus does. Their discomfort with his departure from the norm causes them to get bossy. They try to get Jesus to conform to their expectations of what they think he should do. How often do we feel like this? We see others around us and they're not getting with the program. They're not living the way that we think they should live. They're not prioritizing what we prioritize. They're living differently than we live. And God forbid that they might be sacrificing their own comfort for the kingdom of God. People living radically. Maybe they refuse to talk about petty things, being absorbed with more important things. Maybe they come across as antisocial just because they have little appetite for small talk. Maybe they seem tactless in their conversations because they truly watch out for Christ's glory and they feel the need to point out things that do not glorify Christ at the expense of people's comfort. This is what often happens when God really gets a hold of a person. He makes them uncomfortable to be around. How do we respond to our discomfort? Do we act just like the crowd here, trying to get Christ to perform according to normal expectations? Do we try to get them to conform more to the way that we're living? We would do well not to. We ought to take our lead from the person most absorbed with God's will. At least we should challenge our assumptions before we place judgment on another follower. The crowd should have said nothing in this case. They should have just watched. The second example is Christ's family. And they too are a bad example. In what ways do we expect our family members to conform to our expectations? Even when those expectations have nothing to do with what God cares about. I really like it when my kids and their spouses and especially their children come to our house for a holiday. I really like having them all together and playing a card game at the dining room table. But at the same time, God does not say that they must be there. And if at any time any of them would become absorbed in following God in a way that would require them to miss these events, I cannot be critical. I'd want to be But I can't be. God does not say they have to be home for Christmas. I like having Jonathan here for church on Sunday. But he has commitments to his church that demand that he be back there on Sundays. And I have no right to complain about that or to correct him. He's doing what he should do before God Before we seek to correct our family members, we would do well to ask ourselves, why am I doing this? Why am I doing this? Why do I feel compelled to set them straight? We'll often find that our response is more about what we want than about what God wants. We want conformity because it makes our lives easier or more pleasant or less stressful. And we often use the authority that we have been given for all the wrong reasons to accomplish all the wrong things Sometimes there should be discomfort in our homes. We need the discomfort of finding out that what we are doing is wrong. We need the discomfort of disclosure when we're trying to keep sin hidden, when we're trying to keep a lid on it. We need the discomfort of conflict when there's injustice happening right under our roofs. We need to do the hard work of making sure we use whatever authority we have to aid in making people more holy. Not of making ourselves and our surroundings more comfortable. There's a great deal of discomfort that's necessary in our families for holiness to have its proper place. Now, how do you think Christ's family felt when the messenger came back out and told the family what Christ had said? Can you just imagine? They're standing out there, walk thirty miles, they're standing out in the heat, waiting for Christ to come out so he they can straighten him out because they love him so much. And uh And out somebody comes and says, Well, I don't think he's gonna come. He he basically said that he's with his mother and brothers. They were coming to save the day, and Christ wouldn't so much as give them the time of day. Yet even though they may have felt so offended, it was truly they who were the offenders Yeah, that's pretty well typical in our lives, I think, as well. Had they believed in who Christ really was, they would not have been so presumptive. So that's the family. Now the third example is Christ. And his naturally is a great example. First, look at what his life is steeped in. Christ is doing direct ministry. He is preaching the truth to everyone. He's doing miracles. And he's doing all of this at great expense to himself, at the risk of his own life. Basically, Christ is fully involved in doing the will of God, his father. It isn't like he was absorbed with hobbies and distractions He was doing those things that God most wanted done. So he knows that his family are outside ready to dress him down. He has probably known about this event before his family even thought of it. He knows that his family is absolutely wrong in their assessment. They need to change. They need to repent and they need to get with the program. What they need most right now is to change from their wrong behavior. They need that more than they need a few minutes with Christ. And Christ is going to serve notice to this fact in a very forceful meaning. He is not even going to give them the satisfaction of his audience. Christ also knows that nothing they're uh they're going to say to him is going to be helpful. He knows he's in the center of God's will and is not about to be distracted from it. That's the beauty of knowing you're doing what God wants you to do. You can turn a bit of a deaf ear to those who are unfairly critical. Now we're not in a position as pure as Christ, that's for sure. We've we'd we have to be a little more introspective probably than he would have to be, because he knew that he was totally in the will of God. We have sin creeped in in so many ways. We need to we need to ask hard questions when we find ourselves in situations like this. But think about this. How hard would it have been for Christ to go outside and talk to his family? How hard would that have been? Really? It couldn't have been that hard. He had a perfect opportunity here to keep the peace. He could have catered to his family's demands and smoothed things over. But he would not Why? In fact, what he did exacerbated the problem. He did nothing to soothe that sore. What he did made it worse. There are times with other people where the worst thing that we can do is keep the peace. The worst thing we can do is cater to their demands. Those are often points of opportunity that God has provided us with. When a person has expectations upon us that are not godly expectations, When their selfish expectations created by their own fleshly desires and motives, often the best thing we can do is to make that problem blow up We must respond in a way that says we are not willing to accept responsibility for such wrong expectations. And to do it in such a way to make our point most strongly. That is exactly what Christ did here. If Christ would have gone out to his family, they would have likely kept the opinion that they could interfere with Christ's ministry in the future whenever they felt the need to. The way Christ handled it, you could rest assured that they would never assume that again. They were never going to walk 30 miles to make demands of him. Those days are officially over after this day. Christ did not go out with them and appeal to them. He didn't speak to them. He simply ignored them. Sometimes when we're confronting stubborn, demanding attitudes from others, we've got to do the same thing. We must do the thing that will cause that behavior to end. Normally, that's going to make things very stressful and very uncomfortable, just like in Christ's family. But it's going to push the situation to a resolution, and it will drive all parties to have their best shot at seeing the truth about themselves before God. And that's what we're after in ministry. To cater to demanding expectations may seem kind and loving, but ultimately it's just cowardice and foolishness. We should never accept the blame for conflict or turmoil or emotional upheaval when all we are doing is rejecting a person's unrealistic expectation of us. When we accept that kind of blame in the interest of keeping peace, we're just lying. Christ could have done that. He could have done that. He did not teach us though those kind of attempts at avoiding conflict by catering to demanding people. What he showed us was a commitment to doing what his father wanted him to do and an intolerance of those who would make other demands upon him. He was not going to dance to the fiddle being played for him, even though everyone expected him to. And he does not expect us to do that either. Those responses will just rob us of the true ministry he wants us to do to others. We've got to see here that following Christ does not always make us nicer. In fact, sometimes it makes us less nuts. Because it's very uncomfortable to live in the presence of truth. It's very stressful to have our true selves confronted with our need to change. And sometimes making that point clear to ourselves or others will take us past the boiling point to where we emotionally explode. Being nice would avoid that unpleasantness. Being loving will not Fact to our text, verse thirty-three. But he answered them saying, Who is my mother or my brothers? And he looked around in a circle at those who sat about him and said, Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of God is my brother and my sister and my mother. Look at this closely. We learned a couple things here. First, look how Christ prioritizes the family of God over the Storgay family. He has his family tree outside calling to him. And he points around to say, this is the family that matters most to me. These are the relations I prioritize. Why? Because they are spiritual and they are eternal This is a family that is not created by a man fulfilling his natural earthly desires. This is a family that's created by a miracle of God. It's a family of infused faith. It's a family that shares all the same Father, our Father in heaven. And the Father has selected each and every member of this family to play a part. I think we make a huge mistake when we regard our earthly families the same way we we regard the church. Christ clearly showed a different priority. In fact, he displayed it in a way that the priorities of one would often cost the pleasures of the other. Christ said things like this, Luke 14, 26, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes in his own life also he cannot be my disciple. Now, don't you think if you were looking on that you might have thought Christ hated his family in this situation? When you saw him and the position that he took prioritizing the family of God in that building, wouldn't you maybe have gotten the in i the impression he didn't like his family very much He doesn't love his family. That was not true of Christ. Christ truly did love his family. Remember when Christ told John to look after his mom after Christ died? Remember that? For that to be a detail that he covered in his severe suffering he that he was going through shows that it was a very important obligation to Christ that his mother be taken care of. The same mother that was outside annoying him at this at this uh meeting. The point is that when the higher priority trumps the lower ones, it will sometimes look like hatred in contrast. That's what it's referring to. Scripture commands us to take care of our families. And whatever you do, don't leave this building saying, Well, John said it doesn't matter about your family, just take care of the church. 1 Timothy 5. 8 says, But if anyone does not provide his own, and especially for those of his household, he hath denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Those are strong words. We cannot in any way get the idea that following Christ frees us from our obligation to do our duties toward our families. In fact, we're commanded in just how we are to carry out those duties. God has ordained it. He has clearly communicated it. There is specific ink given for that purpose. It's important that we don't get confused about this. The church is not there to do your duty to your family. So don't expect it to. You are given a job to do to your family, and it's your job to do it, and it's not the churches to do it. You've got to do your duty. That's part of your Christian commitment. But you are to be doing that duty in the context of a church where people in that body have meaningful relationships with your family. When this happens, you have all the gifts of the body of Christ being used for your benefit and for those in your household, and you are exuding and exhibiting the giftedness that you have been given to the body of Christ. That's how it's supposed to happen. But when the two priorities of Christ's family and our earthly family come into conflict, it's very clear which one we have to choose. Matthew 10, 34. Do not think I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. And look where he applies this sword. Where that happens. For I've come to sit a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be of those those of his own household. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me, and he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. We see here that Christ's primary priority was not to improve our bloodline families. He didn't come to cater to them. They are not his primary focus. His kingdom, his heavenly His heavenly family is the primary focus. And sometimes bloodline families will be absolutely torn in half in due to the priority of the heavenly family. And Christ doesn't back down at all in this. He doesn't say, I'm sorry. He doesn't show sympathy about that dilemma. Ultimately, he knows his own worth. He knows the value of the family of God. So he says, if you're so attached to your bloodline family, so be it. You're not worthy of being part of his heavenly family. Christ made this extremely clear. And we're walking a balance here. It's hard to to say these things and not not sway too far to one side or the other. We have got to be loving our families the way Christ tells us to. We have got to fulfill our responsibilities to our families the way that Christ tells us to And ultimately they are not the highest priorities. That's what I'm trying to get across. And what you get, the idea you get when you're done thinking about that I'm gonna be a busy boy. Because there's a lot to do. Always always to carry out our duties and to love one another and to love those in our families. Our loyalties must be with Christ. We cannot allow other attachments to supersede our attachment to Him. And I think that some of the ways that our Christian culture deals with family is very misleading. They're swinging the pendulum back further than it should go. It makes too much of family and would have people believing that their only ministry is to their family, and that is the context that they should be doing it in. And pretty soon the earthly bloodline family takes the place of the heavenly family and no good can come of that. We will shortchange the ministries that should happen to our families and from our families by secluding our families. I don't pretend to know how all this should work as we flesh it out. Rad and I and Mike sat around campfires forever talking about how body life should really be lived out. And the one thing Mike always came back to is I don't know how to do it. I just know it needs to be done. But it's clear that our bloodline families should be raised in the context of our heavenly family. And we need to always keep in mind which one Christ prioritizes. We have duties to both, but ultimately only one lasts forever, and only one Father is worthy of our worship. Second, notice how Christ defines a believer. A member of the family of God, a believer, is one who what? For whoever does the will of God is my brother and my sister and my mother. A believer is one who does the will of God. A believer is one who obeys God. That's nothing new. We've looked at this over and over and over again. So, does that mean that a believer earns his salvation by obeying God? Absolutely not. Absolutely not, nothing could be farther from the truth, that could never happen. A person can never earn their salvation, period, anyway Does it mean that a believer obeys God perfectly? Absolutely not. First John tells us that if we say we haven't sinned, we're a liar. No, it does not mean that we do it perfectly. But what do we know about a believer? A believer is a new creature. They're born again. And they're given the power to obey and the desire to obey. And at the end of the day, that wins. They have new hearts. If you find a person who refuses to obey God persistently and consistently, you are not looking at a believer no matter how good their theology is. But if a person is a believer, they will obey God. They won't do it perfectly, but they will do it persistently and consistently. Don't ever buy into any definition of a Christian that defies what Christ says here. Whoever does the will of the Father is the Son of the Father. Well, I think the Lord has given us plenty to chew on this week. Let me ask this in closing, what one change are you convicted to make this week due to what you have heard? What one change are you convicted to make due to what you have heard from God's Word? If there's something clear to you, I urge you to write it down and make it part of your week to see to it that you implement that change in whatever way you can. Don't lose it before you walk out the door. I think the Lord has had a lot for us this morning, and I I pray that it is used well and in his glorification. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for what you have given us. We thank you the way that your word rips into the deepest parts of us. We thank you for the guidance it gives us in our decision making. We thank you for the part of it that reveals it reveals about you in all of this and how you see things and how we are to see things. We thank you for the examples, good and bad, that you show us, because we so often can find ourselves in the situation of the bad example And it's so sweet to see that there are alternatives and to see what they are and how they are carried out so that we can change. We thank you that you want us to change and you will empower the changes that are according to your will, and that we can pray powerfully. About that to happen because we know that's your will. So we ask that you would change us according to your will. Change us to look more like Christ. Whether that's popular or unpopular, Lord, we don't care. We want to be more like Him, no matter where the chips fall. And we ask for this in Jesus' name. Amen.