We're doing another exception this week. I guess we've had a few of those in the last couple of years. Last time around this time I preached a sermon to myself and I shared it with you as well. It was based on First Corinthians ten. The focus was on verse 31, where it says, so whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. And I said this, and this is all a quote from the sermon last year. The primary question is, or at least should be, how can I glorify Christ more this year than last year? To make the point. Are we all together on this? I asked last year. Is this what we all want? I know most of you enough to believe this is what we all want. As I thought about our body and a new year, I thought it would be very good if we start off this with this year with the challenge, and this is still a quote from last year. I think from talking to you that glorifying God better is truly what most of us want. From the youngest Christian here to the oldest, this is what we must want. Don't ask for it. How can I glorify Christ better and enjoy him more? I mean really, why wouldn't we want this? As afraid as we might be that we might fail again, isn't that what we all want? And this sermon is for you here who are like me. It's for those who are dissatisfied with our progress. It's for those who yearn to live in a way that pleases our Lord even more than we please him today. And then I offered this challenge at the end, and it's the questions that are in front of you. Prayerfully ask yourself these questions, all of us. Where is my life failing most to glorify God? In light of the commands to love God and love people, and in light of the command to make disciples, what am I doing that I believe I should not do? What am I not doing that I believe I should do? What few things could I change daily to change that? What accountability can I put into place to assure that I will do these things And also pray something like this daily, Lord, please guide me this day to someone I can witness to and show me very clearly when I have the opportunity. So my big question that's the end of the quote from last sermon, uh last year's sermon, my big question this morning is, how do we do? How did we do? What victories have we experienced? What small changes have we made in our lives that we thought were necessary last year? How well did we commit ourselves to those changes and dedicate ourselves to those changes? How dependent were we upon God to help us do those things? How well did we become accountable to others to help us do these things? This morning I want to encourage us to look at our lives again. It's always a great time, I think, at the beginning of the year. We'll do this by taking a look at someone most of us are very familiar with. His name is John Mark. He's the quitter that refused to quit. The quitter that refused to quit. The first mention of John Mark is in Acts 12. Peter had just walked out of his prison cell on his first cell break, and he wanted to meet his friends. We read this in Acts 12. 12. When Peter realized this, he realized that God had rescued him from Herod He went to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose other name was Mark. That's where we get John Mark from, where many were gathered together and were praying. So right off the bat, We find out what kind of family this John Mark came from. His mother's name was Mary, and there was a prayer meeting in her house that would have been extremely risky to have. The people in that meeting were friends with a man who was just dragged to prison for a crime that all of them are guilty of, believing in Jesus. So this was a devout mother who undoubtedly raised her son in this God-fearing environment. It's also likely that they had some wealth. The bigger houses were owned by the wealthier people, and the bigger houses are the places that you normally met because they have bigger rooms. So it's likely that he's like some of us, not all of us, but some of us who were raised in Christian families. And evidently he stood out as a solid Christian. It may have helped that he was young and evidently unmarried Uh that made him highly qualified to help Paul out because where Paul was going, he wasn't likely to be allowed to take a wife and it helped to be young. So it looks to me like Paul and Barnabas had that same idea and they recruited him. In verse 25 of chapter 12 in Acts, it says, And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had completed their service, bringing with them John, whose other name was Mark. That's a long name. John, whose other name was Mark. But John Mark. So John Mark leaves his home to embark on an adventure of ministry with his cousin Farnabus. and Paul. And we'll find out that Barnabas was his cousin in Colossians 4. 10. It says, Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas. Now Paul and Barnabas take John Mark with them, as is seen in Acts 13, where it says, When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the Word of God in the synagogue of the Jews, and they had John to assist them. So John Mark went and he helped. Now we don't know what he did other than he assisted them. And it's always helpful to have some person around who can be a go-for for you. He can, you know, he can carry out various things. M mu some of the unskilled kind of labor. But let's stop here to think about this. Here's this young man, probably in his teens, and he's related to Barnabas. He's family to Barnabas. John Mark lived with his mother. Nothing said about his father that I know of. He was a believer, a strong enough one to have a track record that Paul would consider him to be on his team. So everyone expected good things from this John Mark. And this young man probably expected good things from himself. But there are things that he didn't know about himself yet. He hadn't lived long enough. He didn't yet realize his weaknesses. He didn't see how prone he was to certain failures. He was loaded with potential, viewed highly by all those around him, but life had not yet hit him on the head. For young people, especially, look at young Mark. Learn from him. It's always right for us to be confident in God. But it's rarely good to be overly confident in ourselves In our own potential, in our own ability, especially in our own motive. And when you're young, there's a lot that you don't know about yourself. There might be things you think you will never do, but don't be too sure in yourself. You may find you're not nearly as strong as you think you are. So John Mark had the honor of being chosen for this ministry. And maybe it went to his head. We don't know. But very soon into the ministry, Paul runs into some serious conflict. He runs into a magician. Paul was ministering to a man, the proconsul Sergius Paulus But Elimus was a magician who wanted to keep all the supernatural rights to himself. He wanted to be the spiritual voice on this island. He wanted to be the religious big shot. He wanted to be the go-to person. So he was doing everything that he could to lead that co-counsel away from Christ while Paul is working to lead him to Christ. But Paul rebuked Elimus, and the Lord made him blind, and then the proconsul believed. Now, think of this from John Mark's perspective. He may have never had to deal with a great conflict before. Maybe he's never really needed to stand up to someone as serious and as demon-filled as Elimus probably was Maybe he had never seen evil up close and personal like this. Maybe he has never seen spiritual warfare from a front row seat before. He's making a jump from commonplace into the big leagues of ministry all at once. Or maybe, just maybe, he was simply homesick. He had never been away from home before. We don't know. And the more he thought about it, the more he just wanted to go home. He felt like he had to go home. He was compelled to go home. We don't know, but we do know this. He quit in the middle of the mission. Not even the middle, the very very beginning. Acts 13, 13 says, Now Paul and his companions set sail from Paphas and came to Pergia and Pamphylia, and John left them and returned to Jerusalem. John Mark Quip. Oh, I bet he wished he could remove that phrase from scripture. John left them. We can imagine him talking to Barnabas and telling him, I just need to go home. I just, I just need I can't do this. I can't do this. I need to go home. Have you ever considered what a terrible regret that would have created in John Mark's life? He was likely embarrassed about this failure the rest of his life. And it was a failure in front of everyone. Everyone who knew that John Mark went with Paul would know that John Mark quit. The ministry elite, the sending church at Antioch, John Mark's family. John Mark had failed in the most important responsibility he had ever had. John Mark was a quitter. Do you know anything about regrets? Do you know anything about regrets? Do you know anything about failures? I think we all do. I sure do. They meet me every morning, I go in the shower. Not sure why they wait there, but that's where I find them. The ache of regret is a painful ache. I think its termination date is only when we see Jesus. I think regret is the seed that's planted by God to inspire wisdom. It's the I'll never do that again pill. John Mark failed, and as such, I think he provides us a powerful example of what we must do when we fail. I bring this up because if you're like me, twenty twenty four was not an unrelented spiritual success. It's been a battle. And in that battle, we haven't won all the skirmishes. I I suspect you're like me in that. You haven't won all our skirmishes. And even those good times when we captured the hill. It's an unrelenting struggle to retain it. You and I fail. Sometimes we're the Paul in the story, sometimes we're the John Mark in the story, and sometimes we're the Barnabas in the story, helping others get back into the fray. But it's easy to see ourselves in one of those roles at any point in any any time in our lives. As we face a new year, I think it's helpful to be encouraged by the life of a quitter. Now when I say quitter, you might think I'm being harsh. I hope you do. But think about it. What is a quitter? It's somebody who quits. Isn't that how we think? And if someone does a thing, they are that thing. That's kind of how we think. Well, what sin do we fail in mostly? Well, if you name that sin, and some of them are convenient, you can put an ER after them, and that's that's how people think of it. If you quit, you're a quitter. If you commit adultery, you're an adulterer. If you have idolatry, you're an idolater. And in fact, we can think of ourselves that way. I do this sin, I've done it, and it's hard to get rid of. I am that thing. But we would be wrong to. In Scripture, we find a list of the ERs that will not be in eternity with us. And at the same time, we find a list of the Rs that we used to be, but we're not those things anymore. Which is kind of cool. In 1 Corinthians 6 9, it says, Or do you not know that the unrighteous Will not inherit the kingdom of God. Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers Nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And this is the beautiful part, and such were some of you. Meaning they were these things with the ERs behind them. That was their identity. That is who they were, and that's what they were doing. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of God. In other words, you aren't that anymore. That was your identity. That is no longer your identity You may have done those things, but you are not those things. Even in our failures, we have to cling to the identity that Christ gives us. Not the identity that we have earned by our deeds. Then Acts 15, 37-39. Now Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark. But Paul thought best, that's probably a lightweight, an understatement, Paul thought best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work. And there arose a sharp disagreement, so that they separated from each other. That's a pretty sharp disagreement when you got two brothers as tight as they were. Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus. Now, there are a lot of things to notice here. First, the whole context makes it clear that John Mark failed. John Mark had to own that. He had to see it as it is. That's the first step forward. We have to see the truth of our situation and be willing to admit it to God and to others as needed. Restoration does not happen through excuses and blaming others or refusing to deal with it or discuss it. It comes from accepting the blame due to us and repenting of our part in it. And often we have reservations about that because the other part p person may have played a part too. And that's often true. We can't confess the other person's failure. We can only confess our own. When people point out our failure, it's easy to blow them off or complain about their style or be too offended by what they just said to respond. But our starting point should be truth What is the truth of what is being said? That is more important than anything else. What is the truth of what is being said? People who love truth prioritize truth first over everything else. Sometimes people come to us with a bad motive. They come to us to hurt us. But listen to them, because they can often do you good even though they don't intend you well. Listen to what they say. Is it true? You and I began 2025 the best way possible, or we big we begin 2025 the best way possible by making sure the sins of 2024 And any other time earlier, are confessed thoroughly and properly. We begin 2025 well by confessing well what was before it Lay yourself bare to your Lord and admit that what he sees is what really is. Any efforts on our part to avoid blame or deceptions. We do well to get right to the heart of the matter and confess accurately. It's one thing to confess. The most good comes out of accurate confession. That was the first step. That's the first step when we have failed. We own it and we get forgiveness. Second, notice that Paul was against taking John Mark with him. And he didn't apologize for that. We never see any apology in Scripture for that. We might think, wow, that Paul was not very forgiving. But forgiveness was not the issue here. Competence for the job was the issue. And John Mark had proven himself, by Paul's standards, incompetent. He quit. That was a fact. We learn from this that if we own up to our failures, we must also accept that those failures have consequences. Our failures may cost us privileges. If I were to steal money from you and I confess it to you, you have to forgive me. You're obligated by Christ to forgive me. I have to provide restitution, but when all is done, that does not mean that you're going to leave your cash drawer open when I'm around. I may have lost that privilege. Forgiveness does not always mean renewed privilege. Forgiveness does not always mean renewed privilege. Paul had every right not to allow John Mark the privilege of being on his ministry team. That's different from the right of worshiping together. And that's a significant difference. Those are two separate things. Paul would have argued for John Mark's right to be part of Paul's body and to fellowship with him while at the same time denying him the privilege of being on his ministry team. John Mark's failure was serious. Third note that John Mark must have been stepping up again. And that's a big deal. He must have been saying, Yeah, I want to try this again. John Mark must have been faced with the temptation to quit. It would have been easy to want to avoid the embarrassment of having his failure being pointed out again. And rest assured, he knew it was going to be discussed. If he said, hey, I want to go What do you think is going to happen? They're going to have a talk. So by John Mark stepping up, he was shown the courage to face his failure. He was willing for his failure to be made a topic. His greatest failure in his short life was going to be the topic of conversation. That is humble courage. That is humble courage. Humility involves the willingness to face the reality of who we are being exposed, when that exposure is necessary for greater service. When we hide as a result of our failure, it's often due to our pride. We're trying to cover what we are. We want to avoid consequences of failure. Always be suspicious of yourself when you hide away from situations to avoid exposure of yourself. There might be valid reasons to do it, but often It's due to pride. Now, an even worse temptation that John Mark could have succumbed to was to allow his failure to define him. To allow his failure to define him. I think that's a terrible danger, and I think we fall into that prey easily. He could have said, I've quit. I uh I quit before. I am a quitter. And that's who he was from that day on. That stamp was on his forehead. He looks in the mirror, I am a quitter. Fortunately he didn't. He recovered from his failure. He repented of his failure and he learned from his failure and he volunteered to do better. With the full understanding that he might fail again. That would be the scary part. What if I fail again? Now it's really going to look bad. You and I as believers can never allow our sin to define us. Pick out the sin that most easily besets you. And if you don't know what that is, you must not be paying attention. What is that sin? The sin that most easily besets you. That sin is not you That sin is not you. If you're a Christian, that sin is not who you are. That sin does not define you, and you should not define yourself as being it. You cannot add an ER to the end of that sin and have that sin be who you are, who you see yourself as. Now it might look at times like that's what we are, but that is not who you are if you are in Christ. We are children of God. We are beloved. We are overcomers. We are holy. We are saints. That's what God says about us. And who are we to tell Him any different? We certainly fail, but we are not failures. We can't allow our sins to define us. Only allow God's word to define you. That is faith. That is trusting that God knows more than we do. As we look at a new year, there's always the fear that I will fail this year like I failed last. But we know that our fears lie. Our fears lie. God's word tells us the truth. It always tells us the truth. It tells us nothing but the truth. It is God who works in us to will and to do according to his good purpose. That is true. Our faith must be in Christ and in his promises, not in our ability or in our track record. We are always sitting on the verge of spiritual victory at every temptation. We are sitting at the verge of spiritual victory at every temptation. It's only an obedience away. And as we stack up those victories, we begin to see by sight What we know to be true by faith. God says we are these good things. God says we are this new person. God says we are created new. Our heart is new. God says that our heart of stone was turned to flesh. But we look at the evidence, and the evidence is mixed Because we are not yet in eternity. We still have the world, the flesh, and the devil barking at our our heels all the time. So we don't see the reality. The reality that we will see when the world, flesh, and the devil are separated from us. We'll see the new creation in all of its wonder. And we'll say, You're right. I couldn't see it very clearly, but now I see it I am a new person. I am a new creation. Your word was true And as we stack up those victories at each of the temptations. We begin to see by sight what we know to be true by faith. We truly are new creatures. We truly have our hearts drawn to God. And that is supernatural. That is not something that we could have done for ourselves. Another thing we see in our Acts passage is this: the reality of who you are and people's assessment of who you are are often two different things. Think about poor John Mark. Here's Paul. Paul is on his way to becoming the greatest evangelist in world history. And he looks at John Mark and he says, You are not fit. Would you want to be John Mark? You're not fit for this service. You are not to be trusted with this serious of a responsibility. You are not ready. You are not capable. Think how you would feel as this young man. Paul, a pillar of the faith, assessed him and found him wanting. At that point, what would you do? If Paul did that to you, if Paul said that to you, what would you do? How would you respond? Would you say, well, if someone that important in the kingdom says of uh of God says it, it has to be true. I should give up trying to be helpful in any mission. Maybe I should go knit or something. But John didn't do that. Fortunately, John Mark had an arbitrator. He had someone who thought John Mark had learned, he had grown, he's worth a second chance. Isn't it wonderful when God puts people in our lives who just quietly and continually encourage us to keep on going? They keep pushing us to be what Scripture says we are, and they won't accept our resistance. They won't be put off. They won't be offended. Where do we have an opportunity to be that for each other? Where do we have that opportunity to be that for someone who God has placed in our lives? I pray that God would show us and move us to be more of that in 2025. That God would cause us to see and it and take it in in heart. The hurting and the and the need that other people around us have I think the lesson to learn here is that we can't allow others' opinions of us to define us, no matter who they are. Even those who are wise and who we deeply trust. We should listen with great seriousness, and especially the people that we trust with wisdom and those kind of things. We should listen very carefully But the final verdict on who we are belongs to God. When he equips us for something, he will open the way for us to do that thing, even if he's the only one. Who knows that's what he intends? Another thing we can notice in this text is that John Mark did not begin again on the same team. What he volunteered for and what he ended up doing were two different circumstances. When we offer ourselves for the Lord's service, we should expect that he may change what we're doing at any moment. We need not concern ourselves with the details, nor should we set in mind how they must be. God, I'm volunteering for this, and this is exactly what I expect that I'm going to be doing. When we surrender ourselves to the Lord's Lordship, we open ourselves up to very many changes in plan. We can just expect that. But now we come to the best part of this focus on John Mark. We jump ahead to the future. We see what becomes of this person who Paul viewed as a quit risk. Paul writes these in his epistles. Philemon 124 says, And so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demos, and Luke, my fellow workers. John Mark is listed as one of Paul's fellow workers in this letter. And better yet, 2 Timothy 4. 11, Luke alone is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you, for he is very useful to me for ministry. John Mark eventually became that which he star which he failed to be. John Mark eventually became that which he in the beginning failed to be. He became what he failed at being. He did not allow his failure to stop him. He didn't allow his track record to define him. He didn't accept that he will always be what he once was Isn't the challenge to be more faithful in 2025 than we were in 2024? Most troubling Because we're afraid that we'll always fail in the ways that we have most failed. We say, I've tried so hard in the past. Why bother? I'll never overcome these obstacles. I'll never pray as I should. I'll never read the Bible as faithfully as I should. I'll never be as kind as I should. I'll never overcome this sin that I so frequently give into like I should. And on and on Well, let John Mark be a comfort to you. He did what we all need to do. We need to recognize our failure, accept the consequences of our failure. Confess and ask forgiveness for our failure, and then get up and try again And again. And again. That's why God keeps giving us bread. Even if no one else expects we will succeed, we need to depend upon the Lord. and keep getting up until he grants us the obedience that we strive for. If John Mark can do it, we can do it. I think that's the encouragement here. I, for one, like new beginnings. I like mornings. In some ways, I like Mondays. I like it a lot better now that I'm retired. I like New Year's It's opportunity for change. It's a new beginning. It's opportunity to live as we were called to live. We can leave yesterday or last week or last year in the past. And we can rely upon those new mercies that God promises us today. But we do have some obstacles to overcome, and I think one of the greatest is this. It's our ability to interpret our intentions to obey as if it is obedience itself. Think about this one. One of our greatest detriments or deterrents to becoming what we need to become, I think. is the our ability to interpret our intentions to obey as if it is obedience itself. If we hear a sermon or we read the word and we think, yeah, I really agree with that, that's really good doctrine. That really appeals to me. I should do that. It's as if we think we get credit for doing it because we agree with it so much. It's as if our life will change as a result of our enthusiasm toward that truth. It's as if we think intending to do it gives our life the benefit we gain only by doing it. That allows us to fool ourselves into thinking that we're more spiritually healthy than what we really are. What would our lives look like? If we actually put into practice all of the changes that we have been convicted by in sermons or by reading the word. What would our lives look like? We're facing another new year, and the million dollar question is what will we do with it? It doesn't really matter what we intend. Certainly we have to intend. That's a necessity. You've got to intend well. Good intentions is a necessity, but what's our plan? What things will we put into place that will ensure that we will make the changes we need to make? What's going to hit our calendar? What's going to hit our to-do lists? What's going to hit our habits? Obviously that requires that we stop and ask the questions, what things must change for the glory of God? And then what can I do to make them happen? How can I add them to my schedule? On what days can I do them? What time? How can I add incentive for doing them if that would help? How can I add accountability? Or are we too afraid to add accountability because we don't want others to know that we're failing? I pray that none of us treat this just like another sermon. It should be more like a call to arms or a call to action. That's what I hope it is for me. I printed out the questions I I came up with last year, and feel free to add your own that are better and more suiting to your circumstance. But let's all take some time before the Lord to plan to glorify him even more in 2025 And now along with this, next Sunday, I'd like to use the Sunday school time as a time to invite anyone to share those things Where we have seen positive changes in our lives since last year. I'd like it to leave it up to the Sunday school teachers who on a weekly basis sacrifice their time that that they they could be in this discussion with us, but they sacrifice their time to to teach the kids I'd like to leave it up to them if they'd like to join us or not. And I don't know if anyone will share anything. I don't know. But it would be wonderful to hear what the Lord is doing. In our lives and what he has done since last. And you know, it may take us a while to think about that. Because we tend to focus on our failure, and that's where most of our effort has to go. And that's that's okay, you know, that that you can expect that. But uh how is our batting average increased? You know? How are we doing a little bit better last year, or maybe dramatically better last year at something than we were the year before? Anyway, that's an opportunity. I'm not guaranteeing anything, but we'll open it up. My hope is that we'll look at our lives this week and be encouraged by what God has already done in our body. By what he has done in our lives. It's so easy to get focused on the changes we still need and miss the changes that God has already done in us. While we're preparing for this, think about the theme of what is God doing in your life? What is God doing in your life? Can you sum it up in a word or a phrase? What's the theme? Maybe you can, maybe you can't. But often when God is doing a work in our lives, it has a general focus to it. Can you spot one in your life? And now I'm not talking about ideas. I'm not talking about doctrines. I'm not talking about insights in our minds. I'm talking about changes in our lives. What has changed? How is your life more glorifying to God now than it was last year at this time? That's the question. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we're obviously all here and we're all breathing, so we all have opportunity