Well, I promise I'll try to preach if you promise to try to stay awake. After a meal it's always difficult. I'd like you to think about a statement. If our sights are fixed on here and now, we cannot live the Christian life as it's meant to be lived. If our life, if our eyes are fixed on, if our sights are fixed on the here and now, we cannot live the Christian life as it's meant to be lived. I think probably most of us would agree with that statement. We might have some some definitions or things we want to describe, but we can agree with that statement. But the implications of that statement can be pretty revealing. What were you upset about most this week? What most upset you this week, or maybe in the last couple of weeks? What were you angriest about? What thing disrupted your life and redirected your focus and your attitude? What thing What troubled your heart to the place that your walk with God was interrupted? And then the next question, how much of that had to do with eternity? Do you see the problem here? Whatever you and I were upset about, it didn't change where we're going to spend eternity. It didn't change the joy we will experience when in Christ's presence. It will not undo the fact that whatever we go through for Christ, He will repay a thousand fold. So, why were we so upset? Why were we so distracted? Isn't the problem so often that we're hoping for here and now to give us what it cannot and will not Isn't the problem that we look for satisfaction and fulfillment and enjoyment in the here and now in a way that God has never promised to give it to us in the here and now? In our text this morning, Isaiah is talking to a rebellious people. They're idol worshippers and they think themselves, they see themselves as being God worshipers. They're looking to their circumstances to provide them what they need. They're choosing a path of here and now satisfaction, and they will pay anything to get it. They even sacrifice their children if they think that will help. They think that they as a people are the center of the universe, but they aren't. And this people will soon be judged by God. That is what's coming. That's what Isaiah is telling these people. They will soon be destroyed for the most part. But in the midst of this present incongruity, this present pursuit of happiness apart from God, Isaiah shows them the utter reality of the pleasure that is to be found only in God. He's going to paint a picture in these verses this morning. Some of it can be enjoyed now, but its ultimate fulfillment is in the future. In this life, we're promised trials and troubles. We're promised that. Oh, there's plenty more that goes with it, the peace and the joy and all of that that we have in Christ. That's all true. But we are promised hardships. But there is a day coming when every hope we have ever had in God will be completely satisfied. Verse 2: Now it shall come to pass in the latter days. The latter days in the Old Testament are normally referring to the coming time of the Messiah. I think the New Testament equivalent would be the phrase the last days. It refers to the time that we live in now, and it culminates in the second return of Christ. So it can be talking about any point of time in that era. Look again at what Isaiah verse 2. It shall come to pass, he says. It shall come to pass. He does not say likely or it might or it could. He doesn't say, well, it would be good if it came to pass. No, like so many things with God, it's gonna happen. And there is nothing that we can do that would stop it or assure it. Sometimes we can play a part in this happening, and that's a wonderful thing. But it is never a part that God can do without or can't do without. God will accomplish everything that is in God's mind. And praise God that He will. Praise God that it does not rely on our efforts. It does not rely on our will. It re it relies completely on his will, and then he changes our hearts as we get the opportunity to be involved in that plan. But he will accomplish it. Every promise of God is only dependent upon God's ability to make it happen. And fortunately, he is omnipotent. He is all powerful. So let's continue. That the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established on the top of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills. Now, the mountain of the Lord's house is Mount Moriah. Now, at this point, and Mount Moriah is where Jerusalem is built. Alright? So at this point we need to pause. The million-dollar question is this language literal or figurative? Literal or figurative? This is the million-dollar question for much of what Isaiah will predict in the future. Currently Mount Moriah is, like I said, the mount that Jerusalem is built on, and it's not the highest mountain even in that general vicinity. Even locally there are higher mountains than it is. And it surely is not higher than the mountains in the Alps, say. If we're to understand this literally, this means that Mount Moriah will be raised to a level higher than the mountains in that area. And there's nothing to stop God from doing it. If that's what he wants to do, that's what will happen, that's for sure. It's not like he can't, or it would be hard for him. It certainly wouldn't. And we know in the last days there's going to be a lot of uh Earth activity, you know, uh geographic or whatever it is, uh uh activity, so that could be. Now, many of the reformers do not believe that this is literal. They tend to spiritualize it They say that this is basically, when it's talking about this, it's talking about the church. And they talk about the supremacy of the church. And now certainly we don't want to do anything that would minimize the importance of the Church of Christ. It's an amazing thing that Christ has built at the expense of his life But we are left with the problem, at least I am. Look at what this passage says in a few verses, where it says, They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up its sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. My question comes down, how do you spiritualize that? That's talking about world politics. It's talking about global peace. Nations not fighting with other nations. Christ said that in the last days there would be wars and rumors of wars. Something has changed here. And I cannot see this as the effect of the church on the world. There's only one thing that I can see that would cause this to happen in the world that we live in, and it would be the dictatorship of Jesus Christ. It would be when Christ takes control that is so rightly his. So at this point, I could be very wrong. There are a whole lot of people who are a whole lot smarter than me that have interpreted this very differently. I think most of them have a theological box that they feel that they have to make scripture fit into. But I could be wrong about that too. So please don't take my word for any of this. Study it. Read what other people have said. In Sunday school would be a great topic of discussion. Think about it. And come to your own conclusion. But this is a huge venture in the book of Isaiah. We're going to end up going one direction or the other. We can hopefully bring in different points of view as we go. to give some idea of what both both sides of this think. But if if I'm right, we're moving to a millennial reign of Christ that will last for a very long time, maybe for a literal thousand years. This is a time where the lost and the saved will live together under Christ's reign. This is prior to the final judgment. But that is a very different theological path or path than most of the reformers took. The reformers tended to see this as, like I said, talking about the progress of the ch that the church would make over time They view that the church is going to bring in the reign of Christ and it's going to gradually affect the environment that we live in to the place that the church essentially runs the planet and then issues Christ in. I don't believe it that way. I don't see it that way. I don't see how it can be given given uh what I've seen of human history so far. But uh in their view the millennial reign is really spirit a spiritualized way of seeing the progress of the church over this period of time. I was raised with a bias toward a literal millennium, a literal thousand years. So it's worth considering that as you listen to what I have to say. And if you see it differently than I do, there's not going to be any division between us. Because I'm not certain But I I've got to be true to God in the way that I see it, and you you folks have got to study this along with me I think what we're talking about is a literal event in the future that is going to be very much different than anything that we are used to And I'll teach it that way until I see it otherwise. I hope I don't see it otherwise halfway through the study, but whatever. Whatever happens. And just to be fair though, I want to give you a few quotes from a scholar who is far superior to me who saw it very differently His name was John Gill, and he was a reformed scholar and an excellent scholar at that, a very logical person. He says that the mountains of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains. By the mountain of the Lord's house is meant not Mount Moriah, on which the temple was built, nor the temple itself, but the kingdom of Christ. which is his church is here designated, called the Lord's house, because of his building and where he dwells, and which he will at this time beautify and glorify. And then he goes on to talk about the makings of the church, this so-called building. The materials of it are lively stones or true believers. Laid on Christ the foundation, it is called the mountain In in allusion to Mount Zion on which the temple stood, because of its unmovableness, being secure in the everlasting and electing love of God and the unalterable covenant of grace, Founded on the rock Christ and guarded by the mighty power of God. This is established in the top of the mountains In Christ, he says that's what the top of the mountains is, in Christ, who is higher than the kings of the earth, signified by mountains. who is the head of all principality and power. Here it seems to denote the superiority of the kingdom and interest of Christ to all civil and religious states. The settlement and security of it, its standing above them and continuance when they shall be no more So you're getting the the huge difference in in what I am saying and uh and not just me, there's a whole lot of scholars who who take it to be a literal millennium and what a lot of the reformers and the reform scholars have to say. So like I'm saying, John Gill is an amazing scholar, but I can't see how all nations deciding not to go to war with each other has anything to do with the current ministry of the church. The way I understand it, the church is not going to take over political positions of the world. In fact, we will tend to be persecuted by the worldly positions of power until Christ returns. And I think we're seeing that escalate, that hatred of Christ escalate in our environment, and it I believe it's going to continue to grow. unless there is a a spiritual revival, which I believe we should be praying for. So again, please study this with me. This is important. Look into alternative views and together we'll determine what is most reasonable. to believe in our discussions with each other. So back to Mount Moriah. That the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established on the top of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills. So, if this is literal, somehow Mount Moriah will be raised to the height so that its geography coincides with spiritual truth. It's going to be the highest mountain. It is the highest truth The most superior worship is the most superior geography. Then look what happens next. Verse 2, and all the nations shall flow to it. Many people shall come and say, Come and let us go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways, and we shall walk in his path. Now imagine that. What a picture. It says, shall flow into it. The nations shall flow into it. This is a figurative expression denoting that they would be converted to the the true religion. It indicates that they'll come in multitudes like a flowing river. But notice here, the river goes uphill. That's kind of neat. The idea of the flowing of the nations or the movement of many people toward an object like a broad stream is very grand. It's amazing. Now again, the reformers spiritualize this, and they say that Gentiles coming to the gospel fulfills this prophecy. And maybe it does, but it seems to me something very different. I think this is the period of time when the devil's influence is going to be removed. People are going to get used to the idea of King Jesus. And they're curious and they want to know more, so they begin to investigate. They flock to where Jesus is. They begin to flock to the central place of power to hear about their ruler, King Jesus. They go to his house to hear his message, and they finally want to. And it says, He will teach us his ways, and we shall walk in his path. If this is literal, this will be an amazing period of time. So much different than ours. The Christians will be the heroes. We will be the go-to people. There'll be no hindrance for preaching the gospel then. People will actually be asking for it and going to it. They'll be willing to pay a great price to hear the gospel. It will be an unprecedented time of opportunity. It won't be like it is now People will not run from the presentation. They'll not be so angry when someone tells them the truth about the bad news of sin and the good news of Christ. They want God to teach them his way, and even more amazing, they want to learn it so they can do it. Then it goes on, for out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Now Picturing this different environment, if Jerusalem is the center of government, as well as the center of religious worship, would it not make sense that the law go forth from that center? Now, this would have to be the Old Testament law, but would it be the Old Testament law with all the trappings of sacrifices and ceremonial laws? I don't think so. I don't think it has to be. Maybe not. We'll discover as we go forward into the rest of the book if this creates any problem at all. But there will have to be civil law in some form in this government. And if Jerusalem is the center of civil government, certainly God would apply the rule of his law. His law was and is still very good. It accurately displays his view of what is right and wrong. John Lennon tells us to imagine that there is no moral code and no heaven and no hell. Scripture tells us to imagine what it will be like when it is God's moral code that wins the day and is enforced. We're to imagine what it will be like when heaven and hell are so accurately displayed and the path to both is so clearly seen. Now Christ is King. The law of God is the law of the land. How does that work out? How does it get carried out? Is anything lost in the execution of this justice? Verse 4, it tells us, he shall judge between the nations and rebuke many people. This is the Lord who is doing this Our King Jesus is performing this. So it isn't like anything's going to slip through the cracks. There are no cracks in omniscience. His knowledge is perfect. He knows who is guilty and who is innocent and of what. There is only absolute justice possible when it is the Lord Almighty who judges. So that's exactly what happens. The Lord begins to judge between the nations. Governments will no longer abuse the people that they are to be serving. There will be no more Hitlers trying to take over the world. It's interesting at this point that there will still be nations. There are nations here God doesn't end that just yet, but there is more injustice going, there is no more injustice that's going unnoticed. Now, if God is going to be judging the nations, what would you expect? Convictions. And that's what will happen. The word here used for rebuke also means to convict of a crime. Stuff isn't going to slide like it has in the past. Now it'll take a while for people to get the idea that King Jesus is not like the other kings. They're not going to get away with stuff anymore. Many people are going to be dealt with. Many people are going to be either corrected or convicted of their crimes. Won't that be wonderful? Wouldn't it be good to see justice in this world's courts? Wouldn't it be good to know that the guilty party is always going to get caught? Now sometimes we may not like that for ourselves very much. But in this world government, it will be a very refreshing change. There'll be no more seats of power calling all the shots. No one will be above the law in this government. And this judge cannot be bought. Now, what will be the result of this kind of governing? Finally, peace and safety. Peace and safety. That which we so wish for on this earth will finally happen. But notice that it will not happen under any human form of government. This peace and safety never arise as a result of an idea in the minds of humans. There's so much talk out there about how to have this this human uh uh paradise And we think people present it like it will happen as a result of their grand ideas and their grand schemes and their next political movement. But it's always going to be a disappointment because this will never arrive from the hearts of men. This will arrive from the hand of God and no other place. We do not have the capacity to create such a thing as long as sin reigns in this planet. But under King Jesus we will finally taste what this world longs for. And it says, they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. Wow, wow. Can we even imagine this? Can you imagine if the US no longer had to sink a single dollar into defending itself? The wall at Mexico would be a laughing matter. Can you imagine if we could disarm every bomb? There would be no more threat from outside. And I'm guessing even internal police forces would change dramatically at this point. Is this period of time, is this the period of time where Christians will actually reign, like it talks about several verses in the New Testament? Maybe. Who knows? I suspect that it is. Maybe it's us who will see to it that Christ's reign is actually carried out everywhere on the globe all the time. Maybe this is the time where Scripture says that Christians will be judges and rulers Whatever the case, it's not human potential that will create this utopia. It will be the person of Jesus Christ. And it will not be based on humans arising to such a level It will only be due to absolute justice being carried out swiftly on the devastating influence of sin. Humankind would never pick this absolute dictatorship of God over us. It doesn't take long. You don't have to talk to people very long to know that they do not want a God like that telling them what to do. We even hate the idea by nature, but that is the answer that we long for, nonetheless. Finally, there'll be peace on earth. Finally, we'll have something much more like the Garden of Eden. But we have to keep in mind that in this environment, from what we can tell, sin still exists. And as long as that is the case, nothing is completely safe. There's still convicting going on. We're seeing that here. So that means that there are still things that need convicted of. There are still uh things needing So Isaiah tells his audience of this amazing world that is coming in the future. They probably think it's going to happen at the Messiah's first coming. Remember in Mark, that's what they expected all along, and they were continually disappointed that Jesus didn't do it? Well, we know that that didn't happen, but it will. It will happen one day. Hosea also repeated what Isaiah said, almost word for word. In Micah 4 , I'm sorry, and Micah. Micah repeated what uh Isaiah said. One of those is wrong. Either this is from Hosea or this is from Micah. Anyway. Verse 1, now it shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountains of the Lord's house shall be established on the top of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills. And peoples shall flow to it. Many nations shall come and say, Let us go to the up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways, and we shall walk in his path. For out of Zion the law shall go forth, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between many peoples and rebuke strong nations afar off. They shall beat their swords into plowshears, and their shears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. But everyone shall sit under his vine and under his fig tree. I don't think we have any of those fig trees, but everybody will have this kind of environment and no one shall make them afraid. For the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken. So now remember the audience again that Isaiah is telling this to, and he appeals to his audience. After talking about this amazing reality that will happen during the Lord's reign, Isaiah then appeals to them in verse 5. So he lays out, this is what's coming. And then in verse 5 he says, O house of Jacob, so he's talking to the Judeans here, O house of Jacob, come and let us walk. in the light of the Lord. Come and let us walk in the light of the Lord. With this coming, and with God being who God is, and with this kingdom being the kingdom that God is going to provide someday. Come, walk in Christ. Walk in the light of the Lord. Look at what the Psalms say about this same situation, or at least similar situation. Psalms 89, 13. Through 17 it says, You have a mighty arm, strong as your hand and high as your right hand. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Mercy and truth go before your face. Blessed are the people who know the joyful sound. They walk, O Lord, in the light of your countenance. They walk in the light of your countenance. In your name they rejoice.