What has God done for you that is bad? What has God done for you that is bad? When you retell your history, what part do you look back on and say, oh, that was very bad I did what God said. I followed everything his word said to do, and oh boy, what a mistake that was. I wish now I'd never done what he said. I wish I would have never said no to what I wanted and yes to what he wanted. I just wish I'd gone by my plan and not his. I wish I had followed my heart. Where do we say that? Nowhere. Nowhere. As believers we live to see that quickly doing what God says because he said it has led to blessings. Even if that blessing is sometimes paying a very heavy price for identifying with Christ, it's still a blessing. It's still good. Believers don't look back on following God's word as a bad thing. There's no regret in trustful obedience. We come to our fellowship times, our sharing times, and we're thankful, very thankful toward God and what He has done for us. And that's very well and good, it's very appropriate. But if all that is really true, why are we so quick to forget what God did in the past when a threat looms in the present? What is it? Why are we so quick to scurry to find human answers to the things that God has handled supernaturally in the past? Why are we so dense? Why? Sin. That's why. That's also why the word remember is one of the most used imperatives in the Bible. We've gone over that over and over again. Judea has Assyria knocking at the door, a hugely superior military power. The threat is real and it appears in it. Fear strikes the marks of these people, and they fall back on the resources that they really trust, which is very much different than the resources that they say they trust. They're just like us. They would say that they trust God. They would make much of all the glorious and wonderful things that God has done in their past. But when the wolf knocks at the door, their impulse is to find their brother pig with the big strong brickhouse, if you remember the story. They want to trust in human strength and human reason. Their theology was better than their walk. Sound familiar? God designed our lives to show us what is true about ourselves He has to, because none of us would know or would be willing to tell ourselves what is really true about ourselves. We have to see it to believe it. We would say, it isn't so. No, I would never do that. Or I would never be like that. Or I could never think that. Art of pride shields us from any accurate self-assessment. But God isn't full. He knows what's true. He knew what was true today He draws to himself. He can do all that kind of stuff. And he will gradually, in his own perfect timing, show us the truth about that which he wants us to know about ourselves. Fortunately, he doesn't do it all at once. That would undo us. And sometimes he graciously doesn't even show us what everybody around us knows about us because there are other issues in our lives that he thinks are more important, that are a bigger priority to him. But God is using your life situations to show you what you are. He will show us what we really believe He will show us what we really trust. He will show us where we really run when we know that we need help. He's doing that in your life this morning. He's doing that in my life this morning. What do you think God is showing you about you? In your life as it currently is. What is God showing you about you? Think about your life this week or this month or this season of your life. What pressures is he putting in your life? What stuff is spewing out of your life? And is it good stuff or bad stuff? Now there's no point in blaming the bad stuff on anybody else. If it's coming out, it's coming out of you. If it's bad stuff, this is an opportunity that God is providing to you. If you blame it on others, you're throwing away the glorious opportunity that God has given you to change, to see yourself as you are. What force is knocking on your door, making you want to run to human resource instead of God? What temptation are you under that's making you want a human resolution rather than a spiritual one? This isn't a coincidence. This isn't a mistake. This isn't just happening. This is a divine opportunity That the Lord is providing you by the life situations that you are in right now. Don't waste it. Don't lie about it. Don't blame the trouble you have on somebody else. Don't think that there is no purpose in what you are going through. We all have our Egyptians that we want to run to for help, for comfort, and for relief, but God has a better plan for your life. And he will work on his people until they pick it. That's what we'll see this morning. Verse 1, woe to the rebellious children, says the Lord, who take counsel, but not of me, and who devise plans, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin. Who walk to go down to Egypt and have not asked my advice to strengthen themselves in the trend of Pharaoh and to trust in the shadow of Egypt. Therefore, the strength of Pharaoh shall be your shame, and trust in the shadow of Egypt shall be your humiliation. What do you think when you see a rebellious child? Particularly a small one. Do any pleasant or admirable thoughts run through your mind? None but through mine. I can tell you that. I usually consider things that might fix that attitude. But do you notice that it's usually only the rebellious child who thinks his behavior or her behavior is suitable? Everyone else around thinks that kid should stop. But the child thinks that behavior is called for and is appropriate. Have you ever considered this when you react rebelliously against God? When you throw your tantrum, however it is that you might express it, when you throw a tantrum against God? It would be good for us to see that it's only us who can who can't see how unfitting that response is toward God, how unfitting that attitude is toward God. Well, God sees what his leaders are doing in this text as a bunch of rebellious kids. And what are they doing? Well, first they are taking counsel, it says. The word for counsel is often used for the advice given by sages and astrologers These leaders are guilty of something. They are guilty of looking to the best of the world for counseling. They're clinging to the words of the experts. How does that look today? Well, for instance, if you want to grow a church, how do you do it? Well, you talk to skilled marketing people. Use their counsel and we'll draw the numbers. That's one example of what the experts, the worldly experts, will say. In other words, you want to live a happy life. Consult the world's experts and fill your life with all the things that are correlated to happiness. In other, if you want people to do what you want them to do, consult the experts who will tell you how to get them. To do what we want them to do. That's the kind of thing Judea was doing. They were going by what the experts say about how you defend yourself against a greater power. Create an alliance with the competitive power. That's what the experts say. Isn't that just being smart? Well, no. It's being rebellious. So they're taking counsel and they are also devising plans, our text says. The word for devise plans here I think is really interesting. It also has the meaning of covering. In fact, I think the King James may read this completely different than the New King James does. Many think of it akin as to wrapping oneself in a worm blanket. To cover oneself. It's the process of finding for oneself comfort and security in the world's advice. How often this happens. How often we run after the world's devices to find for ourselves comfort and security, warmth and safety. Maybe it's in acquiring money or things. Maybe it's in romantic relationships. It can be any number of things where we think we can meet our need our way. And the world will tell us how to do it best. And we show, like a rebellious kid, that we want what we want more than we want what God wants. Where are we doing this? Where do we feel that we have deep needs that need to be met? And by golly, we're going to take care of meeting those needs. That's essentially the essence of it. We feel like we have deep needs, and by golly, we're going to get them met. However, we got to do it. We're not going to wait for God for anything. Is there a place in your life like that? If so, today would be a very good day to repent of. Of that kind of attitude that says I will get what I want and I will care if it's from God or not It's interesting that these people are taking counsel and devising plans. Like I said earlier, they're probably also talking about God in very glowing terms. I learned a long time ago that my good intentions were often a ruse I could use in my own mind to cover my own bad behavior. After all, I invented well. Carla 's got a lot of students like that. When I look at my good intentions, I can imagine myself to have the best reasons for what I do. But my behavior tells the truth in a second that my imagined intention would never reveal. When I was a young man, I hated young women. And I never intended to hurt any of them. But hurt them, I did. Now just to keep it accurate, I got hurt 22. So it's not like I was a superior force in that field. But anyway, why did that happen? Well, I did not intend to hurt them emotionally, but I did not intend to not hurt them whatever the price. I did not intend them at a big price to protect them at a big price to myself. I did not intend to love those human beings. Our good intentions just hide our selfish intentions. Our hearts are so very shaky. But our behaviors They're not so tricky. They reveal the real life. These leaders were talking one way and acting another. God focuses not on what they were saying, but what they are doing Notice verse 2 where it says, they have not asked my advice. Why? They didn't want it. They didn't want God's advice. Let's look down a little further in verses 9 through 11. It says that this is a rebellious people, lying children, children who do not hear the word of the Lord, who say to the seers, don't see. That's kind of the job description of theater, isn't it? See, and there's saying, don't see. And to the prophets, do not prophesy to us right things Speak to us smooth things. Prophesy deceit. Get out of the way. Turn aside from the path. Cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us. Well, we're back to rebellious, flying children again. The problem is not that they want to hear from God so badly, but they just can't get direction from God. Or that they can't understand the direction that they had been given. That is a very, very rare problem Look through the pages of Scripture to find someone who just longs to know something from God. Someone who is more than willing to do it if they only knew. Look for someone like that that God does not move swiftly to provide whatever they need in order to obey. That's very, very rare that God doesn't do such a thing. The problem is rarely that God won't give us the resource we need to obey him and we just want to obey him. It's rare that God won't move heaven and earth to get his word to the person who just wants to obey. Far more often, we simply don't want the resource right now because it's going to interfere with our plans. We would prefer that God would be silent about this area or that area of our lives so that we can continue to enjoy them as is. These people want God to shut up. They don't want to hear what God says. Because they have no intentions of doing what God says If the truth were told, we have all had times in our lives where we wanted God to shut up. And we found a way to make that happen. Even if it's to refuse to think about what he says, where we click in a mode that says, for the time being, we're not going to think about what God says. We'll distance ourselves until we have done what we wanted to do, and then we'll come back and consider what God says. I know I'm guilty of that. I can think of specific times in my life when I have done such a thing. I'm assuming that I am probably not alone in that endeavor where we shut off the sound on God's volume. So that we can do the thing that we want to do anyway. What's not those brass we can be at times When we say, God, I don't want to hear about what you want right now. I want to hear something that helps me avoid the person I really am and the things I'm really doing. That's what I want right now. That's what these leaders were doing. They wanted God to shut up so that they could enjoy the path that they had chosen. Verse 3. Therefore the strength of Pharaoh shall be your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt shall be your humiliation. The word for shame here means the feelings of guilt, disgrace, and embarrassment persons experience because of unfortunate acts or words committed. Wow. Let me read that again. The word for shame here means the feelings of guilt, disgrace, and embarrassment persons experience because of unfortunate acts or words committed. What a wealth of application we have here. Have any of us had feelings of guilt, disgrace, and embarrassment? I assume that's universal. And how often were they not the direct result of our attempts to get something in the world through our own means? Maybe we wanted to be impressive in the crowd we were speaking to and made a fool of ourselves. Maybe we did things to gain things we wanted so badly and we paid a terrible price. To do so. Maybe we did things to protect ourselves that now we terribly regret. Maybe we use people. We are capable of doing so many things Trying to meet needs we think we can meet, however we think of doing it. Shame. Yes, that is a good word to describe the outcome of so many of the plans that we have taken into our hands And not trusted God for, not obeyed God for, just I'm going to do it my way. And then humiliation just means embarrassment. When you were real young, did much embarrass you? I look back and I think that I was too stupid to be embarrassed. Especially if my kids get a big kick out of seeing my pictures when I was a little kid. Pretty goofy. I look back then and I'm embarrassed about so much that I didn't have the sense to be embarrassed of at the time Ages 13 to 16 would rank very high in the embarrassment rating for me. Well, this dependence upon Egypt by Judea was going to be something the Judeans would be highly embarrassed of. Why so? Well, in verses 4 through 7, we're going to see how this wonderful, well-thought strategy of the experts was going to work out for them. Please read that for yourself, 4 through 7. But in it, Egypt regards Judea as a peon, a nobody. So the peon is going to big Egypt and saying, hey, we need your help. They're just a people to be used, and they aren't even that useful. That's how Egypt sees Judea. Have you ever powerfully wanted something from someone who treated you like a peon? Like someone to be used, like someone who had no value. That's a bad spot to be in. And that's where Judea is. They think they need Egypt far more than Egypt thinks that Egypt needs them. So what's going to happen? The price goes up. That's always how it is. The peon 's gonna pay a far greater price in that relationship than the big shop will. We'll find that true in our own personal relationships as well. We also find it true in countries. Desperation in a relationship is a very dangerous thing. It causes you to pay prices that you should not be willing to pay. It's good that we recognize that in ourselves when we see that. Those strong feelings of feeling like we need something and this person is the source of it, that should raise a red flag in our mind immediately. It's like look out. There's danger here. The tides are going to carry me out of this shore. Just like Egypt, these these sources really have nothing of value to offer us. So we shouldn't be willing to pay anything for it. The picture in verse 6 is very interesting. This is not something that I had anyway of catching without studying it, so I'm suspecting all of us are kind of alike there. It's a lament. It's like a song about the four pack mules on a trip to Egypt. That's what the song's about. Earlier we saw an oracle concerning Babylon in Isaiah, and it was very serious and solemn and pretty lofty about this whole country Going down the tubes. Now we have an oracle about the four mules carrying treasure to Egypt. It's as if the only things God did eat in this whole process were the donkeys and the camels. That's the essence of it. They were the only victims in the store. The rest were just spoiled rats, putting the whole milk. It's gonna accomplish nothing. Their whole trip is you show a great deal of restraint there. It's she makes fun of the way I say don 't I don't know why. This is going to accomplish nothing. Nothing at all. This long trip by these pack animals is going to accomplish nothing. You talk about embarrassment. The Judeans paid a huge price for help that never came. I paid $300 for an auto cart that I never got. I was ripped off very depthly by a career terminal. I was in Paris. I bought insurance once and took a long out to get it. I think I told that story. It was a ripoff, but that was nothing, nothing as embarrassing as this transaction. Paying so very much to receive nothing. The mules and the camels were wore out carrying in something that would gain no benefit for the people they carry it for And they were worthy of a song. Isn't that a picture of what happens so often when we try to impress those with power and influence and status and resources in our real world? Don't we find that we want something they have so bad that we'll pay a terrible price in hopes of getting something we want? And what we find at the end of the day is we really don't get a single thing of value. Isn't that embarrassing? Some things never change. The word Rahab Ham Shvet is interesting. It means Rahab Duna. Rahabuna. The Judean leaders would appeal to Egypt as Egypt my Savior. God refers to them as Rehabuna. Do we see the picture that's being painted here? The world does not have the solutions to the Christians' problems. The world cannot meet our deepest needs. The world's resources cannot fix our greatest problems. Only God can Only God can protect our lives. Only God can supply our needs. Only God can grant rest and peace and hope and joy and protection. The world does not have that to offer. They pretend they do. They pretend to sell those products all day long. Watch advertisements on TV, see what they're really selling. They're almost always selling more than their product. They're selling how their products can make you desirable or safer or more secure financially or any number of things that only God can offer. They're often advising that they will provide for you what only God can provide. The tired camels are hauling money to purchase all those products, but they don't work. They don't deliver. People in the 1920s were flying out of windows like pigeons when the stock market crashed. These people all thought that the world was the answer until the world showed that it wasn't. Their poor wheels were doing a very feeble job. The world wouldn't deliver then, the world won't deliver now. Moth and rust does destroy, and they will continue to destroy as long as life goes on. Then we go on to verse 12. Therefore, thus says the Holy One of Israel, because you despise this word and trust in oppression and perversity and rely on them Therefore, this iniquity shall be you like a breach ready to fall, a bulge in a high wall, whose breaking comes suddenly in an instant And he shall break it like the breaking of the potter's vessel, which is broken in pieces. He shall not spare, so there shall not be found among its fragments a shard to take fire. From the heart, or to take water for the sister. These leaders were not making a simple, honest mistake. They wanted God to shut up. They wanted the prophets to lie and make them feel better. They did not want to face their guilt. God responds and tells them what the price tag of such a thing is. And it's more than simply a failure of the Egyptian savior to show up with troops on his war day. But look at what these leaders did trust instead of God and his word. It says oppression and perversity. They trusted in oppression and perversity. Oppression is the friend of these rulers. They use their power to gain things for themselves at the price of the powerless. They abuse their positions of authority. And God hates it. And we can count how much he hates it by how many times he brings it up. All through the book of Isaiah, you see oppression as being a major thing, injustice as being a huge thing with God. God expects his leaders to serve those that they believe. They're to be ministers in the best sense, and it's been a long time since Judea knew that kind of leadership. And then perversity is in their choosing crooked ways to accomplish their ends. There's nothing straightforward about how they're going about things. Nothing is clearly described and delineated. The leadership is sneaking around making back office deals to carry out their political ends. And again, there's nothing new under the sun. So, because these leaders trusted what they could do, what they could do instead of God, God was going to show them what he could do. He would have rather shown off what he could do for them, but if they don't want that, he will show them what he can do to them. The walls are going to come crashing in. That's the imagery we have. I don't know. When I drive out to Morgantown, there's a wall on the left side. Mark Rowley notices it. What are those things called? Yeah. A retaining wall. And you see it and it's bulging. And you know it's a matter of time. You don't know when, but that wall's gonna fall over. That's what it's talking about here. That's the kind of thing that that Israel has has coming or Judea has coming. And he says it's gonna be the final destruction is gonna be like a pot that is so broken it's broken so badly that none of the curved pieces will be big enough to carry any water in. Basically it's absolute desolation is what he's talking about. The country will be useless when God is done with them. He would have done so much for them, but they refused him. They wanted God to shut off. Well then God's going to show what he can do to them. So not only did the plan to trust Egypt not help, it really destroyed them. So much for the help of the experts. Verse 15 For thus says the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, In returning and rest you shall be saved. In returning and rest you shall be saved. In quietness and confidence shall be your strength. But you would not. And you said, no, for we will flee on horses. Therefore you shall flee, and we will ride on stiff horses. Therefore, those who pursue you shall be swift. One thousand shall flee at the thread of one and the thread of five you shall flee, till you are left as a hole on a on a mountain and as a banner on a hill. Isn't this the thing we have seen about God in every single one of our lives? He always gives us the way back to Him. He always gives us a way back to him. He gives us a way where we can receive his forgiveness. He gives us a way to come back to him into a restored relationship with him. He always offers salvation to us. And all that is so good because What we need is not improvement. What we need is not better behavior. What we need is not a ten -step plan to success. What we need is complete and utter salvation. What we need is restoration. What we need is a miracle. We need changed hearts. And that is what God offers his people. But how does it come? How do we lean into God's work? How do we lean into what He is doing? How can we get with His program? In returning in rest you shall be saved. In quietness and confidence shall be your strength. If we've ever found ourselves in a situation like the prodigal son What is it that got us into proper relationship with God again? What is it? Isn't it always coming to our senses and saying My way is not working so good. You know, this isn't this isn't exactly what I had in mind. This isn't such a good thing. What I am choosing is not getting me what I so desperately want and think I need. And it's distancing me from God. It's all backwards. It's all headed in a bad direction. I thought I was making an improvement to my life by going the direction that I wanted to go. I see now that it's just the opposite. I'm destroying my life. The very thing I thought was giving me something good is giving me something bad, and it's taking away anything in my life that is good. There has got to be something better than feeding the pigs. There's got to be something better than this cycle of utility. I have to stop running. I'm thinking wrong. I'm going to stop today. I'm going to stop running from God. I'm going to turn around and face him and run to him. That's what returning is. That's what repentance is. It's the realization that we are wrong and God is right. We agree with God at that point and we make a move in his direction, a change of mind. And just like the prodigal son, when we make that move , We will find that God runs in our direction. When we make that move, we find that God runs in our direction. We can't understand it. We know that we're on Lobby V al. The world is usually caused that by them. But God wants us. Figure that out. He will move heaven and earth to provide whatever the repentant soul needs. And rest. Oh, how our souls need rest. And how we resist rest. Because rest provided in God only comes through trust in God. And that trust requires relinquishment of our right to control our lives, our right to think whatever we want to think. We have to give that up. And that's hard to give up. We naturally prefer our own effort to rest. Even lazy people prefer that. I know. Because we do not want to trust God. What is it about us? But we do not want to trust God. That's why our lives are often so chaotic. Jesus made no bones about it. He said this, Matthew 11, 28 through 30. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in the heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Do you see the quietness and confidence that Isaiah was talking about here? Do you want to stand in the greatest strength that can be found on planet Earth? It will not come from trying hard. It will not come from wearying yourself, trying to gain for yourselves the world's resources. In quietness and confidence shall be your strength. There is only one way to have the strength of God at our disposal. Judea could have had the God of the universe fighting their battle. There would have been no power on earth that could have prevailed against the one and true God. That is what they had. But they would not trust. They would not trust God. They would not put their money where their mouth is. They would not say, here is our life. God, you do with it as you choose. So we trust you. They would not trust. They would not resort to the one thing that would have worked. They would not choose to believe God to the place that they could simply relax and be confident as they sat back and watched God do his stuff. Isn't this the backward kingdom that we live in? How do we gain strength? Try harder? Get more desperate? No, just the opposite. Do the things that display trust. Quit worrying. Quit acting as if it all rests on your shoulders or as if there is anything you can do about it. Get quiet, be still, and be confident in God. Choose your dependence to only rest upon one thing, not many things. And let that one thing be the character of God. When you rest your life in the character of God, you are in as strong a position as you will ever be because the God of heaven will fight your battles. If you're going to obey, do it only based on trust. Some people try to obey to impress God or try to obey to, I don't know, whatever it is that we try to do it for, to gain merit. That's never the right position to obey from. We obey from a situation of trust and confidence in God that we are completely reliant upon Him and we're glad to get to play a part Trust that God is going to do this thing. And then work so that you can play a part in what he is going to accomplish. That's the kind of obedience that we're supposed to be doing. The kind of obedience that gets with this program, not trying to produce this program. That's exactly how we should work on evangelism. We don't have to change a single soul. We can anyway, so we can stop crying. We can in quietness and confidence proclaim God's word to people's lives. Then we have the strength of God's Holy Spirit doing all the heavy lifting. It's God who's going to do that work anyway. It's not us. What a wonderful position we have as Christians. All the heavy lifting is on the yoke of Jesus. It's on his side. We just have to get with the program and trust and cooperate with what it is that Jesus is already doing. That's true spirituality. That is how we walk. That's how we abide in the mind. That's how we're to live. It's easy to do this in some senses. But we make it look really hard because it's easier to fret than it is to trust. Flesh will threat all day long rather than delete the promises of God. It is our default part condition. To take away, to not trust God, to do anything but trust God. That is flesh and that is default. That's what we will fall back to if we are not submitting to God actively. Rebellion comes easier than submission. It seems stupid, but that's how we are. And every single one of us may look in our lives and say, yeah, that's what my life shows. Don't believe it? Look how the Judean rulers respond. But you would not. And you said, no, willfully on horses. Therefore you will. And he goes on. So trusting God to these guys? Absolutely not. We're going to run away on fast forces. Does that look like the response of a rebellious child or what? We won't rest. No. We'll run. That'll fix it. And we'll run faster than anyone else. He didn't have so often our typical response. Aren't we doing the exact same thing when we worry? Trust? No, I can't trust. I'll worry myself sick before I trust the promises of God. Well, if we're in Diazaia, our alternate strategies aren't going to be successful because God's horses are always faster than ours. That's the essence of it. And look what happens when we will not fear God. When we won't fear God, we're allowed to fear him just about anything and everything else. Our fear of God brings us peace and safety and security and rest. But if we will not fear God, we will fear man's rejections, we will fear the world's catastrophes We'll fear our soul's safety, we'll fear our last enemies, and we can go on and on and on with the things we're going to fear. We won't fear God. And all that fear will result in our own destruction. Our fear of God cannot help but save us. Our fear of anything else can't help but destroy us. So will we take Christ up on his deal? That 's really the essence of it. Will we take Christ up on his deal? Will we act like he tells the truth? Matthew 11, 28 through 30. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I promise you, I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your soul. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Looks like a pretty good deal to me. Let's help each other submit to the terms of Christ and live in dependence upon him instead of Egypt. Lord, we thank you so much for your promises to us peons. We thank you so much that you run to us when we make the least little response of faithfulness. It's amazing. that you would do such a thing, as honored and as glory-filled as you are, that you would respond from heaven to anything we would do. But that you show in your parables that it is just like you respond quickly and enthusiastically When we throw ourselves at your feet. Lord help us to really believe what Jesus says and not just to memorize it and Say what a wonderful thought that is, but to act like it's true. To let you carry the weight. And us have the glorious privilege of cooperating in that process, in the work that is being done. And we'll know, Lord, if anything good happens, it's this wonderful hand again. The fingerprints of Jesus will know. Lord help us. Help us to be that kind of people. We pray that in Jesus' name. Amen.