The mercy of God in the madness of the king. The mercy of God in the madness of the king. So first, King Nebuchadnezzar was given a vision about the future that only Daniel could answer. We looked at that, I think, in chapter 2. He was the head of gold, but this his was not going to be anywhere near an eternal kingdom. There would be several after this kingdoms. Until the rock not cut by humans falls upon the world kingdoms, until there is nothing left of them. The king's initial response was good. But we think that upon reflection, it looks like he reverted back to his default position, which is pride. So he makes a statue that's all gold. It was as if to say King Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom. That's the eternal kingdom. He doesn't care what God says. And naturally, he demands worship. And naturally, those who love God cannot bow. I hadn't thought of this earlier, but this might mean that the only followers of the one true God in Babylon's administration, the only uh believers in In Babylon's government with these four people. And only Shabbrach, Meshach, and Abednego were singled out for the furnace because only they would not worship the statue. Everybody else must have. That's the assumption. Being a God follower there would have been very lonely. So the king is impressed by God's miraculous rescue of the three from the furnace. And he declares that people better not say anything bad about the Hebrew God. Again, we see a wonderful profession. Has the king surrendered yet to Christ? Has he placed his faith in the Hebrew God for eternal salvation? No. The king was willing to say very positive things about God. He publicly made a display of his admiration. He even made decrees to protect God's followers. Surely he was one of them. No, not yet. Not yet. God was not yet drawing the king, not yet done drawing the king to himself. Though this horse had not yet been broken. We all have different stories. But the same question applies. What points are points? Did God need to bring you to before you were finally prepared to listen to Him? For some of us, there was a single dramatic point. It may have been the lowest of our lows. It showed the us that we never wanted to believe or admit that existed. For some of us, it's been a series of failures on our part that humbles us and prepares us for the next step in our growth, that make us ready time after time to listen to God more closely, more enthusiastically. I think of the prodigal son in the pig pen. What a horribly humiliating experience for a proud young Jewish man who thought he had the world by the tail. I think of Peter after he denied Christ three times. That day was the death of Peter having illusions that he was some kind of super Peter. No, after that he was failure, Peter. When we think back on our lives, or when we look at the prodigal son feeding pigs, or Peter's failure, we think of shame. We think of remorse. We think of humiliation and defeat. But what we sometimes miss Is the grace of God. What we sometimes miss in those stories, maybe even our own story, is the grace of God. What would have happened If those people had not reached those lows? What would have happened in our lives if we had not reached those lows? What would we have become if we were allowed to believe that we actually are? what we would have pictured ourselves as being, morally superior to what we really are. Would we have ever come to Christ at all? Would we have ever come with the attitude of just as I am without one plea? Would we have ever reached the right attitude toward God? We may regard those things as the lowest points when in reality they were strategic points in our spiritual growth. We need to see ourselves as we really are, and we needed to see the beast that was in us. Did you ever consider that between you and God You were the only one surprised by your failure. God wasn't surprised. He wasn't tempted to abandon you because he had higher hopes for you, but you disappointed him. No, he arranged your failure because he knew you needed to know it. You needed it Oh, the grace of God to display to us the animalness of our souls. Oh, the love of God to teach us those things that cause us to cling to His grace and His grace alone. What we see in chapter 4 is the Hound of Heaven in pursuit of an animal. We'll see how little of a distance it is from living at the top of the world to being the vilest creature in the realm. The point is made with absolute clarity. It is only the goodness of God that sustains our spiritual walk. If he were to remove his hand and allow the worst of us to come out, we would not be able to live with ourselves Yet if he will intrude into our lives to draw us to himself, there is no one he cannot win to himself What we're going to read about is one of the most severe mercies in the history of the world. The madness of a king. Now it starts with the royal decree. Daniel probably copied the actual wording from the decree scrolls or the tablets that went out. you know, that were distributed. Because it was written in the common language of the kingdom, and from what I read, the first line matches the language. of most of the decrees at that time. They have tablets with those decrees on it and it matches word for word. So it was an official decree. He's he's taking this straight. Verse 1, King Nebuchadnezzar to all peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth, peace be multiplied to you. Now, isn't it interesting that the last time that the king had sent out a decree to all people and nations and languages The last thing they would have heard from the king was an invitation for his administration to come worship the gods of King Nebuchadnezzar. Now they're about to hear about a different God. I would mention being careful with the use of the word all, but you're probably tired of hearing that from me. But when you look at that What's said in verse 1, and you see the word all, just keep in mind, all was in context. Verse 2: It has seemed good to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has done for me. What the king is about to tell his people, he's had time to think about. Now he could have kept this a secret, but think about that a little bit. Really, who wants to make public their greatest humiliation? I mean, when they have pictures of the king somewhere, you just can't picture him having a picture of the king with nails a foot long and and hair matted like feathers. But the king thought about it. He waited out and he determined that this truth needs revealed. Why? Because the work of God needed to be revealed If that meant telling something that was personally humiliating, humiliating to him, so be it. He did not care That in itself leads me to believe that the king may have been saved at this point. That the king may have been an actual God follower at this point. Pride was Was his greatest issue previously. Up to this point, pride was the thing that drove him. He wanted to be worshipped, he wanted to be regarded as great. And now he's willing to tell people that he became an insane beast. Only God does that to a person unless they have some kind of prophet motive, unless there's something in it for them. Look how he refers to God here. The most high God. The most high God I doubt he still has all of his theology worked out. He might still think we're there are other gods, but this is the most high of them. Everything doesn't change in a day when a person is one of Christ. Everything does not change in a day when a person comes to God. When a person becomes a follower of God. But Nebuchadnezzar displays his loyalty and his worship to this greatest of gods And look at his attitude. He does not say what God has done to me. He says what God has done for me He knows that it is God who made him crazy. So he could have had a completely different attitude. Listen to what God did to me. But he ends up focusing on the grace of God that restored him to more than he was prior to his insanity. He sees God as doing a necessary thing in the king's life to draw him to God. He did all this for me. How do we see it when God puts us in a trial? Are we quick to use the word for? If we see it through the eyes of faith, we will. We can. It makes sense Verse 3: How great are his signs, how mighty his wonders, his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion endures from generation to generation Okay, the king is speaking from some experience here. Daniel had already known a dream that was only in the king's head. He had seen three Hebrews being possibly delivered from a fire Clearly capable of killing anyone who got close to it. And now he has experienced God's hand on his life. He has gotten the idea. God is the powerful one. The king certainly cannot claim that title for himself like he would have liked to and would have the day before he was stricken. That illusion has fallen away. It is God that is great and mighty. It is God that does things for his glory. And you can almost see him pointing to the statue in the plane. You know the statue that he had built ninety feet high? The the statue of the man of gold. And you can almost picture him pointing out there and say, see that? That is fiction. That is pure fiction. It is God's kingdom that will reign, not the head of gold. I learned my lesson. I won't build any more statues like that. The rock is the everlasting kingdom. It's what comes after everything else. Everything else we work so hard to build. Everything else I work so hard to build, King Nebuchadnezzar would say. It is the kingdom of God that will endure. It's also interesting that he says God's kingdom endures from generation to generation, not it will endure. Maybe he is realizing that while the rock of Christ will come in the future, that same God has his own people right now. He has his kingdom right now. He certainly is in control right now. So it isn't like God will start moving during the Roman government, you know, the feet of clay and iron. He's already at work doing what he wants, when he wants, to whoever he wants. So the king is done in his decree telling why he is giving it. You know, he's done explaining why he's about to say what he says. Now he breaks into the story. Verse 4. I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and prospering in my palace. Basically, Nebuchadnezzar was saying, I was at the peak of my career. I had a lot of conquests. I was in the good times. That sometimes happens to us, doesn't it? In our periods of life. Things seem to be going our way. We're being treated well by those in or outside of our households. Things are going well at our jobs. Both family and finances are working out okay. God's often good to us that way. And uh we should thank God for those blessings when they come. That's a wonderful thing. It's not a bad thing, but because of the king's spiritual condition , It was about to turn out to be a very bad thing for him. God started with a warning. Verse five. I saw a dream that made me afraid. As I lay in bed, the fancies and the visions of my head alarmed me. The king didn't know what the dream meant, but he knew it was not good. It scared him I don't know much about these kind of dreams. Maybe some of you may have a different experience, but I don't think God ever revealed to me a supernatural truth in my dreams. Most of what I get from my dreams is that I really should study for an upcoming test. I should know where my high school locker is. I should never lose my sermon on a Sunday morning. I had that dream last night. And I should really wear clothes in public My dreams are stupid, mostly. Somehow the king knew the dream actually meant something. He knew it was supernaturally inspired. Verse 6. So I made a decree that all the wise men of Babylon should be brought before me that they might make known to me the interpretation of the dream. Now, this king is not stupid And I am sure he has at least some memory. Do you have the same question as I do here? Why not just call for Daniel? He knows that's his specialty. You know, if you needed a plumber, you'd call a plumber. You wouldn't call everybody else and then wait for the plumber. Why not just call Daniel? I think I know why, just like you probably think the same. Who do you like being around most? Those people who just love us for who we are but are rarely confrontive and rarely tell us the truth that we need to hear that hurts us, because they're nice to us. Or those people who get right down to the nitty-gritty of our lives. Those who give us the messages from God that shake us to the core. I think that's the issue here If anyone can give him the answer to the dream, he would prefer it not be the guy that hears from the Jewish God. I can't prove that, but I think all the evidence points to it Verse 7. Then the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers came in, and I told them the dream, but they could not make known to me its interpretation. And this is where you want to say, duh, never did, never will. And that's a statement that comes to mind. And the king is not exactly an idealist. You know, he's too smart to expect that those who have never delivered will deliver now. But the devil and our own vices make us stupid. And that's what I think we see here. Verse 8. At last Daniel came in before me. He was named Belteshazzar after the name of my God. And in whom is the spirit of the holy gods? And I told him the dream Why it last? You know, it sure looks intentional to me. The king would rather have had his own team deliver if he could have. Maybe then he could have maintained a sense of dignity. Surely the gods of Babylon could do something But no, I think he knows that Daniel's gonna deliver bad news and whatever he delivers, Daniel's God is gonna end up being the God to worship. So you can understand the king's delay, but desperation strikes, and Daniel gets his chance. Now, this next phrase is the most discouraging He who was named Belthazar after the name of my God, and in whom is the Spirit of the Holy Gods. The king clarifies where Daniel's name came from, and he's still saying, My God, it's as if clinging to any hope that there is power other than from the one true God. But the king lets everyone know that this guy is in touch with the gods. This guy more than anyone else has a supernatural connection. saying, O Belthazar, chief of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you and that no mystery is too difficult for you, tell me the visions of my dream that I saw in their interpretation. Now when I read that, this is like telling the tenth girl that you propose to after the other nine said no, that it's because you love this girl so much that you want to marry her. You know, it's like he's gone through all of his other options, and this is the only one he's left with. He has to do it, but he makes it sound pretty flowery when he when he comes to it. You know, I'm guessing that the king still has a ways to go in truth telling And I bet every time Daniel heard the title Chief of Magicians, he just cringed. That would be like someone referring to one of us as a wizard at Ferndale. You know. But the end of the story is the king asked Daniel for the interpretation, and here's the dream. Verse 10. The visions of my head as I lay in bed were these. I saw and behold a tree in the midst of the earth, and its height was great, and the tree grew and became strong, reached heavens, and was visible. The ends of the earth, and its leaves were beautiful, and its fruit abundant, and in it was food for all. The beasts of the field found shade under it, and the birds of the heavens lived in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it. There's something interesting in this Governments are very useful. Good governments provide a platform for people to get what they need to survive and to thrive. Look at the services that this government provided, food and shelter. And those under this government had the opportunity to procure what they needed to live. And that's a good thing As much as we may say bad about our government, up to this point our government has also done a good job at this. No , we can go on about how long that's gonna last, but but and why. But uh it has provided us a wonderful 200-plus years history Of us being able to procure what we need. Clearly, this dream is showing Nebuchadnezzar the usefulness of his kingdom so far. But there are limits to what God is willing to take. Verse 13: I saw in the visions of my head as I lay in bed, and behold, a watcher, a holy one, came down from heaven. He proclaimed aloud and said, This chop down the tree and lop off its branches, strip off its leaves, and scatter its fruit, let the beasts flee from under it, and the birds from its branches. Now, the idea of a watcher was a Chaldean word and an idea. We would call it an angel. That's just not what they called it. But remember, this king didn't know much theology yet. So he he put it in he worded it in his mental framework. That's what you should expect from a new follower of God if that's what he was. And what the angels said was, cut down the tree. In this case, it was the head of gold. It was the center of the Babylonian government. Now, it looks like Evil Meridoch, I believe is his name, was installed as the vassal king to the Babylonian kingdom during this time. I think there's historical record of that. And this was the king's son, but for some reason he did not meet up to the qualifications to lead the country. So God even worked that out amazingly. That they were provided with somebody who would hold them over, but it wasn't somebody that anyone really wanted as king, which would leave a vacancy for the king to step back into. But anyway. But Nebuchadnezzar, as the central figure, was to be removed from power. And this would have an effect on all of his administration. Think about it. You know, all the effect that was. We don't know what happened. All we know is that the kingdom didn't fall apart during the king's absence, and there was still an opportunity for him to come back. Did it weaken financially so people suffered? Maybe. We know for sure that the king did not keep a tight rein on his kingdom during this period. One thing we are sure of is he was not in the staff meetings. Probably the administrators were doing all they could to keep their positions when that tree fell. You've got to think too about the political finegling that would be going on W in this kind of a power of act. Verse 15, but leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, amid the tender grass of the field, let him be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth. It's clear that the king is the stump. The tree is gone, but the king is not. He is alive but stripped of government, the tree Then we start getting the picture of the fate of the stump. He's going to go primitive. He's going to live off the land. He's going to live like an animal, living outdoors, living without shelter. Verse 16, let his mind be changed from a man's, and let a beast's mind be given to him, and let seven periods of time pass over him. This is clear. This man is going to go insane. He's going to be reduced to the mental functioning of an animal. This is interesting. Here is a person that clearly is inflicted with insanity. This king did not think his way into this mess, and he was not going to think his way out of it. The king is clearly a victim of something outside of himself that happened to him. There wasn't some mental trigger that he experienced that sent him into this. And the only remedy was for God to heal him of this thing that God inflicted him with. Insanity was inflicted upon King Nebuchadnezzar for an eternal purpose. Now, I think this kind of insanity might be unusual in our world, but it's never out of the question. God made the king insane and would keep him that way for seven years, or at least for seven times. Some people take it symbolically because Daniel's heavy in symbolism. And say it's for seven, you know, seven is a perfect number and and therefore it's until God accomplished what God wanted to do. Uh I think it's more like seven years. Verse 17. The sentence is by decree of the watchers, the decision by the word of the holy ones, to the end that the living may know that the Most High rules the king of men. Kingdom of men, and gives it to whomever he will, and sets over it the lowliest of men. We see here that the king understands that it's God who put this in place. It was by decree. It was by decision. There was no accident that happened on a certain day that caused all these events to happen. None of it was like that. But we really need to focus on this. Why? Why was God doing this? And he tells us. And that's always nice. To the end that the living may know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will, and sets over it the lowliest of men. God was orchestrating this whole thing so that the living, maybe every human being in the rule of Babylon, will know one thing. God rules, God rules And he gives the kingdom to whom he will and sets over it the lowliest of men. This is really interesting. Nebuchadnezzar would have never seen himself previously. As the lowliest of men. But I'm sure he got the point here. That is exactly what God caused him to be. Can you imagine a lowlier man? Than somebody out of his mind crazy eating food, walking around, or not even walking, on his hands and knees. When the king was re-established on the throne, it was from a place of absolute humiliation Verse 18, This stream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, saw, and you, O Belthishar, tell me the interpretation, because all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known to me the interpretation. But you are able, for the Spirit of the Holy Gods is in you. Well, we just saw what the interpretation was, but it's being put to Daniel to tell the tale, and that's what's to come. Again, Daniel might have cringed when the king said that Daniel had the spirit of the holy gods. You know that is not how he wants to be referred to. But have you ever spent much time with a new Christian? They say a lot of things that make you cringe. You know that they don't fully understand everything yet, but you're not going to correct them at every point. That would that would be stupid. You stick to the important things and work your way to the less important as it as it comes up. And Dan Daniel is probably biting time. We'll continue from here next week, but for application, I think it'd be good to ask ourselves the question. How confident am I in God? How confident am I in God? Do I really believe his control is absolute over the activities of the world? Do I really think he has arranged everything and uses everything for good in our lives? This chapter shows us just how easy it is for God to make the changes he wants to make. We don't see any effort on God's part. Oh, this is hard. Then there's none of that. And the object of these changes just happens to be the most powerful human being on the planet at that time. If we trust that God deeply loves us, and if we trust that he controls everything, what is there really to fear Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for this story. We thank you for this reality.