Since our text is so short, I wanted to uh read it again to lead right into what we're gonna say. For everyone will be seasoned with fire, and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt. Salt is good, but if the salt loses its flavor, how will you season it? Have salt in yourself and have peace with one another. Now what in the world is this talking about? The context That it's written in is the greatness in the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God, and the absolute necessity of humility In the course of his explanation, Christ explains how important every one of his children are to him. We're to take that as our reason for serving every one of them. We also take it as our cue that we had better never do them any harm, since that's such a big deal. A horrible death would be better than what awaits the person who harms a believer. Christ goes on to verify in strong terms the reality of a hell where punishment is dealt to those who are not Christ's. He goes into great detail about the need to avoid sin, with the foremost sin being the sin of harming another believer. First, death would be a better outcome than that. And then amputation is a better choice than this fate. Although many of the sins that we wrestle with would not be vastly improved by cutting off body parts, I think the emphasis is made that that's how important it is. Nothing on earth is more important than obeying God and protecting his children. That's the essence of it. Then Christ says the words in our text. And this text gives us some interpretive problems. The million-dollar question is, what is salt referring to? The word salt is used to mean different things in different passages. In Leviticus 2. 13, Numbers 18. 19, and 2 Chronicles 13. 5, salt symbolizes a covenant. In Colossians 4. 6, salt refers to wisdom in pleasing speech. In Matthew 5. 13, it tells us that believers are the salt of the earth And if we lose our saltiness, we're not good for anything. Salt was normally used as a preservative As a cleansing agent and as a flavoring. That was the common use in their day and pretty much in ours as well. Now it's difficult to know what meaning Salt, the word salt has in any given passage without clues from the context, since it's used different ways. It's helpful for us to know a little bit about the culture at this point. Back in the Bible times, people could go down to places like the Dead Sea and dig shovels full of dirt or sand that would be full of salt. A typical salt shaker isn't like ours where nothing comes out but salt, you know, what is it, sodium chloride or whatever it is. Which never loses its flavor. I mean w salt is salty. That's how we think of it. That's what we're used to. But the inhabitants of this land would put that salt saturated sand in a cloth. And then when they wanted salt, they would dip the cloth in water and then sprinkle it over their food. And eventually, when most of the salt was dissolved from the sand, the sack would no longer be salty. So they'd throw it out. But that was a dilemma too. Because if they threw it into the garden, the remaining salt in the sand would ruin the soil. Nothing would grow in it. So they had to put the sand somewhere where nothing needed to grow. So they would throw it on the paths between the fields. They almost all had their own section of of paths running along their fields So, with that in mind, let's try to interpret our passage. For everyone will be seasoned with fire, and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt. The Jews were not allowed to put honey on their sacrifices, but they were required to use salt. So when they went through the sacrificial system, salt was a common thing in their mentality. They would have been this would have been understood by the listeners, so they might have understood more clearly what we struggle to understand this morning. From the beginning of this passage until now, Jesus has been talking about servanthood. He's talking about the need to treat oneself as the most expendable for the group Another word for that is sacrifice. Romans 12, 1 and 2 tells us this. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies. A living sacrifice. Holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Notice how the concepts of sacrifice and service are wound together in Romans. Well, I believe that's helpful in understanding our passage. In the process that Christ is describing, the process of loving our brothers and sisters, like Christ did, the process of protecting them from sin, including our own sin. We are going to experience fire. This is going to be a difficult process. In fact, from Scripture, it appears that God intends it to be a difficult process. We'll encounter life situations that, simply put, hurt. There are situations that we encounter because we're following Christ, because we have come to him, and uh are attempting to uh deny ourselves, disown ourselves, take up an instrument of death, and go where he goes and does what do what he does So we'll be seasoned by fire. That fire won't only happen to us, but it will produce results in us And there'll be favorable results if we're Christ. That's what we're told. You go into the fire and it brings out the good things. It shows the good things. It shows the good things that exist. Further describing that process, each of these lives offered to God as a sacrifice to God will be seasoned with salt. This saltiness will happen to us as a result of the process we go through as a follower of Christ. And that salt is good. That salt is necessary. That quality of a believer, that salt, must exist, and it will produce a good result. We find in other passages that a person without it will be cast out. The people who are just bags of sand without salt will be discarded. This is likely another reference to the judgment that Christ has just described. Mark, however, doesn't mention the judgment associated with the lack of saltiness. He just says the rhetorical question, how do you season salt? Or how do you put salt back in salt? And the answer inferred is it can't be done. You can't put salt in salt Then Mark finishes Christ's quote with, Have salt in yourself and have peace with one another. In context, I think this salt that Christ is talking about is the Christ-like quality that Christ just got done describing. What was he telling them, these disciples, that they should have in themselves in in what he had just said? What attitude was he describing that would be different than the world around them in what he just said? What attitude was he describing that would lead to the kind of fire that he was describing? And then what attitude would that kind of fire produce more of in their lives? I think the salt Christ is referring to could be referred to in many different ways. It could be called a servant's heart or a loving heart, a humble heart, a sacrificial heart. But ultimately, I think it might best be summed up with Paul's words. The mind of Christ. The mind of Christ. Christ says we should have that salt in ourselves. In other words, that should be a quality that exists in us. It should be plentiful. It should be the thing that comes out when life squeezes us. And then Christ says, have peace with one another. Think about that. When we're self-focused , When we're only focused on our happiness, our satisfaction, our pleasure, how much peace do we have with others? Doesn't that attitude make us miserable to live with? We've all experienced that, surely. But when we have this servanthood mentality, when we're willing to die for our brother's benefit, when we go into every situation looking not what we can get, but what we can give, When we actually love that person at the expense of ourselves, how can we not have peace? A person has to be pretty hardened to not respond to that kind of love, to that kind of sacrifice. to that kind of humility. How can we not have peace with one another when we have this same mind as is in Christ? I was going to finish up our passage this morning and then move on to the next one. But I think we should spend the rest of our time this morning looking into this attitude, into this salt This unusual state of mind that is so different in a true believer's life. And I can't help thinking that we need to do business with it this morning To make sure we have this salt, to make sure we get Christ's point about the importance of our brothers and sisters. And to make sure that we protect them from any harm that we or others might do to them. You know, the harm done to other believers because of our sin isn't always intended harm. It isn't always harm we do to them to gain an advantage for ourselves. Sometimes they just bear the fruit of sinful habits of thought or action that we've never gained mastery of. It's stuff we do or say that does harm, and we don't think twice about it because we figure it's our problem, not theirs. But if it's sin, it rarely works that way. Sinful habits reap destruction in ways we don't often see or intend. The mind of Christ Where the salt of the Christian life, however, often accomplishes good that we don't see or intend. Our sin often accomplishes bad we don't see or intend. The salt accomplishes good we don't see or intend. So let's spend some time looking at Philippians this morning. Philippians 1, 27 through 30. It says Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ. Let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast In one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. And not in any way terrified by your adversities, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that from God. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only just to believe in him but also to suffer for his sake, having the same conflict which you saw in me and now hear in me. One thing we believers in the Bible can take great comfort in is the congruity of the scripture. It was written by many authors over thousands of years of time, but it ultimately has the same message from beginning to end. It's stated in each person's different style, but the main message rings true all the way through. Here Paul tells the Philippians to live in such a way that their conduct The way they live is worthy of the gospel of Christ. He's telling them to live up to the value of what you believe. There are a lot of corporations who have strict code of conduct. If you're going to work for them, say IBM, you'll show up with your physical appearance being a certain way. You'll wear a certain color suit coat in a specific cut with a specific kind of shoe and a specific color tie. And they press upon their comp their employees that they will do that to have the previous the privilege of representing their company Well, Paul is telling us that we must not look a certain way, but we must actually be a certain way because of the value of the life-changing truth we believe and represent We must live in a way that displays how much we believe that which we say is true. For instance, If we say that we are deeply sinful people and we're overwhelmed with the grace that God has displayed toward us, and then we will not forgive someone else of their sin when they confess it. But we hold it against the uh hold it against them year after year. We are not living worthy of the gospel. It's a violation. It's incongruent If we say that we believe that God is in absolute control of every aspect of our lives, but then we fall apart at the least little difficulty or discomfort, We are not living worthy of the gospel. We say we believe. And those are just two examples of thousands of applications that can be made on just this single point. We are to live in such a way that onlookers can only explain our behavior by, they have to believe, something different. for them to live the way that they live. There's got to be something different in those people's heads than is in mine for them to make the decisions that they do that you know they do what they do That's living worthy of the gospel. And Paul goes on that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. Paul is laying out here a reasonable expectation towards someone who believes in the gospel. If a person really believes that their sin deserved damnation, But Christ took upon himself all that sin and paid the full penalty for that sin so that we can be forgiven of it. That has an undeniable effect to the people who really believe it. Every person who is saved in that truth realizes that we really are all in this together. We are all the same in this regard. And the implications of that truth affect everyone the same. It produces a similar, humble spirit and singular mindset of pushing forward in faith together. It will never produce what the disciples were displaying when they argued about who gets the top seat. When properly understood, the gospel will never produce a mindset that once the top seat and will step on anyone to get it. It will never produce an attitude that will reject anyone who is a threat to their status It will always produce a oneness because the cause is always greater than one's own importance. And then look what else this conviction of the gospel will produce. It produces a willingness to receive that which has been granted to us. And part of that, it is granted to us to suffer for Christ. It is granted to us to suffer for Christ. Look at that closely. This is the reward of our new identity. We have the glorious opportunity to suffer like Christ for being one of Christ. That is not normally the opportunity we want to be granted. I mean if we had all the things and choices of well you can have this and this and this and this, I don't think most of us would say, well boy, I'd like to suffer for Christ. But in this case, the glory of the one who owns us Makes the opportunity to suffer not only acceptable but glorious. We are fortunate to have the opportunity Now we may well have to have some mindset changes when we find ourselves actually suffering for Christ. But that is how we are told to regard it. And it's just not here. It's lots of places. As we are taking upon ourselves a price for following Christ, we can rejoice in that. Now, do you think the disciples in our text have grasped that? Sure doesn't look like it. They're doing all they can to avoid suffering. They can't bring themselves to even accept the fact of what Christ is saying. They keep trying to make Christ change the end of his story. They get to the place where they're afraid to ask questions because they know what the answer is and they don't want to hear it. They hadn't yet understood the reality of the gospel. They knew who Christ was, but they had not yet seen who they are They had not yet seen their full need of having a savior. They have not yet seen the commonality that should draw them together instead of them trying to find the distinctions that make them superior to each other. So Paul lays out this same-mindedness that we should have due to the worth of the gospel. And then he continues in Philippians 2, 1 through 18. He says, therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy, if any, you know, there's like it's an understatement. If there's any at all, you ought to have this application. But in reality, there's an overabundance of all these things. But if you get the point that there's any at all He goes on, fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Paul is in a sense re-saying what he has said. You know, Jesus talked about having peace with one another. Well, this is describing what peace looks like. If the gospel you say you believe in is true, if it really has all these things that we say it has, if it consoles us in this life, if it grants us any comfort to us by being loved, If it provides us fellowship with God through his Spirit, if it conveys to us any affection and mercy, if it provides all these things, then these people should fulfill Paul's joy. And what will do that? He says, have the same mental attitude that is a logical outcome of believing the gospel. Have the same love toward each other that's the logical outcome of believing the gospel. What Paul wants for them is for them to all be in this together. He wants them to be family. But even more than family, he wants them to be a perfectly functional family, all desiring what the Heavenly Father and what big brother Jesus want done in that family. That's what Paul wants for this group. Now, back to the disciples. Remember the disciples. Isn't this what Jesus is trying to get through their thick skulls? Isn't he essentially saying, quit looking for your own agendas? Quit making yourself number one and dividing yourself with each other. There's no salt in that. There's nothing of Christ in that. No. He's saying, be one. Share one outlook. Value only one will, the will of your master. And then look what comes next. Jesus may as well have said this in our Mark text. That's the continuity and the congruity that I'm talking about. Verse 3. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit. That pretty well describes everything that the disciples do. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Christ said it a little differently Christ said, whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me. It's the same thing. It is so very difficult to get this out of our skulls. We are not the center of our lives, and we were never meant to be, and every time we put ourselves there, we make ourselves miserable. Our temporary happiness is not the ultimate goal of our temporary existence. Our temporary happiness is not the ultimate goal of our temporary existence. That has never been the goal since Adam, since Adam sinned, and probably it never was the goal even before that. God is intending to fill his eternity with a bunch of people who have had a belly full of sin and what it has produced, and they want no part of it. What they do want, however, is that fellowship with Christ and with everyone who knows him. That's what we are on this planet for. These are people with salt. These are people that God has changed their whole outlook of life. That doesn't come easy for us. We want to be number one. We want to be first. Our flesh craves that like a person hiking in Death Valley craves water. But that attitude has no place in a Christian's life. And we'll fight it every day we live. It springs out in all various ways. We we think we got it knocked down in one place and it pops up somewhere else. What causes quarrels among us? Fleshly desires. Wanting to be valued and appreciated. Ultimately wanting to be worshipped, although we would never say that. That's our problem. We won't often call it that, but that's our problem. And that doesn't change the truth. Look at the sources of conflict in our families. It will often come right back here. Selfish ambition, what we want, or conceit. We see ourselves as being better and more important than what we really are. And what's the answer? Easy. See yourself as the most expendable person in that group for the other person's good. That's what Jesus says. That's all it takes. Just that one little thing. But how difficult it is. That's no small feat. We have to die to ourselves to do that. We have to give up. We have to say, it's me I am the sinner. I am the proud one. I am the stubborn one. This discord is my fault. The unnecessary warfare in my relationships is my fault. Oh, these words come so hard to our pride. But that's what Christ is talking about. That's what Paul is talking about. That is true salt, and you will not find it in the worldlings anywhere at any time. Paul goes on teaching us the same thing Christ was teaching. Verse 4, let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Here we see it spelled out. This is part of the answer. Jesus said it differently. He said, love your neighbor as yourself. Paul says, look out for others' interests in addition to your own. The problem is we live in our own heads. We only feel the things we feel. We don't immediately feel the pain that we inflict on others I i if we did, it would drastically change how we act. You know, we would immediately be in tune with other people and and it'd be much easier maybe to give them what it is that would be in their best interest. But we don't live that way. We must have we must actively decide to consider how we would feel if we were someone else. And uh uh uh in order to do that we often have to talk because sometimes we would feel very different than somebody else in a in uh a certain situation. I've often said that marriage is intended as a school for love. That's really not what I signed up for it for, but that turned out to be what it is. It often teaches us to go outside of ourselves and to learn how to look out after someone else's best interest. It's often a big surprise to us how we might affect somebody else, negatively or positively. It's often a big surprise to us what they might want. And we continually learn how to look out after someone else Even at the cost to ourselves. That's what marriage should teach us. And then we can better apply that to other members of the body of Christ, because we're learning how to do it in that relationship. Notice that neither Paul nor Christ says ignore your own interests. It never tells you that. It never says you now need to be insane. You need to now disregard yourself. We're not going to do that. Both know that such a thing can't happen. But even following Christ is based upon following what is in our best interest. He always appeals to our best interest long term. But what we should do is to treat others' interests like we treat our own. If we'll make other interests equal to our own, we're doing an amazing thing. It's just absolutely amazing. But look at what comes next. What Paul does is holds out a model out to us apart from Christ we would regard as madness. But after receiving the benefit of what Christ did for us, we now see it as the ultimate of how we should live our lives. Prior to Christ, we would see it as being absurd. Why would anyone do that? After Christ, we say that is the most glorious thing a person could ever do. And we begin to get what Christ was saying when he said, if you want to be first, you'll be last. Verse 5, let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Okay? What was what mind? What's he talking about? What attitude? Who being in the form of God Did not consider robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, no status Taking the form of a bondservant, lowest status, and coming in the likeness of men Which is not a good step from where he was. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and of those of earth, and those under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Here is the standard, and here we learn the standard of how we should think And how we should live. Here's salt, pure salt. Christ is the measure of the Christian life. He is the standard. He is the ultimate. He is the greatest in the kingdom of God. And how? By becoming the least. When Christ spoke what he spoke, he put his money where his mouth was We're to have this mind in us. We're to have the mind of Christ. We're to consider what is in front of us the same way Christ regarded what was in front of him. If we'll think the way he thought, we'll not find it at all unusual to do the same kind of things that he did. We'll find this salt permeating our being. And how did he think? Well, he looked at everything that was rightfully his. He looked at his rights. He had a good spot in heaven. We don't know what that's like, but it's gotta be good. He was comfortable. He was deserving of his position. No one was forcing him to give it up. And then he looked at our need. And our need was very great. In fact Apart from him , our need was insurmountable. It couldn't be met. It was beyond anything that could be accomplished. So what did he do? Christ humbled himself. Isn't that exactly what the Christ is telling the disciples they have to do? Isn't that what Paul is telling the Philippians that they must do? Isn't God telling us that that's what we must do? And he became the least of these. He became a baby, literally. He, I mean, he perfectly lived out what he was saying about the least of these. He became someone who had no status whatsoever. He became completely powerless. And as he grew, he never sought after that which he deserved. He never allowed himself to seek vengeance when people didn't want him to be their teacher or their rabbi or their master. He allowed himself to be treated like the least of these, and he obeyed his father humbly in everything. He never sought more than his father's will He never clung to his rights. He never said to those around him, How dare you treat me this way? Although he could have done it every single day of his life. He never did it. And Christ obeyed all the way to the death upon the cross. This was a death that he did not deserve. We did, but he didn't. Christ saw himself as being fully expendable for our good. Isn't that exactly what he's trying to teach his disciples to do? Isn't that the exact lesson he wants us to learn? Christ proved himself to be the least of these by dying for the least of these. He showed the very mindset that we're to have. And notice he didn't just preach it and then go out and live something different. He didn't live like everyone else was supposed to recognize his importance and cater to him and his desires. No. He preached it. And then when the day came to display it, he lived it, even though it cost him his very life. He knew he had to die at a time when he was more distant to his father than he had ever been He had all of our sin upon him and felt more separated from his father than he had ever felt. He died in total faith in his father to raise him from the dead. even though he knew how much his father hated the sin that Christ had chosen to take upon himself. When we read what Christ said to the disciples, it's so easy to forget the magnitude of what Christ was about to do to put feet to his words. And what does Christ expect from us? He never expects a single thing more than he's already shown he's willing to do for us. We're simply to have the same mind in us that Christ had in him. That's our salt. For everyone will be seasoned with fire, and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt. Salt is good, but if the salt loses its flavor, how will you season it? Have salt in yourselves And have peace with one another. In closing this morning, we need to be salt. This saltiness is what allows a group like ours to love one another It allows peace to reign. It brings peace into our relationships with our brothers and sisters. And it drives us to serve one another with an otherworldly motive. It creates a people who are ambitious about the growth of the kingdom of God without concern for which place we take in it. And if we truly understand the gospel, we'll often know the salty path, the right path to take, by asking the simple question: what would Jesus do? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you We come before you humbled, humbled by the example that you have displayed in front of us of doing the very thing that we find so very difficult to do. Of dying to ourselves and living to you, living to your best interests, serving your kingdom at the cost of ourselves. Lord, we ask that you would cleanse us of our sinfulness, our self-focus, our self-absorption. And that we would be driven by the deep love and appreciation for what you have done for us already, and what you promise to do for us in the future. We ask that you would help us to overcome the obstacles in our lives that hurt us and hurt others. And that we would die to ourselves and see ourselves truly as expendable for the good of every other brother and sister. Help us to see the places in our lives where that is violated by our own attitudes and actions. Pierce us like you pierce John with his failing. And help us to see our failure. And help us to see the the changes that you will make in our lives as we submit our wills to you and follow you. We thank you that you promise to grow up your believers. And that you'll do whatever it takes to accomplish that. So we come before you as your people, not good people, but your people. And we cling to you. And we ask that you would help us to have the same mind as you have. In Jesus' name. Amen.