And they were the behind the scenes view of Christ coming to pitch his tent with us. It's a view revealed from God's perspective. Verses 1 through 18 are God's perspective. Now we jump to what was happening in time and space to prepare for Christ's coming. We come back to the events that would have been seen by people. We come back to John the Baptist. Now to set the scene, suppose we were the only church in town for years and years. We're certainly not, but suppose we were. We have a rich heritage that goes back to someone like, say, Jonathan Edwards. And we've always been sticklers on doctrine. But our members aren't very enthusiastic about our church Then across town, a new church springs up. And we don't know much about it. But it seems like everyone who goes there gets the pastor to pray over them and they get healed. There's a whole lot of enthusiasm and a whole lot of interest, and even our members are going there, and it becomes all they want to talk about. What would we as the elders do? What should we as the elders do in that case? And while at some point our leadership would need to check out that ministry to see that has so much effect on others and on our members, especially. And we're going to want to see how what they are preaching matches what Scripture says. And we want to see if anything happening there is actually anti-biblical or maybe dangerous. And at the same time, if we in leadership wanted to maintain maintain our status and our status quo, we might be pretty envious of this new minister. We may have a natural desire to be extremely critical and judgmental of this ministry. We might not follow Gameliel's advice to let it go and see, you know, if it prospers, then God's in it, and if it doesn't, then God's not. Our bad and selfish motives might be activated to try to remove our competition or at least silence our competition. Well, when we think about it that way, I think we may better understand the position of the Sanhedrin at the time. The Sanhedrin was the ruling body of the Jews. The priests that it mentions were the tribe of Levi, but the priests were the direct descendants of Aaron. So they were allowed to be priests. Only the direct descendants of Aaron were allowed to be priests. Now the Levite tribe refers to all the rest of the tribe of Levites. So uh the priests were a subset of the Levites. And and the Levites were normally to be in service to the temple. They were um They weren't as priests, but the Levites assisted in the work of the temple. They were musicians. They also served as the temple police. And they had other duties as well Now, there were also Pharisees who were not of any particular tribe. And these men all held a similar view of Scripture that was more conservative than the priests and the Levites, who tended to be Sadducees. and liberals. So the Sanhedrin sent a group of their members and kind of touched a little bit of each each group inside the Sanhedrin. To check out John the Baptist, just like we would feel inclined to check out the new kid in town. Now, why would they feel the need to do this? Well, I think there's two reasons. First, John the Baptist was popular. He had the attention of the public His ministry was having such an impact that years after his death he still had people who referred to themselves as disciples of John. It would have looked like he was beginning a movement Matthew 3, 5 through 6 says, And Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him. Everybody's going out to him is basically what it's saying. And they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. Think about this. If you were a leader of Israel, wouldn't you feel the need to find out what was going on? Your people could be fallen for a false teacher. There might be something very bad going on out here. If they wouldn't have checked John out, they wouldn't have been doing their jobs very well. Some scholars treat what these men were doing as being very bad, but I don't think this interaction proves it Eventually the true colors come out about the Jewish leadership, and most of it's pretty bad. But at this point, it's too early in the story to read bad motives into it, I think. They're doing what they should have been doing. And the second reason is this, that they went out to see him, is this, John was doing something really, really unusual. In some ways, he is initiating a new spiritual rite, a new practice Imagine that someone started saying that if you want to be part of our church, you have to learn this secret handshake. It's 100% required, no exceptions. That would immediately require an investigation by the elders. We need to check this new thing out, this thing that hadn't been done before. We need to check this out. Now, in the past, Jews would baptize Gentile proselytes, Gentiles who wanted to become Jews. That was about the only place they used baptism And that was already an accepted religious right. But no one was systematically baptizing Jewish people. The leadership did not believe Jewish people had any need to be baptized because they were already the people of God. Then here comes John the Baptist baptizing everybody. And he's doing it in such a way to identify those who are being baptized. As those who are preparing themselves spiritually for the coming of the Messiah. And this isn't something that the leadership is cued into It's certainly not something they would have initiated. And they were probably happy with their status quo because they had the power. And it would be easy to see this as a challenge to their authority. So they make a decision in some meeting that we're not told about, and they decide to send out this committee to investigate it. And they're going to get to the heart of the matter. So that's the background. Let's look at verse 19. And this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? Okay, this is the nature of the inquiry. John, who are you? Now when they ask this, you're not looking for his genetic pedigree. They want to know who John thinks he is from the biblical perspective. Just the fact that they ask him this question shows that they must think he is either someone significant or he thinks that he is someone significant. They wouldn't ask that of just anyone. We probably don't know the whole conversation. I doubt the whole thing was captured. But John understood very quickly what they were asking about. Verse 20, he confessed and did not deny, but confessed. That's odd, isn't it? It's like he's really wanting to make this statement. John's wanting to make this clear about John the Baptist. I am not the Christ. Think about this statement. This statement revealed a lot about John the Baptist. He was not trying to gain any personal advantage here. He could have been coy about this question and strung them along a little bit. That might have even been fun. These big shots were seeking him out. He wasn't seeking them out. So he had kind of the upper hand here But he didn't take advantage of it. The most important figure at this time of history was Jesus Christ. That is who those who best knew Scripture were looking for. And right away, John wanted to make something a hundred percent clear. John the Baptist was not the important one. The way John stated this would have been extra bold. I am in no way the Christ, and that is clearly part of my message I make no pretense at all that I am him. I am most assuredly not the Christ. He could not have been misunderstood about this, and that is how he wanted it. How often do we present ourselves as not the significant one? Not the one worthy of attention? When a person knows their mission and is satisfied with their mission, they can really clarify things. I am not. the important person in our conversation. I am not the focus of interest. That is not me When we're witnessing, this should also be true of us. Even if a person is impressed with our life and our faithfulness , Our answer is ultimately, I am not the Christ. But let me take you to him. Let me tell you about him. That was John the Baptist's attitude. So John clarifies things right off the bat. I'm not the important one here. Well, okay, that's settled. But there are other character characters prophesied in Scripture. And the leaders felt the need to work their way through them And keep in mind, they could have been sincere at this point. They it may not be the typical thing we immediately think when we hear Pharisees or Levites. It looks like they really held the idea he could be one of these things And I think that's how significant and Holy Spirit blessed John the Baptist's ministry was. They could watch and see this man is having a spiritual effect of some kind and is powerful. Verse 21, and they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Now that's odd at first. If you don't know the Old Testament scriptures, you'll look at the Why would he think it was Elijah? No, are they going to go through all the guys in the Old Testament that were big shots? And and, you know, see if he now why would they ask him that? Well Malachi three one says, Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord. This is all talking about Christ's coming and this messenger is going to come before the Messiah comes. And then later in Malachi says, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. So what we see is a prophecy regarding the coming of the Messiah. And these scholars would have understood that Elijah was coming again prior to the Messiah coming again, or coming for the first time. So it's a very valid and insightful question. It's good doctrine. These guys are getting this right. And to make it even better Is that John the Baptist had a lot of similarities to Elijah? They dressed similarly, they lived similarly, and they preached about repentance similarly. That's hard to say. MacArthur says this. Mark 1, and this is all his quote. Mark 1, 6 says John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist. 2 Kings 1. 8 describes Elijah as a hairy man with a leather girdle bound about his loins. John's call for repentance and warning of coming judgment would have further reminded his hearers. Of Elijah. And there's a bunch of scriptures that go with that. But again, John says, nope, I'm not Elijah. I'm not him. Now that's a little problem, but it's not a big problem. Jesus said this of John the Baptist. And the disciple, oh, Matthew 17, 10 through 13 says, and the disciple asked him, then why do the scribes say that Elijah must come? He answered, Elijah does come, and he will restore all things. But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands. And then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist. Okay, so John the Baptist was asked, are you Elijah? No. Christ says John the Baptist was Elijah. How do we work that out? I think it works out like this. Elijah is going to actually show up prior to Christ showing up at the second his second time. So Elijah, the person of Elijah who never died, he is going to show up and minister before Christ does. It's going to be the real Elijah. But John the Baptist showed up filling the role. Of Elijah. He was in the spirit of Elijah. He was a partial fulfillment of that prophecy. Now, if John was not aware of the role he was playing. But Jesus knew it. Look at what was prophesied at John's birth. In Luke 1:13 through 17 says, But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear. you a son, and you shall call his name John, and you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit. even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he will go before him, and this is the part you need to hear, in the spirit and power of Elijah. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the people, Lord, a people prepared. So while John, in one sense, was not Elijah, he in another sense fulfilled the role of Elijah. Leon Morris says this. No man is what he is in his own eyes. This is interesting. No man is what he is in his own eyes. He really is only as he is known to God. At a later time, Jesus equated John with the Elijah of Malachi 's prophecy, but that does not carry with it the implication that John himself was aware of the true position. Jesus confers on John his true significance. No man is what he thinks himself, what he himself thinks he is. He is only what Jesus knows him to be. We're soon going to look at Peter's life and see the same thing, how uh somehow he was the rock. He didn't seem like the rock, but that's how Jesus saw him. It's interesting that we do not always know the role we're playing, but God does. He can tell us better than we can tell ourselves. We can always trust him to know our significance, even when we don't know. Okay, so is he the Christ? No. Is he Elijah? No. What's next? Are you the prophet? And he answered, no. Okay, so what's this prophet that they're speaking of? And we find that in Deuteronomy eighteen, fifteen through eighteen. The Lord your God will rise raise up for you a prophet like me among you from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. Just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, They are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command. So the people were saying, Don't you come, God, because it's too scared. Don't you come because it'll kill us But give us somebody who will convey to us your word. And this is a prophecy saying, I'll do that. And he'll be like you. Evidently, the Jewish scholars of Jesus' day didn't know exactly what to make of this prophecy, which is pretty common with prophecy. But they understood that it was very significant. They assumed that it would be associated with the coming of the Messiah, but they weren't sure how it was going to fit. It turns out that this was really a prophecy about Christ Himself. Peter in Acts 3. 22 and Stephen in Acts 7. 37 both applied Deuteronomy 18, 15 through 18 to Jesus. So the question they were asking is a very valid question. Are you that guy? Are you this prophet? And John was evidently familiar with exactly what they were talking about, and he knew that he was not that guy. And he was right this time. So the delegation to John the Baptist now is in a bind. You can just imagine them. You know, they were sent by as a committee from this this important organization, they were given a job to do, they were sent out to John to find out what what position does he actually hold. And uh what are they supposed to tell them? All I know is what he's not. How can they justify the travel expense trip? They need something. So they ask him the only question left. You know, basically, if you have no authority to create this baptism right for the Jewish people, and if you're not one of the exceptional prophesied people, who in the world are you? And I think the question really is, who are you that qualifies you to do what you're doing? Jesus has asked that several times as well. So they ask, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? How do you see yourself, John? That's the candid question they're asking. How do you see yourself? Who do you think you are? What title would you give yourself? How do you how do you explain your ministry here? Now it's interesting here. This is what John could have said. This is what John knew about himself. He could have said, this is who I am. I am a result of a miraculous birth. I didn't get here by mistake. I am a result of a miraculous birth, and this was a prophecy from God about me. Luke 1, 76 through 79 says, And you, child, Will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins. Because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. He could have said That's who I am. I'm special. I was singled out for this purpose. My ministry is God ordained. And I might add, superior to yours. But John the Baptist did not say that, any of it. He does say this in verse 33. I did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, Upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. So , in that verse, he who sent me, he says, later on, John knows he was sent directly by God. He knows that. But he doesn't say that either. He could have, but he didn't. There is one trait that both Moses and John the Baptist shared, and it's humility. Humility. What a glorious example they are. Remember that humility is not self-deprecation. It's not finding fault with yourself. It's not emphasizing all the bad things about yourself. It's not self-shaming or self-underestimation of abilities. Humility is self-forgetfulness. Humility is self-forgetfulness. It's the absorption of yourself to the degree that what you are focused on is more important than what you are. What you are focused on becomes the primary issue of your life. Both Moses and John the Baptist were excellent examples of that. To be like them in this. And we're told to be humble. And we're told in Scripture all the virtues of being humble. And that God lifts up the humble. Look how John answers the question. He could not have given a better answer to deflect all of the importance to the one that John served. It's a masterful response. He said, I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. Who are you, John? John, I am but a voice. I'm a voice. I'm not a prophet. I'm not a savior. I'm not an official. I'm not a leader. I don't have a title. I'm just Voice Now what makes this voice so important? Look what the voice says. Make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. A voice cries in the wilderness prepend the highway for our God. Mountain and hill be made low The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places the plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. These religious leaders would have recognized this passage immediately. They would have understood that John was this prophetic voice. He was a voice preparing people to receive their Messiah. What a lofty calling. John is calling out to anyone who hears. People, we are about to see the glory of the Lord. This is the same glory that John says that Jesus revealed earlier in this chapter. The glory of the Lord is coming in the person of the Messiah. God promised it, and it's now. Get ready. And not only is he coming, but his call will be to all peoples. All peoples, not just the Jews. It's expanding. He is coming for all flesh. So people from every tribe and nation will see him. Ephesians 1, 9 and 10 says this: Christ was making known to us the mystery of his will. According to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. When we study, we often look for an example to follow. That's one of the Bible study questions that I find very helpful. And John is such a good one, and I I keep using him as a good example because he is. He places the proclamation of this message above any of his personal concerns. Self took a back place to the gospel in John's life. I wonder what would happen if we had that same mentality with every human being that we encounter Sure, we need to do our jobs and our do our business and stores and the like, but what if our deep yearning was not about what might happen to me? in every encounter, in every relationship, in every conversation. But that we saw it is Jesus is so worth it that we don't let our personal considerations get in the way of his glorious message. See what I mean? The message Jesus has come, come to him. Verse 24. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. We mentioned earlier that the Pharisees were part of the group that was sent. Well evidently now they s they speak up. They gotta have their say. And they ask him, then why are you baptizing if you're neither the Christ nor the prophet? And the question again seems to be, what gives you the authority to start this brand new spiritual right that we know nothing about and have not sanctioned? You have no scripture to back this. We have no knowledge of this thing. And John answers them. I baptize with water. But among you stands one you do not know, even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. I think John is saying this to his questioners. You're completely missing the point here. You are focused on the preparation. You're missing the significance of the main event. That would be like somebody telling you where a million dollars is hidden and you get caught up in criticizing their grammar. How could we possibly be more foolish than this? I think that's what John 's John 's saying to them. John is saying, I'm doing this tiny variation of how things are normally done in preparation for something that is absolutely earth-shaking. And you're caught up in a little change in plan here. The ramifications of what's coming will change our lives as we know it. So don't worry about the water dunkings. Worry about the heart, man. Get ready for the God-made flesh. Get ready for the promised Messiah. He is here. He is born and is on the verge of revealing himself. Don't focus on me. Focus on this baptism. Focus I am nothing. I'm just a voice. But him, he's so important that I don't even deserve to serve him the way that the least human servant would serve someone. To untie the sandals of another is the thing that the lowest slate, and he's saying, I am not fit to do this to the Messiah. He is that important. And John the Baptist is saying, I'm not qualified for that task. My resume is not sufficient enough to untie his shoes. My importance doesn't warrant that task. I mean it. He is that much greater than me or all of us. John really gets it. John sees Christ clearly, and as a result, he sees himself clearly. Isn't that funny how that goes? Do you want to get the priorities in your life right? Begin by looking at Jesus. Begin by studying who Jesus is. Learn about Him. Experience His presence in prayer and in study. Learn of his attributes, and you'll become smaller and he will become larger. Your self-focus will change to be Christ focused. You'll see your life even ever clearer in the proper perspective as you as you glorify Christ, as you know Christ. And that changed perspective will will will remove many of the things you wrestle with. Much of our discontent with how people treat us is a result of too much focus on the kingdom of self. Instead of the glory of Christ. Do we spend much time in anger or envy or hurt or resentment? Or bitterness at the way that we've been treated. Those things are often the result of a wrong perspective of ourselves and our world. Our expectations of this life and the people around us in this world are off high. They're unrealistic. We think to have an improper status here. And we're continually expect to be feated. John never had that problem. He's just never revealed. Because he had a Christ-first perspective. What people did with Christ is what mattered most to John. Personal concerns were secondary. And that perspective set him free from many of the things that trouble us. When our primary concern is the kingdom of God, we don't have time for so many of the attitudes that waylay us. John didn't expect status. John didn't expect comfort. John didn't expect fame. John didn't even expect attention. But what he did expect is that Christ would save his people. Sometimes what we need most in life is not a change in our circumstances. We don't need our spouse or kids or parents to change. We don't need our spouse or kids or parents to treat us better. We don't need the people around us to make the changes we keep praying for for our sakes. We don't need more money, we don't need more time, we need more of Jesus. We need a focus on a mission that is bigger than ourselves and the right perspective in all of that. We need to dedicate ourselves to one worth dying for. And then our living takes on its proper perspective. And we find a lot of this other peripheral stuff wanes. Think about it. How many of our problems are the result of thinking I must increase? I must increase in being treated this way in in my family or in the world or in my workplace or whatever. People need to treat me better. They need to treat me more special. People need to meet my needs more. People need to meet my expectations People need to show me more respect. Really? How much of our mad time, our hurt time, is spent with problems of that sort? Look at John. He says Christ has to increase. That's what I'm about. Christ has to increase. I must what? Something happens to a lot of our problems when our lives become willingly and gladly expendable for the glory of Christ. Things we used to be focused on become not worthy of notice. That's the wonder of humility. That's the consequence of self-forgetfulness. And John the Baptist was a masterful teacher of this attribute. Our text finishes by telling us the actual physical location on planet Earth where all this took place. These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan where John was baptizing. This week a good application might be to watch our lives more closely. Watch what inspires your irritation or anger or hurt. Then ask yourself if the heart of the problem is that you want to increase in the estimation of the eyes of another. Ask yourself if the heart of the matter is that you're expecting people to treat you as if you are more important. Look at what you expect. Our expectations are normally the triggers of our reactions. This is not to say that we should have no expectations, and sure, there are lots of things that we have to deal with. It's not as simple as this one thing. But the question behind the question is, what is fueling our expectations? Is it my desire to increase? Might not always be. But uh but it is much of the time. What would happen if my primary drive in my life was to see Christ increase at my expense? What might that look like? Could it be that Christ would be more glorified in our lives? Let's close in prayer. Lord, I thank you for your word. I thank you, Lord, for for what we uh