Daniel begins by telling us when he saw the dream that he's about to report on. Now remember, we've covered the first six chapters in Daniel, and we're starting into the seventh. It was the first year of Belshazzar's rule. So we know for sure that he is not re reporting this in chronological order, like the rest of the book was up until now. Now he goes backward in time The first part of Daniel are God's treatment of others and prophecies about others. The last half of the book are prophecies given to Daniel himself. Verse 2, Daniel declared, I saw in my vision by night, behold the four winds of the heaven were stirred up, were stirring up the great sea, and four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one another. The picture is being painted here is of kingdoms that are arising out of sheer chaos and evil. The great sea is humanity and rebellion against God. And you can look at other scriptures to see that in Revelation and some of the prophecies earlier. So we also get that clue because when the angel explains where the beast came from in verse 17, he says, These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. Which is different than out of the sea. So we know we're talking about imagery. They didn't pop out of the sea or pop out of the earth. But they are earthly rather than heavenly. And that's the point. These kings did not come from heaven. They did not come in the clouds, like we're going to see later, that the Son of Man did. They came from the earth They're natural, not supernatural. The four winds are the chaos and the turmoil. We just saw this morning in in Sunday school how the four winds were being held back. by angels. Well here they're they're in full turmoil. Mankind has often had plans to create a utopia But a utopia will never come from man in rebellion against God. What we see is that world governments will come and go, but none of them will bring in the kingdom of God. None of them purely reflect God's interests. In fact, most are directly counter to God's interests. Most do not intend good toward God's faithful wants. When we look at the world's situation, we need to consider the source. These governments are the manifestation of humanity living apart from God. So what they develop into will always be beastly. Now that's not always the intention of those who formed that government. Our founding fathers may have not intended to form a beast. But beastliness is in the nature of all human governments. This truth should govern our expectations toward all world governments, even our own. This passage tells us about the nature of world governments. We see here where they come from, and we'll see next what they're like. So while it's true that God appoints leaders and governments It's not true that they are ministers of his kingdom. And we need to keep that clear. Even if those who are in the seats of power are trying to serve the one true God These these this is not God's kingdom. The world kingdoms are presented like they have a life of their own. And it's interesting. We have the kingdoms which are Kingdoms. And then we have the horn, which is a person. So it's different. He is personalizing governments, world kingdoms. These kingdoms are all self-serving, and at their core there's a wicked agenda. While Scripture says that God appoints the leaders, much of the time those leaders are children of the devil. Not always, but much of the time. And that's again important to remember. At the heart of all earthly governments, world governments, is a mean dog on God's leash. Let me say that again. At the heart of all earthly world governments is a mean dog on God's leash. You only find out the dog's real heart when the leash is removed. Thank God for God's strong releases. Next we see four beasts. And here's the million-dollar question. Are we supposed to figure out what each of the beasts represent? Is that why they were provided? So that we could figure it out Which kingdoms are there? And many think that the four kingdoms listed here are the same kingdoms as the statue that Nebuchadnezzar saw earlier in Daniel. Many agree that the first kingdom is Babylon, and then after that opinions go all over the place, like so much of prophecy. uh interpretations. But I think this text gives us a clue in itself about how to approach it Look down at verse 19. In verse 19 it says, Then I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast. So Daniel's watch, and he wants to know. An angel approached Daniel and was giving him the interpretation of the dream. And then Daniel asks him for more specifics about this fourth piece, because it must have really gotten his attention. Now think carefully about this. What did God want Daniel to know? What did the angel tell Daniel so Daniel could make the best use of this information? This is how the angels started, verse 23. Thus he said, As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on the earth, which shall be different from all the other kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth and trample it down and break it to pieces. Now, it's odd, but Daniel is told very little more than what he had already been told. Why? I mean, Daniel specifically asked for more information. Why was so little information given to him? What was the angel's purpose if it wasn't to clearly identify which government this was? And the explanation goes on, but it's very difficult to make sense of it. He's not told where that kingdom would be, he's not given any names, he's just given a general description And by the time that the angel is done, all Daniel knows for sure is that this government is going to do more evil to the people of God than any other government. Those who take a futurist view of Revelation tend to interpret this kingdom as the revived Roman Empire. The closest equivalent right now would have to be the European Union. And many of the reform scholars do not think that the intent in this passage is to identify which government is which. They believe that it's more to teach us about the nature of our world. So I'm not so sure our major effort should be to assign each beast to a period of time, since For the most part, nobody can agree anyway. We can guess, and that might be helpful, but uh I don't think that's the intent It does look to me like this government will be clearly identifiable once it appears, given the hints that we're given, if these are actually clues that should be used by us to identify the government. Nevertheless, I'm not going to spend much time trying to identify the kingdom. We'll spend more time looking at the unignorable lessons that are built into the text. So these kingdoms arise from the wicked sea of humanity and rebellion against God. They come in times of world turbulence. And this is what we're told next. The first was like a lion and had eagle's wings. Then, as it looked at its wings, were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it. I don't think that the kids would sleep for days if a Pixar film was made about this. And that's really the point They are beasts, and they are scary. There is little scarier to an African village than a man-eating lion. We see him at Zeus, so most of us can't really understand that. We've never been in danger from a lion I'll bet Daniel had a different image of that. Although this dream would have been prior to his sleepover at the Lion's Den, lions were scary. They were frightening beasts. Most scholars think the wings being removed has to do with the time when Nebuchadnezzar was driven insane and then he had his mind restored. And that could well be. Verse 5, And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear, and it was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth, and it was told, Arise, devour much flesh. Now a bear is something that we may have had experience with. When uh when my family was hiking in Montana, we we carried pepper spray. Actually is this Carlin, I believe. We carried pepper spray and it was no sissy can of pepper spray. It was enough to season several people very well if the wind changed, you know. One time we camped in Yellowstone, that was with my family, and I heard woofing like grizzly bears do. I could have well been a dog, I don't know. But I slept that night with a very big knife under my pillow. In reality, all the knife would have been useful for is to identify my remains after I tried to stick it into a bear. But anyway, uh probably Dan and Sarah and Caleb and Mark are also uh kept aware of the possibility of grizzly bears. I don't know how close you were in their range, but it's always a scary thing out there And we've probably all read of grizzly attacks. So unless you're heavily armed, you'd probably spend a few terrifying moments before your death. A man-eating bear would be horrifying This second one is ravenous. Depending upon the translation, it looks like its mouth is already full, but it's told to devour more. So it's it's getting it's full. Verse 6. After this I looked, and behold, another like a leopard with four wings of a bird on its back. And the beast had four heads, and dominion was given to it. Okay, the lion and the bear are scary images. Exactly how they're like a lion and how they're like a bear, we're not exactly told. But lions and bears. The one good thing they have about them is they're limited to their territory. If you're far enough away, you see them far enough away, you can probably avoid them. But what do you do with this beast? You'll never get away from this one. Not only is the leopard very fast, this one's supercharged. It has wings. And that expands its territory. Essentially, we get the picture that no one is getting away from this swift beast. And then on top of it, it has four heads. He's not going to miss you either. He's looking for you. He's going to find you and he's going to get you. That's scared. And it's supposed to be. Verse 7: After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful and exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth, it devoured and broke in pieces, and stamped what was left with its feet. It was different from all the other beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns Okay, the fourth beast has more information with it. But it is worse than all the other beasts. The others were scary enough, but this one's even worse. Now, in order to interpret this correctly, we need to understand just how affected Daniel was by what he heard. And Daniel was a guy who could stand up to the threat of a di uh a lion's tent. He was that kind of guy. So try to think of something that is terrifying to you and dreadful and exceedingly strong. And I think Diane, maybe you might think of a one-ton snake that is following you. Suze, maybe a ten-foot-high pit bull. That's the effect that we're supposed to get from this. If Belshazzar had seen this, he would have passed out coal. You know, we knew he saw what kind of guy Belshazzar was. His knees were knocking together when he saw a hand on the wall. There is something creepy about metal teeth. I think of the character Jaws in the James Bond movie. Metal teeth are just scary, but they aren't nearly as scary as a kingdom with iron teeth. It chomped on anyone that stood in their way and chomped on them to finish them off. We get a picture of a beast that is unstoppable. It maintains what appears to be an absolute power. There's no way for humans to attack this beast. There's no way to protect yourself from it. You certainly won't break out its teeth. There are lots of horror stories that you and I have heard about. You know, maybe we've been told, maybe we saw, those sort of things. Some involve sneaky things that you never see coming. Others have deadly things that can't be touched Some have diseases that get spread. This isn't like any of them. This would be like the experience of Blitzkrieg when Nazi attack unsuspecting countries. It's an unstoppable force, swift and powerful, unstoppable, violent, destructive, that you are powerless against. Then it goes on to say it's different than the rest. We can't know how it's different. It just was. Maybe the difference is related to the horns, since that's in the same sense. It could be The horns are usually kings or leaders. If that's what makes the difference, the difference might mean that this is a kingdom made up of an alliance. rather than a king, rather than a single leader. It might be a an alliance of countries. If that's what it's describing, we see that there are ten countries that the alliance is made up of Then he goes on in verse 8. I considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots. And behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man and a mouse speaking great things. It's possible one leader takes over three countries in this group of ten and completely removes their identity, consolidates them into one country. The futurists would conclude that this person who's doing this, this horn, is the Antichrist. And so it might be. What it looks like is this horn is a very human speaker. It's like a devilish person is the mouthpiece and representative of the power. That's why there's such a strong case that can be made for it to be the Antichrist. This kingdom is going to make fabulous claims, and this king is going to make fabulous claims. And my guess is this kingdom will represent everything that Christians hate It will be a bold offense, a bold attack on everyone who is God's. Let's read on. And as I looked, thrones were placed, and the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head was like pure wool. His throne was fiery as flames, and its wheels were burning fire. The stream of fire issued and came out before him, a thousand thousand served him, and a ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court sat in judgment, and the books were opened. I looked then because of the sound of the great words that the horn was speaking. And as I looked, the beast was killed, and the body destroyed, and given over to be burned with fire. As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season at a time. I saw in the night visions And behold, with the cloud of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. Now, while we often get distracted about determining the mysterious identity of the beasts, I think God's point is that we take note of the sure identity of the judge I think that is the focus. The sure identity of the judge. While we might be stricken with fear to see the beasts, The beasts have reason to be stricken by fear, or with fear, by the judge. This would have been the encouraging point for Dan. This is the hope of all who read Daniel's prophecies and for all who taste the teeth of the beasts. Judgment is coming. The judge is coming. Nothing or no one will stop him from making things right. We 're given some descriptions, and probably all are imagery rather than actual appearance. God is spirit. The Ancient of Days has no body. So we see clothing as white as snow. Clothing as white as snow. This is probably to display the absolute purity of God. There's no flaw, there's no saying. This is God and nothing but God. His hair was as white as wool. This probably represents God's purity and his perfect wisdom gray hair, you know, white hair. It's perfect wisdom to perform the judgment and to assign the judgment. And then a chariot thrown flamed with fire This would have represented a warrior on a chariot with the absolute power to destroy all of his enemies. And it says a river of fire came out before him. This shows the absolute ability to carry out any of the judgments that he assigns. Here we see a judge who has the wisdom to sort out right from wrong, the purity to choose the right, and the power to enforce his judgment. That actually is a quote from a commentary. And then it goes on to say, a thousand thousand served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. We don't know if these were angelic beings or people or a mix of both. We know there's a lot. An awful lot of them. What it shows is the greatness of God's kingdom. The beasts may have thought they were really something, but none has ever reached the power and authority and majesty of the ancient of days. And that would have been the thing that would have impressed Daniel, I believe. His kingdom makes all the others look like a child's pretend game. So the judge is on his throne, he sits in judgment, and the books are open. I mean you can almost hear the drum roll. But look where Daniel's attention goes. With all that was going on, this is what got Daniel's attention. I looked then because of the sound of the great words that the horn was speaking. And as I looked, the beast was killed and his body destroyed and given over to be burned with fire. Now look at this horn, this king, this person. It appears that even in the present of the ancient of days, he is still spewing his poison. He's still lofting himself up. He is still making great claims. It looks like he stands in rebellious hatred against God until his very very last breath. That is sheer arrogant evil. And Daniel's looking at this thing going, that can't last. Now, how's this guy, what's he trying to pull? You know, and he it gets all of his attention. We need to keep this in mind. We need to embrace this idea. The most important consideration is never the ferocity of our enemy. It's the omnipotence of our protector. The most important consideration is never the ferocity of our enemy. It's the omnipotence of our protector. This beast, while enabled for some unknown period of time to do horrible things to God's people, is killed without events at exactly the moment the judge determines. Verse 12 is for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season at a time. That makes our text hard to understand. At least it does for me. The kingdoms in Daniel's statue all came after each other. Remember, one after another? They didn't exist all at the same time. Yet here we see that the rest of the beasts were allowed to continue even though they no longer had power to rule. What can we conclude here? Either the judgment is not at a single point in space and time, or the beasts all coexisted with each other at the same time. Either one opens up all kinds of, either one of those opens up all kinds of possibilities. Both make it even harder to identify who the beasts are. So when the thrones are placed and the ancient of days sat on it, was this at a point of time in the past, and he has been sitting in judgment over all the beasts across time? I mean, you you read this stuff in Revelation all the time, and it's so difficult. You can't always say, oh, this this comes after this, and this comes after this, and that sort of thing. Or were the beasts all coexistent and he deals with them at one point in time? Which could not be the final judgment because they're evil and they continue to live. You see what I'm saying? If you find a way to get an answer to this, please let me know. I'm puzzled about it. But since so much of this is imagery, I'm thinking that God is always sitting in judgment. That's the way my take is of it right now. But there is coming a day for final judgment. So God sits in judgment, he is doing judgment, but a day is coming when he'll do a final judgment. And this may be describing the process. rather than the event. And I'll mention in in next next week's sermon about Romans 1, how God is judging the world right now while we while we sit here. Okay, verse 13 then he saw in in the night visions and behold the clouds of heaven there came Like one, like the son of man, and he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. Just about everything Daniel was seeing would have blown his mind We read it, but we weren't there. You know, we we didn't we didn't have disturbing. We didn't we didn't see this. For us You and I are drawn to solve the mystery of when or what the beasts were. For Daniel, that probably was not the greatest mystery in this text. Who was the Son of Man? He would have known who the ancient of days was. But who was this who came in the clouds of heaven Coming in the clouds would be something that Daniel understood from other scriptures that only God could do. Only God would do. But the phrase Son of Man would have meant to Daniel. Someone born as a man. That's what it meant to him. How could this human be acting like God? And how in the world would he take charge of this kingdom of God if he's just a man? How could he take the place that only God should hold? And all humans everywhere are to serve this Son of Man and give him glory. And it's his dominion that is an everlasting one. Daniel would be thinking, I thought that was God's kingdom. Who's this son of man? What is this son of man? When we read this, it's no mystery to us at all. So we don't usually capture that, at least I did. We know it's Christ. There's no mystery. But this would have been a real puzzler for Daniel After all, there's only one God. Who is this? What does this mean? This Son of Man was surely treated with great dignity. He was presented to the Ancient of Days, and the Ancient of Days accepted him instantly. And he was given all the dominion and the glory and all that. Now God has judged all the beasts so far. He has stripped them of power. And now he's replacing all of the man-made beasts with his kingdom, and then he assigns it to the Son of Man. Notice it says, all peoples, nations, and languages will serve him That's why I think that every uh that's why some think that every tribe has to be evangelized before Christ can come back. I'm not so sure since all doesn't always mean each and every, but it still is a wonderful thing People from all over the world are coming to Christ and will continue to come into Christ until Christ returns. That is the reason history continues, is not everyone has been drawn in yet When the last one comes in, judgment hits. We know that. This shows God's priority that the gospel be taken to every corner of the earth, and as much as we can play a part in that, we should Now this kingdom did not come from where all the others came from, and it's not going where all the other kingdoms went. Our kingdom will last forever under King Jesus. It did not come from the sea. It did not come from the earth. It was not natural. A man can't do nothing natural to enter it. It's only entered by a supernatural work of God. It begins by God making a dead person alive. No man can naturally enter it, and no man can stop a man from entering it. It does not rely on any earthly act to maintain or advance it Everything that sustains this kingdom has its source in God, and as he moves on the laws of people, his people, it will be furthered. That's why we're told over and over again to seek those things above where Christ is. Set our minds on things above, not things on the earth. We're told to see this earth as a temporary stop. We're pilgrims, not citizens. Our best hope is the future, not here, not now. Not in the realms of these beasts. Are you disappointed with your present circumstances? That's no surprise. This is a disappointing place. It's inhabited by beasts. The kingdoms are bred in rebellion and joined in chaos. This is not our destination. The Democratic Republic of the United States is not our hope. The Supreme Court, the Senate, the House, and the President are not our hope. You might say, well, that's good. We see some evidence of beastly things in our government. What a shock. It came from the sea and was initiated in turbulence. Wow, what a surprise to find out there are evil agendas. The beasts were upsetting to Daniel. We'll see next week, Lord willing, that Daniel was visibly shaken by this dream. These beasts caused the blood to run out of his face. We know that we're interpreting Daniel correctly if we receive this in a manner that is shocking, that is scary. I think harm is sometimes done to this text by those who primarily are primarily concerned by which kingdom it's describing. That curiosity is not going to lead to the effect this revelation had on Daniel. See what I mean? He said, My thoughts greatly alarmed me, and my color changed, but I kept the manner in my heart. Now, if Daniel did not have the whole Bible like we do, he may not have realized that God will allow his children to suffer persecution for his sake Maybe he saw no reason that would explain the visions he was seeing. It may have blown his mind over the conception of God and the conception of the world. We don't know. We only know it really, really shook him up. But the beauty of the whole vision is that God provided an insight into what happens in God's court. And that vision is the only thing that will lift us above the turmoil that we experience in our lives sometimes. Time after time, that which we need most is to lift our eyes higher. That which we need most is to see into eternity. That which we need most is to see our lives from God's perspective, through God's promises. We must by faith believe what Scripture says is truer than what we see. We must believe that God's purpose for what we go through brings meaning to what we go through. We must believe that God will make it worth our while no matter what sacrifice He calls us in this world to make. I think maybe the safest application for us To make with this text is to accept that the source of every government is earthly, it's flawed, and it will eventually, if allowed to, show all of its true colors And it will not last. That kingdom that Christ calls us into is perfect. And it will eventually show its true colors, and it will last forever. Which one do you want to fixate on this week? It's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you for Daniel. We thank you for the