Okay, remember that our outline for this broader text is based upon awake, awake, awake, awake, awake, awake, apart, depart. 51, 9 through 16 is awake, God's comfort is in. 51, 17 through 23 is awake, God's wrath is past. 52, 1 through 10, awake. God's salvation is spreading. And 52, 11 and 12, depart the life of pilgrimage has begun. We've covered the material up to verse 4, which is where we begin today. And we're in a section regarding our awakening to God's spreading salvation. And that's exactly the period of history that we live in. We're blessed to find ourselves in today. We're in the end times when God's salvation is spreading to the ends of the globe to bring in the last lost. soul. And one day there will be that actual person who is the last lost soul to come into God's kingdom. When that person has come into the kingdom, Project Adam and Eve is finished. Verse 4, for thus saith the Lord God, my people went down at first into Egypt to dwell there. Then the Assyrian oppressed them without promise. In verse 3, we got a picture of God's grace last week. Salvation could not be purchased. The Lord makes the claim that Isaiah 52, 3, you have sold yourself for nothing and you shall be redeemed without money. We ended last week with the understanding that we exist in God's kingdom only by grace. And we certainly in the years that we've been together, we ought to know that much by now. We are only in God's kingdom. My grace. Verse 4 gives us an understanding of an alternative to grace, an interesting alternative to grace. It's bondage, it's oppression. Have you ever been around someone who is extremely proud? Someone who is never wrong? Someone who can never say I'm sorry. Have you ever felt pity for that person? They can't be real. They can never really relax. They cannot just be open and and and who they are. They can never just accept that they will never be anything that they wish they were. Or they'll never be that thing that they imagine themselves to be, that they want to be, that they pretend to be. They can never obtain the impression they keep propping up about themselves. What a bondage that is. What a slavery. And the worst thing is that they cannot ever accept forgiveness Because they cannot admit to themselves that what they really need is forgiveness. Anything wrong with them is not their fault. It's always someone else's fault. They have to keep earning everything that they get. They keep pushing to earn it. They can't accept a handout. They hate the very idea of grace because it robs them of credit. And they want all the credit because they're wonderful. The Israelites experienced oppression because they could. They too could not accept the grace of God They could not live in the joyful life of submission to a God that loves them for no reason. They could not say, I am yours, Lord. I have nothing to give you but my sin. But I trust you for my salvation. You deserve everything. Everything that I am for the price that you've paid for me, you deserve it all. You deserve all of my devotion So they lived in their legalisms and self-righteous hypocrisy in prideful rebellion against God. That's the history on and off of the people of Israel. And into oppression they went, not like the first time, and it did not have to be that way, but that is what they chose because grace was too hurtful to their pride. Verse 5, now therefore what have I here, says the Lord? That my people are taken away from nothing. Those who rule over them make them wail, says the Lord, and my name is blasphemied continually every day. I think every parent has come across a situation where their child, with their child, where internally at least they've got to say, what have we here? What have we here? It's usually a predicament that's going to require some action on behalf of the parent, like maybe a spraying on artwork on a wall, or forbidden candy residue on their hands, or something like that. Uh any number of things. And and we as parents are forced to determine a force of action that's appropriate for the situation. Uh what have we here? That's the situation here that we see. The Lord looks at the situation of his people. They sold themselves into a situation for free. They didn't get anything. No one gained a benefit from their sales price. It was like junk that somebody might haul away. Now notice the focus here. God is not saying, these people don't deserve this kind of feed. You know, these people didn't deserve their captivity. Of course they did. Given how they treated God, they deserved every bit of what they got. Have you ever tried to make a case with God with the reasoning, God, I don't deserve this? God, I don't deserve this. You know what? You will never get any leverage with that reason. No matter what we face in life, we have always deserved the worst. We've sinned. We've sinned against our Maker, and we sinned with impunity. We deserve damnation. That's what we deserve. So we might have some usable arguments with God. We see a lot of useful, usable arguments that people made with God. But that one will never work. God, I don't deserve this, you drop that from your rubber ball. That's not gonna work So notice what pulls God's heart strings here. He says, My name is blasphemed continually every day. That's what moves God to act here. He will not allow his name to be blasphemed. God will guard his glory. He is worthy of all glory. And he is not ever in a situation where he cannot actually glorify himself. Even Jesus died for the glory of God. God never has his glory stolen from him. However, it is amazing that God even allows us to make decisions that rob him of his glory. That is astounding that God would put up with that. Think of the things that we have done that say of our Savior, we do not trust Him to give us the best. We think what Sam will grant us is better than trusting our Savior to obey him. Pleasure now is worth more than pleasure for eternity. We have done that with our lives. We have said that with our lives. Comfort now is worth more than comfort for eternity. We have made those decisions. It's amazing that God is as permissive and long-suffering as He is with us. When our words and actions have the effect of blasphemy God. But there's always an end. God will not put up with it forever. He will not allow the state of blasphemy to go on forever. And we and we see the what do we have here is going to be met with some action. Verse 6 Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore they shall know in that day that I am he who speaks. Behold, it is I. God will always have a people who he will make himself known to. God always has in the always will. God has always had a people that he will make himself known to. But notice that it is his drive for glory that assures that people will know him. We don't see here people who have shown themselves highly qualified to be known of God. Not like they took the I Know How to Please God course and they got straight A They have not reached some moral plateau where God will meet them. No. God is tired of having his glory maligned, so he picks people, usually the least likely people, to whom he will reveal his true character too. He will have his glory. God will have his glory. And for some reason, he likes to do it through people and he likes to display it to people. We've got to get this. Deep in our souls, we've got to get this. Our salvation will always be more about the glory of God than any quality or value that we bring as human beings. Our flesh craves to see this exactly backwards. We still want to be the I am and there's none design. We crave to see ourselves as the focal point. It's the sinful self-residue that resides in us. It's our default setting if we will not walk according to the Spirit. The reality is displayed in our text. What God is doing is to display the glory of who God is. He saves people like us to display himself. He picks us off. He picks us to show off who he is. He picks people like God because he loves to show off grace. That's what our salvation is all about. Now, our next verse is a verse that's used in the New Testament. We're told that God is going to display who He is. Now, how is He going to carry that out? How is God going to display who who he is or how is he going to communicate that to people? is? What is his program for doing such a thing? How does God choose to glorify himself? And what we find here are messengers. Messengers. That's God's normal tool. We find proclaimers. We find tidings bringers. That's one of God's primary ways of spreading his glory. Verse 7. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace, who brings glad tidings of good things. Who proclaims salvation? Who says to Zion, your God reigns. It's always best to interpret the Bible with the Bible And in Romans, Paul uses this scripture, and it helps us to know how we should understand the verse and how we should apply it. Romans 10, 14 and 15 says How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent, as it is written, and this is the quote from Isaiah, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things. Paul applies our verse in Isaiah to those proclaiming the gospel of Christ. So that lets us know that we're perfectly safe to make a New Testament application of this passage. We've been doing that a lot through Isaiah, mostly because the New Testament affirms it with so many quotations from Isaiah. If the New Testament uses Isaiah, we can use it too. Now we start with beautiful feet. If we were to stress the literal and only the literal, we would imagine that we have messengers with beautiful feet. I'm not going to display mine to show you that that is not exactly how it's intended. But we all know the emphasis of the text. All of the emphasis is not on the beauty of the feat. It's on the beauty of the message. It's on the beauty of the good news. And everything that supports and portrays that good news is wonderful. It's wonderful to the point that even the feet of the people who are bringing it look good. There's an application here. The question comes to mind. How do you and I want to be valued? How do you and I want to be valued? This is a bigger and more important question than it might first seem. Because it's an issue to every one of us. We all want to be esteemed in the eyes of others. You can look through our histories, and there's so much evidence about all of it. That we all want to be esteemed in the eyes of others. If you don't believe me, ask yourself this. What have you given up in order to get the esteem and the approval of another person? Have you stretched the truth? Have you covered up blemishes? Have you disobeyed God's clear instruction in order to get the approval that you so much desired? We all want esteem. We all want that. Our flesh craves esteem. Like we've said before, our flesh also craves wanting to be worshiped. Our text gives us a way, the right way, to be a theme. It gives us a way to be beautiful. But to our flesh, we'll find this a tremendous disappointment. It will not involve someone noticing our attractive appearance. This won't be about our winning personality or our sexy appeal. It won't be about our superior wisdom or our sage-like advice It won't be about our clever conversation or amazing insights. In fact, it won't be about any attribute of ourselves. It will be about one thing and one thing only. The beauty of the message we carry. The beauty of the message we carry. Is that good enough for us? Really? Let's get beyond our religious demeanors here. We're talking about real life. Is it good enough for us to get our value and beauty and status and strokes from only one thing? Is it good enough for us to find our only beauty in accurately representing the salvation that God offers to every human being? That's really a soul-searching question. What are most of our gripes about with people? What bothers us when people don't like us and when people don't respond the way that we would like them to or the way that we feel we we deserve to be treated? Is it because they don't like the gospel we represent? Is that where it really ticks us off? I think that's rarely the case of our disillusionment. We're usually upset because they don't think we are as personally wonderful as we want them to think that we are. We want them to think of us as being more physically attractive or spiritually mature or personally insightful than they see us, than they're responding to us. But what's held out to us this morning is not something so fleeting or so arbitrary. Can we really find our only beauty in the message that we carry? Could we be satisfied with the only appreciation that we receive as being directly proportional to the message that we carry? Wow. That takes a kind of faith that really puts its money where its mouth is. There go all the personal peas and being upset with people because they don't appreciate the wonder and beauty of us. This is being absorbed into an agenda that has nothing to do with flesh and ego. Think about this Have you ever sought once in your life because a person was not enthralled with the beauty of the message of the gospel they can carry? We might mourn their loss, but I think it's extremely rare that this would cause us to be depressed or disillusioned. This is a huge application for us, I think. Will we take it on? Will we find our beauty in how well we represent the gospel? That's radical, and that's rare. Yet it appears to be a mark of a true Christian. When we ask ourselves that question , Now, next we have good news. When we read the whole verse, it looks like there are four messages, but we know that it's really only one message. Verse 7, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace, who brings glad tidings of good things, who proclaims salvation, who says to Zion, your God reigns. Okay, we have good news. The good in the good news means it is from God, since we know that it is only God who is good, and this is a good message. It's information that is unknown and it is being made known and that makes it news. So we have the good and we have the news. Now, what are the other descriptions? We see a proclamation of peace. All of us were born at enmity with God. We are surrounded by people still at enmity with God. What they need more than anything else in their lives is peace with God, a lack of enmity with God. Do we believe that? Do we believe they need that more than they need to be impressed with us or to like us or to think we're funny or to think we're clever? Our church is making a concentrated effort to do two things: preach the gospel and make disciples. And actually, that is ultimately just one thing: to make disciples. Why? Because that's why Christ came back from the dead and tell his disciples. I think that's a pretty good indication that this might be important. It 's central to being a church. We'll soon have cards that we will ask you to fill out and put in the offering plate to report on evangelistic attempts and gospel presentations. An either or. So if you enter into a conversation that you are intending to get to the gospel and and you it just never gets there, you click on one box. If you actually have an opportunity to present the gospel We don't want your name on them. I mean you can put it on if you want, but they are simply an attempt to track and applaud work that our church is doing toward the central mission of Christ. If we are the church, we must be about those things that Christ said were important to him. And as elders, we want to encourage and enable that in whatever ways we can. And to cheer as well. We have a message of peace to proclaim that will allow human beings like ourselves to stand before God without fear of condemnation. That is an amazing message. Next, glad tidings of good things. Glad tidings of good things. We sometimes lose sight of the truth of the gospel. We might think that it's gonna tell people that they're sinners and that they'll have to give up the freedom to do the fun stuff And there's truth in that. There are some fun stuff that they may have to give up. But when a person feels lost , When they experience the implications of their meaningless life and their hopeless pursuits, they don't feel like they're giving up good things. They are longing for good things. They want to do things. We need to keep that in mind when we present God. Our message. is beautiful to people who are tired of the things that are not truly good. Our message is received by people that are given to see through their false God. They want some things in their lives that are truly good. Because ultimately God is calling them to Himself. And He alone is truly good And when those people hear it, we'll know because it makes them glad. You'll know you stumbled onto the right person. Because the gospel's going to make them glad. It will resonate within them. They'll understand and they'll respond. A proclamation of salvation. Sometimes it's really amazing when we think about what God has trusted us with. Do you realize that you have the words of God that can save a human being from everlasting destruction? That is what you carry with you. That is what saves you. It's amazing if we were to see it in its truest perspective that a believer could be ever be bummed out or depressed. Here we are, the most important people on the globe. We have the most important answers to the human dilemma. We have the secret to the greatest problems in life. We can see through the charade to the truth of our reality. We are the proclaimers of how to live forever. That's pretty impressive. It's important for all of us to understand that we are all proclaimers of salvation. Every single believer is one of those That's not for the professionals, and it's not for the elders, and it's not for the seasoned believers. It's for every single believer. If you were saved by the gospel, you know enough of it to tell someone else who needs it We are all to be proclaimers of salvation. And then an announcement of the reign of God, who says to Zion, your God reigns. I think if Christians really believed this one thing and acted like it was true, it would make such a profound impact on our culture that it could not be ignored. In just about any group of people you speak to in America, you will find people on medication for anxiety. Anxiety is like the predominant thing running across our false surgery. He's got plenty of experience with that. We have a culture that is desperately afraid of what might happen, what could happen, and what will happen. Believers are people who believe in a God who controls everything that does happen. And not only that, there are people who believe that God has absolute power to see that every single thing that happens to one of God's people will be for the good of God's people. How about them, Athletus? In that one statement, your God reigns, is the answer to the dilemma so many people around us face. We have the answer that they need. But do we believe that God really reigns in a way that we can completely rely upon? That's a million dollar question That's our message. That's our doctrine. But does it describe our reactions to life situations? We all need friends who will remind us of this even when we don't. To be reminded. It's interesting that the people this was spoken to would have had trouble believing that this was true. Um, it didn't look like it was true. The Babylonians still held these people captive. I mean that's that's who this this message was being given to. How can someone say their God reigns with their captives to the Assyrians? How can this be a beautiful message of peace? Isn't that just a pipe dream? Isn't it just wistful thinking? Isn't it just a slogan? No. Faith sees farther than our circumstances. Faith sees farther than our common sense and logic. Faith looks to the God that created everything and bets everything on his willingness and ability to intervene on our lives. Our God reigns absolutely no matter how it might look at any given moment. Our God reigns no matter who claims to have power or who looks like to have power. Our God has power. What God says will happen. And there's nothing that any human or demonic power can do about it. That is the reign of God. And we're inviting everyone to join the kingdom of God, where God reigns. What an amazing message we have. What an important position we have. And what were we whining about this week? Think about it. What were we thinking? How did we pity ourselves? What did we gripe about not having? Where did we lose control in the midst of life's circumstances? Right there is our problem. What would have happened if we would have believed this one statement in every single situation we were in? Our God supremely reigns over every circumstance and person in this life. Our God reigns over every circumstance and person in this life. We really believe that down deep in our guts. That, brothers and sisters, is the truth that we must constantly and continuously orient to. Now, what does the future hold for the people who have received this message from people with a beautiful feet? Verse saying, Your watchmen shall lift up their voices. With their voices they shall sing together. For they shall see eye to eye when the Lord brings back Zion. Break forth into joy, sing together, you waste places of Jerusalem. For the Lord has comforted his people, he has redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord has made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. The picture we get here is wonderful. It's what every one of our hearts crave for. When do you break out saying? Even when you're happy. When you're happy. That's the picture here. These watchmen, the people who are paid to pay attention to the state of things. They are breaking out in song together. I I I I keep thinking that it would be like the the guards around that South in England. You know, the guys that all stand straight. It's be like all them breaking out in song at one time. You know, that's what we're seeing here. There's no embarrassment, there's no hesitation. Because singing is called for. What else could they do with this wonderful truth? And what are they singing about? God is doing the thing that God said he would do He has branded to completion his redeemed people. You and I suffer in a sinful world. Oh, we might have relatively good circumstances, but we still suffer. We know this this world is not our own. It's not satisfying. And as good as any human relationship is, it's not perfect. They always leave us with with things we long for. Even when life is as good as we can imagine it, there's still something missing. We're almost there. And most often life is not as good as we can imagine. Sometimes we're walking through the valley of the shadow of death. Sometimes we're watching while the Philistines rule today. Sometimes we're watching while the Philistines or the pharaohs have the power. Sometimes the enemies of Christ are free to weak destruction as they desire. No, this life is never what it promises. We all yearn for more, no matter how much God has blessed us with in his life. But we notice one thing. God will one day set it straight. God will one day bear his arm. And what this means is that he will deliver on his strength. He will apply his energy for our deliverance. And when that happens, the outcome is absolutely certain. On that day, there will be those who sing and those who watch. And it's far better to find ourselves in the company of the singers than in the company of the watchers. The point here too is that God is going to display his salvation. Finally, finally, all of the scoppers are going to be silent. All those who say that there is no God, He's a fairy tale that we made up, all of them will be silenced in one moment if they have not repented before them. They will know a dread that they could never have imagined up to this moment in history. They will realize all the things they were worried about were misplaced, and they should have feared the God who had enough power to engineer heaven and earth. On that day, every believer will be seen as geniuses, and every disbeliever will be seen as a fool. Finally, the scales will be balanced, and the truth will be seen, and the glory of Christ will be inescapable. What a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful day that will be. So with all this awakening that happened, what is the conclusion? If all this is true, what should the people of God do? Verse 11. Depart, depart. Go out from there. Touch no unclean thing. Go out from the midst of her. Be clean, you who bear the vessels of the Lord. There's always a principle in scripture of fleeing. We're always to be running to something and running from something. Here we're told what we should be running Wrong. I have a series of plus signs on my on my paper here. I believe the cat was on the keyboard while I was finishing this up. We should be running from the unclean things. We should be running from those things that God is opposed to, running from those things that God hates. We're to leave the world that the world around us loves. 1 Corinthians 5, 9 through 13 says, I write to you in my epistle not to keep company with sexually immoral people. Yet I certainly did not meet with sexually immoral people of this world or with the covetous or exorgeners or idolaters, since then you'd have to get out of the world because that's what it's made of. But now I've written to you not to keep company with anyone named a brother who is sexually immortal or covetous Or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or an extortioner, not even to eat with such a person. For what have I to do with judging those who are also outside? Those also who are outside, do you not judge those who are inside? But those who are outside, God judges. Therefore, put away from yourself the evil person. We as a body have to be running from the things that God hates. We have got to be calling our cars. We've got to be exposing. We've got to be uh Uh exhorting, we've got to be doing everything that we can in our power to help each other escape from uh from a state of sinfulness. We need to depart the world's principles and devotions. And we're to be clean. We're to only enjoy those things that we can thank God by faith that He has given us to enjoy. Because after all, we are the vessels of God. We are the temples containing the Holy Spirit on this planet. I like how our brother Orkman puts it. Anything about us that might make the victory of God ambiguous or unattractive must go. The gospel is so beautiful, we have no right to contaminate it. We must purify ourselves of every unclean thing. Now, how certain is our end destination? Verse 12. For you shall not go out with peace, nor by flight. For the Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard. Look at the confidence here. Our final deliverance is displayed as an absolute certainty. There'll be no reason for hurry or concern. Why God is in front. God is behind. We're in a God sandwich. That's how it's presented. We're completely surrounded by the awesome power of God. How much safer can you be? So what's the chance that the truths that God has given us this morning will impress us longer than it takes to get out of this building? Isn't that a challenge? Will we allow it to have an impact on us when our car breaks down or we forget a password? Will we begin to see that the greatest beauty we possess is when we declare the saving message of God, or when we live light in his truth? We tend to be hard to impress, yet we need to be impressed. What we have is that which we need. All the other stuff is just chatter. Just imagine what our lives would be like if we really only wanted to be as appealing as the message of the gospel. To those who don't love it, we don't expect any admiration for anything about us. To those who do love it, we only expect for our participation in it to be the part of us that's admired. Imagine if we can how that one change would change so many of the dilemmas that we create in our own wise. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that Isaiah was used by you to say things to us. We thank you for his beautiful fear. And we thank you, Lord, for the for the feat that brought us the gospel. Lord help us to identify with you so wholly and want to please you so fully. That we will adjust our thinking and our expectations and our ideals and all those things that are running in our hearts. To the one goal pleasing you, to the one goal of being found pleasurable to you. Lord, we want to be a people that you use to win people to yourself Help us to live the message, believe the message, trust in you with all we have, and then to portray that on every hilltop we can. In Jesus' name, amen.