Our text breaks into a logical outline beginning with the Chapter 62, verse 8, and ending with chapter 63, verse 14. Our text this morning is about God preparing a place for us that we will love. 63, 1 through 6 displays an awful display of the bloody vengeance of God. And then 63, 7 through 14, God reminds us of his love for his people. even when they least warranted it. My nine to five day job is a help desk job for a big corporation My responsibility now is to keep the phones operating. And every day I'm involved with a new puzzle to solve. And I find that most of my failures in doing my job can be tracked to one simple thing, assumptions. I often make wrong assumptions and those assumptions doom my efforts. For example, I once helped someone with a printer for 15 minutes Before I thought to ask the person if any of the lights on the printer were lit. I assumed that no one would expect the device to work if it was not turned on. I started with the wrong assumption, and that wrong assumption would have never gotten me to the proper ending of that. Well, the same thing is true in spiritual things. We as human beings believe things without testing our assumptions. We believe them well because we believe them. And we assume them to be true. Now, when we step back, we can see just how arrogant that really is. But when we're in the middle of it, it feels perfectly reasonable. Have you ever heard someone say, if God did what the Bible says he did in the Old Testament, and if He hasn't changed, I cannot love a God like that? There are a million different ways of saying it, but I suspect all of us, if we've done any kind of evangelistic efforts, have heard that. But the assumption Is that we as human beings stand in a place where we can accurately evaluate God. Now, travel a billion miles into space And look at where the planet Earth must be. You can't see it, but you know it must be there. And then realize that there is a God who made all of this And then imagine that there is a person on that planet that you can't see who believes that he is fit to evaluate the one who created all this. Or we can do the reverse. View that same human being through the strongest microscope and delve into the complexity of the processes that keep that person breathing and alive. And then imagine that this person thinks himself fit to evaluate the one who created him in all of his complexity. Do you see the problem here? The problem is one of assumption. We assume we are capable of adequately evaluating our Creator. And it's a flawed assumption. God took Job to school on this. And Job got the point. Our world looks at all the evil on our planet, and they begin to conclude things And they think they're being smart. They trust their conclusions because, after all, it's their conclusion. And they say, based on what they see, that either God is not good or he is not sovereign But no good God could allow so much evil if he were capable of stopping it. So that's the dilemma they end up with, and that's where they stop And the greatest problem again with the argument is naturally in the assumption. We assume that we know enough to evaluate God. What if this planet is not intended to be a home, but it's intended to be a training ground for a better reality? What if you start with Phantasm? What if God's ultimate end for mankind is not temporary pleasure, but permanent pleasure? What if evil is serving a useful purpose even though it's not evident to us at the moment? No, we by nature assume too much. Now, as always, to do us any good, we need to bring this closer to home. What do we assume? What do we think we know? We've been talking about humanity or humility in Isaiah. It's bowing to God. It's bowing to the truth. Humility is the admission of knowing nothing in comparison to the God who knows all. It's just telling us the truth about ourselves. Faith is believing what God says even when it goes completely against all of our frame of reference. So when Scripture says we can do something by faith in Christ, that all of our experience has proven that we cannot do, what do we believe? The theoretical stuff is easy to get right. It doesn't cost us anything. But what do we trust when we were looking at something hard in our lives? At that point, what do we really believe? What do we display about what we believe? And if you're like I am, our assumptions are usually our first thoughts. We usually the first thing that comes into our mind is what's based on our assumption. And that's when we have to start to invalid. Isn't that how it goes in the universe? How often is the first thought, the first reaction to something that you are facing, a good one, a true one, a scriptural one? Sometimes it is, and that's kind of success, but often it's not. The question is, what wins at the end of the argument? What chess piece wins like we were talking before? That's the battle of faith that we're all in every day of our lives. So next week, Lord willing, we're going to be looking at a very bloody picture of a very loving Lord. And if we allow the word to have sway in our lives, our understanding of God will grow deeper as a result of looking at it. It may do damage to our assumptions, but it will do good to our understanding of who this God really is that we love and serve. And it might make us a little nervous, but so be it. Verse 8. The Lord has sworn by his right hand and by the arm of his strength, surely I will no longer give your grain as food to your enemies. And the sons of the foreigners shall not drink your new wine, for which you have labored. What is the most futile thing that you have ever done? We probably have a whole lot of things that we can fill in that gas with. But one ha what is the most futile thing that you have ever done? Where have you poured a great deal of energy and what you did completely fail? Many of us have invested a great deal of time and effort into relationships that ended Those who garden have years when the bugs or the weather destroy all the hard work that was done after they had planted it. Sarah can probably talk about futility, Dan too, in their farming efforts at times Maybe we exercise our bodies only to injure ourselves by exercising, and we lose the benefit of the exercise. When I got home from church camp, I don't know if anybody else had this storm, but we sure did, I watched a hail storm shred all of the plants that Carla had carefully planted to prepare for a party that's going up. That's utility. I think of Elizabeth Elliott spending years translating the Bible into a primitive culture's language only to have the whole work stolen and lost. And there seemed to be no good reason. It was just beautiful. We are all subject to futility and uncertainty. There are always destructive influences. There are always the mobs and the rust. Look how we fight futility every day. We purchase insurance. I'm an insurance business. We do preventative maintenance. We try to think of what can go wrong and protect ourselves against it. But it never ends. There's always something bad that can happen around the corner. We simply cannot protect ourselves from all that can go wrong. This promise in verse 8 is a promise about the end of futility. That's what's so beautiful about it. It's the end of futility. The end of futility. Isn't that a wonderful thought? Now, what's standing behind this promise that God makes about the end of futility? It says, the Lord has sworn by his right hand in the arm of his strength. He is making a vow here, a pledge, a covenant, and he backs it with omnipotence. If you ever get a promise backed by omnipotence, pay attention to it because it has to happen The arm of his strength. All the power of God is behind this promise. It is impossible for this promise to not be fulfilled. Are you afraid of what bad things can happen in your life? I mean, isn't that really what worry is based on? No one ever worries that a good thing might happen. When's the last time you worry that you'll have a bumper crop? Or that your car will last longer than you thought? Or the kids might get rich and take care of you when you get old. You know, who's ever worried about that? No, it's always something bad. But look at this promise. The promise is that not here and now today nothing bad will happen to you. That's not what this is saying. But the promise is that this kind of thing will have an end. And we can afford to wait for that day. Isaiah is pointing us toward a hope. A day is coming when futility will end. And what does futility look like? It says, surely I will no longer give your grain as food for your enemies, and the sons of the foreigners shall not drink your new wine for which you have labored. Now we need to remember these people were subsistence farmers. If their crops were stolen, they would not have a less profitable year that year. They might starve to death. So, what's being described is not an inconvenience. It's a tragedy. When things were very, very good, the grain was abundant and so was the wine. You see that all through scripture. If things are going good, you'll see an abundance of Of wine, an abundance of grain, an abundance of milk, usually, things like that. Those things are often used as God's blessing. But when the people were being disciplined or punished, these things were usually threatened by disease or famine or by enemies. Now, as a result of this wonderful Savior that we've been learning about in Isaiah, and having these people having been given white robes of righteousness to wear by our Savior, all the discipline and punishment will be gone. It's no longer needed when we are when we are with the Lord in the presence of his Lord without the presence of sin. Walking in his righteousness, we no longer need discipline or punishment. When evil no longer serves a good purpose, God removes it We can count on this. God truly is good to a level that we cannot even comprehend. We certainly can't identify with him So God gets no kick out of evil. God doesn't just play with evil and think, well, this is fun. Now imagine how you would feel if you had spent all of this time and effort preparing your garden to take care of your families. And the crops are just ready to harvest. And you can almost taste the bread made out of this new grain. And you look at the hillside one day and you see this mass of armed people coming over the hill and you know they have one purpose. They're going to take all of your food, everything that you have worked for. That is the futility being described here. And God promises that there is coming a day, there is coming a day when this will never, ever, ever again happen. Verse 9. But those who have gathered it shall eat it and praise the Lord. Those who have brought it together shall drink it in my holy courts. Now notice how this is described, you know, enjoying this blessing. This pictures stuff in its proper context. This is blessing in its proper place where it can be most enjoyed. It's in the context of a right relationship with God. Here we see people no longer subject to the futility of wasted effort. What they work on comes to fruition. No more pesticide. No. Everything everything is is pumping out the way it's supposed to. No more curves. And how do they enjoy it? They eat it in praise to the Lord and they drink it in God's holy courts. They eat it in praise to the Lord and they drink it in God's holy courts. They are enjoying their blessings in the presence of God and surrounded by God's people. I tend to be an introvert People wear me out and ideas energize. That's just a general, you know, a general way of saying it. So I want to be alone or with people that I know well enough that I can just be me without offending them And my family can tell you that's not just everybody when I really let my hair down. But oddly enough, I find that many of the things that have most enriched my life were things done in community. They were done surrounded by church family or storegay natural family. And even though I'm most comfortable in a secluded environment, that does not mean that is what's best for me That's typically how we are. The things that we perceive are best for us are usually not those things. But anyway, our text lays out how we are to enjoy God's blessings. And it involves a proper perspective toward God and being involved in those people's lives who are also loving God. That's really life as it is intended to be. And we can have a taste of it now. We cannot have the fulfillment of it now. It's never going to be perfect now, but we can have a taste of it now. That's life as it's to be. And it displays a trust in God that is willing to hold every gift that he gives us in an open hand in the community of fellowship. And there's more. We see that the nature of this fellowship is inclusive, which is wonderful. I mean, we're here. It has to be inclusive. Verse 10, go through, go through the gates, prepare the way for the people, build up, build up the highway, take out the stones, lift up a banner for the people. Like I said earlier, Carla's preparing a party in honor of her aunt and uncle. And as such, she's working hard to improve their enjoyment of being with us as much as possible. And she likes doing that kind of thing. That always amazes me 'cause I would. But that's a kind of extra energy being thrown into the work in our passage. Something special is going to happen here. It's a one-of-a-kind history of humanity uh humanity kind of event. You know, it's only going to happen once, and so all the stops are being pulled out The entrance of those expected is being prepared for. It's a huge deal and worthy of huge effort and great emphasis. We see the double emphasis of go through. He says it twice. Usually in scripture, when you see something twice, it means a lot more than when we would say it twice. It it's basically they would have gotten the point. This is important. When you say it three times, it's like, well, this is ultra important. But this has always been God's plan, and it's always what he has been pleased with. He is pleased when human beings come through the gates into his eternal unbroken fellowship with him. That is what pleases God. God is not happy with the death of the wicked, but He is happy with the death of the saints. They're going through gates. God wants people coming through these gates. The more the merrier. We see lots of other attributes of God as we read the Bible, but we have to remember that Christ came for this purpose. He came so people could enter those gates. What place does that effort have in our lives? That's a lot of what we were talking about at church camp. Maybe one of the biggest weaknesses of our church is taking what we have and are and shining that in the world. How much time and effort will we spend to offer people entry into these gates? How much will we even consider it when we're surrounded by people who are not familiar with what is needed to enter those gates? And again, you know We're just trying to measure how we are doing in our evangelistic effort. So It's intended to draw attention. We say it's important to us. Is it? Is it? Then look at the road building going on in this verse. God wants efforts spent on building that road that leads to his kingdom as easy to travel and as accessible as possible. We see from all of this God's intent, God's purpose, God's desire, God's love. And this would not have been lost on these people. They would have understood what it meant. To build this highway, this queer path, this easy to travel round So that's you know that's what it's saying. Think about it. There are plenty of paths that are hard to follow. They're level, uh they're on the ground, they're not clearly marked. I've watched Dolly Saws in the winter and it as soon as it smells you can't see the tray. So that's not a good idea. But that isn't the kind of thing this is more like the highways that we're used to. You get within a quarter of a mile of them and you can see them They're easy to travel. That's what God wants. He wants an easy-to-travel road to get to Him. And then we have a banner. Every parade has a banner, doesn't it? Well of course this one must. This is the parade of all parades. It'll clearly define what this pilgrimage is all about. So people will have a visual image to look at. They'll have this banner But any good good teacher knows you have to appeal to more than one sense. And here's the second. Verse 11. Indeed the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the world. Say to the daughter of Zion, Surely your salvation is coming. Behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him. Here's the marketing plan. The Lord will see to it that a message will be proclaimed to every tribe and nation. It looks to me like this is the gospel. Acts 13, 46 and 47 said this. Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said, It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first. But since you reject it and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles. Verse 47, for so the Lord has commanded us I have set you as a light to the Gentiles that you should be for salvation to the ends of the earth. Matthew 28, 18 through 20. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I've commended you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. And Revelation 14, 6 and 7. Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, for the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who made heaven and earth and the sea and the springs of earth. So these three so far have talked about this message going to everybody. Revelation 5. 9, and they sang a new psalm saying, You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals. For ye were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. So it's universal. He is making this call universal and it will be accomplished. Now it's interesting that God takes the credit for the gospel going everywhere. But it's probably people who carry the gospel everywhere. And again, we see the relationship between the sovereignty of God and human responsibility and human decision-making and human involvement. Now, look at the message. It says, say to the daughter of Zion, Surely your salvation is coming. Behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him. Now, who is the daughter of Zion? Maybe it's for Jews. Or more than likely, it's for everyone who is one of God's children. And what is promised? Salvation is coming. Salvation is coming. I don't remember which speaker it was, but they mentioned this as well this weekend that Scripture speaks of salvation in three verb tense. Past tense, we were saved. Present tense, we are being saved, and future tense we will be saved. And that's every Christian. I think our text is talking to people who have been saved about the ultimate upcoming salvation. They will be saved. Christ is coming back. The king is returning. And when he comes, he'll bring his reward with him. So, how should we be living with this kind of message being pronounced? Hebrews 11, 6 says this, but without faith it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. How do we please God in these various tenses of salvation? How do we please God when we were saved? We are being saved and we will be saved? We're told here that faith pleases God. We must believe that God exists, but it can't stop there. The demons believe that God exists. We must believe that there is a reward that is worth the trouble. There is a reward that is worth the trouble. We have to see God as a rewarder. That's how faith looks at God. Lots of people look at God all kinds of ways. But faith looks at God as a rewarder. And we must believe that God will deliver on his promise to reward us. We cannot believe that God is arbitrary and he might be toying with us We can't believe that we might get to the end of this road and we'll find God to be a scoundrel who is playing a cosmic game with us. No, we have to be people who hear about his present offering of salvation. And we receive that present offering of salvation wildly looking forward to the future reward that He will bring us when everything will be completed in salvation. And what's the ultimate end of this plan? Verse 12. And they shall call them to the holy people. They shall call them the holy people. the redeemed of the Lord, and you shall be sought out, a city not forsaken. Here's another passage about a holy people. In 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10, it says, but you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. He's talking to Christians. His own special people that you may proclaim the praises of him who calls you out of darkness and into his marvelous light Who once were not a people, but now but are now the people of God who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. So the people, the holy people? New Testament says those are Christians Here's another passage about the redeemed of the Lord , which Isaiah refers to. 1 Peter 1, 17 and 19. There's more, but This is one of them. And if you call on the Father who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers But you were redeemed with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb, without blemish and without spot. So we are also the redeemed. And the third, sought out a city not forsaken. The description here is probably one of a marriage relationship. Most women want to be sought out by a man that they respect and desire. That's it's it's kind of inbuilt. They want to know they are cherished by someone. Now that doesn't always work out in human relationships. So the picture here is of a forsaken woman is not one that's very hard to come by, especially in our culture. There are many of them What God describes here is essentially a happily married woman who is cherished and will never be forsaken. So the The forsaken woman, there's lots that we see, but this is not one of them. This is a woman who is not forsaken That's what we see in Revelation, and that's what we talked about a little bit in the church camp about the bride of Christ. Revelation 21:9 says, Then of the seven angels who at the seven bowls filled with the seven last plays came to me and talked with me, saying, Come. I will show you the bride, the lamb's wife. And that's the church. These are all descriptions of saved people They are true, encouraging descriptions of the reality that believers will live in forever. Essentially what I'm saying is that Isaiah is written for us. It was true of the people he was speaking to, but it is also true in a bigger sense of the people of God, the saved ones. So, are you tired of futility? Are you tired of thinking about all the bad things that could happen? Well, we need to put it all in perspective. It is the pleasing faith that counts on this life Christ promises to us to make anything we might face here and now. Worth the price that we pay. He is a reward. We have amazing status and privilege ahead of us. If we're in Christ, this is promised. This cannot not happen. It had to happen. His omnipotence is behind it, and God never lies. We will be the holy people, the redeemed of the Lord, and the sought-out bride never to be forsaken. In fact, we are that now, even though it may not be evident all the time. Faith trusts God and depends upon Him to deliver on all of these wonderful promises that He has made to us. Let's close them, friend. Lord, we thank you for your word again. We thank you for this this man Isaiah that you chose to put your Holy Spirit in and to reveal the truth. that you spoke to directly in order that we may benefit from the truth that he was telling to them Lord help us to see you in the proper light. Because everything else in our life starts there. Help us to see you as a rewarder. And that your reward is always worth waiting for. And then help us to be patient and diligent in the meantime, counting upon you, always looking forward to that hope that 's inside of us. Knowing that it's not, it might happen, but it will happen. God, we want to honor you as individuals, as a church. And we continue to pray, and we know even when we ask that we don't want all the answers that we pray for, but we want you to break us and make us. As a people who will more and more glorify you. Lord, show us our failures, show us our weaknesses, show us those places that we are confident in that we shouldn't be. And the places we're not confident in that we should be. The confidence in your word, the confidence in your reward, the confidence in you and your work in our lives. Make us and break us and lead us to be a people who represent you well in the environment that you have placed in. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.