There are several categories of people who this passage was specifically addressed to. So if you're in one of these categories, you may want to pay careful attention. The first category: who here has been a follower of Christ for less than five years? There may not be many, but there may be a few, so please pay attention. This is for you. The second is who here feels insignificant in the work of Christ? Maybe you can't see anything that you can do that will really accomplish anything that really matters to the kingdom. The third, who here gets distracted by fears and worries And sometimes that makes you a little out of your mind. And the fourth, who here is lazy? Some of us like myself I wasn't calling for a raise of hand or why. Um some some of us like myself will quickly admit that we have a tendency to want to be lazy But who of us would really say, I am guilty of laziness? Well, if you fit in any of those four categories, please listen to 2 Thessalonians 3. 1, especially the first five verses. Paul was writing to a church of people where many of them fit into the list of one of those four categories. So if you fit into one of those four categories, this is likely to be challenging and encouraging. And if you don't, it's likely to be challenging and encouraging anyway. Finally, brothers, pray for us. Verse 1. Finally, brothers, pray for us. How many times have you read this message? You know, read this passage? If you've been a Christian for a while, I hope it's a bunch of times. You know, you've probably read this this book a bunch of times. But have you ever stopped to think about what kind of people this was written to Paul's not just saying this. You know, this wasn't a Christian ease for I want to impress you with my spirituality, so I'm going to ask you to pray as if I really care if you do or not. In fact, after I say this, I'm not likely to think about it again, but because ultimately I'm not really sure that prayer really accomplishes all that much. But Christians say this to each other. Pray for me. No, this was Paul begging for that which he recognized he needed the most. And look who he asks to do the thing which is most important to him. It's those who are probably the least adept at giving it. This ragtag group of Thessalonians probably didn't know all that much about prayer. They probably didn't know all the principles of prayer. They never read Ian Baum's books, you know. But Paul asked these new believers These shaky believers, these sometimes flipped out , believers, these lazy believers could do one of the most significant ministries for Paul that could be imagined. Pray for me. Pray for me. Pray for my ministry. What an honor they were being bestowed with. They were being called into ministry with Paul. They were being called into partnership with one of the most significant ministries ever done on planet Earth. I don't know how often we think of it in those terms. But that's the truth. Whether you fit into one of those four categories of people I mentioned, or whether you don't, we all have this glorious opportunity. to pray for those in ministry. And the truth is, who isn't in ministry? Do you want to be an integral part of ministry all over the world? Do you want your life to count for that high of a thing? Well, there is nothing stopping us. Pray. When you pray, one of the nice things about prayer, if you do it privately, when you pray, no one knows but God When you pray according to his will, he promises to answer you. So prayer is leveraging the power of God for the benefit of people. How can you do a more loving act than that? If you actually do a physical, visible kindness for someone, they'll often know about it. And I'm not saying don't do that. I'm obviously in all three scripture we're supposed to do that kind of thing. But if you mow their lawn, they're gonna know you mowed their lawn. Although they'll know somebody did. Maybe they'll track it down to you. So you might do it for a mixed motive. But when you pray, there's only one normal motive. You want God's best for those people. You want God to move on behalf of those people. Sometimes I think we don't pray for ministries or individuals much because that's really not how we want to be used. Yeah, we want to be used, but not like that. We had something more self-gratifying in mind, maybe. Our aim might not be how we can be best used for the kingdom, but how we would most like to be used. For the kingdom. And often there's a difference. In my little experience of life, most of the people I know who have come to Christ Found out or knew at the time they had someone praying for them. And those people praying will share in that reward for eternity. These people who were saved were often going through life without a care about Christ. But God answered the prayers of his people and he saved their prayer targets. Often when God plans to do something supernaturally, he moves people to pray for that thing beforehand. Partly so he will get all the credit when it is accomplished, because we will know he did it. And the Christians who prayed will be encouraged and rewarded for the part that they get to play. My point in all of this is that Paul called a group of brand new believers who weren't getting everything right to pray for him. And in this example, probably the strongest of all ministers. is calling upon the weakest believers to hold him in prayer. That right there is church. That's how it works. We are as useful to the kingdom as we want to be. There's not one of us who cannot dedicate ourselves to prayer. Times might be restricted for the closet kind of praying , but all of us think all day long, and there may be many things in our schedules that we're obligated to think about. But there are also times that we're free to think about what we want to think about as we go about our duties. We can turn that time into eternal rewards. We can store up for ourselves treasures in heaven. We can seek first the kingdom more if we want to. There is no Christian that is useless by design. He's only useless by choice. Charles Spurgeon said, if we cannot prevail with men for God, we will at least endeavor to prevail with God for men. There's another important point here. No one was going to do the mission work Paul was doing better than Paul. Paul was the best. You know, he was the best minister. His doctrine was accurate. His pe his dealing with people was loving. He had a solid leadership team. He had a solid loyal team, ministry team that would carry out that ministry well. Everything that relied upon Paul was pretty solid, but he full well knew what is easy for us, at least for me, to forget. Ministry is based on miracles. Ministry is based on the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit on a person's life. Everything can be done correctly, and everything can be said correctly. But that counts for nothing unless the Holy Spirit moves in hearts. The Word of God is vital, but the Word of God, apart from the work of the Holy Spirit, is just words. It's possible that this is the most missing part of the ministry at our church. It's worthy of consideration. Maybe it's the concerted prayer that God would use our church to further his kingdom. That kind of continual and consistent praying that is most needed in our church. Apart from the movement of God, no one grows. Apart from the movement of God, no one is convicted. Apart from the movement of God, no one makes the necessary changes. We are completely reliant upon the Holy Spirit. Even when we do everything else correctly. And Paul knew this, and that's why he called for prayer. At least that's one of the reasons why he called for prayer. We have this wonderful opportunity before us every day What changes can we make in our lives? What small changes can we make in our lives so that we capitalize on this opportunity more? Now, what specifically does Paul ask these folks to pray for? He says that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored. The phrase word of the Lord was used a lot in the Old Testament. Word of the Lord. It refers to anything that God has spoken In the New Testament, it's most often specified, it's most often understood as being a synonym for the gospel. Peter makes this clear in 1 Peter 1:25. He says, But the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. So the word of the Lord here is the good news that saved those that Peter wrote his letter to. That's how he's using the word of the Lord. So Paul is asking for prayer that the word of the Lord may speed ahead. Speed ahead has to do with running. Paul doesn't want to see a gradual growth. He wants the gospel to spread in leaps and bounds, and that's what he wants them to pray for. That this gospel would get everywhere. Now we all know full well that praying wasn't the only thing that Paul was doing. He was also putting all of his effort into doing the very thing that he was praying for. By this we can learn that prayer is not an either-or situation. You either prayer or pray or you do something. That wasn't that way with Paul at all. Paul is praying for the spread of the gospel, and he is working for the spread of the gospel. But again, Paul knows his limitations. He can do what he can do, but he cannot do what God can do. And Paul knows that God does not always do things exactly the way that Paul figures he will. But Paul knows that there are many things in the revealed will of God that we can have confidence in working for, while at the same time we can have confidence while praying for. And the spread of the gospel is for sure one of those things. We can pray in Jesus' name because we know it's his will. And he promises that he's going to spread his word throughout the world. This is one of those name it and claim it prayers. We can pray that the gospel was will spread and we know that God will answer that prayer. But what else? It's not just the gospel spread. He goes on to say, and to be honored, that the gospel speed ahead and be honored. What does it mean for the gospel to be honored? Well, let's take a look at a place in Scripture where it was. It was Paul in Poseidon. Acts 13, 44 through 49 says this. The next Sabbath, almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of God. The word of the Lord. Notice it's the word of the Lord again. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict What was spoken by Paul, reviling it. They gave him a hard time. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you, since you thrust it aside and judge yourself unworthy of eternal life. et eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. And this is the important verse, verse 48. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. Rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. They were honoring. The word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region. When the word is honored, it's talking about the triumph of the word. The triumph. of the word. It's when the word is responded to by belief, with belief. It's when the word has a proper effect on the human soul. So Paul doesn't just want it to go out. He wants it to go out with this effect. It's honored when people succumb to its message. Isn't that what we did if we're a believer? When the message is believed and the one it is about is loved by those who hear. So again, we see that more than just words are necessary, it has to have a supernatural reception. God 's supernatural power is needed both in assuring that the message spreads. And that the message is supernaturally received by those hearers. That's what Paul's asking the Thessalonians, these new believers, these sometimes Not real not real solid believers. That's what he's asking them to pray for. There's something more to note here. The verb tenses here mean this should be done continually Like he wasn't saying, pray for me this one time about this specific thing. He's saying, get behind this. Pray continually. Paul's not asking for an isolated instance. He's talking about a trend, a movement, a habit. As long as there are unreached people, this prayer should be lifted up for the progress of the gospel. This job is never going to be complete until Christ returns. Do you want a prayer in your list of prayers that is always appropriate? Well, here's one. God speed that gospel and let it be honored. Now, how will you look at uh how how will it look if this prayer is answered that he's asking for? He says, as happened among you. That's what the answer looks like. That's what happens when this prayer is answered. We can say the same thing. We can pray that the gospel spread to others the same way it spread to us. Those of us here who are in Christ had a miracle happen once the words of the gospel were brought to us. For many of us, the message came from within our families or from already established churches that we are around. We aren't living in an outpost where they've never heard the gospel. We're surrounded by the gospel. But that doesn't matter. The word was speeding ahead, and God caused it to be honored in souls. That's what Paul wants us to pray for. And that's what will happen to others, just like it happened to us. The miracle of hearing the Word of God and God moving upon our souls. Okay, that's part one of the prayer. That the gospel spread will be successful. Next comes part two. What is an obstacle to the gospel's successful spread? The resistance by wicked humans. Verse 2: that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men. Most scholars believe that Paul was referring to the resistance he was being met with at Corinth, where Paul was situated when he wrote this letter. The Greek wording here appears to make it specific. Paul was receiving a lot of resistance from the Jews in Corinth. Now, when we read wicked and evil, we read synonyms. It's like the same thing. But in Greek, there's some differences. The Greek word for wicked means unreasonable, or wrong-headed, or out of place. It's talking about what is unbecoming or inappropriate. It could even mean morally insane. I like that. Morally insane. Paul is probably referring to how out of place it is when you have God's chosen people and they're rejecting and persecuting God's only Son. It's morally insane that they should hate the gift of God so venomously. Wicked labels them as capable of outrageous and harmful acts against others These people are militantly evil. The Greek word for evil means malignant or aggressively wicked. This is evil with a vengeance. It's committed to evil. It isn't somebody who just does an evil thing. These people have a commitment to it. Evil speaks of persons who not only themselves are thoroughly corrupted, but are intent on corrupting others and drawing them into their own evil. We see that around us. There are a lot of people who are just living their own lives, selfish lives, they're doing what they want, trying to maximize their pleasure, minimize their pain. And then you got others who are recruiters for hell. You know, it's like they are they are just on a mission to get as many people bought into their mindset as they possibly can. And I think that's the kind of evil it's talking about here. Paul is asking for prayer to be delivered from these children of Satan who would do anything to silence the message of the gospel by silencing the messengers of the gospel. Now, the prayer for the hasty spread and successful reception of the gospel, we can continually pray knowing that it's God's will. It's in Jesus' name. The second one, to pray for deliverance of God's messengers, is a little bit more difficult, and it's different in different situations. At some point, this prayer is not answered for Paul. Paul died at the hands of his enemies. He died in the hands of wicked men. He died at the hands of the Romans. However, in this instance, it was, if the prayer was specifically for Corinth Paul had something to go on. Paul had a God's word, a word from God that he could go on. In Acts 18, 9 through 11, it says, And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision Don't be afraid, but go on speaking and don't be silent, for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you. For I have many in the city who are my people. They weren't his people yet But they would be. And he stayed a year and six months teaching the Word of God among them. This was given to him while he was in Corinth. Here God told Paul that he would be delivered from evil men in Corinth. Now regarding prayer, I thought this quote was too rich to pass up. And I'll put this, I'll try and remember to add this to the PDF and sermon audio this week, because there's a couple quotes and you'll never be able to keep up. Richard Phillips says this. Sometimes our prayer is wrong. So God answers no. Sometimes our prayer is wrong, so God answers no. Sometimes our timing is wrong, so God answers slow. Sometimes we're not ready. So God answers grow. But when we seek what God desires, when the timing is right, and we are ready for what God desires, he answers, go. As we gain confidence with God, we learn to persevere in prayer. Then, when God is ready to answer, we will be ready to do anything for Him in the confidence of faith. I just thought that was pretty good. Okay, so Paul has the Thessalonians praying for a speedy and effective spread of the gospel and deliverance for Paul's team from whom from those whose mission it is to stop them. Now, what's the story behind what's going on? We're given, you know, do this for me, because this needs done. And now we take a step back and see it from more of an eternal perspective. And Paul tells us, for not all have faith, but the Lord is faithful. But not all have faith. But the Lord is faithful. If Paul is referring to his Jewish persecutors, he may be reminding the Thessalonians that not everyone who knows the Bible Are people of faith. Not everyone who knows things about the one true God are followers of that God. Some will be very gung-ho in their religious beliefs, but those beliefs are not from the faith once delivered to the saints The people who are persecuting him are very religious, and they know a lot of scripture, but they don't have faith. But even when those without faith turn on us, Paul lets the Thessalonians know the more important truth in all of this. Yeah, there's a lot of people out there, they will intend to harm you. They do not have faith. They know about God, but they don't know God. But, let me tell you one more thing that would be helpful. This Lord of ours, he is faithful. He is faithful. What a glorious truth that is. You and I are following Christ primarily because of faithfulness. But it's not primarily due to our faithfulness. We are in Christ this morning, if we are in Christ, because our Christ Faithfulness is overwhelming. How is the Lord faithful? Richard Mayhew, and again, this will be in the notes, notes five categories in which the Bible specifically describes God as faithful. These are quotes. The Lord is faithful to complete the salvation of those who believe. The Lord is faithful to complete the salvation of those who believe. That's in 1 Corinthians 1 9. The Lord is faithful to enable believers to resist temptation. That's in 1 Corinthians 10, 13. The Lord is faithful to fulfill his promises. That's in 2 Corinthians 1 8 and Hebrews 10 23. The Lord is faithful to vindicate believers who suffer. That's in 1 Peter 4:9 or 4. 19. And the Lord is faithful to cleanse those who confess their sins and believe. That's 1 John 1 9. So magnificent is the attribute of God's faithfulness that amid the wreckage of fallen Jerusalem, the weeping prophet Jeremiah still prayed with hope, and this is what he prayed. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. While Paul is appealing to the Thessalonians to pray for him, he can't help but divert the discussion back to the needs of his friends. You see that all through his epistles. He 's always thinking about the best interests of the people that he's writing to. He wants them to know that there will be oppression And there will be opposition because many do not receive the gospel message by faith, but that doesn't prove anything about God. God is faithful even when men or demons seek to oppose us or oppress us or destroy us. Our God is faithful He's faithful to deliver us from all the powers that seek to destroy us. That is what he wanted the Thessalonians to be encouraged by. Now, after Paul shifted the conversation, he moves on to encourage his friends, and he says, Our God will establish you and guard you against the evil one. Okay, we've got the evil people. Well again, we're we're given a little bit more behind the curtain here. That's not the problem. The powers are the problem. The evil one is the problem. Our God will establish you and guard you against that. 2 Thessalonians 2. 17 says, In Christ and our Father will comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. That's the song that we learned. Well, Paul is quick to tell the Thessalonians over and over the good things that God does for his children. Established is the word he used before. We talked about how this was sinking a pole deep in the earth to make it secure. Or the supports that that uh Jared had put up to hold his his forms up as he poured concrete. That's the kind of word it is a strength. Word. God will make you secure. We don't always feel secure. But we have this promise to go on. He will do this thing. Now, here he adds that God has the power over those who have no faith. They have limits that God sets. We're not powerless against those people. It's God who will protect us. He will set up a guard around us that the evil one cannot have his way with us. While this world does not look safe, and I often say it's not a safe world to live in Every believer truly is safe from being undone by the devil's plans for our undoing. We can rest assured that the devil and his demons have plans to undo us. They have a goal to undo us. And this is telling us we are safe from that. We are safe from being undone by the devil's plan. He might ship sift us. Like we, he may be allowed to have his opportunity in our lives that really put us through some hard times, but you cannot undo God's children. We should never be too impressed with the power of evil people or evil beings. They're never so big that God does not find it amazingly easy to protect us from them. I think of the zoos. I don't know if you've ever seen one of the things like they're on Facebook and places like that. They're zoos with see-through walls. And you'll see this little child uh walks up to this window and turns his back on the window. And there's like Cats of prey, big ones. And you see their eyes get all big and they wiggle like a cat and they attack that and they hit they they hit that that window and it just you can tell they're utterly disappointed. Disappointed in a little this this uh disorder, but they're safe. They're absolutely safe, but you can't tell by looking at it. And that's how we are. We are absolutely safe from the devil's attacks, but you can't tell by looking at it. We're told that because God tells us so. That's the kind of protection you and I are protected with in Christ. Verse 4: And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will do the things that we command. Okay, he says we have confidence in the Lord about Paul is telling these people who are somewhat goofy at times, not real solid, they have questionable records sometimes, but they're showing some pretty good traits. He says, I'm confident in you, and we wonder why. What grounds would Paul have to be confident? Because of the superior moral fiber of the Thessalonian Christians? Hardly. They were like we are. That's the encouraging thing. They were like we are. We're a mix of faith and failure. We always are. No, this traces its way back to the statement, Christ is faithful So we can have confidence in each other. Have you ever had a good mechanic that you trusted? With the cars I have, I cannot trust the car. If I have any confidence, it's only because I trust the mechanic. He's the force that continues to make my cars run. It's that way with Christ and Christians. Yeah, some believers have proven to be faithful over time, and past behavior is always the best predictor of future behavior. Those things are true. But we we know at the end of the day, any of us can fall at any time for anything. But Christ will not fail He is utterly faithful. So every promise he makes to a believer, we know he will fulfill. That's why Paul can be confident That's a beauty in ministry. If God really has a hold of a person, we know God will finish that. Or they might make it hard. Harder than it has to be. But God will finish it. That's why Paul can be confident. First, he knows the power behind the lives that the Thessalonians are living, and then, second, he's hearing about their track record. They're doing the commands that Paul commanded. I want to go off on commands here a little bit. A right command in Scripture. Is a demand on a person's behavior by an authority that has the right to demand it. A command, a right command in Scripture, is a demand on a person's behavior by an authority that has the right to demand it. The word for command here is a military command that's expected to be obeyed because of the authority of the one given it. These are essentially the same as could be barked orders Barked orders. Command is not a friendly word. It's an authoritative word It's a you must because I said so word. I doubt that there's anyone who wants to be told what they must do when what they must do goes against what their flesh wants to do I think that's ingrained in us all. I don't know. I know it's ingrained in me. And uh I've had a few children So I I suspect this is a trend. But uh a command is is my first memory of learning an important lesson about how deep my sin really goes. I learned an important lesson by commands. I learned that my seemer is a liar. The way things seem to me is a liar. And let me explain. And if we use this illustration before, forgive me, but it it was one of the most important lessons in my Christian life. When I lived at home on Hillside Avenue in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania, I had a mother. I had a father too, but this story involves my mother. She had the God-given second right of command in the Ziegler household. And sometimes she would exert her status in an authoritative manner. She would rise up in her full stature, which isn't a whole lot, and tell me what I must do. And often she would give me this command without any advanced notice. I remember the feeling that that evoked to this very day. I think the closest you would get to it is rage. Rage I think would be uh appropriate. I get so angry. Now I knew I couldn't express my anger because that would hurt too much later. But I can tell you what my Zemer told me My steamer said, here you were reminding your own business, happy as can be, and this woman exerted her authority in such a way that made you deeply angry. There must be something wrong with her. To make me feel this way. Isn't that how we are? I hope I'm not just talking myself But isn't that how we are? If something if something someone else does elicits a strong reaction in me, they must be wrong And if the Holy Spirit wasn't in me at the time, that may have been the end of the matter. With me growing bitter toward my mom, blaming her for how I felt. How the flesh loves lies. But no, the pesky Holy Spirit wouldn't let me go. There was no conversation going on with the Holy Spirit, but if there was, it would have gone something like this. John, who issued that command? Well, my mother did. And how does Scripture tell you to treat your mother? Well on to obey. Then why are you so angry? I would have responded, well I don't know, but it has to be her fault because look how she made me feel. She must have done something wrong to make me feel like that Nothing more would have really needed to be said though. My Seamer was exposed as being a huge liar. My seamer was bald-faced lying to me No matter how I responded to that acceptable exercise of authority, it was not my mom's fault. Ah, maybe she could have gone about it better and given me a list. I worked better with lists, but that's beside the point. She had the right to give it. But it was my fault that I responded the way I did. It was this it was a sin problem in my soul. It was something I needed to gain mastery over. Have you learned this lesson yet? Kids especially, but kids, wives, church members, employees Have you learned yet that you can't trust what your seamer tells you when you're angry with your authority for expecting what your authority has the right to expect? I found questions like these are helpful when dealing with those in authority requesting or demanding or expecting things from me, especially when it irritates me or makes me angry. Does this person have God's authority over me? Does this person have God's authority over me to request or demand or to expect this thing from me? At this time. Sometimes the answers to those questions are complicated. They're not always simple, but sometimes they aren't complicated. If the answer is yes, they do have the right, but I'm still upset. It's very wise to give the Holy Spirit a lot of room here. It's good to take this to the Lord and say, why am I responding like I am? Are you showing me a place in my life where I should repent of my lack of submission to you? Because ultimately when God places authority, it's his authority, it's coming down to us. It's so terribly easy to blame our insubordinate responses on our authority when the problem is really our own sinful hearts. Another insightful question is, would I treat a boss at work the same way I treat my elder husband or parent? Would I allow myself to show the same disrespect to my boss that I do to my family? Better yet, would I keep my job if I did? We all want to see ourselves as submissive servants. We all want to see ourselves as reasonable It's a rare person who can spot their own rebellion and tell the truth about it. But how do we respond to authoritative expectations or demands? How do we respond? That's the reality of who we are. We should believe what we see, not what our seamers tell us. The Thessalonians were doing it right. And that's a big deal. Flesh rarely does that right. So they had the Holy Spirit working in them. They were obeying commands that they didn't really want to obey, but they obeyed them because they knew they were from God. The Thessalonians heard the barked orders from Paul about how they were to live, and they were saying in their hearts, the response in their hearts was, Yes, sir. Yes, sir. That's beautiful in the eyes of God. In response to God's authority. He says, You are doing and will do the things we command. They were accepting the marching orders and they were marching accordingly, and we need to consider this because it's no small thing. And the last verse, verse 5: May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. This is a sort of prayer by Paul back to the Thessalonians. This is the answer to the deepest needs of the readers. Remember, Daniel Sisler brought out the need of the power that God will give us to understand the love of God. And how much we need that power and how much we need that understanding. Now we see how the Lord expresses that power. He directs our hearts. The Lord directs our hearts. He will guide you straight to God's love. When you go to the Lord asking what is needed in your life, he will direct you to God's love. And there are other things as well, but he will direct you there. Our hearts need an addiction. To the love of God. We need to get to the place where we depend upon that love. We expect it when anything but love would shock us from the hand of God, from the heart of God. Sometimes it's hard to track our cynicism. Again, I might be talking to myself. We're used to people not loving us as they should. And nobody ever will on this earth. But that's not true of God. God began by loving and giving, and he will take us into eternity, loving and giving. We never need fear that His love will let us down. His love is never going to disappoint us. His love never fails. And what else? The steadfastness of Christ. Steadfastness is the character of a man who is unserving from his deliberate purpose. That is Christ in regard to us. Unswerving from his deliberate purpose. He is determined to fully bring us into his eternal realm, and it will be by his resources that we make it Now there's something interesting about this passage. Paul wrote it so it could go both ways. In the Greek The people who are interpreting it have difficulty understanding which he meant, because I think he meant both. While we are depending upon Christ's love and Christ's steadfastness We in turn love Christ more and become more steadfast in our following of Him. And that's what this is saying. Paul evidently wanted it to be understood this way. It pretty much represents the whole Christian life, doesn't it? We become loving and steadfast to Christ because and only because of Christ's infatigable love and steadfastness toward us. Would we expect anything less? Okay, applications. Do we want to be used by God in great ways, in significant ways, in meaningful ways? Pray Pray. Nothing is stopping us from praying. We all have the opportunity. Second, take note what goes on inside you when your authority demands, expects, or requests something from you Look at your response. Your immediate response. Don't start by assuming that the problem is somebody else's. That path will never get you to repentance that you need. We should start by inviting the Holy Spirit to show us the truth about ourselves. And lastly, allow yourself to expect God's love, to grow in that expectation. To receive it, to pursue knowledge about it. It's our lifeblood for the Christian life. Let's close in prayer Lord, you are so so very good to us, and you give us so much word, so much truth