Have a hard enough trough and trouble not falling asleep on this last year. Oh man Talk about the flesh rearing up against you now. Oh man, the lights are out. Belly's full of spaghetti. Tired from the food. Satuthe. Suck. Alright. Um well uh let me pray for it. Well that's uh that seems like a good good and fitting place to start. Father, thank you so much for uh the stage again. Uh Father, thank you for your goodness toward us. And Lord, we would uh again, as uh Brother Brad prayed earlier, Lord, that we would decide to lift uh the situation of the family of the people involved in this uh this accident or or whatever happened, we'll have no details at all, Father, but I rejoice that you do, uh that you know, and that you would meet their needs, Father, even now. Uh Lord, physically, that you would uh use this in some way to draw them to yourself Um father, would you be uh merciful to those folks, Father, as they walk through uh what sounds like probably something very difficult. Father, we thank you. God, even now for the absence of physical light that reminds us, Father, that you have pulled us out of darkness. Lord, that you have sent your light the light of Christ into the world, into our hearts, that you have redeemed us through the power and light of the gospel. And so Father, I've It would be difficult to make a case that at this moment where we can come before you uh any other way but humbly and joyfully. So Father, we Praise you and pray, Father, that as we look tonight at the uh Lord, at the balm of worship on the suffering soul. That you would be pleased to open your word to us and instruct our hearts, instruct our minds. That your spirit would be among us , lifting us, Lord, guiding us penetrating us so that these truths from your word will not just uh stick in our heads. Uh but that would penetrate our hearts and and and and change us, Father. Our our desire would be that we would be changed uh to The image of Christ, Lord, whom we love, whom we desire to follow, whom we desire to serve, whom we would desire to glorify and worship even in the midst of our least or worst pains and suffering. So we pray that you would bless this time in his name. Amen. So we are uh we're gonna talk, we're gonna we're gonna shift it from sort of looking at pain as as this thing to uh maybe more specifically how to deal with it. We talked this morning uh about uh we we looked at at the the two thieves, the two criminals uh on the cross and how they represent in a sense two ways that we typically uh will will approach God as we suffer, either through the lens of of where we are and and sort of our situation, or we will uh approach him through the lens of uh who we know him to be. Uh we must be w our our desire would would be to honor the Lord uh in viewing our suffering through the lens of who God is, instead of viewing God through the lens of our su uh of our suffering, our situation, or where we are. I didn't I don't know if I said this explicitly, but there are certainly times where you will start out on one side of that cross and the Lord will move you to the other side of the cross. Well you will start out with those those questions, why God, why is this happening? You know, why aren't you saving me from this? I don't deserve this. Uh and the Lord will kindly move you. to the other side. And so sometimes that is a progression, but generally when we suffer, we are going to fall into one of those two categories of response. Our theme verse again. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be on my mouth. My soul makes It's boast in the Lord. Let the afflicted hear and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. And so again, suffering is the reality. It's the context in which we live and minister , and it's the reality in which our lives play out. We are sufferers. Walking with other sufferers. There's brokenness at every turn in this world. It's always been that way. And there are moments of clarity as we as we live out our lives um as that that pull back the veil and we see more clearly um the the dire straits of of where we are or or the human condition or just the depravity of people Uh and and if we're moving through these things well, that gives us a contrast and a deeper appreciation for the gospel because as we see more deeply what we have been saved from We know more deeply the Savior. But suffering is all around us. And so as you interact with each other, as you interact with anybody outside of this place, outside of your church body, you are interacting with people who are in some way suffering, whether it's the general suffering of the fallen world or something far more specific. Every single person lands somewhere on the spectrum of suffering. It may be a light season, it may be a crushingly heavy season, but everyone you minister to, everyone you interact with Everyone you serve or serve with falls somewhere in there. So tonight we're going to look at applying the balm of worship. Uh applying uh uh uh balm, we don't really use balm so much anymore. Maybe maybe it'd say lip balm, but balm being this So this this thing that you would apply to soothe an ache, to soothe something that is raw and hurting. Uh a healing balm. We're looking at the healing balm uh of worship when we suffer. Suffering well Will lead us to honest worship before our Lord and King. Suffering well will lead us to honest worship before our Lord and King. We're going to look at Philippians 4 tonight I referenced this earlier. Again, not an uncommon section of verses. This is Philippians 4, 4 through 7. It says, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication and thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And so we have said , we have probably experienced to some degree ourselves that suffering, whether it's our own suffering or seeing the suffering of others Almost always brings the same question in some form. And that question is some form of why. Why? Why, God? Why did you let this happen? Why did you not spare us? Why me? Why him? Why her? Why this? Why now? And these questions are I think they're fine questions. Right. But they'll be like These these are these are okay questions. These are not particularly bad questions to ask, but if they're the only questions we're asking, if they're the only questions we're asking That we may be missing out on something great. Because we asked the why question in suffering. Because we are trying to find, in suffering, we are trying to find peace. We're trying to find peace. And we think that if we understand the reasons behind the suffering, if we can just comprehend the causes. But that in itself will somehow soothe the ache of whatever it is we're going through. When we face suffering or when we are affected by the suffering of others, something within us, something within our humanity Calls out and demands in some way for an explanation, believing that understanding will somehow fill the void, cover the loss. Help us deal with whatever shame or guilt or fear we may be experiencing. But I think Jesus is offering something better than understanding here. There's something better than what we so often ask for. He offers peace. In the broad sense, we're talking about peace with God, which we have through the gospel. But in the temporary sense, in the temporal sense, in the in the sort of day-to-day grind of life sense, He offers a peace that passes, that surpasses, that goes beyond understanding. A peace that is over, that is greater than, that is Better than understanding. But we've we've read the verse, right? This this piece that passes understanding. We we know the phrase. Um But let me let me draw something out as we continue to look through these verses because it's directly related to what we do and who we are as followers of Christ, as bringers of his gospel. light as those who would desire to know him and to make him known. This peace that passes understanding, this peace of God begins begins as part of a chain that begins with worship. And so what we have in verse 7 The peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, is the end link in a chain that begins with worship. Part of the reason that we struggle again with that question is that we think understanding equals peace. And as I said at the last section, sometimes there are ways that insight can work against faith. Or we may think of peace as something that's merely circumstantial. When I say peace, I'm going to refer back to what we talked about the first night, the idea of shalom. It's not just the first circumstantial peace. That we're talking about here, but we're talking about the sense of things are as they were meant to be We tend to treat peace particularly when we are stuck in seasons or situations of pain As though peace were something that happens to us. Our culture treats love the same way. Love is something you fall in. Or you fall out of it some mysterious force that sometimes it descends, sometimes it leaves you, and you're just sort of a victim of it. That's how our culture tends to present love and also peace and we'll say things like I really have a real peace about that and you may you may but make sure you know where that's coming from God can certainly, does certainly, affect our emotions and our feelings with a sense of peace. Absolutely. But I don't see peace in Scripture as mainly presented that way. Scripture seems to contend rather, or seems to emphasize that peace is something, particularly in the context of suffering, that peace is something that we are to contend for. Not just sort of wait around and hope it comes to us. Two really quick examples Romans 14, 19. It says, let us therefore make every effort to do what leads to peace. Let us therefore make every effort. Depending on what translation you use in your Bible may use the word pursue. But whether he uses pursue or some other word or make every effort, the same Greek term that's used there is a battle term. Uh it was it was commonly associated with gladiators in the day. And so if you were a gladiator and you're going into arena to fight someone else. It would be common to say, make every effort to stay alive. Make every effort to win the battle. It's the same phrase. Make every effort to do what leads to peace. There's gravity there. It's it's serious. You have to go after after it. You must contend for it. You must pursue it. You must fight for it. It's the same in Ephesians 4. 3. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Make every effort. That's the case here in Philippians. That peace is not merely something that mystically comes upon us. But something rather that we are to contend for. And again, this verse 7, the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And the fact that Paul would use this phrase, a peace that passes understanding, again implying that our natural bent is to assume that understanding is equivalent to peace, understanding equals peace. He's showing us here, we're saying that he's showing us there's something better than just your understanding, our understanding, our grasp or approval of a situation and circumstance But even the framework here says You look at verse 7, and begins with and and the peace of God. So he's telling us that though we though we we sort of cord in this verse off, this piece that has his understanding verse and put that on the coffee mugs and and the the the cool t-shirts or whatever, uh that it's part of a complete uh of a more uh complete thought. It's part of something greater. It's not uh finish unin i i uh in and to itself. And so we're gonna take a step back. Two or three times till we get to the beginning of this chain. So look, let's look back at verse six. We don't usually do this. We usually start with the verse. We're forward. We're starting at this verse. We're looking back So uh hang on to Wild Run. Um So verse six, do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. So we have this peace that past understanding that's guarding our minds in Christ Jesus We look back at the previous link in this change. It says, do not be anxious. But in everything, prayer, supplication, thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. There's a lot of practical beauty in this verse. There's lots you can say about it, but at a minimum, there are two big implications here. The first is that we have needs. We have needs. Uh and and that and we're we're we're typically anxious about those needs. Like my my kids with any anytime around mealtime, they're like, hey We're gonna eat, right? Well yeah, we eat every day here at this time breakfast onto it, but but every day they're like hey we're gonna eat, yeah? Because they're anxious about their needs We are anxious about our needs. So that's one implication. We are needy. We have needs. Here's the other implication from this verse. God can meet them. God can meet them. Let your requests be made known to God. And in light of these two implications that we have needs and that God can meet them, there are two clear commandments here in this verse. Do not be anxious and in everything pray. Do not be anxious and in everything pray. Let your request be made known to God with an attitude of thanksgiving, with thankfulness. And so verse seven is the result, peace that passes understanding. Verse six, previous link, gives us Sort of a context. We are needy. God meets needs. Gives us two commands. Don't be anxious. In everything, pray. Verse 5, we're going to go another link back in the chain. Working backwards. This is crazy, I know. Be made known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. The Lord is at hand. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. The Lord is at hand. This is a critical link in this chain. The Lord is at hand. That's what enables the commands in verse 6. Do not be anxious and in everything pray. The Lord is at hand. He is near. He is with you. He is for you. He is the Lord. He is exalted. But he is the Lord, he is eminence. He is with you. And so for that reason, don't be anxious. But be thankful and pray. Bring your request to him because he is near you. He is for you, he is with you. Paul says, let your reasonableness be known to everyone. Now Reasonableness sort of grounded generally in what? In understanding. If you understand something, then it It's linked to reasonableness, but I think there's a couple reasons that Paul specifically says, hey, let your reasonableness be made known to everyone. Two reasons. I think it's there. One, suffering and anxiety and our personal neediness is assumed. And so in light of that, this succession of events, this succession of of things is logical. It's reasonable. Some translations may use words like your gentleness or your forbearance. In either case Reasonableness, gentleness, forbearance, let these things be made known. These things with the discipline of thought and emotion and self that will be visible To those on the outside who are watching you go through your life, who will particularly be watching when you go through seasons and times of trial And he's saying the fact that crying out to the Father who is near to you, crying out to him When we hurt is a good, suitable, sound thing to do. Even if you don't eventually understand the why of the situation. You don't see the end game. So I think it's in there for that reason. He tells us about a piece that passes understanding. And yet he responds here with with, let your reasonableness be made known to everyone. I think he's pointing simply to the fact, look, this is not some just mystic mumbo jumbo. This is not Okay, I know you're really hurting right now. I know you're in some deep pain. Let's just sort of sleep it under the rug and so that God looks good. I think he's making it clear this is not what he's asking us to do. This is not a denial. Of our pain and suffering. It's not sweeping hard things under the rug. It's not numbing ourselves. It's not escaping. This peace, the passive understanding, is a reasonable thing that comes from a reasonable chain of thought, action, and attitude. It is reasonable, because God is near, that our demeanor, even in suffering Would reflect a gentle trust, not a blind futility or an aimless panic, but that our demeanor would reflect a gentle, reasonable Forbearance. Because God is near. And so we can approach Him with our needs, our anxieties, our worries, with thanksgiving. Because she offers us a peace that passes understanding. So verse 5 tells us that the Lord is in need. Verse 6 tells us how to respond to that Verse 7 gives us the results of his nearness and the results of our drawing near him in prayer. But there's one more link in this chain, the beginning step of the sequence. This is the springboard upon which the whole sequence seems to rest, to begin. The end is this peace that passes understanding. The first link, verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. I'll say it again, he says, just in case he missed it the first time. Rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always. I'll say it again. Rejoice. This is worship. This is worship. It's taking joy in God. It's proclaiming him to yourself as supreme. It's praising him. Letting yourself know where he stands. That he is above all else. That he is worthy. That we can come before him and lay down our lives. Rejoice in the Lord of always. We as human beings, we are made to worship, we're created to worship. We will worship that which we take joy in. And so we are commanded, we're told, rejoice in the Lord always. The word is a command It's a command to a lifestyle of joy emanating from something deeper than our circumstances and situations. And so if rejoicing is worship, but that's a valid assessment of what Paul is saying here in Philippians 4, verses 4 through 7. Then worship is the first step to this peace that we would desire to have in the midst of hardship and trial. This peace that passes understanding stems from a reasonable rejoicing As we remember that the Lord is at hand. He is near to us. He is for us. Because of who he is and where he is, we do not need to be anxious, but we can be thankful. We express that through thankful prayer to him. The result is that the peace of God Which is better than our understanding of the circumstances and situations that drove us to That's better than us somehow seeing or discerning the end game. How will this all work out? He may he may reveal that to you. He may not. But in the end, what he's offering is something that's better than your understanding. Of the pain. It's a beautiful change, it is a wonderful sequence. It begins with worship. It begins with rejoicing in our Father, who is near to us, who knows us, who loves us. Worship helps us deal with certain with uh with suffering by coming before our Father and seeing that He is indeed beautiful and glorious above all things. When we worship, we rejoice. We affirm to ourselves and to those around us that our Father is the most precious treasure above all things, above all people, above all circumstances and situations. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. His soul makes its boast in the Lord. Let the afflicted hear and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. You know, we may at times worship God from our affections, like we feel it, right? There are times you worship, whether it's through music, whether it's through the observance of the creation, whether it's through the fellowship with the saints, whether it's through the hearing. In the obedience of his word. There are times that we worship God from affection. We go about our life and our work and our ministries. We have a keen sense of God's glory. of his presence, of his redemptive works. And there are times when we we operate from that affection, that we sense keenly, that we feel it's a sweet, sweet, sweet thing. But there are many times where we worship him for that effect, particularly When we are in seasons of deep suffering, where you do what you should be doing, but you don't necessarily feel We may be distracted or disoriented or feel disconnected. We feel that tension that Scripture presents between duty and delight. There are weeks that we soldier on worshiping God, wishing we felt more of the affection. And it's in these times that that we're not healing. Let me say it clearly. I think that we most need to reach out to him and worship. Not shy away from it. Because we are called to rejoice. We're called to rejoice in suffering. And suffering should produce in us worship. Rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. 1 Peter 4. 13. Romans 5. 30. We also rejoice in our sufferings. Because we know that suffering produces perseverance. James 1. 2. Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds. 1 Peter 1, 6, in this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while we may have had to suffer grief and all kinds of triumphs. It may sound in some sense insane to say, well, in your suffering rejoice. In your suffering, muster up worship. It's in a sense unnatural. So nobody gets hit by a car. It's like, oh praise God. Get my car life. Well thank Jesus. No showers today. Best day ever. You know, I have c I have cancer. Let's let's let's throw a party and celebrate. Nobody nobody does that And yet well and and so in this sense, uh c consider suffering as as joy, consider suffering as the thing that would lead you to worship sounds uh Sort of like bad advice maybe. It sounds foolish. Except for Jesus, except for Christ, who suffered perfectly for us. He suffered perfectly for us, not that we would be saved from suffering ourselves, but so that we ourselves would be saved from the burden of suffering perfectly. Again, going back to Hebrews 4, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet is without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find help in our time of need. Again, our time of need is always. When we talk about, when the Psalms talks about the valley of the shadow of death , that's this light. That's light on this side of eternity. Suffering teaches us that we need a savior bigger than ourselves. Suffering leads us to dependence on the one person who is completely dependable. We need Jesus. There is no rejoicing in suffering without him. Without him, there is no cope. We're going to switch gears for the rest of our time together. And we're going to really, really quickly go through 1 Peter 4. Sort of a Seminal burst on On Suffering. We've read bits and pieces of it. Actually, well, we've read it read the whole thing here already, but uh we're gonna go through it again and we're gonna zip through it draw out uh a couple specific reasons from these verses uh why why we should rejoice in suffering. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery child when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings. That you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the spirit of glory of God, the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. But let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous are scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. While doing good The command in verse 13 , to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing. Keep on rejoicing. It's not advice, it's a command. It's not trying to get you to wrap your head around the power of the thinking. This is our King's command to point our hearts and worship at his direction. It's a supernatural way of responding to suffering. It's not in our power to do this. It is in God, it is through God, it is because of God that we rejoice. And so this is a this is a time I think when He He gives a command and enables the response. But here's why we're able to rejoice in suffering based on 1 Peter 4, verses 12 through 19. The first reason is this. Rejoice from suffering, because suffering is not a surprise. We can rejoice from suffering because it is not a surprise. Beloved, verse 12. Do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal As though there were some strange thing happening to you. You should not be surprised. We should not be surprised, because God is not surprised. Our pain is not absurd. Our hurt is not meaningless. It is purposeful. It's for our testing, it's for our discipline, it's for our good, it's for our glory. Verse 19 says, Let those who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls to a faithful creator. As we've said, suffering is not something that occurs outside the sovereign will of a loving God. Talks about movies, sorry, I'm off my place. Here's the second reason, verse 13. We rejoice in suffering, because suffering as a Christian is evidence that Christ is in your life. We can rejoice in suffering because our suffering as a Christian is evident that Jesus is in our lives, that he is with us. Verse 13, but to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoice. To the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, do you ever think about the fact that your sufferings are not your own? You can look at suffering in terms of stewardship. How well will you use it for the glory of Christ? Your sufferings are not your own. They are shared. They're shared with a body of believers. And they're shared with Christ. And so we can rejoice in suffering because it means if we are suffering, as a Christian, as a Christian follower, as a Christ follower, when we are aware of the sin. in our own lives that causes us pain, that causes us doubt, that causes us anguish when we see it play out in the lives of others and we're hurt by it when we when we in in whatever context. The broader context is that we are united to Christ through suffering. Suffering is in in one sense an evidence. of that union. Philippians 1. 9 says that it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him but also to suffer for him. Suffering is an evidence of Christ in your life for the church, for other believers, for other Christ followers, but also for non-believers. Those who, again, as we said, from the outside. Are watching you suffer. And they'll see it. And they'll see what you really believe Because it's gonna come out of you. What you really believe about God as you suffer will come out and people will people will see that. So we can rejoice in suffering because it is evidence of Christ in us. We can rejoice in suffering now. Here's the third one. We can rejoice in suffering now. Because when Christ returns, we will rejoice with him forever. We can rejoice now, because when he returns , We will rejoice with them forever. It's the second part of verse 13. Rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. So rejoice now. It's preparation for rejoicing then. Paul in Romans eight seventeen says, Now if we are children Then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs of Christ, if indeed we share in his suffering, in order that we may also share in his glory. I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. There's a sequence here that's repeated throughout scripture. First there is suffering, then there is glory. First there is suffering now, later, there's glory. 1 Peter 1. 11, the Spirit predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glory to follow. They're suffering now. Later, there's glory. There's a sense, a very real sense, in which suffering makes us long for heaven. Not a place where we're sort of disembodied spirits floating around in the sky. Interesting study, Kevin. Should you teach on it at some point Maybe you have, you probably have. You've got a good pastor. We ended up. We ended up. That's great. Love books Suffering points us toward heaven. It's a real place. It's a beautiful place. It's a perfect place. Where every year is gone, we bask in the glory of God forever. Filled And I think at some point, because at some point, every knee bows and every tongue confesses At some point, if you are in Christ, suffering ends. In this world, it's as it's as bad as it gets. But at some point, for those who are not in Christ We do not enter into the Lord. This world is the best at everything. But for those of us who put our faith in Christ. Do you see the urgency there not only of evangelism, not only of reflecting Christ to the world, but of yearning for heaven for yourself and for those around you And so Christ says in Matthew 5, verse 11, he says, Blessed are you when people insult you, when they persecute you, when they say falsely, when they falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad because what? Because great is your reward in heaven. Suffering strengthens our assurance that we will rejoice always. When the glory of Christ is revealed to us in his return, it should not be lost on us. But until then , we should be grabbing as many folks as we can. To go along for that right. Fourth reason we can rejoice in suffering. We can rejoice in suffering because the Spirit of God and glory rests upon us. The Spirit of God and glory rests upon us. Verse 14. If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. This means, again, in the hour of our trial, there is the greatest consolation. In great suffering on earth, there is great support from heaven. God is with us. The spirit of glory and of God will rest upon us. God does not stand aloof and distant as we are in agony. He comes to us in his spirit and he sustains us. 1 Peter 4. 14 promises that in the hour of greatest trial, God comes to his children, gives them courage and faith. But we did not know we were capable of. Rejoicing in God is supernatural. It requires the Spirit. And the spirit of glory and of God rests upon us. So rejoice when you suffer for Christ. God's very spirit rests upon us. He strengthens, he sustains. It's the fifth reason. We can suffer, or we can rejoice in suffering. We rejoice in suffering because this glorifies God. We're gonna go we've gone back to the we've said this uh uh a many different ways. Keep saying it, because you'll forget it. I'll forget it, I'll forget it tomorrow. my sub bateau. I'll forget it tonight when I'm sweating with no shower. Verse 16. If anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not feel ashamed. But in that name, in the name of Christ, let him glorify God. Again, glorifying God means showing by our actions and our attitudes. That God is glorious, that He is valuable, that He is precious, that He is desirable, that He is satisfying. And probably one of the greatest ways to show that someone satisfies your heart. is to keep on rejoicing with them, in them, when all other supports, when all other satisfactions, when all other joys fade away. And so when we keep rejoicing in God, in the midst of suffering, it shows that God and not other things is the greatest source of our joy. All suffering is an opportunity for worship. All suffering is an opportunity to rejoice. Suffering is stewardship. All suffering is an opportunity to glorify God, to show his value, to reflect him. So all suffering is an opportunity to rejoice in him. Finally. Sixth. Sixth reason we can rejoice in suffering. We can rejoice in suffering. Because our Creator is faithful. Our Creator is faithful to care for our souls. Verse 19. Therefore, let those who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls. To a faithful Creator in doing what is right. Entrust your soul, all of yourself, holding nothing back. Trusting that he will do what is right, regardless of whether we understand it. Regardless of how easy or difficult it is. The degrees of suffering and the forms of affliction will vary for each one of us. But one thing. One thing when we one thing we have in common, when we die, we stand before God. Death comes to all men. Will you rejoice in that hour? Have you been rejoicing up to that point? If you have entrusted your soul to a faithful God, to a faithful Creator , And you will rejoice in that hour and you will see that He has done throughout all of your life what is right. I think, I think That we may be able to look back and see the hand of God at that moment as we enter before Him in judgment and in glory. I think he will be pleased to reveal the greatness of his goodness all throughout our lives in ways we never thought of or considered. Suffering is a given. It's a given. We're gonna suffer, so we must be prepared for it. In Acts 14, 22, Paul tells, you know, we joked about the suffering part not being in the uh not being in the tracks, right? Paul writes to young churches in Acts 14. 22. He tells them, through many tribulations, you enter the kingdom, through many trials. Jesus says in John 15, 20, If they persecuted me, they will persecute you. And so we must respond well. We must rejoice. We must reach out toward God in worship. Not based on our situation, not based on our understanding. In our approval, in our knowledge, not just based in that. Those things can push us along the way But Christ is offering us a peace that passes our understanding. And so where our understanding is limited, where it butts up against the wall of of situation, where butts up against the limits of our humanity. God says, I have a peace that will surpass that. That's better than that. And the road to that is rejoicing. In Christ, rejoicing in God, your soul will not be satisfied in worship through our understanding. But through our rejoicing. And so rejoice from suffering. This side of eternity, this is where we get to show. This is where we steward our pain. To show where our treasure lies in heaven or on this passing earth. So trust him. That's my admonishment for you. And I'm preaching this as much to myself, maybe more so than to any of you. You guys could be here or not. I would still be telling myself all of this. Trust him in your suffering and keep on rejoicing. I'm glad that you're here, by the way. Rejoice always. Let our souls magnify the Lord. Let us praise be continually in our mouths. Let the afflicted fear and be glad. O magnify the Lord with you. Let us exalt his name together. Pray with him. Father, thank you so much that you so many times, Father, give us something far better than what we're asking for. Lord, so often we cry out in times of pain, why? Why is this happening? When we think to ourselves, I don't deserve this. I don't need this Father, you are so kind. You are so gentle to not lower your standards to house. Father, thank you that you would even think to give us a peace that passes our understanding. Father, thank you that this whole thing, this whole gift is wrapped in worship. Father, that you would allow a broken and hurting and unworthy people to come before you. Rejoicing. Father, we believe. Help our unbelief. Would you help us, Father, in our in our easiest day, in our darkest hour, to worship and rejoice, to reflect. the truth of your word to our own soul, to reflect your glories to a lost and dying world , we would worship you despite Where we are, despite what we want, and despite the pain that will surely come upon us. On this side of eternity. Help us yearn for glory, Father. Help us worship now because we will be worshiping for eternity. Father, we will marvel for billions of years at all the good things you have done. Lord, help us start now. Well, we give you the rest of our evening. Thank you so much for the time that you've given this this church and this people and this community here at this place. Thank you for the special memories it holds for them. I know it holds pain for them as well. And Father, would you be kind to speak to us, even in sorrow , to reassure us of your goodness and your sovereignty. To draw us close to yourself. Lord, we want to rejoice in you. We want to magnify you. Father, we're so grateful. We thank you. In Jesus , D