Now, like always, we need to keep in mind the context. This prophecy is being written to those in the Babylonian captivity, and they aren't in the Babylonian captivity yet. So it's prophecy in its truest sense, it's looking into the future. These people would have been in captivity a long time by the time this addresses their situation. God obviously used his discipline of his people to draw their attention to himself, which is he often does in our lives as Christians, and that's a wonderful thing. We don't always see it that way, just like our kids don't really see it that way when we're spanking them, but it's the the same idea. Now God always keeps a remnant for himself. Maybe the remnant has grown over time due to their opposition. But this is without a doubt written to people in miserable circumstances. They do not have the freedom to serve God without repercussion. They don't have Spiritual or uh uh religious freedom in their country, they likely have no hope of their life circumstances improving The world looking on would have predicted an outcome for their future similar to their recent past. Somebody looking on would have seen, you're going to get what you've been getting. There's not likely any change coming. Common sense would say that the Israelites would continue to get what they've been getting because nothing's likely to change. So the best thinkers of the time would have probably said, well, you're you're just in for this for a while So the question comes down to us this morning. Are you in circumstances like that this morning? Are you in a circumstance that feels and looks hopeless? Does it seem like God has forgotten you? Does it seem like he does not care about you and what you are experiencing? Does it seem like his promises are for someone else and not for you? Is it a distant memory when you've seen God move in your life? Do the bad guys seem to have all the power? Does it seem like God does not even control your situation? Well, welcome to verse 27 of chapter 40. Verse 27, why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my just claim is passed over by my God? Look at what the prophet does here. He asks a question. A question compels people that we're speaking to, hopefully, to use their minds. It challenges us to reason. It calls us to think Most of us, I think, it might be safe to say, most of us prefer statements. We like to tell people how it is. But how often do we do much better to ask a well-thought-out question? It's often good to engage people in conversation rather than barrage them with how much we know. Scripture does both, and Jesus did both. Are you in a situation where you want someone to change something or to see something for themselves? If you're married, you probably are. Will we take the time to formulate a question that will accomplish the task far better than what our verbal barrage will accomplish? Isaiah asks the question. And what's the question? What does he want the listener to consider? He says, why do you say my way is hidden from the Lord? But before we get to that, we need to look at how he addresses the listeners. There are lots of names for the people of God in Scripture, and all of them reveal something in their context Here we have Jacob or Israel. They're referred to. Jacob or Israel. Hopefully most of us are very familiar with the story of Jacob. But in our context, we have a person who was in similar circumstances to the Israelites. Jacob certainly was not very faithful to God at first. So God sent him away from his homeland to learn some things. And then over time, God brought him back. Jacob's a wonderful example of God's faithfulness to his promises in light of human failure and waywardness and selfishness. We watch as God's work unfolds a new identity for Jacob. He becomes known by God as Israel. God promises what he will do for Israel and then he fulfills those promises to Israel. We have a picture of all of the Christian life in the person of Jacob. But these people would have picked up the similarity to Jacob's situation and their situation immediately. And essentially they would have gotten the point that God had fulfilled his promise to faithless Jacob, and God would still fulfill his promise. To them. The deliverance of God was not based on the goodness of a man, but on the goodness of their God. That's the point. Then Isaiah lays out the questions. Why do you say, My way is hidden from the Lord and my just claim is passed over by my God? What's it say? I'm a slow thinker. Mark and I ought to start a club. We share that trait. We commiserate sometimes. And we've both learned that in discussions with our wives, thinking slowly has a lot of drawbacks. I think there are plenty of times this has led to frustration in Carla. We end a conversation and she's clearly thinking, why don't you do something? But the truth is I'm still catching up to the conversation and I have a lot to think about before I'm really ready to just do something. This is sort of the attitude we're seeing here. The Israelites are crying out to God, essentially saying, God, why don't you do something? Have you ever cried out in desperation to God? I can't take anymore. I didn't sign up for this. I can't handle this. God, why don't you do something? Now, God is not like Mark and I. He's not thinking about it. God already has a perfect plan. And we're in it. We'll talk about that in a minute. But look at the question again. Why do you say this? When Isaiah addresses God's people as Jacob and Israel, he's already given the negative slant to the question. It's as if Isaiah is saying, how can you believe something so stupid When you have so much evidence to the contrary. It isn't like Isaiah is looking for new information, for a new book, and he's interviewing these people on their thought processes of how they might think about their It's not like he's wanting more information from them. No, the question is a condemnation on their stupidity, by the way that it's phrased. What Isaiah is pointing out is the irrationality of unbelief. And that would be the topic for this morning. The irrationality of unbelief. If I told you that I'm afraid to climb the stairs here and go off to the second floor, I'm afraid it's going to collapse. What would you tell me? You might say, I saw how it was built, John, you could park a tank up there. You might tell me, John, it's held way more weight than you're gonna put on it. The track record says it will hold up You might say, well, Jack helped build it, so I'm sure that it's safe. Whatever the case, you would tell me that my fear is irrational. That's the point Isaiah's making here The unbelief of Israel is irrational. The unbelief of Israel is irrational. Have you ever thought about this? When the world fears, when the world despairs, when the world depressed, when the world is anxious, when the world is suicidal. This is rational. They have no reason to be confident that things are going to work out well for them. They have no promises from God to that effect. But amazingly enough, much of the world is very confident in itself with absolutely no good evidence. Human history, you know, we talked about that for 10,000 years. It hasn't gotten better So there's no confidence that we're going to improve this. Somehow they think if they keep doing what they've been doing and try harder, the world will improve. And that's irrational. That makes no sense But when believers fear, when we despair, when we fret, when we're anxious, we're being irrational. We have absolute promises from an inf from a uh omnipotent God that he will not allow anything to happen to us that will not play a part in our greater good and eventually our eternal bliss. That's what we have from God. The only rational, logical outcome of that truth is hope. You can't get anywhere from there, anywhere else. If we really believe it. That's where it goes. So when the world hopes, it's completely irrational. It has no solid reason for hope. It's wishful thinking. But when Christians hope, it is completely rational. It is perfectly reasonable. When the world frets and fears and worries, it is perfectly rational. We believers, when we fear and fret and worry, we are being completely irrational. That's what Idea is getting to. Now, what would make us make these two claims? My way is hidden from the Lord, and my just claim is passed over by my God. Why would we believe such things? Why did these people believe such things? But the only thing that we could base this on would be our own very limited experience. We wouldn't have to have our seamurs as the great authority proclaiming this doctrine. And what I mean by seemers There's a way that steams right to a man, but the end of it is destruction. That's our steamer. It's our perception of how things are. It's our sense of how things are. Well, we would reason, I have prayed for God to do something for five years and he hasn't. Therefore, he must not be watching. He must not care. He is not fair. I don't know if you've ever noticed it, but our seamers can put out bad doctrine all day long. And if we trust the doctrine of our seamers, we can get ourselves into a very bad spot very quickly. And all of the doctrine of our seemers is irrational. If there is a God, and if that God has spoken, the only rational thing to do is to believe what God says, even when it directly opposes The doctrine of our seamers, the way it's seen is to us. Now, look at those two statements again Have you ever in your frustration with your life said such things to God? My way is hidden from the Lord, and my just claim is passed over by my God. Or at least thought them. Of course we have. We all have. We have all had our frustration with life situations that God has allowed and cried out to God with these sorts of things And we've all been frustrated with how long it seems for God to respond to our urgent plea. But why in Scripture does it sometimes meet with God's strict and swift judgment? And at other times, like in our text, it receives God's instruction. Why the difference? We've often discussed this question. Why does God have different reactions to why questions? To why questions. As I was reading this, it was too good to pass over. I'd like to give Brother Orkin 's response. He says there are two kinds of doubt. One kind of doubt struggles to believe. In view of the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. This kind of doubt is open to God's answers. It's willing to listen. The other kind of doubt resists belief. It struggles to disbelieve. Even when good and sufficient reasons are offered, this kind of doubt holds its arms in defiance and says, nah, I still doubt it. And nothing you can say will satisfy you. That kind of doubt isn't even able to hear what God has to say. And those are the two different why questions, I think, that we come across in Scripture. David asks why a lot of times, and God doesn't discipline them for that. But there are other places in scripture where somebody says why, and they're struck immediately for that, disbelief. God is very patient with us as we struggle to believe, but he has no tolerance for stubborn disbelief. We would do well to ask ourselves this hard question in the place in the places where we doubt God. Which am I? Which am I? Do I want to disbelieve? Do I want to blame God and remain angry with God as the excuse for the rebellion that I exhibit? Or do I want to believe God, but I'm having a tough time of it? Well, disbelief is illogical, it's unreasonable But it's curable if we'll submit ourselves to the Lordship of Christ. Now, why would we think God does not answer our requests? Why would we think he doesn't see our flight or does not respond in our behalf? Well, we might think a number of things. A few would be, we might think that God does not understand the importance of this thing happening right now. So we've got to fill them in, you know. We've got to straighten God out. We might think that God does not have the power to change our situation. Oh, we would never say that, but we might think it. There might be things outside his control we might think We might think that God's too busy with everyone else to concern himself with me. Or we might think that God cannot see how important this thing is in the grand scheme of things. There are a great number of things we might think, but again, it's all irrational. Isaiah is about to show us why. He's going to destroy the basis of our seamer-based theology In those four areas. Verse 28: Have you not known? Have you not heard? The everlasting God, the Lord of the Creator of the ends of the earth, neither faints nor is weary. His understanding is unsearchable. Do we get here what Isaiah is saying? He is telling us important information that does our unbelief, that undoes our unbelief. If we will just listen to him, God is eternal, creator, always at work, and wise. That's what he's saying. God is eternal, creator, always at work, and wise. We see it all in verse 28. We start with God being everlasting, the everlasting God. How long have you lived? We would all give different answers to that. Place that against how long people have existed on the planet. And let's just say 10,000 years because that's I think pretty safe from scripture. Maybe it's longer than that, but uh we have some pretty good evidence that we've got at least 10,000 years of history. So what's the ratio? Mine is 60. This is just like one of the rare times in my life that I know how old I am because today's my birthday and I'm 60 years old. I don't know what difference that is between 59 and 61, but uh I I guess it should be significant. Well, so I can take 60 over 10,000 Which is uh or six one thousandths of humankind 's existence. I have lived six one thousandths of humankind's existence. And how much do I think I know? Do I really think that I know a great deal about how everything should work out in time and space? That's the real question. Now, how long has God been around? I've been around six one thousandths in human history. How long has God been around? Eternity. Now, what were you telling God about your problem? What were you telling God about what he needed to do regarding time and space reality? And what were you telling God about his timing? Do you think that when we start complaining about God's timing, that maybe we won't just be barking up the wrong tree? 61000? Patience in Scripture is basically bearing faithfully with our situation while we wait trustingly for God to do what He's going to do. It uses the word here waiting, and that's what we're talking about. Patience in Scripture is basically bearing faithfully with our situation while we wait trustingly for God to do what he's going to do We are never the keepers of God's calendar or the keeper of his to-do list. Okay, God is also the creator. He's eternal and he's the creator, the creator of the ends of the earth. Have you ever been tempted to think that God can't intervene in the seriousness of your dilemma? Right God created the universe, the universe and the galaxies, and all of life and its varied forms and all of the ecosystems that appear to sustain themselves, even though in the background God sustains it all We have amazing inventions of eyeballs and hearts and livers. And he created all that stuff in all of its complexity with its perfect balance in its way of existing. But we have a problem. that is beyond his ability to do. He could not possibly come up with a solution to my problem. It's absurd. It's irrenax. These Israelites were complaining that God has lost track of them while that while when the real estate they live on was created by God's hands. I think that's part of the point that he's made. God made this place. And you're on it. Don't you think he can figure that out? Do we really think he might lose track of his own people? Does that seem at irrational to you? Then it goes on. God neither faints nor is weird. God is always at work. My boss sent me a little clip from Frosty the Snowman movie. And in it, the magician says that he's gotta go because he's busy, busy, busy, busy. That's what God is. Busy, busy, busy, busy. But not in a kind of frantic pace the way we think of it. God is not stressed. God never gets tired. He's never slowed down by the amount of his effort. If you can even describe what God does as effort, He wills and it happens. We don't know what that's like. We might be able to, at our best, say something that someone else will then go out and do. And we always hoped it would be that way with our kids and their children. But God has all the power at his disposal. Now, what is it that you're fretting about or complaining about? Do you really think that it's because God hasn't gotten to your request yet? You know, you're kind of down on the list and be busy. He just hasn't gotten there yet. Do you think that maybe he does not have enough energy to get the task done? Did these Israelites think they were still in Babylon because God has not yet did their task yet? The idea is absolutely absurd. God is working at exactly what he wants to be working at. And when he is ready, he will be working at fulfilling the promises he made to his people. That's what God is doing. Any doubt that's based on some idea of God is not getting around to our task yet. is is irrational. And then God is wise. His understanding is unsearchable, it says. His understanding is unsearchable. What this basically means is that we cannot figure out what God knows. We cannot figure out What God knows. His ways are beyond our ability to understand. All of us at one time have asked God why? Why? I can't see it from my perspective. I can't. It's difficult for me to think that you've got a good perspective. I can't figure this out. Why would you allow this to happen? And often we receive no answer except a continued command in Scripture to trust God. We cannot know why God allows things to enter our lives. Sometimes He gives us the answer, usually it takes a while. We don't know why he chooses for us to enter into relationships that get several. We don't know why he gives us bodies that are diseased. We don't know why he allows accidents to happen. We don't know a million things about what God does. One day we're going to see the whole plan and we'll say, oh, that's why. As Edith Schaefer said, we'll see the whole tapestry. She used the illustration if right now we see God's tapestry from the bottom, and if you ever see tapestry from the back, it's not impressive. So you see the knots and all the stuff, and you think, what what's that? So you flip it over and then you see the the artwork and you see how it all fits together. Well it's gonna be a beautiful thing. But as it's being woven, we cannot know the full mind of believer. And God tells us we're not going to, He promises we're not going to understand it all. If you will not trust God until you understand God, you will never trust God. If you won't trust God until you understand God, you'll never trust God. If you'll not trust your life situations from his hand until you know exactly why they are giving, you will never trust God in that situation. Who do we think we are anyway? That we should evaluate what God does as if we are qualified to even have an opinion. With six one thousandths of human history's experience. If God is God and we are not, all we have left is for us to trust God. So do we see how the qualities of our God make all of our complaints, all of our mistrusts, all of our unbelief, disbelief irrational? Because that's the point. It's irrational not to trust God. It's ironic that the world tells us that a belief in God is irrational Yet we know who God is. We that know who God is know that is it is unbelief. that is irrational. And if everything irrational is mankind's belief in itself could provide the solutions for all of its problems. Now he moves to the next verses and Mr. Orland gives us a great segue. He says, God is always right now, always right here, always at work, and always wise. That's from this text. God is always right now, always right here, always at work, and always wise, and that changes everything, doesn't it? Why? Because our God is not only glorious in Himself, He also shares his strength with us in our weakness. Verse 29 He gives power to the weak, and to those who have no might he increases strength. Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly. fall. But those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. There's much to learn here. First is the inevitability of weakness. We will be weak. We will run out of our strength. How many of us thought when we first came to Christ I could do this. I could do this. I love Jesus. I can obey. I will obey. I'll be a wonderful Christian. You wait and see. And how long did that last? Probably until we came to the first thing that our flesh really wanted. That's about how long it lasted. And then what did we experience? Weakness. Weakness. Dreadfully deadly, impotent, surprising weakness. And what did we do? Well, we failed, of course. So what did we do next? Well, we probably tried harder in our own strength, going back, well I failed last time, and if I try harder this time, you know, I'll have success. And what did we do? We failed even more dramatically. And what did we learn? I need Christ. I cannot live the Christian life without Christ. I cannot live the Christian life without the provisions that Christ has given me. I cannot live the Christian life without the Church of Christ surrounding me. I cannot live the Christian life without the word of Christ. I need Christ. That's what this is speaking about. God gives power to the weak who are trying to do the will of God. Fainting and weariness and falling and weakness is a certainty in our Christian life. That's what flesh is like in itself. So everywhere that we rely upon our own strength, that's what we will experience. But failing is not an inevitable inevitable. We can choose Strength. But not of ourselves. There is nothing we're tempted to do that we are powerless not to do. There's nothing we're tempted to do that we are powerless not to do. We can never use the excuse, I could I could do nothing else, I could do nothing otherwise. No, we can always obey. We can always walk in the strength of Christ if we will abide in Him. If we'll walk in faith in Him. If we'll believe what He says, no matter what seamer theology is kicking itself into our head at the time. And look what happens. The young bucks completely wear out. The ones with the most natural strength, the ones most likely to succeed in their physical strength, fail miserably in our test. Look at Paul's words when he's dealing with his own weakness. In 2 Corinthians 12, 7 through 10, he says, And lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations, in other words, so that I don't become a bass trot in my own. Because God gave me some three special things. The thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure Concerning this thing, I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me. And he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is made perfect. In what? In weakness. In weakness. Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. See what he's saying. I'm depending on weakness. I know that's what I am, because that's where Christ shows his strength in my life. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in needs, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake, for when I'm weak. When I know I can't do it, when I run out of my strength, when it's beyond what I can possibly do, that's when I'm strong. Don't you think God's kingdom works backwards? It's our weakness that drives us to depend on God's strength And the strongest believers are the ones who are most aware of their own impotence. It's our faith in God that's our strength. Because it's at that point of faith that we trust God's strength to cover for us, and that's you know that's what moves God. Our faith in Him. But those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles, they'll run and not be weary, they'll walk and not faint. This waiting is not what we do at the doctor's office. It's not a time of inactivity while we wait for the event to happen. The waiting described here is more like what we do five minutes before the big playoff game is about to begin and we have the best seat. We're eagerly anticipating and invested in the thing that's going to come up shortly. That's the kind of uh waiting, it's a focused kind of I'm gonna do whatever I have to do right now while I am waiting for God to fulfill his promise. When we wait on the Lord, we wait with an earnest expectation of the next thing that is soon to come from the Lord's hand. Our eyes and hope are fixed on Him, and we'll do whatever we need to in the meantime for what comes next. And look at what Christ gives. He doesn't just give strength to do the minimum. He doesn't say, I'll get you by. Uh I'll get you crawling through. He doesn't just give us strength to barely survive. He gives strength to do the impossible. When we read of all the people who have thrived in prison cells or hospital beds or in severe persecution, we get an idea of what this is talking about. I think when we saw that movie here the one night about the amazing persecution that people are going through for the name of Christ and how they stand up to it. This is miraculous strength to do incredible feast. That's what he's talking about. Miraculous strength to do incredible feasts. When we tap into God's resources, we'll always have enough resources to meet the need. That's the point. But we have got to keep this straight. It is all based on waiting upon the Lord. It's all based on faithfully following Christ. You know, I thought that Mr. Orton had more to to say that continues with our quest here at Ferndale to have more of Christ. And it it was something how it fit in, so I wanted to I I just wanted to read it. It's better than I can say it. He says, it will not do to put my faith in God while I keep my heart in this world. God will not underwrite my worldliness with his power. He never promised the soaring strength of eagles so I could go on grunting in the sigh of Babylon. Waiting for the Lord means not only that I trust him to be true The rock in Isaiah 26, 4, but also that I admire him as stunning the glory of Isaiah 45. Some Christians live defeated lives because God allows them to. He will not support our carnality But he will renew the heart that says to him, Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. Psalm 73, 25. On Saturday morning, January 12, 1723, Jonathan Edwards wrote these words in his journal. I have been before God and have given myself All that I am and have to God, so that I am not in any respect my own. I have given myself clear away and have not retained anything as my own. I have this morning told him that I did take him for my whole fortune and felicity. Looking upon nothing else as any part of my happiness, nor acting as if it were. In other words All I want out of my life, what I'll be happy to walk away with, is God and God alone. Whatever other gifts he gives me, I will enjoy with thanks to him and for his sake. But God is my salvation, and everything else in my existence will find its meaning in reference to God, or it will have no meaning for me at all. Paul shorted his course that way, and God brought him all the way through. At the end, Paul wrote, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearance. 2 Timothy 4, 7 and 8 We're all weak, but we don't have to be Superman. God simply calls us to believe what we believe and to set our hearts on things above. If we will, that longing for God is the channel through which his power will lift us and renew us and cheer us all the way there. Doesn't that sound kind of amazing and how it fits in with everything that we've been studying and talking about? It's like Mr. Ortland had been listening into our conversations. It's like Isaiah had a message for us just this morning. God is going out of his way that we may get this emphasis. We need more of Jesus. God is always right now, always right here, always at work, and always wise. And that changes everything, doesn't it? Why? Because God is not only glorious in Himself. He also shares his strength with us in our weakness. God is doing his part. The problem is never with God. Where are we refusing to see? Where are we refusing to trust? Where are we refusing to believe? Where are we refusing to obey? Where are we making excuses for failure? What is it that we really want most? When what we want is Jesus. When it's God's glory, God empowers us to do things that are humanly impossible. He enables flight to those who can barely draw. That's the imagery. This is what our God calls us to. We're more than conquerors, God's word says. God 's word describes all believers, any believer that's going to make it through the gate as an overcomer. Every believer is a miracle of God's powerful working. Will we allow ourselves to grasp that in our situation and live rationally? Live as if that is true. That's our question for this morning. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. Thank you so much that you show us. How to live in a reasonable and rational fashion. And it's amazing. We see the power that you want to give to your people to overcome this world. We see it's there and it's waiting and you will apply. If we will come to you and depend upon you for that which is of you, when we seek Eternal things. When we set our affections on heaven, when we set our affections on you, you will pour into us whatever is necessary to meet the challenges. We see that from your word, and we are so thankful. God help us. Help us to live in such a manner that we are just so Matter of fact, about expecting power from you, that the world won't know how to take us Change us. Make us. Redirect our hearts. Do whatever is necessary, Lord. And we praise you. We thank you because you love us so much. Do you promise, you'll provide us the resources that we need to act according to your will? We pray these things in Jesus' name.