Well it's been a it's been a good weekend for me. I've I've taught a sermon by Mayor Light and had a bagpipe entrance. Not not not a bad super bad time. Ah. Section four, suffering with pity. Oh. So good. So good. Well let me pray for a time, God. Father, thank you so much. Lord, for the gathering of your saints, for the gathering of your people. Father, we thank you for joy. We thank you that you've given us laughter and kinship. Father, we thank you for your ancient word. Father, which changes us. And so Father, we come before you this morning, Father, with glad spirits and open hearts. Desiring, Father, that you would change us and inform us. uh by the power of your word and the power of your spirit in the person of Christ as we uh end our time together with this this Session of peace and Lord, we pray that you would be pleased to open our minds and our hearts and our wills to your scriptures, to your word, to all that you have for us here. Pray that you would bless our time. Use it for us, Father, for our goodness, for your goodness. In Jesus' name. Amen. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord. Let the afflicted hear and be glad. Oh magnify the Lord with us and let us exalt his name together. Suffering is the reality in which we lived and ministered. We are sufferers to some degree, leading and walking with and suffering alongside of other sufferers. It's one thing to to hear of suffering in other people's lives Uh it's another thing entirely to to go through it yourself. And so what I'll share with you this morning is uh actually a a a sermon your pastor has already listened to, and I think uh I gave this at my church probably a year ago and it's since become, uh, and and maybe you'll see why in a bit, sort of a I don't know, at least for now, sort of a a life message for me, something that I'm going back to often uh for me personally, but also because it uh seems to be the the Lord is kind uh to in in using it to help encourage other folks as well. So uh Here we go. So about gosh probably a year and a half ago, two years ago, I I noticed an odd spot uh in my vision, a distortion. uh in one of my uh in one of my eyes. Uh and so the the first thing I did, logically, like any North American uh red blood males wait about five months before before even thinking about getting it checked out. Uh just to see if it would go away out of some. And and when it didn't go away up soon, I've waited another month or two, just just to be sure Uh at this point my wife lovingly but firmly insisted I go get this thing uh checked out. So I went into a a retinal specialist uh office uh and walked out with a uh diagnosis. And you'll need to bear with me on the pronunciation. So I have a condition called myopic macular degeneration. uh with choroidal neovascularization. It sounds I don't I don't know whether to laugh or to cry when I say the thing. So medically, you know, I've always had bad eyes. My eyes are instead of being round, they're sort of football shaped. Uh and and it makes me near sight. I've one glasses are contact since I was two Um and and and what this uh and so my the retina, the part of the back of my eye, uh that enables your eye to read light and then translate it through your optic nerve and into your brain. Helps you see stuff. Uh that area of my eye is stretched very thin because my eyes are oblong. Uh so thin, if you're uh if you're averse to medical stuff, let me apologize in advance. Uh and so my eyes are so thin in that part, you have uh veins, vessels in the back of your eye, and in my eye they they push through uh and bump up against the retina uh and and sometimes bursts inside of the eye uh and causes these distortions and and uh loss of vision. Uh but this is macular degeneration. This is a kind my grandfather was diagnosed with macular degeneration uh like a couple years ago. He's eighty-six or eighty-seven. And so when I go into the doctor's office for this thing, uh I'm with generally with people with oxygen tanks uh and and God bless him, gray hair. Um So basically I have I have have the eyes of a very old man. Uh and it's not from uh it's not from staring at screens. I'm a designer by by trade, so I do a lot of a lot of stuff staring at screens. This is not from the genetic condition. So my my wife was not thrilled when I tried to convince her that I'm just sort of ahead of my time. Uh macular degeneration is not a condition that is repairable. It's a degenerative condition. It is a treatable condition. Uh but the treatment for such a condition is unpleasant. Let's say that. So when I was a kid, I don't know if you guys did this, but I was a kid growing up in Titan You had a secret that you were going to share with somebody. You had to make a pact that under no circumstance would you ever share the other person's secret, right? Uh and the way we sealed this pack, maybe you guys did this too, you said this little rhyme, this little limit. Uh and it was Cross my heart in hopes to die. Do you know the rest of it? Stick a needle in my own. Do you hear yeah, so anyway. So that's the treatment. And that was like this little thing we would say as kids. And so this whole time I've been like, man, did I somebody stop me and I said I told him now Serious, serious thing. But that's the treatment of this thing. So I have to go in uh every month, uh sometimes now uh two months uh and get uh injections in each of my each of my eyes that slow down uh the degenerative process. Uh I'm still sort of trying to convince my wife that this is all necessitates like a much larger Television. She she hasn't she hasn't fallen for it yet, but if you see it afterwards, it's still pretty nudge of that, right? Um and I don't uh I I do want to you know, I don't care any just to be dramatic. This is not, you know, I'm not saying this for sympathy or pity. Uh I am not super spiritual or brave about this. My wife has to hold my hand through all of this. I have literally passed out a couple times, just just going into this thing. So uh it is not that I am brave uh at all. Uh and you know the fact is that many people and maybe maybe some of you, maybe not, but many people have received far worse uh diagnoses than these uh or know someone who have. I share this uh and I want to share this in the context of suffering For a couple reasons. We're going to look at John 9 today and in our Q<unk>A sort of discussion time there, you guys, a couple of you guys mentioned the blind man in John 9. We're going to take some time this morning. uh and look at that. And so uh there's a reason I want to sort of bring this all of this into the topic of of suffering uh because one uh this is the way a very specific way uh that the Lord has ministered to me in my suffering as I opened the word. I mean I I use my eyes as what I do for my living thus far. Um and so it's something that uh I sort of got this thing. uh that really it's it was difficult, it was hard. And it's still sort of hard to deal with and and sort of navigate the fears that come along with that. Uh saying, well what will this pollness look like? No case. U or not look like as the case will eventually be. This will lead to blindness at at some point. My eyes will continue to get worse. I will uh not be able to I see well enough to do the things that I now love to do. And so uh what I'm going to share with you is how the Lord has ministered to me and is continuing to minister me. Uh through the word, through the power of the word. Gosh, if you're not doing it Uh when you're going through a time of suffering, uh it's often the word that's the sort of our time in the word that tends to be the first time the first thing that that that we'll throw out And yet it is the fountain, the place of so much encouragement and power for moving through the stuff in our lives that we must go through. And so I'm sharing this in part to bolster my own faith in the goodness of Christ and in the great purposes of a loving Father. on preaching this word to my own heart and mind. I also want to encourage those of you who have lost or who will lose things that are precious to you. Because you will , or you have. I want to encourage your faith on the firmness of the Word of God, which shows us the goodness of Christ and the great purposes of our loving Father. So those are the two main reasons I want to share this with you. It also may put into some context my performance on software field just throwing that out there in the standard. Oh man. Um so um So John 9. Again, there's always something for us in the Word of God. There's always something in the Word for us. And for me as I grapple through this, again, the Lord is kind to bring this out for me. The fact that, and this is this is sort of the thing that that I've drawn that that the Lord drew out for me uh from from John 9. That there is a sight that is better than sight. There is a blindness That is worse than blindness. There's a sight better than sight and a blindness worse than blindness. And again, that not everybody has this thing. Your suffering will look different than mine. This is not a formulaic thing that everybody can sort of apply across the board uh in one sense. Um but every single one of us have things that um you know that if we lost would would be devastating to some degree to us. We live in a tension in this life uh between loss and longing. They're those things that we don't want to lose, whether it's a spouse or a house or a job or a relationship. uh some aspect of of what we're able to do physically. Um now for me I've always had again, I told you bad eyes, uh a and and and at some point I knew that this was a probability for me. We didn't think it would be uh quite quite so soon. But in the end, I don't you know I don't want to go blind. I want I want to be able to see my children grow up and I want to see them you know raise their families. I want to be able to to see that And all of us, again, have something like that where it would be so difficult if the Lord took this one uh thing from us. On the flip side of that coin, you may uh be dealing with some degree of longing. There's something that you desperately want that God just has not brought into your life yet. There's something that you don't have, that you feel the absence of very. keenly. Perhaps if you're single and you desire marriage, you desire a a spouse, or those who are married but who who desire a child and just has not uh happen yet. Uh those of you with a prodigal, uh those of you who may be a prodigal or know someone who is. Um And so whether you're here and you're uh mainly in a time of of loss or you're mainly in a time of of longing. Again, what I want us to see today is this. To follow Jesus, to follow Christ, is to have a sight that is better than sight. To reject him is to have a blindness that is worse than blindness, worse than physical blindness. So John 9. This is a familiar account, obviously, for most of you guys. Jesus restoring the sight of a blind man. Now the author, John, is one of Jesus' uh disciples, and in this chapter, uh he's sharing an eyewitness account of a miraculous healing and the controversy that that surrounds them. And so we're going to take a look at it. So let's look at John 9. There's a lot here. A lot. There's a ton here. You could do a whole series with this. But we're just going to sort of skim through and go verse by verse, starting with 9, 1 through 8 Because as he, Jesus, passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents, that he was born blind. And Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. For as long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Now having said these things, Jesus spit on the ground and made mud of the saliva. And then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and he said to him, Go and wash in the pool of Siloam, which means since. And so the man watched, went and watched and came back seeing. He went and washed and came back seeing. So again, we're going to skim by sort of verse by verse. Verse 1. As Jesus passed by, he saw a man. blind from birth. So some just some super quick context. This is taking place in Jerusalem. This is a major city. And this uh uh little scene is taking place right outside uh of a temple. Uh we we see in in in verse uh or in chapter 8 of John, they they've been at the temple, they uh we assume they're coming out, and so this is happening uh at the temple in Jerusalem. Uh and so the temple Would have been a major hub of city life. A lot of people, lot of traffic, lot of stuff going on around the temple. Temple was was a big deal. And so it makes sense. Here's a beggar near the temple, hoping for the goodness of the good religious folks who would go there. He's looking for handles. So here's some things we know about this man We know that he was blind from birth. Right? A man blind from birth. So he was born blind. He grew up blind. He is now a blind man. And so we can surmise that this is a man who's probably led a pretty hard life. Not a lot of resources in this time for blind folk. We know that he has parents because they're going to show up later in the story In verse 18 they show up. And so we can presume to some degree that his parents are not able to take care of him. And so he has become a beggar. This is a man who has led a difficult life. He's blind, he was poor, he is disadvantaged, he is a beggar. And in this hub, this city This is the central coin at the temple. This is the man that Jesus Notice this. This is the guy Jesus of all the people there. The poor, the blind, the disadvantaged beggar. This is the guy that Jesus seeks. Verse 2. The disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents, that he was born blind? And so after Jesus sees the man, his disciples notice him as well. And this is a normative sequence for Christ's followers, so it's good in that sense, where Jesus engages So do his disciples. And here they do. Jesus notices this man. They, Jesus' disciples, notice the man, and so they ask a question And they say, Rabbi, who's sin? This man or his parents, that he was born blind? It's not a particularly unusual question for the time. Uh but I might say it's not a terribly discerning or compassionate question. And in fact I've often wondered reading through this, uh it seems kind of awkward that the blind guy's sitting there, you walk up, you write by him, and you're like, Jesus, who Who sinned? You know? That that that guy is blind. And maybe he's sitting there thinking, geez, man, I'm I'm blind. I'm not deaf. But what are the disciples really asking here? It's the same question that we ask when we see pain and suffering. Same question we discuss to some degree. When we see pain, suffering, loss, we're asking why Why? Why is this man like this? How did this happen? What was the cause? What was the origin of this man's blindness? Was it punishment for his sins? Was it inherited judgment? It's punishment from his parents' sins? They want to understand the cause. They want an explanation for why this man is blind. Give your answer here. It's so it's so kind. It's so insightful. It's really, to me, a very captivating answer. Verse 3, Jesus answers them. He says, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. Now, he does not say that sin is not a factor or a cause in this man's blindness. But he gives a better answer Than the question that was asked. Was this man a sinner? Were his parents sinners? Yeah, absolutely. There's no question We know that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But Jesus seems to be saying here that that's not the point. That in this case, this is not really ultimately about sin and punishment. And so he does not answer as to the cause of this man's blindness. He gives a better answer. And he addresses instead the purpose. He addresses the purpose. That the works of God might be displayed through Him The explanation, according to Jesus, for this man's blindness is not found in looking backwards to find a cause, but looking ahead. Toward a greater purpose. That greater purpose being to display the works of God. You see a cause Causes tend to be temporary things. Causes are typically small in the eternal scheme of things. A purpose By contrast, is something much larger, something beyond oneself, something beyond the immediate. And yet, again, we automatically tend to ask that same question when we experience pain or loss in whatever form it comes, we say, why? Again, not a bad question in itself. And probably there's something there, of course. Usually there is. But if we think That simply understanding will soothe the ape, that the right explanation will somehow fill the void, then I think we're missing out on something bigger. God has force if we simply focus on the cause. We may miss the purpose And here, in this little scene, in this vignette, Jesus encourages us, encourages the disciples not to simply look for understanding, not to simply figure out the circumstantial explanation, but to look for a purpose. and the great and gracious works of God, especially in difficult things. And in this man's case, through his physical blindness. Find the glory and work of God, even in this man's blindness. In some degree it's sort of a hard statement to grapple with, because sight, physical eyesight certainly shows us the glory of God. And that's easy to find throughout the scriptures that God shows his glory through the viewing of his creation, David writes from the Psalms. The heavens declare the glory of God. The sky above shows his handiwork. Paul tells us in Romans that the invisible attributes and eternal power of God is so clear in the created world. So clearly seen that we are without excuse, that all men are without excuse for recognizing who made this stuff, who made these things And so it's easy to see how physical sight shows us the glory of God. But here in John 9, Jesus seems content to explain this man's lack of sight in the same terms. Here God demonstrates his glory not through sight, but through blindness, through what many from a human standpoint would consider a handicap or a disadvantage, a departure from normalcy. Jesus is pointing us pointing uh pointing us in in in a direction that shows us that both blindness and sight can put the work of God on display. They both show us something of who He is, that there's meaning and purpose even in this difficult thing. That's tied to showing us who God is. Like the disciples, though, we tend to look for that understanding. But Jesus gives us something better. He gives us a better answer than the questions we typically ask. Cause, in this case, is not the ultimate explanation. God's great and gracious purposes are Verse four He goes on to say, we must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming, when no one can work. Now there's a richness and a beauty to these statements that we're not going to get into today. But I think briefly what Jesus is saying here is that time is of the essence. Because life and death are at stake. And so we should engage with him in God's work while we're able to do so. Paul tells us in Ephesians 5. 16 that we should make the most of our time. Two things that we can do now that we will never be able to do in heaven is share the gospel with people who do not know Christ and help people who are in desperate need. That we can cause either of that in heaven. And that's what Jesus is doing in this story. He's going to help this man know who he is. And he's going to help somebody in desperate need. Verse 5, as long as I'm in the world, I am the light of the world. Again, there's a lot here. Jesus is building on this previous statement. While I am here, I'm going to shine brightly for the glory of my Father. I think he's also foreshadowing both his death on the cross and this miracle that's about to take place. He's going to give sight physically to this beggar. And through the cross, he's going to give physical heart, sorry, he's going to give spiritual sight to those who put their faith in him Verse 6. Having said these things, he spit on the ground, made mud with the saliva , then he anointed the man's eyes with mud. I always I I laugh a little bit when I read this. So let me get this straight. Jesus made mud with stiff. Not in a not to be disrespectful uh in the least, but that's it's it's kind of weird and it's a little gross I mean if you think about it, Jesus could have healed this man's eyesight a thousand, hundred thousand different ways. I mean he could have Snapped his fingers and literally giving the man new eyes on the spot. This is God. He is God, the fullness of God in human form Uh he he could have with with less than a thought restored this man's eyesight. But instead He just spits on some dirt, mixes it around with his fingers, and then puts it on the guy's face. There's not a lot normal about that. Uh and in fact it seems particularly counterproductive to help someone see by putting mud in their eyes. Although I have to admit, it sounds a lot better than a meal. So Jesus often uses sort of outward embellishments uh to adorn his miracles. Right? But why would he do this? Why would he Make mud with dirt and spit. Uh is he alluding maybe to the fact that all men are dust? And what comes from the mouth of God is what gave us life. There's just some allegory showing us the power of the word that proceeds from the mouth of God. I don't know. The text doesn't tell us. What we do see is that this is only one part of the process. Because at this point. The guy's just got mud on his face. His sight is not yet restored. So we move on to verse 7. Jesus says to him. Okay, now, now that I've done this, uh go and wash in the pool of Siloam, which means spent And the man went and washed, and he came back. See. So Siloam, as John points out, means And there's some amount of speculation from scholars as to why John bothers even to point this out as he writes this. I think it's probably a subtle reference to maybe what Jesus is saying back in verse 4, that we must do the works of him who sent me. Perhaps some sort of reference to the fact that he is the Messiah, the spent one from God , and that maybe this pool is a representation of Jesus. uh the Savior, uh where this blind beggar is going to go in faith and watch. Now, let's remember that this blind man is an outcast. He's a poor, disabled beggar. He is when when I say outside, so the the this is a society. The Pharisees, the the Judaical system of law and cleanliness that is obsessed with purity. And so their assumption in this time is that if you have if you had that that's why Peter asked the question, who sinned? Did this man sin and help his blindness or his parents? Because you would have been this guy would be considered Ceremonial is unclean. There's a big deal. So nobody would go near this guy. Nobody would interact with this. Nobody would touch this guy. because they saw sin as something that was that could even you could get it even from being around sinners. You could get it from even touching sinners. This is an outcast. He's been that way from birth And this is speculation, but let's try to imagine what these moments must have been like for this blind man. This guy probably knows how to get around the city by smell, by touch, by sound. Maybe he he shuffles down uh to the temple in the morning. Uh he begs, he spends his day there begging. He shuffles back to wherever he uh lives in the evening. Um and I have to imagine at some point If you're a blind guy and that's your existence, I have to think that at some point all your days just sort of start to run together. Maybe one day you're doing your thing, you're banging outside the temple, hoping maybe that somebody notices you, tosses you a coin, maybe gives you a piece of bread. Hoping somebody notices you're there. Uh when somebody does know. Somebody does notice. And you At this point you're uh again you're in sort of the the center hub of the city. Uh you've heard people probably talking about this guy as they walk from the streets, as they walk out of the temple, uh words getting around about this rabbi named Jesus. Uh this guy that he he he does miracles, he teaches at the temple, uh he defies the religious leaders of the day. And all of a sudden This guy is he's standing over you, he's standing in front of me. And he's calling himself the light of the world and uh and and he's and he's saying that you You, poor, miserable, blind, you, because of your blindness, can somehow display the works of God. And then he puts some wet gunk on your face and says, go wash it off. If you're the blind guy, what in the world do you do with that? If you have ever dealt with chronic suffering, chronic pain, I do not, but my wife to a degree does. Um she has she has uh line, which is what we were alluding to earlier. Uh if you've ever been involved in an ongoing painful circumstance that just doesn't seem to end I mean there's at some point where it seems like you would do anything to fix it. And you'll do anything to get out of it. And so if you're the blind guy in this situation, what do you do? This man obeys This man obeys. This is a desperate act of faith from someone who has nowhere else to turn We don't even know if Jesus bothers to fill this guy in on what's going on. Because in the text, Jesus doesn't give him an explanation. He doesn't give them a five-step plan. He doesn't offer in any way to help the man understand what is going on. He doesn't even send his disciples to the pool with him. Jesus does some weird stuff that nobody understands, and then he calls for faith and obedience. It offers none of what we so typically want. A cause, an understanding, and an explanation, ten steps to how this is going to eventually resolve. Instead, he does some does some odd things and then he calls, he provides, he opens up an opportunity To exercise faith and step out in obedience. And as as weird as that is, the the mud is that uh and dirt things. Uh I would say that the method and means of healing is not really the point here. It's not the issue. The person Who heals is the issue. There's no magic in the dirt. There's no magic in the spit or the mud or the water. It's Jesus who restored this man's sight. The man's part was not to understand how it all worked. The blind man's part was not to figure it out. His part was to trust and obey. And his faith and his obedience were rewarded because he came back. The text says, see Came back scene. We're going to switch gears a little bit at this point and move through the rest of the chapter kind of quickly. What I want to show you with the rest of our time is this. Is that as awesome as this is, I mean this is this is cool, right? I mean who doesn't want this? Like I've got an issue. Jesus shows up, boom, solved. I can see again. Amazing What I want to show from this point, however, is I think even this, this magical, not magical. Strike 10. Strike that from the goyi. I'm at it. That this amazing healing Uh is is ultimately not not even the point. As awesome as that is, it's not the point of this story, it's not the point of this account. The real miracle is not that this man gains his physical eyesight, but that he gains spiritual sight. He gains a better sight, the physical sight. And he loses a worse blindness, the physical blindness. We're going to see that unfold in the rest of the chapter. So Jesus makes mud and feels this man's eyes. He uses sort of this humble physical means to accomplish something absolutely miraculous. And as you might expect This kind of causes a stir. And in verses 8 through 12, all the neighbors get to talking about it. So the neighbors, those who had seen him before as a beggar, were saying, Is this not the one, the man who used to sit and beg? And some said, it is he. And others said, no, it's not him, but he just looks like him. But the man kept saying, I am he, I am the man. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes open? And he answered, the man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. And so I went and washed and received my sight. And they said to him, Where is he? And he said, I don't know. All the neighbors are now talking about this this crazy thing that's happened. Is this the guy? Is this the blind guy? Are you sure? Is it not? Big up war, there's controversy. And so this eventually gets to the level that the Pharisees, the religious leaders apparently hear of it and feel that they need to step in and get involved. And that's a sort of a big deal, because again, these are the church leaders of the day. These are the elite. These are people who prided themselves on having deep spiritual sight But because they had essentially reduced a relationship with God down to a set of strict rules and rituals and used these to oppress people , Jesus is constantly speaking out against them. And that's part of the the sort of the social uh controversy that followed him in that day. Um and the the the Pharisees' animosity toward Jesus at this at this point when this is happening. uh had grown so much that as it before this even happened, like they've already made a decree, a public decree, saying that anyone who aligns themselves with Jesus And agrees that he is the chosen one from God, essentially, literally, gets kicked out of church If you align yourself with Jesus, don't bother showing up the synagogue. And that's not just you don't get to come to services on Sunday morning or when they had services. It's not just you don't get to show up the temple. Like if you get kicked out of church in this day, you're totally exhibited. You lose your friends. You lose your job, you may even lose your citizenship. And so this is a big deal. And so states and tensions between Jesus and Pharisees very high at this point. And so as the rest of John 9 plays out, we're going to see the progression of how the Pharisees and the blind man each speak of Jesus. And with the Pharisees and with the well formerly blind men , their hearts are being revealed. And the movement of their hearts, we're going to see, are either drawing away from Christ or Or they are drawing to him, drawing toward him. The spiritual blindness of the Pharisees is going to be fully revealed, while the spiritual blindness of the man Is going to be fully healed. So we read the part about the neighbors. Interesting to note. How does the man Refer to Jesus in this section. So there's all this controversy. They asked him, How were your eyes opened? And the man answered , The man called Jesus. The man called Jesus. He refers to Jesus as a man. I am a man. He is a man. He's a wonderful man. He yielded my eyes. But like me, he is a man. The man called Jesus. Let's look at verses 13 through 17. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. And now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees Again asked the man how he had received his tongue. And he said to them, Jesus put mud on my eyes And I watched, and now I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, nor does he keep the Sabbath. They're speaking of Jesus. But others said, how can a man who is a sinner do such spawning, do such amazing things And there was a division among them, so that they said to the blind man, What do you say about him, this man Jesus, since he opened your eyes? And the man said, He is a prophet. He's a prophet. This is no longer in in this side of the eyes a common man. Because this is a special man. He's different than other men. He's other. He's special. He is a prophet. And the Pharisees are sort of divided by this answer. There's a clear clash between who they believe God to be and who Jesus is. So they start discussing like, well , he he did this amazing thing and yet he did it on the Sabbath. How can a sinner who would break the Sabbath do this amazing thing? They divide it. But the man has now moved from the man Jesus to, oh, well, he's a prophet, he's a special man In verses 18 through 223, we're not going to read these. The Pharisees call in the man's parents because they don't believe that he was blind from birth. So they're thinking maybe this is some sort of trick. This is some kind of uh you know, this is this is some kind of game, maybe Jesus is playing or this God is playing or whatever. But out of fear, if you read through the text, they kept silent. They kept silent other than to say, yes, this is our sign. And he's old enough to speak for himself. And so they're going to sort of disengage from the process. I'll wash my hands of this. We're going to pick it back up in verse 24. 24 and 25. So the parents said, He is of age, asking him. And for the second time, the Pharisees called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man, Jesus, is a sinner. And the man answered, whether he is a sinner or not, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see. Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, though I was blind. Now I And so the Pharisees and the man have a second interchange. And it seems to be a crooks. It seems to be a climactic part of the story here. And we see the Pharisees' position fully revealed. Listen to what they say. Give glory to God. We know this man, Jesus, is a sinner. They are saying, literally, glorify God by agreeing with us that Jesus is a sinner. This is blasphemy. Absolute blasphemy. 1 John 4 tells us that the spirit of the Antichrist does not acknowledge Jesus as God to put forth that Jesus Christ is a sinner. It's clear, total, absolute blasphemy. And so they are trying to draw this man into him, into this. They're asking the man to join with them in this. Give glory to God. Agree with us, Jesus is a sinner. The implication here again, because of the decree that's been made, everybody knows about, or we're going to cast you out of the synagogue. And the man responds with the words that we know him best for saying. I don't know whether he is a sinner or not. One thing I do know, once I was blind and now I see And that's the power of a good testimony, is it not? Of a personal encounter with Christ. You can come at me. That's why we're talking about the importance of remembering. Because culture, my own brain, uh stuff around the even the friendly fire from things around me can can tell me stuff about God. But with a good personal testimony, a personal encounter with Christ It gives us the courage to face trials, to face suffering. The man said, I don't have all the answers or the nuances. All I know is what Jesus has done for me. I can't give you an explanation as to why it happened I can only give you a basic explanation as to how it happened, but one thing I can tell you, it did happen. Look again how this man's heart is softening, how it is moving toward the person of Jesus. So he has gone from referring to Jesus as just a man to a prophet. And now he says, I don't know if he's a sinner. I don't know if he's sinned, but I know this, he healed my blindness. And as they continue to question him, we're going to see his courage has grown to the point that now he's going to begin to ask questions of the Pharisees. He's going to turn the tables on them. If they brought him before them to interrogate him, he now turns to interrogate them. Verses 26, starting verse 26. They continued the question. They said to him, Well, what did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I already told you, but you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, you are his disciple. We are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. We do not know where he comes from. Do you also want to become his disciples? The man asked. Implication there in verse 27, I am now identifying myself as his disciple. They said, do you want to glorify God with us and admit that he's a sinner? He says, do you want to join me in becoming a disciple of Jesus? They have issued an invitation. He is issued now a counter-invitation. Do you also want to follow Jesus? He is aligning himself more and more and more with Christ, the man's sight, his spiritual sight. His spiritual eyes are now opening. The spiritual sight becomes stronger. Verses 28 and 29, they affirm His statement that he is a Christ follower. They reviled him, saying, You are his disciple. We follow Moses. We know that, excuse me, God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we don't know where he comes from. The man's courage and conviction even at this point continue to grow. And it's almost as though he's sort of verbally processing this even right before him, right in front of the Pharisees. In verses 7 and verse 30 to pick it up, the man answered, why this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God who does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it occurred that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. He's now affirming that this man is from God. He is the Messiah. He is the Christ. He is now teaching them. He's now teaching the Pharisees, showing them their blindness. And so they cast him out. They cast him out. As his eyes open, their eyes slam shut. And in their contempt for Christ. They kick him out. They answer him in verse 34. You were born in utter sin, and you would teach us. And they cast him out. There's a final conversation that takes place in verses 35 through 38. Jesus heard that they had cast the man out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And he answered, Who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped. Lord, I believe. And he worshiped you It's interesting to note that Jesus takes the time, makes the effort to seek this man out. Jesus initiates this final scene just as he initiated the opening scene of the chapter. When he began to interact with this man in the first place. And he says, do you believe in the Son of Man? The Son of Man with a very specific title? Would have been very commonly known in those days as a specific title referring to the Messiah, the one who was sent from God and given all authority and glory and sovereign power People of this era would have been very familiar with this phrase. There would have been no question by what Jesus meant when he asked him, do you believe in the Son of Man? The man in the end says, Lord, I believe. Lord, I believe. And he worships Jesus. We see at this point his spiritual sight is now fully restored. He sees Jesus as he ought. He's moved from seeing Jesus as a man , a man Jesus did this, to a prophet to This man is my rabbi, my chosen one. I will follow. I will identify myself as a follower, a disciple. of this man to this man is from God to this man is God Worthy of my worship. This is true sight. This is sight that matters. This is a purpose. And it's greater than a cause. Physical sight is precious, but spiritual sight. It's far better. Infinitely better. Eternally better. And that the point of this whole thing, I think. Jesus is sent from God, does the works of God for the glory of God, and in the end he will be recognized for who he is and he will be worshiped. This man was physically blind and Jesus made him see. That's a miracle. It's amazing But the greater miracle in this chapter, the better miracle, is not the opening of the blind man's eyes, but the opening of the blind man's heart to Jesus. He called Jesus the man, and then he called him a prophet, and then he called him master, and then he said, This man is from God, and he defended him at great personal loss. And in the end, he falls down and he worships. And as I consider uh my diagnosis for my eyes, as I consider um the inevitable probability of losing my my eyesight at some point, it occurs to me That like me, you all at some point get a call, you get a diagnosis, you get some unexpected news , you get Something comes your your way. And it may be less severe, it may be more severe. The point is when that moment comes In terms of what the Word has shown us here, how will we respond? What will we do? Will we be like the Pharisees? Will we close our minds and our hearts to Jesus? Will we be like the disciples and just sort of ask questions Why? Well why is this? Let's discuss it philosophically. Will we try to find a cause where we take comfort in figuring it out? Or will we Uh like like like this beggar, like this blind man in his humble desperation, will we, even in the midst of our pain or our fear or our uncomfortableness, will we move forward Christ in faith and obedience? There's a better sight than sight. There is a blindness worse than physical blindness. There's a blindness of the mind. A blindness of the heart, there is a spiritual blindness. There is a blindness to the glory of God and to the graciousness of Christ. And this is a devastating blindness. This blindness is eternally devastating. Many are still blind like this, and nothing could be worse than to be blind to the glory of God Probably many of us can relate in some way to the beggar this morning because we either have them there or we'll circle back around or like myself I sometimes schizophrenically bounce around uh between uh these various things. But maybe uh you've heard of Jesus and you would say he's a man, he's only a man. He's a good man. He's a good example to follow, but maybe in the end he's just a man. And maybe you'd admit there's something a little different about him. He's a prophet. He's special. He's a gifted teacher. Maybe you've had an encounter with him and you would say you're his disciple You're a follower, you're an admirer of Jesus. Maybe even you would go so far as to admit this is this man is from God But has it cost you yet to believe? Has it cost you yet to follow through? And though each one of these things is a step along a path, it's each a link and a chain, none of these views in and of themselves are quite enough. In the end, true spiritual sight shows us that Jesus is the Christ. He is the saving one. He is God's own Son sent to save us from the consequences of our sin, of our rebellion against him. In the end, the better sight leads us to acknowledge him. Not just as a man, not just as a good man, not just as a prophet, not just as my teacher, not just as someone I admire or would follow, not even just as someone who's from God, but someone who is the Lord. The better side leads us to acknowledge Him as Lord God and submit our wills to His authority. He leaves us to bow our lives down to him and worship. Jesus shows us that there is a sight, better than sight. Many of you know this, and so this serves as a reminder to a forgetful people, myself included. That Jesus gives us a sight better than sight. The comfort the word has for me, as I deal with that, as I deal with my affliction, my stuff As I read through John 9, I I I don't read through this with the hope of a miraculous healing, but it could happen, and that would be great. That would be fine. What I see What God has shown me with a little better clarity than I had before is the assurance that the great works of God will be put on display. Even through loss, even through difficulty. And like the beggar, like the man born blind, my part, our part, is not to evaluate the cause, but to trust in the purpose. And move toward Christ in faith and obedience. This has been a good time for me to be with you. I hope it has been good for you as well. Must we suffer? Yes. In this world, there will be much pain. But as you suffer, as we suffer, suffer well. See your suffering through the lens of who God is Not merely where you happen to be. Apply the balm of worship to your hurting heart and your aching soul. Lean not on your own understanding. Trust the Lord and go to his word and find him there. He whispers and shouts in every verse. And the suffering Savior knows your pain better than you do. And so saturate your soul here in the word. Like a hammer and a nail. Drive this thing into your mind and your heart. So you will say with me and I will say with you, and we will say together, I bless the Lord at all times. His praise will continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord. Must be afflicted, hear, we'll be glad. We'll magnify the Lord with me and let us exalt his name together. Let me pray. Father, thank you so much that you have given us a sight better than sight, that you have healed us for those who have put our faith and our trust and our hope in you and you alone for the forgiveness of our sins, for the salvation of our slaves. We'll be thankful, but you will not let us down. That you know us, you know our pain. And Father, in many ways, I think you have given us our pain to steward well before you. And so Father, we can use where we are, whether we are in seasons of great pain or not. Wherever we fall on that spectrum, will you be kind to use us for your glory, to draw us to worship. Lord, if our hands are heavy, And we would lift them to you. And that those around us whose hands are not heavy, or not heavy now, and not heavy yet, would help us lift through that. Father, we thank you for the sight better than the sight found in Christ and in Christ alone. I pray this time has been fruitful for your people. I thank you for this dear church. I thank you for the work that you are doing in and through and with them. Pray that you would continue to bless them. As they seek your face above all things, as they continue to know and treasure the gospel, as they make your gospel known to a lost and dying world who does not know how to deal honestly with pain. Father, we thank you for the Christian faith, for the walk, for the example, the glorious empowering of Jesus, who allowed us to deal with pain in honest ways. Thank you for a Savior who knows what it is to be like us, who is tempted in all ways, who suffers. above and beyond what we can conceive or imagine, who suffered to the point, Lord, where we will if our faith is in you, if our hope is in Christ If we are captured by the gospel , we will never have to cry out, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? But our Savior did. So Father, we have ultimate trust, we have ultimate hope in Him. And we are grateful, Father. We are thankful. Lord, did you continue to work out good things in us through this? And again, where I pray where my words have gone for us, they would pass the forgiveness where your word followed. uh has has has gone out. But the seeds will take root, bear good fruit for the good of your people and the glory of your name. Pray these things in the beautiful name, Jesus.