You and I live in a world of human beings. We all live in the same variety of homes. We eat the same variety of foods. We drive the same variety of cars. We have a similar variety of hobbies And we all live on this same spinning sphere. One might get the idea that there really isn't much of a difference between people. We might think that we might make some different choices, but we're all basically the same. One worldview is as good as another, one religion is as good as another, one orientation is as good as another. But essentially our job on planet Earth is to make our own and each other's time here as pleasant as possible. It would be easy to think that. If that were true, then the crusaders for green energy or open borders or accepting all opinions of having equal merit and even population control would be taking the moral high ground This would be akin to a world religion, but logically it would have to be the highest religion because it's looking out for the good of people for the long term. It makes all sorts of sense. If you watch the news, you can see that this is what many believe. And it's becoming the core belief of more and more of our society. They truly believe they're standing for the things that are in the best interest of humanity. That's often why they're so passionate about their causes and why many respond so violently to opposition. There's a sense to this. It's what you would rationally expect. If this earth is all there is Those who attempt to make it its most pleasant for most of its inhabitants for the longest period of time should be its heroes, if this world is all that there is. There's rational thought behind that. If man is, and there is none besides man, the heroes are those who most worship at the humanistic shrine. Who do the most to improve the world and extend its useful life. And if they're correct, we people who call ourselves Christ followers, Christ believers, are people to be pitied. We aren't just nice people with wrong ideas. We are absolute idiots for giving up the pleasure we could have for some lie. We're the deluded. But the Bible paints a different picture, a very, very different picture. Augustine wrote a book called The City of God In that book, he builds on what the Bible says about the difference in people. He uses the biblical references a lot from our Isaiah passages to two cities to build his imagery. He said that there are two cities that form all of what happens on planet Earth. And those cities are formed by two loves. The earthly city is formed by the love of self, even to the contempt of God. And the heavenly city is formed by the love of God, even to the contempt of self. The first seeks the glory of mankind and from mankind. The latter seeks the glory of God and from God. The earthly city is focused on what happens on this planet. Everything is planet-based, limited to this time and matter. Here and now is all that there is. Some of these inhabitants are extremely generous and kind and moral people. Some are evil and openly self-serving. But at the end of the day, they share the same God, and their God is humanity. The heavenly city exists in time and matter, and what the inhabitants of that city do on this earth matters. But only in light of how it reflects on eternity, only in light of how it reflects upon their God. They're all over the charts in terms of good and bad behavior. We know that from our own experiences But at the end of the day, they cannot stray too long and too far from their worship of God. That worship of God continues to draw them back. The Bible tells us that Cain built the first city. Genesis 4. 17. Cain was the earthly line. He showed his true love when he killed his brother. He was solidly in the earthly loves camp. He didn't really care what God wanted. It's interesting that God planted a garden, but Cain built a city. Cain was doomed by God to be an outsider and to be a wanderer. He was cursed. So how did he compensate? He came up with a way to eliminate some of the sting of the curse. He remade his world to his liking as much as he could. It was Cain's way to best enjoy his life independent of God. It was something he built for his own glory. It was something he could have and enjoy here and now. And it helped him even to beat the curse of fighting weeds. By working together, survival became easier and free time was allowed to exist. And that's part of what the earthly city still shoots at. Making life easier and better. The eternal cities dwellers are shooting for something completely different. They have a different target in mind. Hebrews tells us about this in uh when it talks about Abraham. In Hebrews 11, 9, and 10, it says, by faith Abraham dwell in the land of promise as in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he waited for the city Which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. The heavenly city is a city based on promises, based on faith. It's something that God makes and we enjoy forever. It shifts all of our focus when we really allow it to grip all of our thinking. What happens here and now is much less important to us than what will happen for eternity. We'll sell one to get the other. We willingly and gladly make that trade because we know it's the smartest thing that we could possibly do with the lives that God has given us. It's the smartest thing we can possibly do with our time and resources And while the first earthly city was built by man for man in maintaining his independence from God, there's a surprise in store. Not only is God going to grant his people a restored Garden of Eden existence, there's also going to be a holy city. A new Jerusalem. We see that in Revelation 21, 1 through 22. God will take the thing first used to maintain man's rebellion and transform it into heaven. Isaiah is about to talk about the supremacy of God displayed in these two cities. In our next three chapters, the word city is mentioned several times. Remember how we've just come through God's judgment on the specific nations in the last couple of chapters. Well, this chapter, chapter 24, talks about the whole earth. And instead of judgments upon cities, Isaiah reduces it down to the city. This is like how the word Babylon is used in Scripture. It symbolizes the whole world of the whole of the world's attitude and activity and their motive. The whole earth emerges as one city on its way to ruin. We find in chapter 24, the wasted city is broken down in verse 10. Desolation is left in the city, verse 12. You have made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin. 25 verse 2. For he has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. 26, 5. And for this fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness. 2710 This is very similar to what we're told in Revelations 18, 9 through 11, where it says, the kings of the earth who committed fornication and lived luxuriously with her will weep and lament for her when they see the smoke of her burning, standing at a distance for fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city, Babylon, that mighty city For in one hour your judgment has come, and the merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise anymore. What God tells us is very disturbing to the earthly city. It doesn't matter how well they get along, it doesn't matter how well they fix the carbon emissions problem. It doesn't matter what they do with the problem of wealth redistribution. This city is headed for a brutal end. The Stephen Hawking of the world can tell us all day long about what needs done to fix this planet, but they're trying to stop the ocean or to empty the ocean with a bucket. What God has in mind cannot and will not be stopped. It will not. Global warming is not nearly as big a problem as the global warmer is. And aside here, I'm not trying to make a point that solutions to society's problems shouldn't be attempted. Christians in government should do what's in the best interest for those that they serve. And we should all love our neighbors as we love ourselves, according to Jesus, so we don't needlessly do anything that causes somebody else to suffer. But the point the Bible makes is in that what I'm trying to make is that while the problem of the earthly city is people, people are not the answer to the problem. God has a day marked on his calendar when planet Earth Part 1 is rolled aside and part two begins, and it will be free of sin. And while that's all going on, there are people in this earth with a different hope, a different confidence, a different expectation. And they say, we have a strong city. He sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks. A different idea of the city. Isaiah 26, 1. This is a quote from a commentary, and it's it's extremely good. Two cities, two destinies, and two songs can be heard rising from these cities. The city of man is a place of drunken revelry, falling silent under the judgment of God. 24, 7 through 11, while the city of God will sing on forever about one who is strong for the weak and compassionate toward the needy. 26, 1 through 21. But the dominant figure through the landscape of these chapters is God Himself, judging and saving. God is the reason why the city of man cannot endure and why the city of God cannot fall. And God will have the final word in both overwhelming woe and overwhelming joy. That is the vision of Isaiah 24, chapters 24 through 27. I've got an outline if anybody wants it, but it's pretty lengthy. So I'm going to skip it here, but if you want it, I'll be happy to get it to you. Probably the key verse in chapter 4 is verse 10, where it says, The city of confusion is broken down, every house is shut up, so that none may go in. This verse is very interesting. It says, the city of confusion, the earthly city, is broken down. The word for confusion here is very revealing Remember how in Genesis 1-2 the city was or the earth was said to be without form? You know, the earth was without form. That's the same word used here Now the city is without form. The earth was a lump of clay without meaning until the potter worked it. The city is likewise a social construct designed by human beings without any meaning more than getting up the next morning and doing the same thing again and again and again. It has no meaning greater than that. Neither the earth nor man's cities are anything of value apart from God. Both have great potential in God's hands, but no value apart from them. The end result of the earthly city is that it will be broken down. Now, what is this city? The city of man is where we live when we refuse the divine order for our lives. And jury rig our own values and definitions and boundaries. That's a quote. I told uh Carla as I was studying this that it might just be better if I were to read Mr. Ortland's whole study word for word on this particular passage, because it's so good. Here's some more. The Bible speaks of the fleeting pleasures of sin, Hebrews 11, 25, as opposed to the pleasures forevermore at God's right hand. Psalm 16, 11. Which pleasures are you living for? And which pleasures are you letting go of? That tells you which city you are living for. The rollick in good times in the city of man will sometime someday be replaced by an ominous silence the world over Isaiah 24, 7. Instead of the streets full of partying people going from house to house for more drinks like the Mardi Gras, the second line of verse 10 says that every house will be shut up People will be terrified as society breaks down and they will shut each other out. Why? And this is a great quote. The mythology of human pride always leads to The reality of human desolation. The mythology of human pride always leads to the reality of human desolation. How could it be otherwise? After all, what is God driving at in all of history? The open display of his glory before wholehearted worshipers. That is salvation. That is heaven. Think about it. When will he what will heaven and hell have in common? What they'll have in common is that everyone in heaven and everyone in hell will be honoring God. The people in heaven will be a tribute to his grace. The people in hell will bear witness to his justice. But everyone will bring honor to God. What then is the difference between heaven and hell? The difference is the people in heaven will be delighting in God's glory And people in hell will be raging and shrieking hatred of God's glory. The way we will experience God forever will come out of our own hearts. This is why the most urgent business before us every day is not amassing pleasures in this world, but satisfying our hearts with the pleasures in the glory of God. That is what our lives are for. That's the end of the quote. Chapter 24 is telling us God's intention for our world. And again, I don't know how to impress this on our minds enough. I don't know how to impress this on my mind enough. It's either true or And all the opponents will one day have to do business with this fact, or it's false, and we'll be seen as the absolute fools of the universe. There is no middle ground. There is no way to reconcile this view with its opposite. I watched a link on Facebook this week with clips taken before the election. Of twenty liberally minded people proclaiming with absolute certainty that Donald Trump would never be the next president of the United States. And my point is not to say that's a good thing or a bad thing, but it's only to say that believing something to be true and confidently proclaiming something is true doesn't make it true. These people believed the lie and believing it didn't make it true. The same is true of what God says. Lots of people proclaim with great certainty and great confidence they are just as assured as they could possibly be that there is no God. Or that God is one thing or another. And they've got lots of followers, but their certainty does nothing to assure the final outcome. It's either true or it's not. And we do a lot more constructive use of our time to determine for ourselves is it true or not, than to find out how many people agree with us. Its truth does not rely upon the beliefs of people or the popularity of that particular belief. It is true or it is not. The Bible says that our earth is headed for destruction. The earthly city is headed for destruction, and it's not at their own hands, as many of our honored humanistic prophets are proclaiming. But at the hands of a very true and a very angry God. We can try to sugarcoat this. We can try to beat our around the bush with it. We can try to focus on the positive. But this is the truth and it cannot be changed. The earthly city is doomed according to God, and those who love it are destined to its stained destruction. Isaiah 24, 1. We'll start into the passage now. uh just for your relief, I'm more than halfway through. So um Behold the Lord makes the earthly inhabit the earth empty and makes its waste, distorts its surface, and scatters abroad its inhabitants. God's going to do this one day. He's going to do exactly what he says. Verse 2 tells us that the status of the individuals in that particular location will make no difference. This is going to happen to all inhabitants. 436, it says, the earth mourns and fades away. The world languishes and fades away. The haughty people of the earth languish. The earth is also defiled under its inhabitants because they've transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant. Therefore, the curse has devoured the earth, and those who dwell in it are desolate. Therefore, the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few are left. Why does this fate fall upon these people? Why is God going to destroy the city? Because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant. This is so simple God has spoken. He has verbalized what he expects. He did the wonderful thing of giving us his word , his Bible. He's verbalized it, and we've all proven with our lives that we prefer something else. We've all gone astray. We've all followed our hearts instead of God's word. We've all missed the mark. There is none of us who haven't done so. I mean, our conversations with each other, that's one thing we always have an agreement on. Yeah, we've screwed up. We have not lived the way that God has said. So all of us deserve the same fate of the earthly city inhabitants. It's not like we deserve something different. So what is the difference then? What is the difference between those who are rewarded and those who are destroyed? Well, we don't see much in this passage, but we see it in the rest of Scripture. The difference between those who are rewarded and those who are punished is not primarily about track record. It's about who they trust to save them. The earthly city trusts in its own resources. It trusts itself for its own solutions. It trusts in its own goodness, its own cleverness, its own hard work. It thinks to earn its salvation somehow. The salvation of the heavenly city comes from faith in God. These people don't think they're morally superior to the earthly city inhabitants. They know in many cases they are not. They don't trust that their record of behavior is better than their counterparts. They know it very well may not be. They might not be kinder or gentler or more caring. No, what they understand is that there's no way they can win God's favor. They have understood God to the place where they know they cannot win his favor It cannot be done. They have nothing to commend themselves with. They come to Christ with only their need. It's all they've got. And they count only upon what Christ did to save them. They understand that they're forgiven only because Christ experienced the wrath of God in their place. The sin they could not pay for, Christ paid for. And now these people have become addicted to the grace of God. They see the value of this grace and they understand its worth. And are giving up everything just to remain in it. And they know that even as they live, they will never do God justice. They will fail, they will fall, and they'll get up, and they'll fall again. But they will never again count On anything that they can produce to save themselves. They know that their salvation is all of God. If you're here and this kind of forgiveness and acceptance appeals to you Simply call out to God. Bring him your need, that is all you have to bring. And trust in what Christ has done to save you. That is pure Christianity 101, no matter what you may have seen. That is what it is. As we read through our passage, we notice things that we often see in this life. Isaiah 24, 7 and 8. The new wine fails, the vine languishes, all the merry-hearted sigh. The mirth of the tambourine ceases, the noise of the jubilant ends, the joy of the heart ceases. This often happens even in this life. All is going well and then uh then a diagnosis of cancer comes, or a relationship we depend upon fails, or we lose someone we love. The earthly city is never very good at delivering mirth consistently. But what Isaiah describes will be the end of mirth for the earthly city forever. And then 14 through 16, they shall lift up their voice, they shall sing, for the majesty of the Lord they shall cry aloud from the sea. Therefore, glorify the Lord in the dawning light, the name of the Lord God of Israel in the coastlands of the sea. From the ends of the earth we have heard songs. Glory to the righteous. Look at this. What we see being done to this earth is horrible. But what there are always those who see things from a higher perspective. They believe what God says, and they're aware of who God is, and they know that he is worthy of obedience. He's tired of the dishonor of his creation in rebellion. So the inhabitants of the heavenly city understand This had to happen. The end of the earthly city had to happen. The rebellion had to end. And it's a wonderful day to them when the last of the rebels is silenced, when the rebellion is over. I think of of it in terms of like um the picture when the Death Star gets destroyed, you know, in the in Star Wars, if you've ever seen the movie. You know, it's such a huge thing. It had to happen for anything good to happen going forward. Well, that's how it is. God deserves to be glorified. He deserves to be honored properly. And he will be. He will get what he deserves. Then Isaiah 24, 19 through 22, the earth is violently broken, the earth is split open, the earth is shaken exceedingly. The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall totter like a hut. Its transgression shall be heavy upon it, and it will fall and not rise again It shall come to pass in that day that the Lord will punish on high the host of exalted ones. He's talking about angels, angelic beings And on the earth the kings of the earth. They will be gathered together as prisoners are gathered in the pit and will be shut up in the prison, and after many days they will be punished. Remember the question that we've asked several times, if God is good, how can he allow so much evil? Well, here we see the end of it. This is how good God is. He will wipe out every source of atrocity. There will be none of that, none of that influence, none of that source for time eternal. He will wipe out all corruption in government. He'll end every source of suffering. But with it will go every person who is not invested in his city. Every person who has rejected his offer of salvation. There is a degree to which Christians see global climate change as something that's irrelevant. Why? Why work so hard to change something that will make no difference? It doesn't matter how many efforts we make, this end described in Isaiah is going to happen and it has to happen, and we won't be the cause. Our irresponsibility will not be the cause, our sin will be the cause. Our rebellion against God will be the cause. The problem isn't fossil fuel emissions, it's soil emissions. This is God actively judging the inhabitants of the earth. They are not victims of coincidental natural disasters. They are being punished by the active action of a living God. So, what is the end of all this? What is all the end of this terror that we speak of? What is God's end game? Isaiah 24, 23. Then the moon will be disgraced and the sun ashamed, for the Lord of hosts will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before his elders gloriously. This is the end game. God will have all his children with him in his city. All the threats to his people and his city will be ended for eternity. Those who do not like God or the things that God does will be removed. Those who think the options of sin should be left open will be finished. Only those who have learned to trust God will remain. All suffering will end there, since there are no longer any people left who would welcome sin and suffering into the kingdom, into the city. All of these people with God for eternity will have been inoculated with the sin disease in such a way that they will no longer be susceptible to the disease. or the desire of it. They will hate sin, especially their own sin and anything that goes along with sin. And here Christ will reign in all of his glory. His brightness will be so great that the sun and the moon will be embarrassed. His light will so outshine theirs that if they were people, they would be ashamed. That's the picture that's painted for us. That is the glory, the absolute brilliance of the glory of Christ. And the Lord of hosts will reign. He will have absolute and total dictatorship type authority, and all of his people will be so very glad for it. They'll welcome it, they'll worship him, and they will reap the wonderful result. that comes from his loving intentions toward his children in his city. Lord, we thank you for giving us an insight into the future, an insight into your intentions, an insight into your heart. We thank you, Lord, that you have chosen for yourself a people. Lord, we thank you for the opportunity that you present to us day after day to call upon your grace, to throw ourselves at your mercy, and to know that you will grant it, because you're a merciful God and a loving God. And that you have sent your son so that we can have an opportunity to have our sin forgiven and for us to to find that place a way into your city for eternity. We ask that you would help us to See ourselves as we are. We ask that you would help us to see how important that city is as compared to the pressing things that we have in our lives day to day. And that we would prioritize the eternal above the temporary, not in a way that we feel sacrificial, but in a way that we just understand what a smart investment looks like. And that we would have faith and trust in you in such a way that it converts the hours and the days and the money and everything about us into that which will last forever. We thank you and we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.