I really like how John MacArthur titles this passage. He calls it the pathology of a religious hypocrite. The pathology of a religious hypocrite. He makes several observations about these hypocrites from the passage. First thing he says is they make awkward alliances against the truth. Second, they will say anything to gain their ground. And the third, they falsely pretend to pursue truth. Let's take a look at a parable passage where our parallel passage where this story is also told, and it gives us a few more of the facts. We'll just look at those few more facts in Luke 20. 20 through 26 is where the story is. And in verse 20 it says, So they watched him and sent spies who pretended to be righteous. They sent spies who pretended to be righteous. So Luke tells us that this was part of an ongoing process. They tended now to always have spies in the crowd, and in this particular case, the spies were sent with a task. And they were sent pretending something that wasn't true. They knew before they went that this was going to be an act that they were going to put on. Then he goes on, that they might seize on his words in order to deliver him to the power and the authority of the governor. Luke tells us what the intent of the deception really was. He gives us greater insight in that. The religious leaders actually had to accomplish a whole lot in a short deal of time. They had to sway common opinion of Jesus on the man in the street. They had to change his opinion to a a less favorable one. And they had to come up with a reason other than some religious reason for the Roman government to want to kill Christ The Romans are not going to crucify Christ for blasphemy. The leaders need to come up with an accusation of some kind of insurrection. So these questions were designed to accomplish the delivery of Christ to the Roman authorities with a Roman charge against him. And there's one more thing that Luke tells us that Mark does not. In verse 21, then they asked him, saying, Teacher, we know that what you say, we know that you say and teach rightly. Teacher, we know that you say say and teach rightly. Okay, here's the religious big shots who were trying to kill them. They walk up and they say that. Look at the flattery here We know that you say and teach rightly. They didn't believe anything of the kind. They thought Jesus was just like them, probably. That's what we usually do. We usually initially expect others to have the same motives for doing what they do as what we would have if we were doing what they were doing. Of course, we're often wrong. People surprise us. They're often evil different than we are. But if you watch what you suspect of others, You often learn a whole lot about yourself. Anyway, we see more flattery. Then the rest of Luke's narrative is similar to Mark's, so we're going to jump to that. Verse 13 begins our text. Then they sent to him some of the Pharisees and Herodians to catch him in his words. Imagine this in in a scenario today. This might help us to to get the picture of what was going on. Imagine a third-party presidential candidate running for office that has a real threat of winning. There is none, but imagine that. Our story this morning would be similar to Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton being sent together to trip up this other presidential candidate What we have here in our story are very, very strange bedfellows. Politically, we could line up the Jewish political continuum like this. This is the side that loves Rome. This is the side that hates Rome's guts. On this side you have the Herodians. Clear at the end And then somewhere three-quarter or maybe a little farther, you've got the Pharisees toward the site of Hate Rome And then if you go clearly the other end of that spectrum, you'd have the zealots who hate Rome and want to kill them and do when they get the chance. Well That's how it pretty much lined up. The Pharisees would have hated the Herodians. Because the Herodians backed Herod Antipas, the guy who killed John the Baptist. They loved the Romans. They were very secular. They would be the most politically and spiritually liberal. They would have hated the Pharisees and what they stood for on any given day. The Herodians would have hated the Pharisees. The Pharisees would have hated the Herodians. Rome was a continual reminder to the Pharisees that the Jewish nation was not what it should be. Roman rule struck deeply at their national pride and their spiritual sensitivities. They wanted rid of Rome, and the sooner the better, and they were counting on the Messiah to do it. Of course, now, while walking that tightrope, you're not going to hear the Pharisees say much publicly, and they certainly aren't going to do anything that would jeopardize their own personal safety and profit. So they'll try to remain in the middle and pretend to be things that they are not. They live by pretending When with the common man, when they were hanging out with people like us, they would pretend to be against the government. And they'll pretend to be for the government when they're with the the Roman leaders They're skilled in the art of hypocrisy. That's what they practice, it's what they're good at. Now the zealots, on the other hand, you know, we've got the Herodians on one hand, if we took the zealots on the other hand, they would be they would tend to be radical purists. You would not have sent a Herodian with a zealot to do this deed, because the Herodian would never be seen again. That's what they were good at, the zealots. So here we see the Herodians and the Pharisees in cahoots. Nothing brings people together quicker than a common enemy. And this is what we have here. The fact that they are together, just that fact alone, in this quest would immediately alert anyone who was sharp. That there is something going on here that is very evil. These guys would not be the type to go to a truth-finding conference together. And what was their intent? Well, Mark tells us, to catch, to trap. This word appears only here in the New Testament, and it refers to a hunter capturing an animal or a fisherman catching a fish. There's nothing sincere in the motives of these big shots. They only intend one thing to Christ: harm. We should note here that very good questions can be asked with very evil intents. The question wasn't evil. The intent of the question was evil. A true follower could have asked that very same question as was asked in our text with a pure motive. It's a good question. It would have been fine. So the quality of the question does not prove anything about the sincerity of the one asking the question. We don't need to be overly impressed by those who ask spiritual questions. But we can know that it's a miracle if they respond to real answers to their questions. So these guys are asking very good questions for very bad reasons. Then verse 14. When they had come, they said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and care about no one. For you do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Look at this. These guys have it pegged perfectly. Everything they are saying is absolutely true. But they don't believe a word of it. Oddly enough, there are probably true followers of Christ at this point who didn't even understand all these things about Christ. There are probably true followers of Christ who may have voiced some doubts about some of these points or not known or didn't understand. But these false followers got every point of doctrine right in this statement. And again, we need to note something here. Charlatans often have very good doctrine. Even when they're fleecing the flock, they may talk grandly and correctly about the character of God. Proper doctrine does not always mean proper motives. Paul told Timothy to watch his life and his doctrine. closely in the same sentence. Watch your life and your doctrine closely. Not just your doctrine, but your life and your doctrine. And we too need to do the same thing We can easily speak the truth but live a lie. We can talk truthfully about God, but live deceptively and selfishly. And as we see in this instance, all the truth they said did not do them any good whatsoever, because in their heart of hearts they didn't believe a word of it. They were not going to orient toward the statements, the hypocritical statements that have just come out of their mouth. Notice too that they are attributing everything to Christ that they themselves were not. In fact They were there because they were not those things. Why did they come to catch Christ? Well, first is they were false. Instead of being true, They were false. They were pretending to be righteous, like Luke says. Second is they were afraid of the crowds. That's why they were there. The very opposite of not regarding the person of man The third is that they taught the traditions of men, not the way of God in truth, which they they say that Jesus is teaching, the way of God in truth. And so they came to flatter Christ. Why use flattery? Why use flattery? I like what John MacArthur says here, too. He says, first, they were pretending to identify with the people who, for the most part, did believe that Jesus taught the truth. The religious leaders wanted to convince the people that they too were legitimate truth seekers. The second, and more important, they wanted to inflate the Lord's pride. hoping that would keep him from dodging the question they were about to ask him. In other words, they were setting him up. They were buttering him up so he would say he would be foolish the next thing that he says Flattery is insincere or excessive praise. That's the dictionary definition of it. It's insincere or excessive praise. Now we could pray these same things that these leaders said to Christ and be perfectly sincere. Then it would not be flattery. The flattery the Bible condemns is the kind that seeks to gain an advantage over a person or God by extolling their virtues or their supposed virtues. Let's take a couple of look uh look at a couple of verses about flattery in Scripture. Uh Psalms 5, 8 and 9. Psalms 5, 8 and 9. Lead me, O Lord, in your righteousness because of my enemies. Make your way straight before my face, for there is no faithfulness in my enemy's mouth. Their inward part is destruction, their throat is an open tomb, they flatter with the tongue So David's enemies were saying good things about David to his face , wonderful things, but they were only doing it to gain an advantage to accomplish what it was that was really in their heart, which was to destroy him. Then Psalm 78, 34 through 37, it says, when he slew them, when God actually slew them, then they sought him. And that out goes. And they returned and sought earnestly for God. This is talking about the Israelite people. Then they remembered that God was their rock and the Most High God their Redeemer. Nevertheless, they flattered God with their mouth, and they lied to him with their tongue, for their heart was not steadfast with him, nor were they faithful in his covenant. Here again we see that the thing that makes flattery flattery is its insincerity. What they say is even true. What these Israelite worshippers were saying to God was true, but they didn't believe it. Their heart was not in it. They were not committed to that. They did not orient their lives around that truth. Flattery is not saying truthful positive things to a person in and of itself. Uh from time to time I might think about some trait in Carla that I'm thankful for and eventually I might even tell her about it. And when I do I usually get that look that's what do you want? Her flattery meter must be set on a very low setting. But anyway, flattery is not simply telling a truth that is positive to a person. Flattery is telling it in an effort to gain some advantage. It has another motive other than just dispelling truth. It usually involves some form of manipulation, trying to get something you could not get through legitimate means, through honest means. Do you want a good test to find out if what you do is flattery? Ask yourself, what result will you be disappointed with if you don't get it? And that pretty well tells you why you're saying what you're saying. This will help you to know what you're trying to accomplish, and that'll help you to know if what you're telling is simple truth, because when you tell simple truth, simply telling it is enough. Or you're trying to get something. As Christians, we should not flatter. And we should not allow our pride to be seduced by flattery. It'll only lead to sin. I wonder sometimes if the positiveness of social media isn't very dangerous due to its tendency toward flattery. Anyone using it to tell the truth and nothing but the truth on that venue is going to be thought of as the worst person and the most tactless person's ever been born. No one's ever going to be doing real business with us as a person in that venue. And that's not to say that it's it, you know, it it doesn't have its place. But it's very dangerous in that it is very flattering. Okay, so the the players are all in place. The facade has been carefully laid out. Now what's the trap? Here it comes. In what a might appear to be a real truth seeker's question. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? Pretty simple question. Now based on the question we know which law these guys are talking about. When they say is it lawful, they're not talking about does does the Roman government say we can pay taxes? That's not even a question. They're talking about the law of God. There are a couple of things you can't tell about this text without looking at the Greek words. The first, the word to pay is most commonly translated to give. To give. That's how the King James Version translates it, and I think it's a better translation. It insinuates something that is yours that you can do with as you please. In every instance of the word in this sentence , It's trans uh the word translated pay is the word to give. So when we read it with that word, we get a different slant. Is it lawful to give taxes or is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not? Shall we give or shall we not give? You see the slant already that is put even in the question. The other thing we don't get is the specific word used for taxes. The word refers to a specific tax, and it was the one that the Jews hated the most. It was a tax for simply existing. It was a poll tax. It was a tax assigned to everyone who showed up on the census. It's a tax that you had because breath was coming out of your lungs. Jewish people resented it so much because it wasn't based on any benefit that they got from the civil authority. In a sales or income tax, you pay for a privilege you're gaining by being under the civil authority. You get something and you pay a little to the government for the privilege of that transaction. But this tax made Jews feel as if Romans thought they owned them. And that was odious to them. Incidentally, the Obamacare tax is similar to this kind of tax. It's the only tax we owe because we breathe. And that might help us to understand a little more why the Jewish people would have disliked this tax so much. The poll cost a denarius per year. So basically this tax was a day's wages once a year This tax led later to a revolt. Judas of Galilee led a revolt in AD 66 that led to the destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70. It was based on this same concern, the question of paying tribute to Rome. That's what incited this movement. The question Jesus was asked is very much a political one. It is designed to either get Jesus in trouble with the civil government or to make him appear to be compromising in his love for God and for his people. Judas, not the Judas of the Bible, or of the disciple, this Judas who led the later revolt called his fellow countrymen cowards. For being willing to pay tribute to the Romans and for putting up with those mortal masters in place of God, he calls it. Josephus tells us this. He also says that the Jews have an unconquerable love of freedom since they have accepted God as their only leader and master. That's how Josephus described the people's mindset. The point Judas of Galilee made, and the common mindset of the people of this time, is that a Jew cannot be a true Jew and be submissive to both God and to Rome. True worship of God would require rebellion against Rome. That would have been the mindset. So we can see how charged this question was. Jesus was not required to pay this Roman tax because he was not from the territory that was under Roman rule, Roman direct rule. He was from Galilee. Judeans were subject to the tax, but Galileans were not. This question was designed to hurt Jesus no matter how he answered it. If he answered, pay the tax. The sentiments of the common Jewish people would be outraged. Jesus would be seen as a compromiser to the common man, a sellout to the Romans, and he would fall out of favor with the common man. That that would be one of the goals that these leaders wanted, so that would have worked. They win if he says yes, they win if he says no. If he answered, don't pay the tax. Then the leaders could have a reason to hand Christ over to the Roman authorities. They would show he was inciting the people to revolt. And that's something that the Romans would not have put up with. Jesus is in a spot similar to a man being asked the question, have you stopped beating your beating your wife yet? I mean that's an awkward question to answer. The assumptions of the question and the motives of the questioner need dealt with before you can begin to answer the question itself Then he goes on, but he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius that I may see it. Now, at this point in time, no law-abiding Jew was supposed to have a Roman coinage on their person They're going into the Passover season. This is not a time that you have anything from Rome on your person. Along with this, this coin was often regarded as an idol that should be avoided. The coin would have an image of Tiberius Caesar, who since he was the adopted son of the deified Emperor Augustus, was the son of a so-called god. So you've got a a picture with an inscription that essentially says that this person is a son of God The Jews considered those coins to be miniature idols, and many considered carrying them to be a violation of the second commandment prohibiting idolatry. So, Jesus wants to see one. They're probably licking their lips now, thinking that Christ was falling into their trap. They probably had no idea how they were falling into his trap. So they're probably quick to produce one of these coins among themselves, maybe not thinking, maybe not realizing. Verse 16, so they brought it. And he said to them, Whose image and inscription is on this? And they said to him, Caesar's. First off, the fact they had one in their pockets pretty much shows that they're part of the Roman financial system and that they're embedded in it. They weren't too proud to take one of Rome's coins when it profited them now, were they? They were perfectly content to buy and sell in this system provided by the Roman law. So the fact they had the coin immediately proved their insincerity Had they truly been convicted that Roman rule was evil in all of its forms, they would have used the copper coins that were minted with no one's image on it. Then Jesus looked at the coin and asked whose image and inscription was on the coin? And they knew because it was their coin. They said Caesar. Now, how would that get there? Did the Jews put it there? Did they take out their own silver and carve Caesar's image on it? Of course not. That silver started as being somebody else's. It was Rome 's silver. Verse 17, and Jesus answered and said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. Now remember the question from the leaders. Should we give tribute? Should we take what is ours that we can do with what we want and give this to Rome of our own free will? Jesus chooses a different word. He chooses the word render. Render. Render means to pay or give back, implying a debt. It carries the idea of obligation and responsibility for something that is not optional By asking for a Roman coin, Jesus proves the motives of the questioners to be impure. By commanding that people render back Caesar's stuff, he proves the assumptions held in the question to be untrue. The assumption is that God's people should only submit to a government that is going by God's law. In other words, if the Jews are not ruling themselves, if some foreign country is ruling them, They are violating God's laws by submitting to the governing power. Jesus destroys that logic. Jesus is endorsing the right of civil government to charge for their services and to demand that that charge is paid. When the civil government provides their services, those services come with a duty to those who are being served. And it's our duty to pay what's required of us. Now, this isn't addressing the exceptions that come when governments require something of us that is sinful. And in our case, it's it's another question about how that government ought to run. But in normal circumstances, citizens are to pay for the services of civil government, and they are to submit to that ruling government. Both Paul and Peter explain this in their epistles, and they go into great depth about it. Verse Romans 13, 1 through 7, that we studied not too long ago. Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities, for there's no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. And this is coming from an application from what Jesus said here. And those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what's good, and you'll have praise from the same. For he is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. Therefore you must be subject, not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For because of you because of this you also pay taxes. This is the application extending from what Jesus says. For they are God's ministers attending continually to this very thing. Basically, you owe tax because they are working for you. Render therefore to all their due taxes to whom taxes are due, customs to whom customs, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. And then 1 Timothy 2, 1 through 4. Therefore I exert first of all that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. for kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and reverence. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour, who desires all men to be saved. and come to the knowledge of the truth. And then first Peter two, thirteen through seventeen. Therefore submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to the king as supreme or to governors as to those who are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of those who do good. But this is the will of God that by doing good you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. As free, yet not using liberty as a cloak for vice, but as bondservants of God. Honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. Now, it is much easier for us than for Jesus' audience to understand these truths As Christians, we know that we've got to follow what Christ said about our governing authorities and we've got more applications after that. It's interesting how the people responded in our text. It says they marveled at Christ. Here was a man who could not be trapped. Here was a man who knew God's will perfectly about everything, and he could get to it right away. Here's a man who could not be fooled. He he is he was absolutely amazing. And what would the onlookers do in their amazement? Well, they'd soon be yelling for him to be crucified I think one more application from our text this morning is that we should be very careful to consider what we expect from fellow Christians. The people in the crowd had some simple expectations. They would have regarded them as common sense. They would have regarded them as biblical. They would have regarded them as patriotic, even nationalistic. In this case, the expectation was that a lover of God should not submit to a worldly government. And they could have gone to a lot of biblical texts and come up with that and made it sound like a very, very good theology. And they would probably have regarded it simply as true. And they would have evaluated so-called followers of God accordingly. Suppose somebody said, some Christian or some leader, some spiritual leader they were following said to them, you need to pay that tax. They probably would have immediately pegged that guy as as a bad guy, as a guy that doesn't love God, as a guy that has no clue about w what they're supposed to do. Most everybody probably believed that theory, and what they all had in common is that they were all wrong. God's law and his will were not as simple as they wanted to make it It was different than how they would have preferred it, and it was different than how they would have understood it. What expectations do we have of followers of God? that are simple, might even seem common sense, that we just assume but we're wrong about. What behavior do we see and say that is not Christian behavior? That is not behavior a Christian should do. The question is, are we sure? Do we really know? Have we considered it? It's important that we get this kind of stuff right. We don't want to make the mistake the crowd was in danger of. We don't want to reject Christ or his followers because they obey God in a manner different than what we expect or understand. Sometimes the issues aren't as simple or as clear-cut as we'd like to think or like to make them. So a lot of times what it requires is a good old honest conversation in love with those people that we're dealing with Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your wisdom as displayed in this In this passage. We thank you that The truth of the matter is what you represent We thank you that you are not tricky with us. We thank you that you are not deceptive to us. But that you reveal to us the truth. We don't always like it, but we're thankful that we know where to go to get it. We ask that you would help us to love it. To love you and to love your truth. We ask that you would help us to deal with your truth about our lives in the manner that's worthy of you. that we would submit to your truth about us and allow that truth to change us instead of resisting it And finagling around it and trying to find a way out of the the true response we should have. Pierce our hearts, Lord, with our our own wickedness, our own wiggling, our own ways of avoiding your truth in our lives. And Lord, help us to be very Accurate biblically as we deal with others about their lives. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.