As I was uh listening to the text being read, I was hoping that you all don't go home every Sunday saying this is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? We're continuing in the seventh week, I think, in the chapter in chapter six of John We spent all this time because Jesus had so much to say in this chapter, and after feeding the 5,000 and walking on the water, he was talking. And I believe that the Holy Spirit has led us in our study in this chapter because it's so important for us to make this a big part. Of our worldview. Jesus is teaching us how to think about life. And it's entirely too easy to think that we can appeal to people's fleshly motives and end up with spiritual changes. Jesus in our text this morning summarizes his position on this. And I think it's vital for us In verse 60, we start with this. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? Now, in prior verses in chapter 6, we saw in verse 41. So the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. And in John 6. 52, the Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So this is basically how it's going. Jesus is laying out the truth, and he's doing it in metaphors that he knows. are gonna make people really uncomfortable. He's choosing to communicate these truths in ways that are intentionally offensive Jesus is putting into a cannibalistic, blood-drinking, body-eating imagery these things he's saying. And people are being offended, and people are being confused. And they grumble about Jesus about what he's what he's saying. And then then those who have already professed some kind of loyalty and enthusiasm about their political Jesus You know, what they're hoping Jesus will perform, they start arguing among themselves about what Jesus is really talking about. And you can just imagine how those conversations went. Well, this morning his uncommitted, unspiritually changed disciples have had enough. They start saying that Jesus is going too far. That's too much. This is not what we signed up for. Now, we need to understand that the word disciple here refers generically to those who are dedicated to following Jesus. And their following Jesus may be motivated by all the wrong reasons or the right reasons. So we shouldn't confuse this with the true disciples of Jesus who follow Jesus for the right reason, because of a change that happens supernaturally in them. And Jesus is going to clarify the difference in the two kinds of disciples in a few minutes. But right now, these wrong-motivated followers of Christ have hit their limit at what they could put up with Christ. Now I think we'll gain a better understanding of the dynamic here if we use our imaginations for just a little bit. Imagine that someone with a business background or maybe a marketing background or a political background is in this crowd and listening to Jesus. And he sees what's going on, and he gets Jesus alone and sincerely wants to help Jesus. And he starts like this: You know, Jesus, these people have good hearts. They really want to follow you. You know, that's why they're here. Oh, they have some wrong expectations, sure. But you have a base of builders, of people here you could build on. Think of all the people that these people could reach with your message. Let me help you, Jesus. You need to pick different imagery. You've got to quit talking about Drinking flesh and eating blood. You gotta change. Pick something else. You need to soften your words a little bit. You know, why use these imageries when you could use the shepherding imagery Instead, it would be so much less offensive. It might encourage your followers to gradually change what they expect from your kingdom. And Jesus, you need to say these things in a way it's easier to understand. Tell them that the change you really want in them is for them to believe in you in such a way that they have deep communion with you all the time. Focus on that. Surely, if they understand what you're saying more clearly, they'd be more likely to come around to your way of thinking. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine this advice coming from you? I can envision me wanting to help Christ if I were sitting in that crowd and watching how everyone's responded so negatively. What's interesting is that if you read books on how to build a church or how to grow a church, you're going to find a lot of the same kind of advice that I was just giving. If we can envision this temptation to cater to the crowd for the greater good, it will provide, I think, a better understanding of how profound it is what Christ says. In our text, Jesus continues, verse 61. But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to him, Do you take offense at this? Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? Now Jesus had an advantage. Jesus knew the hearts of people, although I'm not sure that would always be a pleasant thing. He knew those things. He could look at each individual in his crowd and he knew where their hearts were. He knew if the spiritual light was on or off. He knew their motives. We don't And it's supposed to be that way. Even when we are sure of what another person's motives are, we aren't sure. Sometimes we just project our motives onto them And what motives we would have if we were doing that thing. And then we tell on ourselves sometimes more than we wish that we would. We don't know. But Jesus does. You and I need to ask questions to find out this kind of thing. And I wish I always did that. Now the text says, grumbling about this. What is this? They're grumbling about this. What is this? Is it the heart of what he is saying that they actually understand and they don't like? Is it taking what he is saying literally that they don't like? Or is it simply the imagery that he's using that they find so offensive that they can't listen to it any longer? I think it's a mixture of all three of those things in all of the people there. It was a conglomerate of dissatisfaction for a number of reasons. Christ is clearly saying he didn't come to earth to be the Jews' gravy train. He didn't come to be their gravy train. What he came for was a type of spiritual salvation. A spiritual transformation where everyone has to come to Christ and commune with Him in such a way that they gain that which they most deeply need from Him. Their bread, their water. And they must live in that relationship in such a way that they continually keep coming back to Christ for those things. That's the kind of Messiah that Christ came to be. A true and eternal Messiah. Well that may have had a light philosophical appeal to these folks. Yeah, you know, that's a nice idea. I like the idea of that, but that's not what their souls really wanted. It didn't serve as the idol that they wanted to worship. Jesus wasn't dealing up the things that their souls really wanted to grasp onto. So Jesus says, you think this is bad? You're offended at what I just said. Well, if you're offended at that one little thing, just imagine what would happen if you get the full fixture all at once and what I really came to do. What it really came to be and what I really called you to. Many of the scholars explained something I wouldn't have guessed about the passage. And they say it's about the words that are used uh uh in ascending, that what what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? Now I immediately jump to that he's talking about his final ascension. And for sure that that's at least true. The scholars say that this is probably talking about more than Christ's ascension to heaven. Christ is probably talking about the process that leads to his ascension as well. First, Christ will be lifted up like the snake on the pole in the wilderness, where anyone who looked upon that pole was saved. That's Christ's first stage of ascension. Lifted up in a way no one wants to be lifted up. And it was there that Christ took upon himself our sin. That was his saving act, like all the sheep in the Old Testament that were sacrificed. This is all part of his ascension. His being lifted up. And then Christ ascends into heaven, where Christ was, where he lived, where he dwelt before his visit to earth. The God man goes home. Basically, Christ was saying, if me calling you into spiritual communion with me because of your great need and my ability to meet it If that's offensive to you, well the rest of this story is going to put you over the edge I am that God man, and I'm the only way that you can be right with God. And I'm going to call everyone who follows me into a life where they will share in my experience. They're going to need to die to themselves and live to Christ and be willing to give up their life to have me. They'll need to walk in a crucifixion of themselves that comes easily to no one. They must die to their sins and their own fleshly desires. If Christ's introduction blew their minds, seeing the whole story is going to get them running in the opposite direction. I think that's the gist of our text. I think that's what Christ is saying right here. Then Christ says what I believe interprets everything he has been saying during this whole text. I think 63 is the core of this whole text. Where he says, it is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. Every one of us as Christians need to understand this. The only church that exists is a church built by the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit. The only Christian that exists is a Christian drawn miraculously and supernaturally to Christ by the Holy Spirit. Everything that happens that's part of a Christian's mission is the result of the work of the Holy Spirit. It can't be created by human methods or strategies. It can't be created with human tools. It's not even inspired originally by human thought, by human capacity. Jesus could look at the crowds and know that nothing he would change about his presentation would change the true outcome of these people 's spiritual status. He could not change his style in any way that would produce a spiritual result in these people. Incorporating any human strategy may increase the numbers of those who attend his meetings But it would not increase the spirituality of those who attended. Human methods may make Christ more liked by those going to hell, but it's not going to change their minds about where they're going. That's the essence of this. Friends, you and I are all about spiritual work. You and I are all about spiritual work. We're all about miracles happening in the lives of people. And not so much the physical body healings, although we're all for that, if it will glorify God and he wants to do it, we like that. And it's wonderful. But our mainstay is to believe and to preach and teach and admonish with God's word and watch the spark, ignite, and change a human heart. Whether that be a person coming to Christ or whether that be a person growing in Christ. That's what we're looking for, that miracle. The Church's primary mission relies completely upon the Holy Spirit's work. This whole chapter has really challenged me to keep an eye out for what I called earlier a practical atheism. That's where we say we believe in God, but we act like we don't expect anything to happen if we can't make it happen. If there's no visible earthly means to fix the mess we see, we we give up hope. We think it's impossible. Practical hateism was what the disciples displayed when Christ asked them how they were going to feed the masses. They're saying, I'm not gonna, because I don't have the resources. I can't see it, I can't buy it, I can't do the stuff I could do to make it happen. No, ain't gonna happen Practical atheism doesn't factor in the supernatural answers to God's to to prayer to God. It doesn't count upon the movement of God. It counts people and resources and it forgets to weigh in what God is able to do. Worry is based practical atheism. It factors our God's provision and our God's wisdom and our God's love in our futures. It factors them right out. It doesn't even take account of those things. Many church growth strategies are based on the same thing. They would work even if God did nothing. If you've got a strategy to grow your church and and it it doesn't require God, it's not God's strategy. The church, our church, every true church, is built upon the work of the Holy Spirit, upon the hearts of people, upon hearing the word of God. Growth in the Christian life is the same. Evangelism is a result of the same. A. W. Pink said some great stuff. He uses words we don't usually use, but it's really good. He says, all fleshly activities amount to nothing, where the regeneration of dead sinners is concerned. Neither the logical arguments advanced by the mind , hypnotic powers brought to bear upon the will, touching appeals made to the emotions. Beautiful music and hearty singing to catch the ear, nor sensuous trappings to draw the eye, none of these are the slightest avail in stirring dead sinners It's not the choir, not the preacher, but the spirit that quickens. And he goes on. What is urgently needed today is not mesmeric experts who have made a study of how to produce a religious atmosphere. Nor religious showmen to make people laugh one minute and weep the next, but faithful preaching of God's Word, with the saints on their faces before God, humbly praying. That ye may be pleased to send his quickening spirit into their midst. That's what we're talking about. Now there's a backside to this truth. If we think we're But what we are attempting requires help or the approval or the resources of the world to accomplish the mission? It is not the primary mission that Christ gave us. If we think we're doing a mission of God, but what we're attempting requires the help or the approval or the resources of the world to accomplish it. It's not the primary mission that Christ gave us. And I'm not saying those things are bad or we shouldn't do them. They may help our society, but I am saying those things are not the church's primary focus. I say this because I find it seducing, even to myself, to join efforts with the world of making our laws reflect our Christian values in our country. I I wish they did. I I wish they would. They're the best they could be. It's easy to confuse those kind of political aims as being our mission As a Christian. It's not. It's a civic opportunity that God has given us in this wonderful democratic republic that God has placed us in. But it is not the Christian's mission. We need to be very careful how we think and how we speak about this. It is the Christian's mission to tell the truth about what Scripture says to our world, to proclaim the truth to our world. It is our mission to proclaim what is good and what is evil to our world. None of that relies upon the world's help. You can do that while they're killing you. It's straightforward. If the Spirit accompanies the word in a person's heart. It will have an effect. If not, it won't. That's how God's mission works. The power we rely upon in the church as God's people is the Spirit's power. And if we hope to change our society by spiritual revival and we work for that and we pray for that, we are wholly within our mission. We are completely reliant upon the Holy Spirit to do that. But when we're trying to pass laws to enforce biblical morality in our civil government, This may be a wonderful thing to do and is a wonderful opportunity that we have, but we are now a step removed from our mission. That's not to say don't do it, but it is to say be careful how you think and how you speak. In our speech, we need to speak clearly about what is of the Spirit and what is not of the Spirit. There is nothing in Scripture that tells us that the Holy Spirit will accompany us with power to change a person's politics without first completely giving the person a spiritual heart transplant. Reason can be an earthly strategy that's highly effective in earthly changes, but it is not spiritual fruit. Reason is wonderful, but it's only spiritual when it carries a spiritual payload. When it's reliant upon the spirit for spiritual changes in the listener. If I reason with a person who has no love for Christ, and I reason with them that they should vote against abortion because Because a portion is evil. I'm not doing a scripturally mandated ministry. I might change a person's mind on how they should vote without the Holy Spirit ever doing a thing Our society may be benefited, but no one has entered Christ's kingdom as a result of that action. Christ's ministry results in eternal changes. But if I appeal to a person that abortion is evil because it destroys the creation of God, created in his image, and we will stand before that God one day. And I appeal to that person to do the one thing that will enable them to stand on that day to receive Christ. That is true, biblically mandated, spirit reliant ministry. Can you see the subtle difference We have to be very careful to draw distinctions between what can be accomplished only by the Spirit and what can be accomplished by worldly means. Our primary ministry can only be accomplished by the Spirit. If we need the world's help in us accomplishing something, we can know that this thing is not our primary mission. He goes on, it is the spirit who gives life. This flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. Our job is to trust in the working of the Holy Spirit in conjunction with speaking the words of Scripture. The Holy Spirit gives life, and the words of Christ are life. They are the substance of the Spirit. This is pure ministry When this is what we are doing, and this is what we are trusting, that's pure ministry. That's primary to our calling When we're trying to accomplish something with others and we can't use Scripture to accomplish our ends and we have no promises of God that what we are doing, God is going to do, we should rethink what we're doing and why we're doing it. We focus continually on the importance of the Word of God in a Christian's life and ministry. So I'll continue. Verse 64. But there are some of you who don't believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe and who it was who would betray him. And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless I granted It is granted him by the Father. Okay, again, Jesus could look at the crowd and he could know. There were no surprises for Christ. But this is important. Look at what Christ says here. This is why I told you. Again, what is the this? It's his last statement. It's the spirit who gives life, the flesh is no help at all. It's because of that that I told you this. And remember that the central message, that this is the central message of John 6. Christ says that the reason I told you that people don't just randomly come to me, they don't just change their mind all by themselves. The reason I told you that human beings can't come to me unless God grants it to them, the reason I told you that It's because you don't get it. It really is true. A human being requires a supernatural miracle, and the flesh just can't accomplish it. They can't. He's telling the crowd, you look around and you think your decisions are deciding the destiny here. You know, Christ is looking at these crowds. You think your decisions are just the deciding factor in what's going on here. You think you hold the power. And you think I'm a victim of what you decide. That couldn't be farther from the truth. It is God who decides if He will do a miracle in your life or not. It is completely the opposite of what you think. It's the Spirit who gives life. It is the Father who decides. Everything about my kingdom is different. Then your kingdoms. The king in my kingdom is really the king I have brothers and sisters in the faith who would describe the meaning of this passage very differently. And I believe they're sincere, but as I study it, I could not maintain the logical flow of thought without believing what I'm saying this morning. That this is actually the emphasis that is in this passage. The whole passage is Jesus confronting what the crowd thinks is going on with what Jesus knows is going on. Jesus is not at all reliant upon their decisions in order for him to accomplish his ministry. His confidence goes completely to his father's work. Nothing of Christ's work at all relies on the flesh of the listeners. Think about that. That statement by itself puts a big hurdle to us somehow giving ourselves any credit for the initiating the decisions we make to follow Christ. The logic doesn't allow it. Flesh does not decide for spirit. Flesh does not inspire salvation. It is of no value. Jesus is clearly stating to this crowd that he is not dependent upon the crowd's decision. He is telling the crowd that his kingdom is way different than what those so-called disciples expect. And hopefully this truth that Jesus lays out today will gain traction in their hearts after Christ resurrects. Verse 66. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. Well, there's no surprise there. Lots of people are interested in stuff that appeals to the flesh, whether it's done in the name of Jesus or in the name of Taylor Swift or whoever. But when it comes down to the brass tax of following Christ on Christ's terms, only a miracle will drive someone to do that. So we can expect a lot of dropouts. Not a big surprise. Jesus told us over and over it would happen. Verse 67, so Jesus said to the woman the 12, now we're getting now we're getting serious. He looks he he he expects that from all of them, but he looks at his twelve and he says, What about you guys? You want to go? You want to go away? What are you thinking? How are you processing this Clearly, Jesus already knew the answer to this question before he asked it. So this must have been for the disciples' benefit or our benefit or both, probably. The question here is really: has the Holy Spirit Been doing the work in you. That's really the emphasis of the question. It's the test question. How are you receiving Christ? How are you responding to Christ? Are you following me in the flesh, which will accomplish nothing? Or have you been affected by the Holy Spirit? That's the issue. And when we hear the response from Jesus' true disciples, we can see exactly what's going on. Verse 68 Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? To whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Carla and I often quote this passage when lightheartedly talking about leaving each other. Lord, to whom else shall we go? We use it because it's a logical demonstration of our commitment to our position. And that's what Peter's saying here. If we leave you, Jesus, we don't have a better alternative. You're the only one with the Spirit. You're the only one with spirit words, with life words. There aren't any other teachers that are providing eternal life. I got no other options. And besides, we've already gone through the process of becoming fully convinced that you're the Messiah. And if you're the Messiah, there's no other hope. So we're out of luck. If you're not if you're not it, if you don't provide, we're not going anywhere else. We're committed to you. And what the disciples say here is that they have overcome that hurdle that many in the crowd did not. They've accepted that Jesus is that God man. They've accepted that Jesus was different than any other human being. There's no one like him. Jesus is exceptional. And no matter how difficult Jesus' words are to understand or accept, the disciples believe they're true. They may not believe they understand them. But they do believe they're true. The disciples, by faith, have come to the point that they are no longer stumbling over who Christ is or the authority of what Christ says. Those are the very points that drove the unbelieving crowd away, but it did not drive these guys away. And when Peter said this, it's likely that Jesus needed to clear up two things. So Jesus has some things to say in Peter's response. First, this understanding that you've gained didn't come from you. And second, you're not speaking for everybody in the group. So first Christ mentions this. Verse 70, Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the twelve? Christ chose. When Peter's confession is mentioned in Matthew 16, we get more of this. The conclusion that I'm coming to here is strengthened In Matthew 16, 16 and 17, Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said to him, and he was more specific, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you. Same context. It's only the spirit that counts. Flesh doesn't count for anything. It's my Father who's in heaven told this to you. Or you wouldn't know it. We can see that we're not using this principle wrongly. The context supports it. Flesh and blood didn't reveal this to you. You didn't figure this out. This was not a result of figuring well. It's the Holy Spirit, man. That's what it is. It has to be If it was a flesh, you would have gone with the rest of the crowd. I would still be up for grabs. There would still be alternatives. No, I chose you guys. But then Jesus tells him the rest of the story. While eleven of you were chosen for salvation, another was chosen with a necessary and horrible purpose One of you is the devil. Yet one of you is the devil. Verse 71, he spoke of Judas's son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. Judas was not spiritually drawn to Christ. Judas was following Christ by flesh, not spirit. And that's the difference. He didn't experience the supernatural awakening. He was not given a new heart. He had not submitted his life to the lordship of Christ. We said this before, but it's so very important to remember. Judas looked so much like a Christian that no one but Christ knew he was not. Judas looked so much like a Christian that no one but Christ knew he was not. Judas himself may not even known he was different than the rest of them. He might have figured that if the rest of the disciples had the chance to dip in the money bag, they would have. That's how unbelief calculates. It thinks other followers of Christ would sin like I'm sinning if they were in my circumstance. They don't understand the huge heart difference. Judas is the ultimate display in the difference between that which is of flesh and that which is of spirit. It's the perfect ending of chapter 6. Those changed by the Spirit of God respond to the Word of God by acceptance, by submission, by repentance where needed, by obedience By worship, by adoration of God. Never perfectly. We already know that. Never perfectly, but substantially. They receive both the person of Christ and the Word of Christ as being in authority over their lives. They welcome the idea, thy will be done. That's what they want in their heart of hearts. They have a funny way of showing it, but that's what they want. The flesh responds very differently to those same exact circumstances. The flesh evaluates who Christ is and what Christ says by a framework that asks, how's that fit into what I want? How's that fit into what I feel I need? How's that fit into what I expect? And then it picks and chooses what one wants. They learn how to fit in because fitting in at the time is self-serving. But they don't hate their sin. They only hate the painful consequences of their sin. One of the most scary skills a person can learn is how to look like a Christian. One of the most scary skills a person can learn is how to look like a Christian. I wish none of us could learn how to look like a Christian. If our behavior remained congruent to our hearts, Every non-believer would stand out as being a non-believer. And we could address it. And we could appeal to that person to come to Christ. Repent. You need to repent. But when that person learns to look like a Christian, they now have camouflage that keeps their souls from being seen. A rebel to the faith is in better position than an imposter to the faith. Their position is easier to address and clarify, and the remedy is easier to prescribe. It's very important that we know what is true of ourselves this morning, all of us. Are we like the eleven disciples who are fully convinced because of the Spirit's work that Jesus is Lord of all and Lord of my heart? Or are we like Judas in our whole life as simply a result of human efforts to conform to social norms of the Christians around us and to live in a way that keeps us out of trouble? That's a life and death question there. Let's pray.