We're gonna be looking at a very unusual event this morning. It leaves me at least with more questions than it answers. But it also displays some truths that are very radical and very evident. And from it we can learn a lot about our enemy, our society, and our Lord. This text is going to require two weeks to get through, so today will be the start. And I'm going to use the account of this story compiled by John MacArthur in the book One Perfect Life. If you ever want uh a harmony of the gospel that is no longer a harmony. It's actually all of the passages brought together in a narrative. It that is an excellent book. Uh Ruth bought it for me two years ago and I've been using it. all along this study. So uh he has to make some assumptions and take some liberties as where all the different pieces fit together, but all in all I have a great deal of confidence that he gets most of the accounts correct. In our story this morning, his account is very helpful because each gospel writer gives a different pieces of the puzzle And MacArthur's account pulls them all together. So we find that the disciples in Christ arrive at the eastern shore of the Sea of Galilee. And when I see what they do when they land, it leads me to suspect that the storm that they encountered on their way here may have well been of satanic origin I don't think the devil wanted Christ to ruin the devil's stronghold in that area. What Christ is about to do is to take on what may have been the most consolidated demonic influence within thousands of miles. A legion is about six thousand men. So when the demon gives his name as Legion, he is probably referring to a number of demons embodying the poor man. Or the poor men, actually, it's two men Let's look at the account. Then they sailed to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gadderenes, which is opposite Galilee. And when he had stepped out of the boat on the land, immediately there met him two demon-possessed men coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that no one could pass that way. Okay, evidently these demons were alert. They instantly knew Christ had arrived on the shore. As soon as he got there, they came a running. Maybe their boss informed them. Whatever the case, these these demons hightailed it down to the shores to to the shore to meet Christ as soon as he landed. These men lived in tombs. Tombs were handy housing. They protected a human from the elements. There were no monthly payments, and there wasn't going to be anybody else trying to move in except for those who wouldn't complain much. So from what I read, often those who were insane would live in tombs. Now these were not two ordinary humans. They were exceedingly fierce. These are not men that you would have messed with. You would not allow anyone you cared about to go near them either. We don't know if they actually did harm to other people, but it's very clear that there was a threat that they would. No one was going to go from point A to point B through their territory. Everyone had learned that it's worth your while to go out of your way to avoid these demoniacs. So we see here that they were a public nuisance. Can you imagine what would happen in our culture if there were people like this, say, in Oakland? It would not be tolerated. But apparently in this place there was little choice. Now, let's take a look at what these men were like. One of these, a certain man from the city who had demons a long time, and he wore no clothes, nor did he live in a house but in the tombs. And no one could bind him, not even with chains, because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been pulled apart by him, and the shackles broken in pieces. Neither could anyone tame him. And always night and day he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying out, cutting himself with stones For it had often seized him, and he was under guard, bound with chains and shackles, and he broke the bonds, and was driven by the demon into the wilderness. So one of the demoniacs, the most prominent of the two, and the only one that some of the biblical narratives address, was from a local city. Many would have known him. And he had been like this for a long time. He was not like this forever. I mean, he wasn't like this since birth, but he was like this for a long time. Now Let's take this story to see how the devil treats his servant. Because that's essentially what this is telling us. How the devil treats his servants. What we see in this man is a clear picture of how the devil treats his own. We can see the devil's intention and his cruelty come through in this story. First, the man had no clothes. The devil had robbed him of all of his dignity. He was a disgrace. Any human decency and propriety was lost. This man was not a naturalist. He was a demonist. And the demons got a kick out of making sure that this man was completely exposed all the time. He was the kind of person that no one would want to lay eyes on. He was a complete and utter disgrace. And that's what the demons took pleasure in. That's their influence. That's what they liked to do. We're going to visit this question multiple times through this morning, but do we really want to play around with sin? Do we really want to allow the devil any influence in our minds? This is where he's headed. This is what the devil likes to do. Do we really want to mess with that? What else? Second, he had no house. Along with this, it means he had no fellowship with his family or friends. He was isolated and destitute. He was an outcast. All of his needs for human companionship were lost. He had no friends to encourage him or challenge him. He was not going to truly enjoy the fellowship of another human being. I sometimes think I don't really need much from other people, but I find that I need far more than I like to acknowledge or admit. We all have degrees of that, of social need and all that sort of thing, but all of us need human interaction to be healthy. In many ways. And the devil will do anything to rob us of those blessings of God He may even whisper in our ears that we would be better off without the fellowship of others. Or he will cause us to get into a state where the fellowship of others really doesn't do us any good because we're not being real. All those things are lies. This poor man could have taken us to school on this idea of not needing other people He knew firsthand what it was to be deprived of human interactions and meaningful human relationships by the devil. Do we really want to play around with sin? Do we really want to allow the devil any influence in our mind? What else? We also see that the man was financially destitute. Now we cannot say that the devil always uses this tool in his arsenal to destroy a person. Often he gives a man abundant finances to try to accomplish the same end. But in this case, this poor man had nothing. He didn't even have a stitch of clothing. He had rocks. Do we really want to play around with sin? Do we really want to allow the devil any influence in our mind? What else? And no one could bind him, not even with chains, because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been pulled apart by him, and the shackles broken in pieces. Neither could anyone tame him. You know, this man had independence from authorities. I don't know if you've ever thought of that. He had independence from authorities, but he did not have freedom. There was no one who was going to tell this man what to do. Isn't that appealing to our fleshly natures? No one could boss this guy around. No one could tell him to do his chores. No one could tell him to be nice. No one could make him do his fair share. He had no boss to tell him what he needed to do day to day No. Several times people had tried to remove this public nuisance. Several times people had tried to control him. We don't know if he had done a crime or was just a flame pain in the public neck, but he had been shackled with both legs chained together, and he was chained by his body in his hands, and he broke those shackles. This guy would have made an excellent rock star. He was his own person. Sort of. He was not about to bow down to convention. But he was chained as much as a person could possibly be chained. He was independent from human authority, but he was not free. He had no freedom whatsoever. He was a spiritual slave. These demons took this man wherever they wanted and did to him whatever they wanted. We must never allow ourselves to think that rebellion from God's control and God's order. is freedom at all. It's only slavery to the will of one who would have you destroyed. Bob Dylan penned it well when he's saying you gotta serve somebody You gotta serve somebody. It may be the devil or it may be the Lord, but you're gonna have to serve somebody. No one could tame this man. But oh, we so need to be tamed to be happy. We so need to be tamed to have peace. We so need to be tamed to have joy. The word for meek is similar to what we think of as tamed. Being meek is being in tune with the master's wishes. Looking to the master for what he thinks of everything that we do. Only as we submit to the Lordship of Christ will we ever experience life the way that we're intended to. Only as we submit to His training and rulership over us do we have the kind of freedom that we really need. How many times have we seen films about this kind of superhuman strength? But it's still very rare to see the danger that accompanies this superpower or enables this superpower. This demoniac was not better for these powers. They were an enslavement to him that was guaranteed to keep him miserable as long as they continued. We can apply a common saying here. How do you know when the devil is lying? His lips are moving. We all have in us a desire for self-rule. We all want free of free of our authority We all are tempted to think that happiness will come with independence from authority. But those are all lies. We will all find in whatever our sphere That when we try to evade or oppose the authority that God has put us under, it will do us harm. It will not provide the payoff that the devil promises Look at this man this morning. He is the epitome of what the devil would do to you if he could. And he's one he's the one who's behind the message. that authority is bad. Started in the Garden of Eden and he's kept that message pretty uh thoroughly throughout the ages. There are times when we must take difficult measures when our authority does not act as it should. But when we try to evade that authority or rebel against that authority or try to manipulate that authority We do all of that to our own peril. Let me ask you, how do you respond to your authority when that person tells you what to do and you do not understand why they would tell you to do that thing? That's where our true attitude toward authority often shows itself the best. And again, I'm not saying that you know everything that authority says we should jump and do. But a lot of times when we're given a direct command, that's when we find out what we really think of authority. Do we really want to play around with sin? Do we really want to allow the devil any influence in our mind? What else? And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying out and cutting himself with stones Here is Satan's ultimate plan for your life. This is what he wants for everybody. This is what he wants for all of God's creations. Never make a mistake in believing the devil's lie that God is holding good stuff back from you and the devil wants you to have good stuff. That is always a lie. It is always the opposite Look at what happened to Adam and Eve when the devil was done with them. They had broken fellowship with God, destroyed intimacy with each other, and they were left homeless and in a form of agony. That's that's the stamp the devil likes to leave. That's the devil's plan for your life. Are you messing with something this morning Are you believing a lie that is keeping you chained to a current attitude or action? Are you using excuses he has whispered in your ear for not coming clean with God, yourself, and others? I beg you to consider the source. I beg you to consider the enemy's plan for your life. He never, ever wants you free. Never. And you will never be free. until you repent. This poor man with superpowers spent his alone time like this, yelling at the top of his lungs and cutting himself with probably flint knives He clearly hated his life. He hated it. He was living with demons in him that wanted he wanted rid of. Maybe he was trying to kill himself. Maybe the demons were playing with him. We don't know. But the man was in sheer and utter agony. Odds are this man at one time thought that giving in to the master of sin had something to offer to him. Maybe there was a pleasure he wanted. But after allowing Satan control, he saw that there was a huge price that came with that pleasure. There's always a hook in the devil's stuff. That's always how the devil deals with his children He takes pleasure in gaining control of them so he can abuse them. And abuse them he will. He is a destroyer. There is no one more cruel or evil than the devil. What utter agony we see here. How sad. This man lives in torment every day of his life. And the torment probably had its seed in a single thought somewhere, a single temptation. And there was an evil thing that appealed to this man, and he had to have it. Oh, how often that's the destroyer of a man. Maybe we want another lover, another social status, another financial benefit, another life situation And we think that we can best get it apart from God's sovereign loving ruling hand It doesn't take long to find out that when the devil offers something that looks like a gift, it always comes with a devastating hook intended to destroy us. Do we really want to play around with sin? Do we really want to allow the devil any influence in our mind? Here are just a couple of scriptures that give us a clear picture of who the demon's master is and what work the demons have to do in his service. John 10, 10 says, the thief comes to steal and destroy. The thief comes to steal and destroy. In the parable, Christ is talking about the devil. We see the thief's intention. It's always his intention. Every time he breathes it's his intention. Would you want to choose a boss with this resume? What comes on his resume is I intend to to steal and destroy. He always and only wants to steal and destroy. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him, steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brotherhood in the world. There really is a devil, and he really carries a desire for destruction in his heart. He wants to devour every single one of us who are Christ. And that is what comes out of him whenever he has opportunity. Okay, we've seen what the devil was doing with this human. We see what the devil is like. We see what he likes to do when he gets the power to do it. Now let's take a look at the limits of what society can do. Says for it had often seized him, and he was kept under guard, bound with chains and shackles, and he broke the bonds and was driven by the demon into the wilderness. Many of our politicians, both liberal and conservative, have idealistic goals for our government. They may really want, they may really desire some utopian improvements. The best of them want to make a very good life for all their constituents. But there's only one thing really standing in their way. And that is a very, very big thing. It's the power of the devil and the power of sin. We see in our story that the local authorities could not control the power of this demon-filled man. He could not be controlled. He could not be reined in. There were no social programs that would fix this problem. No amount of money thrown at it that would fix this problem. There was no social convention that would make this person a good citizen. Laws could be made all day long, but they could not be enforced. But there was a solution. And it was a spiritual solution. That's still true today. The problem with the world isn't some outside source. It isn't lack of education It isn't lack of job training. It isn't lack of jobs. It isn't lack of opportunity. It isn't lack of money Right now our government is talking about fighting terrorism by trying to provide employment in the hotbeds of terrorism recruitment areas. Genius. I guess that they simply forget it's the fact that bin Laden came from a filthy rich family. I guess maybe that's forgotten. I don't know. Give a person all those things we discussed and the true problem does not go away still. The problem is also not the evils of rich businessmen or powerful politicians. The Republicans say that we need to take the restraints off of business, and the result is wicked businessmen exploit the poor The Democrats say redistribute all that wealth so that they take the wealth from people who have resources and give it to those who have few resources. And those with a few resources develop a sense of entitlement to other people's property. The thing in common in all of this is the evil in the human heart. That's the problem. No matter what solution is proposed, the weakness to the solution is always found in the sinful heart. There will never be a utopia here in our society as long as there is evil in our hearts, and there will always be evil in our hearts until Christ's return. The problem with the world is all that citizens. The problem with the world is me We all carry a disease that can only be cured by the blood of Christ. And most of the world, particularly those in charge, have no interest in having their spiritual de disease being cured. They don't even believe they have one. They think they have the answers. They think they can fix spiritual problems with man-made methods, and they never will. So every attempt of theirs will be met with utter frustration. Even the successes will prove to be disappointing. There will be no utopia created for mankind other than by the hand of Jesus Christ. And ultimately that utopia will be populated with people who are absolutely sure of one thing. They never, ever, ever Want to have anything to do with sin again. Now I'm with our story. I don't understand how demons can give a man supernatural power. I don't know how that works. But that's what this man had. He was breaking bonds and escaping all kinds of restraints, and he was a vivid illustration of what the devil wants to do to mankind. Well now we have a clear picture of these men. Let's see what happens next. When he saw Jesus from afar. He ran and worshipped him and cried out, fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have we to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High? Have you come here to torment us before the time? I implore you by God that you do not torment me, for he has commanded the unclean spirit to come he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. This is odd. This demon-possessed man runs from a long way off. Suppose he saw Christ from a half mile away. He takes off running, and when he finally reaches Christ, he falls before him in worship. It's very likely that it's pretended worship. That's the only thing that makes sense to me. Now, why would he do such a thing? Well, suppose Christ were to show up here, and the most awful evil person in Maryland was to show up and worship Christ. No repentance, no tears, no change, just a pretension of worship. If Christ accepted that and you were watching, what would you think of Christ? You would think that he and this fellow are on the same team. If Christ had accepted the worship from this demon, this demon could have done more harm to what people believed about Christ than almost any other thing that could be done. So when this demon threw himself at Christ's feet, Christ commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. Christ was not going to allow this wicked, false display of worship. So he makes a command. He says, come on out. Then the true colors come out. What have we to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God Remember, we heard this before in Mark 1. 23, where it says, Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Maybe this means, what have we done to you? What have we done that's so bad that you personally must deal with us? Maybe it means, what do we have in common with you? We live in two different spheres, and you're we're not part of your kingdom, so what are you bothering with us for? Or maybe it means, what are you doing addressing us demons? Your business is with people, not with demons. Why are you concerning yourself with us? What do we have to do with your agenda? We're not people. You can't save us. You have a completely different mission, so why are you doing this? That seems most fitting to me with the rest of the things that the demons say. But look at the gem in the middle of all this. The demons know who Christ is. Jesus, Son of the Most High God. These are words of deity. The demons are not lost because they do not know the truth. They're lost because they hate God. They rebelled against God, even though they may have had better information about God than we ever will. Well no, I can't say ever will, than we do. Now remember the parable of the seed? In the parable, the seed's always good. There's nothing wrong with the seed, even when it falls on the hardest of soils. The demons knew that Jesus was the Messiah. They knew that he was the Son of the Father. But what they might not have known is that he was free to interfere with them and to end the chaos they were bringing whenever they saw f whenever Christ saw fit. They might not have known that part Notice that Jesus never accuses the demons of being inaccurate, but he normally tells them to shut up, just the same. Now the demons ask Christ, did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. The demons know where they stand with God. They know their master has made himself an enemy of God, and they deserve what he deserves Eternal destruction. They know that. So it's a very logical question to ask. Did you come to destroy us? Now, here. Then the demon explains why he asked that question. I know who you are. I know your role. I know your origination. I know your destination. I know what you're here to accomplish. The demons are so well informed, and they are so utterly lost. They know who the Holy One of God is, and they still hate him. Odd that the closest humans who get to that same state of hatred are the Jewish religious leaders. Who sought to put Christ to death? Are you someone who knows who Christ is, who Christ truly is, but you still won't follow him? If you are, take a look at this story and recognize who you're siding with. Is that really what you want? Do you want this in common with the devil and his demons? Now normally Christ tells the demons to shut up, but this time it's a little different. It's likely different because Christ wanted those looking on and us as well, to know the spiritual reality that was going on here that was not visible. So he asked the demon that embodies this man what his name was, knowing full well what he was going to say And Jesus asked him, saying, What's your name? And he answered, saying, My name's Legion, for we're many, because many demons had entered him. Like it said, a legion was a group of six thousand soldiers. Now the numbers fluctuated due to battle injuries and fatalities and things like that. But it normally ranged in multiple thousands. So this demon is telling Christ that there are thousands of demons in this man. There are a lot of things here we don't know and we're not told. Why would thousands of demons inhabit this one man? Was he the only one they had an opportunity to embody? Was there some particular purpose the devil had for this man? Other than raising a ruckus and causing people to fear, it doesn't look like he was accomplishing very much. We just don't know. But we know that this was exceptional. There were thousands of demons. And this is as far in this text as we're planning to go this morning. So we have the rest of the story, it's a kind of a suspense. Look it up yourself. or read it and uh we'll be prepared for next week. But there are a lot of things that we don't know about demons inhabiting men. And Jesus Jesus was content to leave it that way. We don't need to understand all those things. There are people who focus on those things in an effort to cast demons out of all kinds of things. They see demons in everything. I've seen him pray through a sanctuary, casting demons out of the chairs. Now, that's bizarre and not something that we ever see anybody do in Scripture No, the focus here is not on the enemy, but on the Savior. We don't need to be experts in demonology to minister for Christ. But we do need to know our Savior and know what he says and know his intentions for us and know what it is that saves it first. With that said, Jesus did go out of his way literally To display to us this event. And if we're wise, we're not going to miss the major points of it. We covered one of them this morning, and that point is that we can see the devil's plan for our lives. In the story. We see his intent. We see his effects. We see where he would leave us if he were only able to do so. Every thought we accept from his hand or from his world system is designed to accomplish this end in our lives. He wants to devour us. We need to examine our lives. We need to shine light on our lives. And if something is a sin, and we need to be clear about what sin is, it's as defined by scriptures, not just everything that We brainstorm as to what might be a sin. If something is a sin, we need to call it that. And if something we believe is from the devil's hand, we need to call that what it is. If we're rebelling or sneaking around or manipulating the authority that God has placed over us, we need to call it that. Scripture tells us that no good thing would God withhold from him whose way is blameless. That's God's intent. That's what God is like. It tells us that the devil is out to devour us. That's what the devil is like. Sometimes believing and obeying God is so very difficult. I don't think anyone who's honest with their Christian walk would ever say that following Christ and obeying him is easy. It often looks like and feels like Obeying God at at any given point will rob us of happiness. It looks like the worst possible thing we could do. We have to go against every natural defense that we built up sometimes We have to do things that on the surface don't look smart. Doing them will require an absolute trust in God because it's only God who will see us through when we choose to do things his way But look at it. What fruit is it doing when we do it our way? Does it provide peace? Does it provide holiness? Does it provide fruitfulness? If we're believing a lie, it will produce the opposite of all those things. Those who know you best can often see it easiest. They can tell you sometimes better than you can see it yourself what you're doing and what you're thinking and what fruit comes out of it. Doing it God's way, obeying God, believing God, may seem like the most difficult thing you could imagine in your situation. You might even believe that you cannot do it. You might strongly feel that way. But if it is from God, it can be done in his strength, and it will free you. You will find yourself in a better state, not a worse one. Your circumstance may be worse, but your state will be better. Your spiritual state Who will we trust this morning? Will we trust the tempter who would have his followers destitute, naked, lonely, self-destructive, and insane? Or will we trust Christ who would have his follower and his right mind at peace with God and his fellow believers? We will choose. All week long, we will choose. We'll have plenty of opportunity this week. God will see to it that we do. And we will choose. The question always comes down to which will we choose? Let's go. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for what we see as Your effect on this man who had been in the agony of the demon's throws We thank you, Lord, that you loved this man. You sought him out, and you delivered him from the agony that he was suffering on in sin. Lord, we ask that you would help us to see with great clarity the choices that we make. And how foolish we are when we simply do not believe that all good things come from your hand. And we start thinking in any way that there's another way that's better. Lord, we ask that we would honor you this week. With our decisions and by our lives, and that we would cling to you like life itself, because you are. And that we would trust you with the outcome of our lives. And know that what you have in store for us is so amazing we can't even imagine it. And what the devil has in store for us if we were to give him his free reign. We see it in this devastating instance of this man's great and utter agony. Use us this week Deal with us this week. Break our hearts this week. And help us to honor you by trusting and obeying you. In Jesus' name.