The topic for this morning is the enemy that won't go away. The enemy that won't go away. This morning we're looking at the Philistines. Our text tells us about God's judgment on the Philistines that Isaiah is announcing in our text. And this can easily be lost on all the other judgments that are pronounced on various peoples in that area, and we're going to get into those next week. But there's a lot here to be considered. The first mention we have of the Philistines is in Genesis 10:4. We're told which descendant of Noah the Philistines came from. The next mention is Genesis 21, where Abraham has dealings with a local king Abimelech. And Abimelech was the king of Gerar, a Philistine city. We're told that the king returns to the land of the Philistines when he's done meeting with Abraham. This was the time when Abraham said that Sarah was his sister in an effort for Abraham to protect his own life. And in that story, we find another example that the heroes of the faith were not as much heroes as people like us who had experienced the grace of God for themselves. Now there's something interesting here that I had never considered before. In Genesis 21, 22 through 24, it says this. Genesis 21, 22 through 24. And it came to pass at that time that Abimelech and Phikal, the commanders of his army, spoke to Abraham, saying, God is with you in all that you do. Now therefore, swear to me by God that you will not deal falsely with me, with my offspring, or with my posterity. But that according to the kindness that I have done to you, you will do to me and to the land in which you have dwelt. And Abraham said, I will swear. Here, this is odd to me, that we see that the first dealings that Abraham had with the inhabitants of Philistia were good ones. In fact, Abraham promised to treat Abimelech with the same kindness he had experienced at Abimelech's hands. I didn't expect this. This leads me to believe that Abimelech's heirs were no longer in control when the Israelites entered the Promised Land. And I've read since that this is a widely held view. These peaceful inhabitants would soon be replaced with a more violent brood. The next mention of the Philistines is when Isaac does the same thing with his wife, like father, like son, I guess. The next mention is when Israel is coming out of Egypt, and we find this, Exodus 13, 17. Then it came to pass when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God did not lead them by the way of the land of the Philistines. Although that was near, for God said, lest perhaps the people change their minds when they see war and return to Egypt. So we see that the Philistines are considered as an enemy of the Israelites from this time forward. The next mention is in the book of Joshua, and it's when Joshua is ready to die. In Joshua 13, 1 through 3, it says, Now Joshua was old, advanced in years, and the Lord said to him, You are old, advanced in years, and there remains very much land yet to be possessed. It just reminds me, that's what Emma tells Carla and I, that you are old, advanced in years, and there remains very much land yet to be possessed. This is the land that yet remains all the territory of the Philistines and all that of the Gesherites, from Sihor, which is east of Egypt, as far as the border of Ekron, northward, which is counted as Canaanite. The five lords of the Philistines, and this is kind of important, the five lords of the Philistines, the Gazites, the Ashtadites, the Ashkelonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites, also the Abbites. So we see that the Philistine territory is part of what God promised to the Israelites. It's part of the promised land. It wasn't mentioned in the list of the lands that the Israelites were to conquer earlier. The Philistines weren't mentioned by name, but now they are. After the fact, it's reported as property that the Israelites failed to take. So the Israelites had failed to conquer the land. They'd had many victories, but they were too easily satisfied. They were satisfied with less than God's best for them. They were willing to coexist with their undefeated enemies. And we'll come back to this later Now, who were the Philistines? What were they like? Well, first off, they were a prominent force in the area for centuries. In fact, the word Palestine comes from the word Philistine. So they were associated with that territory. They were a fixture there. Like we would think of Russians when we think of the land of Russia. The people back then would think of Philistines when they thought of the land of Palestine. They the land they inhibited uh the inhabited had several major advantages First, it was coastal land. So they had the opportunity to be a seafaring people, and they had some ports. They could trade in order to gather wealth Second, their land was flat, and third, it was very fertile. So it would easily support a big population. Now, one of the most interesting things about the Philistines is that they were not natives to the area. They traveled by sea from the Aegean Sea, somewhere from Greece. Around to Turkey. We're not sure, but they came from that area and came across the Mediterranean. So the culture they brought in was completely different than the surrounding tribes It's interesting to note that the Philistines in the Bible were the only people to be referred to as the uncircumcised It may be that circumcision was a custom in the people living in Canaan, but it was not a custom the Philistines practiced Another interesting thing about them is that they were advanced technologically. In fact, their technology gave them a military advantage They knew how to work with iron very early on, and nobody else in their area did. So their weapons were always superior to the to the uh Israelites. Another interesting fact regarded their government. It was different than most. There were five kings. The text we read called them the Gazites, the Ashdodites, the Ashkelonites, the Gittites, and the Akronites. And the king ruled their city along with the area that surrounded their city. They were autonomous, but they lived in cooperation. So when there was war, they were a united front. They were like one big country. But for day-to-day purposes, they were their own entities They were designed a little like the model of the United States. So you've got the states who, well, theoretically at least, were be able were supposed to be able to uh uh work autonomously and then come together under the United States Um so anyway, it uh the Israelites weren't real organized, but these guys were very, very organized Their government allowed them to pull together very quickly and very efficiently military forces and to accomplish things that they by you know the individual cities could not. I've always thought of the Philistines as dirty, uncivilized barbarians. I don't know if that's the impression that you had of these people or not. That's been mine. But that really isn't the truth. They were admirable in some ways, not moral or spiritual ways, but from human potential accomplishments, they had accomplished some pretty significant things. Experts estimate fr estimate from the number of olive pressing facilities that they found that one of their cities may have put out a third of the olive oil that Israel now produces with all of its machinery. So they at their time they would have been an amazingly effective uh industry. They also pr produced a lot of fermented beverages and their pottery suggests that they did a lot of drinking. So anyway, they had some significant industry going on, and after hours activity, evidently But the biggest thing that they had going against them is that most of them hated the one true God, and God seemed to not hesitate in punishing them. That's not one thing that you want to get wrong, going against the one true God. They worshiped Baal, Ashcaroth, and Dagon. Now, after Joshua, we learn in Judges that the Philistines had dominion over Israel. So the Philistines were real a thorn in their flesh, and at times when they excelled militarily, they would take over large chunks. of Israel and often have Israel subjected to them. And that's what was going on. And this was directly because the Israelites had sinned by following after other gods. So God sent Samson. Now this is one of those stories that don't play out the way you want them to. We want a good hero. You know? Isn't that true? I mean don't Isn't that what we want? We want a good hero, one who is noble and true and only acts through kindness and you can say to your kids, Man, you you want to be like him. Well, Samson isn't that kind of guy. Most of the Philistines that Samson killed were due to mistakes in Samson's life. His bad choices led to God accomplishing what God wanted to accomplish. But uh not exactly because Samson was virtuous in the process. I had spoken this uh uh about this a few months ago, and it continues to impress me Much of what God accomplishes in our lives happens in the midst of our foolishness and sometimes even wickedness. Much of what our God accomplishes in our lives is in the midst of our foolishness and sometimes even wickedness. That's no excuse to be wicked or foolish, but it's comforting to know that we can't undo God's purposes. God will accomplish what it is that he sets out to do in his people and through his people. So first, Stamson picks a Philistine bride for himself. That results in 30 dead Philistines. Then he caught 150 pairs of ox of foxes and lit them, and by doing so destroyed much of their food and olive industry. Then the Philistines killed his ex-wife and father-in-law, so he killed lots more of them. Then Samson's countrymen convinced him to allow them to capture him. They turned him over to the Philistines, and he killed probably a thousand more of them. Then enters Delilah and Samson 's imprisonment. Which culminated in him destroying Dagon's temple and killing all the big shots of the Philistines, over 3,000 people. That put a big damper on the Philistine powerhouse. After that, Saul had some successes against the Philistines, but the tide began to turn when David killed Goliath. That was really a big event in turning things around. Now there was a delay in the success because Saul turned his aggression on David. Now, if you read the setting, oddly enough, David ran to the Philistines for protection. Which is odd. It is not exactly what you would think to read. But it is very likely that it was not a Philistine ruler as much as it was a vassal of the Philistines that David ran to. A lot of conquered peoples had no love for their conquerors, but they weren't going to directly cross them either. And a lot of the scholars think that's probably where David ran. He ran to people who were technically under the Philistine rule. But odds are had no great love for the Philistines themselves. But it's really King David and King Solomon that God used to drive the Philistines out of the Israelite territory, at least it the part that they had captured. And it was clear that God wanted to display his power against the Philistine enemies. But they were never destroyed. In all of those years, that the Philistines were never destroyed. They continued to be a threat and a thorn. to Israel uh as long as Israel existed there. We find that Uzziah had some victories against the Philistine. And remember, it was Uzziah that died right before Isaiah was called to be a minister of God. And in 2 Chronicles 26, 5 through 7, we see that He, Uzziah, sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the visions of God. And as long as he sought the Lord, God made him prosper. Now he went out and made war against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath, the wall of Jabnah, and the wall of Ashgod, and he built cities around Ashdod and among the Philistines. God helped him against the Philistines, against the Arabians who lived in Gerbaal, and against the Munites. Now That's the history. What's the purpose? What was the purpose of the Philistines? Why did God allow them to be a thorn in Israel's side? Scripture is wonderful in that it reveals so many of the Lord's purposes. You know, often that's the struggle in our lives, isn't it? We we don't know why something is happening. And we want to know why, and a lot of times we won't. I I suspect a lot of times we're not going to know why until eternity for a lot of things that happen. But it's beautiful that God gives us some examples. And gives us some insight as to why things happen that might be similar to ours. Judges 3, 1 through 4 says, Now these are the nations which the Lord left. That he might test Israel by them. That is, all who had not known any of the wars in Canaan. And then in parentheses, this was only so that the generation of the children of Israel might be taught to know war, at least those who had not formally known it. Namely, five lords of the Philistines, all the Canaanites, the Sidonites, and the Hivites who dwelt in Mount Lebanon from Mount Baal Hermon to the entrance of Hamath. And they were left that he might test Israel by them to know whether they would obey the commandment of the Lord, which he had commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. Think about this. This does not say these are the people that the Israelites failed to defeat. So God was forced to allow them in the land. He didn't want to, but his hands were tied. After all, the Israelites had free will, so God had to respond to what they did or did not do. That is not how God explains this. God doesn't even mention their failure here, as if it was not even a consideration in this. As if what God had planned to do, he planned to do from the very beginning. God has a purpose for the enemies in our lives. God has a purpose for the enemies in our lives. In this instance, God was accomplishing several things. It's easy to see some of the advantages of having this enemy live on The first is that it would keep Israel on their toes militarily. They would have to keep learning the skill of fighting. As long as Israel has existed, it has been surrounded by enemies. It's always been a miracle. Learning how to fight is a necessity in that real estate. Second, danger has a tendency to point you to God. As long as the Israelites need a God to protect them, they're more likely to call out to their God and to live to please their God. Look in our own lives. When do we call out to God the most? And the answer is when we have to You know, isn't that often the case? When we have no one else to turn to, when we are desperate, usually when we war out every other alternative. Third, a common enemy has a tendency to bond people together. Nothing bonds people like a common enemy. When you're surrounded by enemies, you recognize how badly you depend upon your friends. It's that way in the church, at least that's how it's meant to be. When we're living our lives the way that we're supposed to, when we are in the The thick of the fray, when we are in the conflict of living for God in a godless world, we need support. We face a common enemy daily and we need our friends. In the same way, Israel needed their fellow countrymen to help them every time their wolves were howling at the door. Fourth, danger has a tendency to promote realism about the world one lives in. I read recently about a European woman who was an outspoken proponent of pluralism and open borders. She was found dead, buried under rocks, after being brutally raped and murdered by Muslim immigrants, the people that she had spoken of so fondly. People who live in continual danger learn the importance of determining who our friends are and who our enemies are. And determining that quickly and clearly. It doesn't allow a person to live in the idealism of seeing all men and women as brothers and sisters. It frankly knows better and it takes steps accordingly. I don't think some of the liberal attitudes of inclusiveness would be so dominant if we lived surrounded by enemies like Israel always has. But God gives even greater insight in verse 4. God left the enemy intact to test to see what his people would do. God left the enemy intact to test to see what his people would do. He wanted to see if they would obey him or choose something else. And it's not like he didn't know. He does it for our benefit in that testing. This has been a recurring theme. Evil serves a good purpose. It would not exist if it did not serve the purposes of God. Choices always test us. Adversity always tests us. We all have a sin that so easily besets us, if I understand Hebrews right. Fortunately, we don't all have the same sin, or we would be in great trouble. But we all have a sin. And if you don't know what it is, it's probably because you're not doing business with it We all have that sin that is severely tempting to us. Now, maybe you have just wanted it to go away. Maybe you have asked God, please, God, take this from me. Maybe you think that you're not spiritual because you still deeply feel that temptation. Maybe you think that God is letting you down because He doesn't make it easy for you. Maybe you lament the enemy that just won't go away. I guess we might as well give up all our etern alternative strategies and just learn how God does things. He sometimes wants it hard because being hard produces what he wants. Sometimes God wants it hard because being hard produces what God wants. He wants us to prove our faith. He wants to strengthen our faith, which only happens with exercise. He wants us to show in the hard things of life what he really means to us. This is not just an Old Testament principle. James 1, 2 through 4. My brother, encounter all joy when you fall into various trials. Not usually the first response that we have when we fall into various trials. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces good stuff. Patience. But let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing Good stuff is coming out of that process that we don't like. Oh, we like the good stuff, we just don't like the process. We should never think that we're failing in the Christian life because the Christian life remains hard. The existence of temptations does not prove our failure. The existence of temptations just proves that we exist. What we do with the temptation displays our failure or success, our faith or our disbelief. God does not promise to take away the hard things in our life in this life, primarily because the hard things serve his eternal purposes. David said this in Psalms 119. 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. God ordains the Philistines in our lives. He sometimes uses the enemy that won't go away to accomplish things in our lives that nothing else would ever accomplish. It shows us things we would not see if we did not have that difficulty. It shows us room we have to grow, room we have to obey. Maybe maybe it it helps us in our struggle with pride to show us We really have nothing to be proud about. It shows us God steadily accomplishing things in our lives as we obey Him in the face of those enemies. What Philistine has God left at your borders? What Philistine has God left at your borders? Recognize it as the tool of God and face it like Ephesians tells us. He tells us how to fight our Philistine Ephesians 6, 14 through 18 says, Stand therefore, having girded your waist with truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. Having shard your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace, and above all, taking the shield of faith with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, being watchful to this end with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. So that is how we stand up to the enemy at our borders. Now we're ready for our text. This is the burden which came in the year that King Ahaz died. Don't rejoice, all of you, Philistia, because the rod that struck you is broken. For out of that serpent's roots will come forth a viper, and its offspring will be a fiery flying serpent. The firstborn of the poor will feed, and the needy will lie down in safety. I'll kill your roots with famine, and I'll slay your remnant. Wail, O gate, cry, O city, all you of Philistia are dissolved, for smoke will come from the north, and no one will be alone in this appointed times. What will they answer, the messengers of the nation? That the Lord has founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall take refuge in it. Do you see what this means? One day God will remove our Philistines. One day God will remove our Philistines. It will be on the day that they no longer serve a useful purpose in our lives. Maybe it will be at the end of our lives. But one day our Philistines will Will be removed. Praise God. That temptation you hate No more. It'll be gone. There'll be no more struggle to obey God, to enjoy God's fellowship in peace and confidence Our enemy will be completely and utterly defeated, and all of his remnants. His influence will be removed, and we will finally be free of both sin's power and sin's presence Now Isaiah is telling Philippia, don't get too happy when you see your centuries-old enemy overcome, because that's what they would be. Yes, Israel and Judea and Jerusalem will be punished at God's hands. That's true. This country that continually put you in your place, this rob that struck you is going to be broken. That's what the the prophecy says. It's true. But unlike you, they're going to come back. Unlike you, they're loved by a true God, not an imaginary God The imagery here is one that people like Diane may get the most out of. It's talking about snakes. And out of one snake will come another that's worse than the first. The first snake is bad. Israel in the time of Solomon would have been a force to contend against. They would have been undefeatable. Their bite would have done great damage. But the second snake's a million times worse than the first one. In fact, what it presents is an image of a dragon. This is a snake that can fly. That's bad news. That's worth some wasps. This is a snake you can't kill. Even the poor children in this next kingdom will rest at ease. This presents a situation of great peace, of superior might. Even those who have no resources to protect themselves will be safe. That's what it's saying. The whole environment will be protected. The Philistines will no longer be any kind of threat at all. And look what happens to the Philistines. He says, I'll kill your roots with famine, and it will slay your remnant. God is saying, there won't be anybody left. The Philistines as a people will be gone, and if there are any who safely hid in the hills, they'll have nothing to eat. They'll die of starvation. While God was going to take his people to the woodshed, he's going to take the Philistines to the hangman's news Verse 31. Wail, O Gate, Cry O City, all you of Philistia are dissolved, for smokes will come from the north, and no one will be alone in his appointed times. This is the age-old enemy of the Jews. This is the enemy that would not go away. And Isaiah is telling them, well before it happens, mourn. Mourn because there would no longer be any Philistines left. Whatever is left of you will completely lose your identity The smoke that was coming from the north would be the first, first be the Assyrians, and then after that the Babylonians and Presto, no more Philistines. The devastation of invading armies is usually what smoke conveys. Cities are being burned, and the Philistine cities are next in line And somehow in all of this there will be an understanding that even though the Israelites have been removed from their land, a remnant will return. He always says that. God always says that. A remnant will return. God is still taking care of his children. It has been that way from the beginning, it's been that way now. Verse 32, what will they answer, the messengers of the nation? That the Lord has founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall take refuge in it. There's no people like the Jewish people in history, in world history. They are singled out in human history as a people who have kept their identity throughout thousands of years of dispersion and persecution. I don't know how they play out in the end, but it's clear in Romans that they will exist as a people, as a nation. They will be there. They will have lasted from the day that Abraham left his home in Ur and went to the Promised Land to the day that Jesus Christ returns to end Project Earth Part 1. And the poor of his people will take refuge in Zion. I hope we're encouraged this morning. The fact that you're tempted to do a wrong thing is not proof that you are not a Christian It is proof that you are breathing on planet Earth. It's proof that God wants to prove your faith, to test your faith. to build your faith and to show you the truth about yourself that he wants to change. With that in mind, let's boldly take on those Philistines If we've shrunk back or given in, today is the day to fight the fight of faith. Let's shoot for a day without that sin. Then a week without that sin. Then a month without that sin. Let's see what victory feels like Then we'll not only know in our heads that God is good, we'll taste it on our tongues We will experience the peace of God, the love of God, the power of God, and the joy of God more fully, more completely, more the way we are designed to experience it. Let's make it our aim to have victory against the enemy that God doesn't take away, with the underlying knowledge that someday in the future God will take away that enemy forever. Let's closing prayer. Lord God, we thank you for the Philistines. We thank you for their example in Scripture. We thank you for revealing your heart in the matter. We thank you for giving us the insights of what you're trying to accomplish in the lives of human beings in the face of adversity and sin Lord, we ask that you would help us to come clean with you, to see our lives clearly, to see ourselves as in great need of your grace, and then to walk in obedience based on the work that you have promised to do in our lives and to just trust you. And to not be afraid of the Philistine in our lives, but to to take them on. And uh to fight the fight of faith. and to use and exercise our faith in the way that Ephesians describes to overcome the enemy in our lives. We ask that you would accomplish that and that you would help us to make some significant steps in that regard this week and that you would be ultimately glorified by what you are accomplishing in your people's lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.