Okay. Christ had just finished delivering a lot of parables about the kingdom of God to the crowd. Mark left out the telling of the parable of the Levin, which is one of the parables that was told in that same period of time, but the rest of the known parables he included in his narrative. So Christ had a long day preaching and teaching in the Middle Eastern heat, and he's ready to get away from the crowds. So he tells the disciples to cross over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. There were no big cities on the other side of the sea, so the disciples may have thought this was going to be a little retreat. Now, we need to do a little geography lesson here. The Sea of Galilee is nearly 700 feet below sea level. The Jordan River runs parallel to the shoreline of the Mediterranean Sea. So you've got the shoreline of the Mediterranean Sea. And you've got the Jordan River that runs parallel with it. Um the The Jordan River starts up at Mount Herod or Herman, which is about 9200 feet above sea level. So you've got the the headwaters of the Jordan pretty high. And then the headwaters run south into Lake Semaconidas, and then the waters run out of that lake into the Sea of Galilee. And then the Sea of Galilee starts about thirty miles south of of Mount Herman, so you've got Mount Herman go down sixty miles, that's where the lake is. And from there, uh, the w it goes uh about sixty miles until they reach the Dead Sea And from there the water has nowhere to go since it is 1,290 feet below sea level. So you can see Basically, the water's just gotta sit there. So in the 60 miles from the Sea of Galilee, the ground only drops about 600 feet. But from beginning to end, the Jordan River and the lakes it runs into are in a huge ravine. This this ravine running the whole length of the Jordan River. And the sides of this ravine often have heights of around 3,300 feet. So we're talking about 4,000 foot drops from the top of the hill down to where the water is. In comparison, the Grand Canyon drops 6,000 feet. So we're talking about a huge valley The problem that creates is that the wind follows that valley and creates fierce storms very quickly. It's like a big funnel for the wind. The winds in that area, from what I understand, can be horrendous. The Sea of Galilee is 13 miles long and eight miles wide at its widest point. From where the disciples were to where they were going would have been likely less than four miles. For these fishermen, that would not have seemed like a big deal. So it was after a hard day's ministry that they set out. And there appears to be one large boat with several smaller boats based on all of the the stories told about this. Jesus was transported just as he was. He was in a boat, he was talking, and then they they just left. So it was probably in a small boat that may not have been well suited for open water There were no preparations made. They simply took the boat Jesus was in and started across the lake at night. Then verse 37, and a great windstorm arose and the waves beat into the boat so that it was already filling. The word for storm means a whirlwind or a squall. So there was a storm with a great deal of wind, and it arose very quickly The wind created white caps and the waves were crashing over the side of the boat. This is a very bad situation Boats are designed to keep people above water. If the boat sinks, they're going to be stranded miles from shore in the water with the cran with the waves crashing over them. This is potentially life-threatening. Now let's think about this. This was real danger. This wasn't imagined danger. This was real. These disciples were not imagining a bad situation that they might possibly face in the future. They were looking at a real life scary situation that they were right in the middle of. Storms like this have a great potential of killing people in boats. These fishermen knew what danger looked like. They were accurately assessing their situation. This storm could kill them. When I read this story, some questions immediately come to mind. First, why did Christ create this situation? Why did Christ uh allow this event, uh walk into this situation? The second, why did Christ show no empathy for these guys' fears? He shows none Third, when is a smart fear not a smart fear? And fourth, where is the line when a fear becomes sin? We'll look at the rest of this text for the answers, but we'll start with the first question now. Why did Christ put these men in this situation? We can safely assume that Christ knew exactly what would happen when he told his disciples that he wanted to cross the lake. He knew they'd be moving right into the middle of that storm. Alright, now was Christ punishing these men for their sin? There's no evidence anywhere that that's the case We'll find that often God brings storms into our lives, and they are not because of any sin that we have committed. In fact, often they're a result of faithfulness. These men were dedicated to following Christ. If not, they would not have even been in that storm. But what had the disciples been hearing all that day? They were hearing about the kingdom of God. Well, Christ does now in the disciples' lives what he will often do in our lives. He's testing their faith. He's placing them in a situation where they will see how they will apply what they have just learned. Too often we think that if we can just get truth into our heads, we're doing pretty well. But knowledge by itself will just swell our opinions of ourselves. We'll think that we're something that we are not. But trials now, they show us the truth about what we really are and the truth about what we really believe. It doesn't matter how many multiple choice questions we get right on a theology test. What matters is what's squeezed out of us when hard times fall on us. And make no mistake, what comes out is what you are. Trials don't make you, they reveal you. So this storm was designed to display to the disciples what they really believe about the sermons that Christ has been preaching and teaching. What do the trials in your life display about your beliefs? Verse 38. But Christ was in the stern, asleep on a pillow. And they awoke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? Well. So Christ is asleep in the back of the boat and he has a pillow at least. You know, you're kinda comforted when you read that. Well at least he had a pillow. And and he must be absolutely exhausted from the work that he was doing all day or he wouldn't be sleeping through the middle of a storm Then the disciples woke him and said, please, Lord, could you do something about this situation? Because your life is in danger. No, no, that's nothing like what they said. They said, teacher, don't you care that we're perishing? Now, why in the world would they say that? Why would they assign a negative motive to something as harmless as sleeping? All he was doing was sleeping. Well, why do we do the same thing to God on a regular basis? Why, when we're facing a trial, when we're facing a hard time, when we're suffering, are we so quick to accuse God of not caring? Is there any of us who have never done this? Is there any of us who have not harbored a grudge against God because we've had to face things that we did not want to face? Is there any of us who have not ascribed this same motive to God, even though the only evidence we had before us is that life in this world is difficult? How often have we accused God of not caring? How many times have we accused God of being less than loving because even though He could do something to take away our pain He isn't doing it yet. That's all these disciples were doing. They were just doing what's common to our old flesh They were saying, since you're not doing what we think you should be doing, you must not care about us. Now the disciples and we at Ferndale Church both need to remember something. Christ came to this earth, lived, suffered, and died because he does care. In fact, no one ever has Or ever will love us like Christ has. So all of our accusations against him are doubly obnoxious. It doesn't matter what crisis you face, it doesn't matter what pain you feel, it doesn't matter what circumstance God has led you to. He does love you if you are his child. That has not changed, that will not change. He promises it will never change Think about this. How would your life change? And how would your relationship with God change? If each time you faced a difficulty, your first assumption was that God loved you. What would change if you believed each situation you find yourself in is of God's choosing because He wants to make you holy? Because he wants to prepare you for living in his family forever. How would your responses change? How would your emotions eventually change? We're not talking about some fake positive positive thinking trick here. We're talking about a reality. God has good plans for his children. He says so. God's primary motivation toward his children is love. He says so. He is always looking out for our long-term best interests, even in those times when we cannot see how that possibly can be true. What would have happened here if the disciples would have assumed Christ's love? Might they have been able to avoid their sarcasm? Maybe they could have avoided projecting their evil motivations onto Christ. And maybe, just maybe, they could have actually had peace in the storm. The peace that only comes from trusting God. Maybe they could have woken up Christ and simply said, We're in need. We know you have a plan. We know we can trust you. So please help us to do what you want us to do here, Lord. Now, if you were Christ, wouldn't that have been a far sweeter thing to wake up to? How long will it take us to trust Christ as our first reaction? How many times will he have to prove his love before we finally believe his love? Well, once they got Christ's attention, in about the most negative way they could, Christ gets into motion Verse 39, then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace be still, and the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Well, Christ stood up. He said nothing to the disciples at first He spoke to the storm. Given our text, that is evidently not what the disciples expected or were asking for. They probably expected Christ to join in their feudal attempts at keeping the boat afloat. And isn't that what we often want God to do? We want him to get with our program so he'll accomplish our plans. And he has much bigger plans than that They probably were hoping that he would bail out water out of the boat, but Christ's solutions to the problem are often not our solutions. He spoke to the storm and he rebuked it. He essentially told it to stop. He censored it severely. So first he addresses the primary issue, the wind. Then he addresses the sea Even after the wind stops blowing in a storm, it often takes a while for the waves to settle down. You're talking about billions of gallons of moving water. But Christ was not content to allow nature to take its course. He was about to command it to do what he said. And he said, Peace be still. And what happened? The wind stopped The sea still. What's described here is impossible, but it happened just the same Now, the disciples already knew that Christ had power over demons, power over sicknesses, and that he could forgive sins. But they did not know that he had the power over nature. This was something new. And they knew immediately that they were in the presence of God. Can you imagine this? The storm is so violent that you are afraid of dying in the middle of the sea. Your boat's going back and forth, you're getting splashed, the water's coming in, and it looks bad. It's a hopeless situation. And then Christ stands up and he says a few words. And it's all over. Instantly. The sea is as calm as glass with no wind at all. Eerie strikes me as the most descriptive word. Now if you've been there and you saw Christ go from being sound asleep. To telling the storm to stop, and it does, would you not feel like you had just been in the middle of a teaching lesson? Obviously, Christ could have stopped this at any moment, at any time. He could have prevented it altogether. But he didn't. He waited. He waited until the storm revealed what the disciples were made of. These guys who were arguing about who is the greatest are seen to utterly fail this test. I think they would have gotten the point rather quickly. Christ allowed this event to teach them what they are and what they need to be. Then Christ says to the disciples in verse 40, but he said to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? This point cannot be missed and there is no way to wiggle around it. Fear is the opposite of faith I think when we look at the context of the places where fear is forbidden, we find that this is not talking about the human emotion that happens when something scary occurs. For instance, do you're not sinning if you look through your screen door like Brad did and see a bear on the other side looking at you Fear is gonna happen at that at that point, and it's a natural response designed by God to save your life. It'll create a fight or flight response that's good in that situation The fear that is forbidden is the one that would control your thinking and actions based on the thing fear. It's a focus of the mind on the thing that is feared to the place that it will control your actions more than the truths or commands from God will. That's what it's talking about. Let's look at a passage that deals with fear more than most others. Matthew 10, 22 Christ is talking to his disciples, giving them a cup talk, and he says, and you'll be hated by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the end will be saved. When they persecute you in this city, flee to another. For assuredly I say to you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes. A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It's enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher and a servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more will they call those of his household? Therefore, he says, do not fear them. For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known. Whatever I tell you in the dark, speak in the light, and what you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul, but rather fear him. who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin, and not one of them falls to the ground, apart from your father's will. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. Now look at this. Is Christ saying, Don't fear this bad thing, because it could never happen to you? No, he's not saying that at all. In fact, he's essentially saying it's likely that they will hurt you if given half a chance. They they intend to do this harm to you. Well then, wouldn't we be stupid to not fear it? No. No. In this sense, there is no smart fear except the fear of God. There's no smart fear except the fear of God. Isn't that the problem we have? We think that all of our fears are smart. We think they're informed. We think they're intelligent. And all of that is a very good reason, we think, to be afraid. But Christ says otherwise. He said, Do not fear them. Why? Because they cannot do you ultimate harm. And they also cannot do you ultimate good. They're limited in their scope to killing you. But this life, this life, is not the top priority. Seeking first the kingdom of God is the top priority And Christ is the only one who can grant access or deny access to the kingdom of God. Christ is the only one who you are smart to fear. Ultimately, there is only one intelligent fear. It's the fear of God. Christ said to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? Now, what did the disciples know in our text? Well, they knew Jesus told them that they were going to the other shore. He didn't say, let's go halfway across the lake, guys, and die in a storm. He said, let's go to our destination on the other shore. So they had his word. They also had his presence in the boat. Did they really think anything was going to happen to Christ? Didn't they know by now that his mission would succeed? And third, Christ showed them by his example what he thought of the storm. He was at peace. That should have been a clue to the disciples about the reality of their situation. But what did they focus on? Their circumstances. And what do we so frequently focus on? Our circumstances. They focused on what they thought made sense, what they thought was true. Why wasn't Christ more compassionate to them than he was? After all, this was a deadly storm. Weren't they right to respond in fear, to let fear grip them and control them? No, they weren't. The issue is faith. You cannot have fear of circumstances and faith in Christ at the same time. You can have all kinds of human feelings, but you cannot have the kind of fear that grips you and controls you and have faith at the same time. Why? Faith in Christ involves trusting God's character enough to believe that he will deliver on all of his promises. It's trusting in him to take care of you. It 's trusting that he knows what he is doing with your life. It's trusting that he will cause all things to work out for the good of every believer. Fear says otherwise. Fear believes the opposite. Fear believes that if I cannot control it with my own hand, there is no safety. There is no security. Fear believes that only those things I can control can be trusted. And therefore I am not safe in those things I cannot control. So I fear them. Fear is a stab into the back of all the promises of God. Fear tells God that his promises are no good and ultimately he is no good at his word. That is what fear is What are you afraid of this morning? What fears grip you? What fears won't let you sleep or eat What fears won't let you be joyful or be real? What fears make you hide things? What can you not expose to anyone due to fear? Fear of God is the only smart fear. It's the only faithful fear. In most other instances, we're commanded, not requested, not suggested, but we are commanded not to fear. We can't play with our fears. We can't accept them as a necessary part of our lives. We must deal with them And trusting God's word and trusting God's promises will free us from those fears. Ultimately, faith in God will take away the power of those fears to control us, and that is a wonderful thing. This is the process of sanctification that we're to be very, very active in. We're to be replacing the thoughts that would cause us to fear and that would excuse our fear. With truths from God's word that will free us from our fear. Paul tells us in 2 Timothy 1:7 , For God has not given us a spirit of fear. He didn't give it to us. But of power and of love and of sound mind. If we have a spirit of fear and lack love and a sound mind , It's not something we've received as a gift from God's hand that did not come from God at all. God doesn't give that kind of mindset Let's look at where Christ taught about worry, which is ultimately fear. Luke 12, 22. Then he said to his disciples, Therefore I say to you. Don't worry about your life, what you'll eat, or about the body what you will put on. Life is more than food and the body is more than clothing. Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which have neither storehouse nor barn. And God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds? And which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his stature? If you then are not able to do the least, why are you anxious for the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothes the grass, which today is in the field and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? And do not seek that which you should eat or what you should drink or nor have an anxious mind. For all these things the nations of the world seek after, and your Father knows that you need these things. But seek the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added to you. Do not fear, little flock. For it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Why shouldn't we fear? Because nothing other than God can do us ultimate harm, and nothing other than God can do us ultimate good. Now let's finish our text, verse 41. And the disciples feared exceedingly and said to one another, Who can this be that even the wind and the sea obey him? Someone gave this quote and I really liked it. The only thing scarier than the storm outside your boat is God inside your boat. Now the disciples got a glimpse of who is worthy of fear. They used to think the winds and the waver were the issue until they saw the one who speaks commands to the winds and the waves. They were getting the perspective of faith. Can you imagine how awestruck these guys would have been? It's hard for us to imagine how slow these guys were to pick up on just who Christ was But we see it looking back. We get to read the history. We weren't in the boat, and maybe that's good. It's much easier for us. We might think that these guys should have not been surprised by Christ's actions But if we were there, we would probably have been just like him. The disciples did not miss the enormity of what Christ did. It it really was amazing. It was proof that he was God. And there's no way to present this story as anything other than either an outright lie or solid proof of Christ as the controller of the universe. Now, I'd like to make two more observations. The first is that there was no faith required for this miracle to take place. There are some who would say that God will not do anything on our behalf if we do not have faith. It's very clear here that none of these men were exhibiting faith, but Christ did the miracle perfectly fine without it. God's movements are not limited by man's faith. They're limited by God's will. Essentially, God does what he wants to do. The last observation is that our greatest problems are not those things that are outside. They are those things that are inside. We find in our text this morning that the big issue was not the storm. It was the fear. It was the lack of faith. In fact, God is using the things on the outside to reveal the things on the inside. Most of our problems are not on the outside, they are on the inside. God in his love for us will arrange our life circumstances to display where we lack faith. He'll bring it to our attention. You may be facing something that's very difficult this morning. Keep in mind, from the perspective of eternity, the thing that matters most is your faith. You may be tempted to fear. You may be tempted to despair. Keep in mind God could remove this circumstance with a word from his lips. If you're facing it, it's for your good. So trust God in this situation, and He will make of it something good for you in eternity. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word and we thank you that it doesn't hold any hold back any punches. We thank you that it showed the disciples just as they are and By extension it shows shows us just as we are. But we thank you, Lord, that in the midst of it we hear your word, we see what you say. And we know that we can cling to you for our very lives. And that you are the only smart person to fear. That you alone are worthy of honor and praise and glory, and you alone are worthy of fear. Lord, we ask that you would help us to honor you by taking control of our thoughts and by believing your word and your promises in the places where it's hardest for us to do so. Whether that be fear or any other temptation that we have to think wrongly. We ask that you would help us to be sanctified by believing you and by showing you the honor that you deserve by believing you even when it is the toughest. And that we would exhibit your glory by our worship that shows that we believe you in the day-to-day events. We ask these things in Jesus' name we command