In Sunday school last week, we discussed Matthew 18, and that's, like Brad said, the parallel passage to Mark 9, which is where we're at in our text But uh Matthew 18 has a whole lot of additional material, and I thought we would uh take a look at it this morning, since the teaching in it is so important if we want to understand what Jesus was fully teaching about about his kingdom in the book of Mark. Remember that what we've seen so far in the book of Mark, we see Jesus talking about his upside-down kingdom. Who is the greatest in that kingdom? It's the one with the least status. In fact, it's the one who sees himself as the servant of the one with the least status. Then Jesus talks about why the least of these are important. They're important because God values them That's the only importance that we really have. Our value, other than that, is pretty pretty small, actually. Maybe we have a few bucks worth of elements in our system. That maybe they could farm out of us. Maybe our body parts might have some value. But other than that, we can be stripped of all of our value in this world of men that we live in. But from God's perspective, every child of his has great worth. How do we know? How do we know that his children are valuable? We know by the value of what God spent to save us. His Son, he of greatest worth was paid for us to save us. We can't miss the point of the value that he assigned to every every person who would ever come to him through the price that he paid for them. Then remember, we were told how dastardly it is when someone does harm to one of the least of these. That was a large part of what Mark 9 said. Why? Again, because the Father values them. It would be better to meet sudden death or mutilation than to be found guilty of harming one of God's little ones, one of his children, and that's his imagery. That's where our text in Matthew comes in to add what Mark has already told us. All of this teaching was one single whole. So in Matthew 18, verse 10 and 11, take heed that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven. For the Son of Man has come to say that which was lost. Jesus was continuing with the same thought The greatest Christian is the one who most selflessly takes care of another brother or sister that has no natural status. That's someone who they have nothing to profit from selfishly. Now, Jesus states that same idea that he's been talking about, and he puts it in the negative. He says, first you should serve him or her, now you must not despise that person. Which is the opposite of valuing them. You must treat them as being valuable. You must not treat them as being worthless. That's essentially what this means. And why? He goes on, that in heaven their angels always see the face of my father who is in heaven. You see what this is saying? Everything about salvation comes back to God. We value believers because God values believers. Angels serve God's bidding. We have that teaching in and in and out of Scripture, uh, you know, all through the book. One of their primary responsibilities is to look out for believers. That's usually where they show up in the Bible, in the stories. They go straight from looking into God's face for direction to serving the needs of believers. They're servants that get their marching orders directly from God. And they serve believers. From that, we don't have to work hard at all to figure out that Christians are important to God. Then second, we see that not only are the angels appointed to serve believers, we're told this in verse 11, for the Son of Man has come to save that which is lost. The Son of Man, Jesus himself was sent to save sinners. He was sent for the least of these that Christ was talking about. What Jesus is calling us here to is to see everything from God's perspective. We're to see this thing we call Christianity from God's perspective It's all about God. We often get that out of perspective. We get to thinking it's all about us Or it's all about those who have not yet heard Christ or heard of Christ. Or it's all about those who have decided against Christ. But those are all wrong. It's all about God and what God wants and about who God is. And all of that makes perfect sense when Christ goes on to talk about sin. What is sin, anyway, but a violation against God? All sin is sin, primarily because of how it relates to God. How it affects others is a secondary consideration. The first consideration is how it reflects upon the glory of God. That's why David could say, against you and you alone I have sinned, when he obviously had sinned against Uh Uriah or Uzziah or whichever one it is. Now, Jesus moves on to showing us again how believers are valued in verse 12. And he says, what do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine and go to the mountains to seek the one that's stray? That's shepherding 101. And if he should find it, assuredly I say to you, he rejoices more over that sheep than over the ninety-nine that did not go astray Even so, it's not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. Now, in context, he is talking about believers. And he's talking about them straying in this illustration, and then the shepherd going out and getting that sheep and bringing them back in. Now, why would Jesus have said this? What was the point he's making? It's very clear that the emphasis is that every person who responds to the love of God Every person who sees their sin and their helpless position before God and calls out to God to save them, everyone who understands that their sin requires a just death penalty before God Everyone who receives the penalty that Christ paid on the cross for them, every one of these people. Has great value to God, just as every sheep has great value to a shepherd. And we can't miss that it's the attitude of the shepherd that assigns the value to the sheep. It's not that them that that the sheep themselves hold such an intrinsic value. Our society wants to hang on to that like crazy. The humanist perspective is that we are all wonderful blossoming flowers who were born to grow up into beautiful things. and that we are valuable in in the in the essence that we exist. That is not what you get from the pages of Scripture The shepherd determines that the sheep are worth his sacrifice, and he leaves them Leaves the others to get them. And once he goes, he feels elated when he finds them and rescues them. When you get discouraged, think about this We are the source of the Good Shepherd's pleasure. We are the source of the Good Shepherd's pleasure. When we're brought back into his kingdom, It gives him great joy. When we stray and are brought back, we give him pleasure. When we are brought in for the first time, it gives him pleasure. When you begin to think that your life has no value, consider this. If you feel that you are not at all important, consider this. If you are a believer, you are valued by God. He has placed a value on you. If you're in his kingdom, you are there because he has chosen you. He has decided that he wants you there. We gotta look in the mirror sometimes and think, why? What kind of deal is he after? I mean, he's not getting very much when he gets me But he it doesn't matter. He has placed value on everyone that he's going to bring to himself. And every other believer is in that same state. And we need to be careful with one another. Because we are all valued by God. That's why it's so important that we treat each other the way Christ wants us to. Now, next we're going to be told about how this process of rescuing sheep gets done in real life. How does it happen in our day-to-day existence? We move from the figurative language about a sheep and a shepherd to how the church is supposed to operate. Verse 15. Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you've gained your brother But if you will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and a tax collector Assuredly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you that if two or three If that if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven, for where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them. So When one of the sheep stray away, how are they brought back? Like this. And then he goes on to tell us. First notice that it says if your brother sins against you. In some translations it just says if your brother sins. And there are other places in Scripture that that cover this. So sometimes fellow believers will sin against us. We don't need to throw up our hands aghast. That is what is going to happen with humans who are believers who live with each other. Sometimes they'll just sin. It's not against us, but we know that they're sinning. We know that they're doing something wrong. Either way, when they do, it creates an obligation upon us if we know it. And it's odd how God goes about showing other believers about other believers' sins. He makes appointments that sometimes we would prefer not to take, but he gives them to us anyway. Now First, we have to determine what sin is. This does not say if a person offends you. It doesn't say if that person is brash. It doesn't say they didn't greet you in a friendly manner or that they don't respond to you the way socially you would prefer that they do. This determination has nothing to do with how socially adapted the offender is. We as followers of Christ have got to understand Scripture We have got to be able to define sin as Scripture defines sin. Probably all of us grew up having picked up some ideas about things that we thought were sins. But we found out that the Bible doesn't call them sins. And probably all of us grew up thinking nothing of some behaviors and attitudes that we carry that are clearly sin. But we just didn't know it. We didn't see that in Scripture. So we can't trust our sensibilities to make this determination. We can't respond according to how it makes me feel. We need to use our heads and look at what Scripture says and says, is this a sin or not? We have to know what Scripture says. We have to define the terms Before we go to a brother or sister to deal with their sin, we should know for sure what Scripture says about it. Sometimes we need correct it. about how we define things. Now, even as we begin talking about this, we can know right off the bat that this kind of dealing with fellow Christians about sin isn't popular. In fact, we've all heard the passage quoted out of context. I don't know how many times I've heard it. Judge not that ye be not judged We're told that this means that it's none of our business when our b brothers or sisters live in sin. Just oddly enough, Christ said it is. Our culture is quickly losing the idea of what even sin is. There's little consciousness of things being wrong because for for the only reason being, our Creator says they are. Now that's understandable, but for the church to reach the same state is a different matter. That's an absolute tragedy This is what one writer states about the current state of the church. His name is Richard Lovelace. And he writes, the whole church was avoiding the biblical portrait of the sovereign and holy God who was angry with the wicked every day. and whose anger remains upon those who will not rip receive his son. Walling off this image into an unvisited corner of his consciousness The church substituted a new God who was the projection of grandmotherly kindness mixed with the gentleness and winsomeness of a Jesus who hardly needed to die for our sins. Many American congregations were, in effect, paying their ministers to protect them from the real God. It's partially responsible not only for the general spiritual collapse of a church in this century, but also for a great deal of evangelistic weakness. For in a world in which the sovereign and holy God regularly employs plagues, famines, wars, disease, and death as instruments to punish sin and to bring mankind to repentance, The idolatrous image of God as pure benevolence cannot really be believed, let alone feared and worshipped in the manner prescribed by both the Old and New Testament. Sin is a big deal. And we can't treat it like it isn't. It is such a big deal that it cost Jesus death on the cross. So when we see sin in each other, we can't brush it aside. We've got to define it properly. But when it's defined properly, we must move on that information. We must pursue the one that departs the 99 others. We've got to make it our business to do something to rescue that person from the danger of their own decisions. So we as believers must understand that sin is a big deal. We must be able to define it as God defines it, and then we're to move on it if we see a brother in that danger. Verse 15, moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. So, what do we do? Okay? We're in this position. We see a sheep in danger, essentially. We see somebody who is choosing to live in sin. Should we wait until that brother comes to us? Should we wait until that brother comes to himself? No. We are to serve the least of these as if we are the lesser. We are to move for their benefit, even at our discomfort. We're to take the action that's needed. We go. And on top of that, we tell him his fault privately. While studying, I read a comment by somebody saying essentially that the church of today has for the most part given up going to our brothers and sisters and telling them about their sin privately. But our tendency has not changed from uh it has changed more toward not telling our brothers but we tell everybody else I don't think what Christ is saying here is forbidding us from talking to someone wiser than us to get advice as to how to approach certain situations when someone's sinning. Sometimes that's called for. But it's very clear that this should only be done in order to better obey what Christ says here. We do everything in our power to keep another person's sin private. We attempt to keep others from knowing it, if at all possible. We try to keep it private. We treat others the way that we would like to be treated. None of us wants our sin paraded in front of everybody else There's no room for gossip or slander in that process. We should not make it any harder for that person to confess, repent, or change than it has to be. So we go to that person individually and privately. And at this point we tell him his fault. We disclose the truth about the other person's behavior and the truth about what God says about it. This will only have one of a few outcomes. There isn't an endless possibility here. The first is you'll find out that you're right about the other person's sin, and the person that you are talking to will hear what you're saying. Will recognize their sin and respond correctly. That is always the desired outcome. That's what we're doing it for. That's what we want to see. That's what we're praying for. Remember, we're always trying to bring that person back into a proper relationship with Christ. That's always the proper goal and motivation for this kind of activity. Our passage tells us that if this is the outcome, if our brother repents of that sin that we bring to his attention, if he hears you, you've gained your brother, it says. What this means is that the effort has had the desirable effect, the desirable outcome. It's like gaining a sheep that is strayed and bringing them back to the flock We've gained our brother and we rejoice. That's a wonderful outcome. The second possibility is that you'll find out that you are wrong about the person's sin. And that the person has not committed the sin that you think they're guilty of. I find that that's the case more often than what we would think. All of us who are married know what it is to assume an evil motive in our spouses. And we approach them with that assumption. We're just dead sure that they have done this thing and they have done it wrongly. And we find out that their motive was completely different. than what we expected. I find it best, and this is out of experience mostly, is to start the process of reconciliation with questions To make sure that we have the facts straight. We rarely need to bring out the big canons right away. We always feel like we have to, but we very rarely need to. We'll often find out that we don't need them at all So going to that person and dealing with them privately will sometimes save us embarrassment. By dealing with that person privately, we'll find out that we were completely wrong about the situation and no harm will be done to either party. The third outcome is we'll find out that we're right about the person's sin, but the other person has not yet come to the realization of that sin. This allows us to have a meaningful conversation about them, showing them from God's word that they're displeasing their master that they are trying to please. That's a good outcome. It increases fellowship between believers while learning and submitting to Scripture together. The fourth outcome will be that we find out that we're right about the person's sin and we'll find out our brother needs help. In fighting that sin, that maybe they're completely aware of the sin, they're trying to deal with it, but they need help. That's often true with addictions of any kind So our our effort to confront them will serve a useful service in getting our brother the help they need because God called us to that appointment. And now we're involved in the process and we're saying, you know what? I will do anything I can do to help you to stop doing this. Or or on the other side to do the right thing that you you should be doing, but you're not This again is a very good outcome of this process. And the last outcome is the most dismal We confront our brother, a brother who says they want to follow Christ more than anything else in life, only to find out that they either will not admit that they are wrong or that they simply prefer their sin Over an unhindered relationship with Christ and his family. That is an awful outcome. That is never the outcome that we hope to see. That is always a cause for deep grief in our souls as we experience that sort of thing. This should hurt. If it doesn't, we don't have the right attitude about why we're doing the activity in the first place. Nothing is worse than finding out a brother might not be a brother. Nothing is worse than seeing a brother choosing the enemy's territory. This is how Dietrich Bonhoeffer describes the process, mostly when things go well, but it talks about the reason why this is so important. He says in the book Life Together, sin demands to have a man by himself. It withdraws him from the community. The more isolated a person is, the more destructive will be the power of sin over him, and the more deeply he becomes involved in it, the more disastrous is his isolation. So it's cyclical. Sin wants to remain unknown. It shuns the light. In the darkness of the unexpressed, it poisons the whole being of a person. This can happen even in the midst of a pious community. In confession, the light of the gospel breaks into the darkness and seclusion of the heart. The sin must be brought into the light The unexpressed must be openly spoken and acknowledged. All that is secret and hidden is made manifest. It is a hard struggle until sin is openly admitted. But God breaks the gates of brass and bars of iron Since the confession of sin is made in the presence of a Christian brother, the last stronghold of self-justification is abandoned. The sinner surrenders. He gives up his evil. He gives his heart to God, and he finds the forgiveness of all of his sin in the fellowship of Jesus Christ and his brother. The expressed, acknowledged sin has lost all of its power. It has been revealed and judged as sin. It can no longer tear the fellowship asunder Now the fellowship bears the sin of the brother. He is no longer alone with his evil, for he has cast off his sin from him. Now he stands in the fellowship of sinners who live by the grace of God and the cross of Jesus Christ. The sin is concealed, separated from him, separated him. The sin concealed separated him from the fellowship. made all his apparent fellowship a sham. The sin confessed has helped him define true fellowship with the brethren in Jesus Christ. We've probably all observed that many in our culture they paint an odd view of Christianity. They think that Christians are self-righteous snobs. They think that we think of ourselves as being morally superior to everybody else. And surely there are many who name the name of Christ who are that way, who honestly do view themselves as being better than everybody else. But the great irony Is that anyone who understands their salvation to any depth at all sees themselves this way? We think sin in others is a big deal. But it's only because we have seen and experienced what a big deal it is in our lives. Every believer has come to grips with the sins that he or she has committed and the sinner that he or she is. He has understood that God in his holiness has every right to punish that sin and he is certain to do so. It's at that point that a believer calls out to God for the only rescue from sin, the only one available. And this rescue comes in the penalty that Jesus Christ has already paid for sin. Christ died as the just penalty for the sins of everyone who would ever call upon him. Salvation is gained not by being morally superior, there is no true Christian who ever believes that. Salvation is gained by confessing our moral failure and receiving Christ's death in our place The great irony is that the more a per a person appreciates his Savior, the more he recognizes his own sinfulness. That's why Paul could say, who we regard as being one of the greatest Christians ever living Paul called himself the chief of the sinners. He was the captain of it. He was the best sinner ever born. That's how he regarded himself. But what the world can't understand is that calling people to the same cure means telling the truth about how God used sin. And that's not good news and it never will be. But it must be told if we love those who are not aware of their impending doom, just as you would tell a neighbor if their house is on fire and they're inside of it. So we can see just how important this process is. But when it does not have the desired result of gaining our brother, we're given a few more instructions. And we have to keep in mind that every step of this process is to gain the same result. Reconciliation. That's what we want. Reconciliation. So uh we've read this a couple of times. If he doesn't hear, take one or two more so that the the witness can be established. If he refuses to hear, tell it to the church. If he refuses to hear the church, Let him be like a heathen and a tax collector. Well, if step if step one is unsuccessful, it won't bring that strain sheep in, then we go to step two. Step two essentially confirms That the facts are as the person in step one says they are. The second person goes along to confront the offender in order to verify that one, the sin was properly identified. Two, the proper presentation of the facts and solutions were given. And three, the offender again is encouraged to repent. This step makes sure there's no misunderstanding. That's what this step does. It verifies the facts. It's not until this step is complete and the offender still won't repent that the sin is reported to the church. It's important that such a big thing would not be presented to the church when it was a simple misunderstanding. Step two keeps that from happening. If it reaches step three, it's because step three is fully warranted at that point. Now, what's step three? Notice how it's worded. But if he refuses even to hear the church, then let the next step happen. Refuses to hear. It's very easy to see that what's implied in this is the rest of the church is talking. The rest of the church is talking. The rest of the church is appealing to this brother to repent. to confess for his sins and turn from it. Now, I've heard it, you know, I've thought of it myself as this is some kind of like a business meeting where you pull everybody together and you pr m from the pulpit the a pronouncement is made and and uh then uh that person is booted Well, this is going to look more like a barn raising than a business meeting. When this is announced to the church as a whole, what this is intended to accomplish is to get everybody in the church activated. to get everyone in the church to approach that person in an effort to get them to repent, in an effort to win them back. It's a full court press by the church. That's what it's That's what it's intended for. That's how it should look. It's appealing to every spiritual gift in the church to go after that person. to win them back. It's using every possible effort to bring that straying sheep home. And if that effort fails, nothing's going to succeed. The attitude behind this is still clear. Everyone is working to bring this person back into fellowship. This is not an effort to throw that worthless bum out. It's to bring the precious brother back. Now what happens if step three fails? It says let him be like a heathen and a tax collector. So how do we treat heathens and tax collectors? I mean, I don't speak fondly of tax collectors, but I don't hate them either. Are we to hate them? No. Are we to treat them disdainfully or with disgust? No But they're no longer an insider. They're no no longer family members. We treat that person in a way that they clearly understand that that person is not right with God. They need to get right with God. We don't treat them as if they are safe in the Father's hand. They are not. They are in danger of his judgment, and we fear for them. We'll no longer have close communion with them. We'll no longer welcome them as we had into our fellowship when they profess Christ. They're no longer considered as one of the flock. And even that, we learn in Corinthians, is intended to have an effect that will cause that person to miss the family of believers, to miss what they had. To miss that fellowship. We must all understand that while God values the fellowship of his children, God will never violate his holiness. In order to include them in his presence, there will be no sin allowed in eternity. And those who choose to love sin more than God will not be found there. God will not compromise. Sin is a stench in his nose. I was at the eastern shore this week and I was fishing with uh some several-day old shrimp And it really smelled bad and I thought sin smells worse. It smells worse to God. He simply will not have it in his presence. Christ died to save us from our sin. Christ died to take that away so we can have fellowship with Him. If we reject the only sacrifice. All we're left with is our sin. And if we're committed to sin, if we're committed to living our way, if we will not receive Jesus Christ as the Lord of every part of us, we prove that we are not his. Now Jesus goes on to describe what's going on in the spiritual realm when the above steps are happening in the physical, and I'll close as quickly as I can. Assuredly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and what you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. MacArthur explains this in as good a terms as I've seen. And I'm just going to read a little bit of what he says. The rabbis sometimes spoke of a principle or action as being bound in heaven or loosed in heaven. To indicate, respectively, that it was forbidden or permitted in light of God's revealed word. So this loosing or uh or binding has to do with an application of God's word A Jew of that day would have understood that Jesus didn't mean that you can bend heaven's will to our will. So basically we're tying God's hands by what we do. That's not what's intended The grammatical construction in the passage clarifies its meaning. And it says, shall be bound and shall be loosed. But that's a future perfect passive. And actually what it means is will have been bound and will have been loosed. The idea is not that God is compelled to conform to our church's decisions, but when the church follows Christ's pattern for discipline, It conforms to decisions to what God has already done. So we are pronouncing things that God has already done. And uh if a person has received Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, the church can tell him with perfect confidence that his sins are loosed That is forgiven, because he has met God's condition for forgiveness, namely thus to trust in his son. If, on the other hand, a person refuses to receive Christ as Savior and acknowledge him as Lord, the church can tell him with equal confidence that his sins are bound, that is, not forgiven, because he has not met God's condition. for forgiveness. Then a little later the word agree , it's interesting if if two or three agree. That's from the word symphonio Which means literal means to sound together and it's the term that we get symphony from. If even two of Jesus' followers are in agreement with each other that a sinning believer has either repented or refused to repent They can be sure that they are also in agreement with the Father who is in heaven. So can you see what it's saying? It's not saying that the church is pulling off this stuff, deciding things, and now God's bound by it. And the other a the other way is saying, if the church comes together and does things God's way, they will prove, they will show what God has already determined to be the truth. Now I think the application for us this morning is pretty clear. There's a couple of them, but we can't idly stand by. When brothers or sisters are sinning and we know it. And we can't take our own sin lightly, for certain. If there is a sin, it's usually a habitual sin, that we refuse to stop We need help. We might or we must reach out for that help. We've got to do anything we can to rid ourselves of sinful living. And if there's a brother who is sinning, we've got to reach out to help. We've got to drop whatever comfort we like and do this necessary thing for that person's salvation It requires intentional movement. We can't be content to allow in our camp the very thing that Christ died for. And as I'm going through this, uh I'm not trying to say that, I mean, we all live in a sinful existence and we're all aware of sins that we commit and we confess. and that sort of thing. What this is talking about is somebody who's committed to this sin. Who they are doing it on a regular basis or they they have chosen a path and they will not let it go and you know it's sinful. That's what this is referring to. All of us sin and all of us deal with sin every single day of our lives. So anyway, we can't be content to leave a brother going in the direction of a commitment to sin. And the other application is if you have never received what Jesus Christ did for you to count for you, do it today. Sin is damning, and God makes no apologies for that. He offers you salvation through the sacrifice that his son provided. Believe upon him and call out to him today for the salvation that he offers you. It is only in Jesus that the forgiveness of sin is found. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you that you value your children. Like Brad said earlier, we don't know why. It's not of us. We know ourselves too well. But that you choose to love us is an astounding thing. We ask that you would help us to honor you. By ridding sin of our lives and by helping our brothers and sisters to rid the sin of theirs. And that we would be courageous in that attempt, no matter what it requires of us. And that we would be diligent in it as well. And Lord, we ask if there's anyone here who has not received the wonderful gift that you have offered. The forgiveness of sin based on Christ's death on the cross, that they would have it for their own today. And that they would walk in you in the full assurance of forgiveness and relationship and value. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.