Good morning. Good morning. Hope you slept well. Good to be back here with you this morning as we I'll step into part two of our series on being doers of the word. Open again with the song, a couple lines from Brother Spain. uh which we sang last night. This is how you know a brother's faith is true by what he says and what he will do. Do you believe the things that Jesus said are true. Do you love your brothers when it costs you too? Do you do we uh do something With what we hear from the Word of God. So we opened last night from James chapter 1, where James says, But be doers of the word Not hearers only, deceiving yourself. Well if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like a man who looks intently at his natural face in the mirror For when he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like, but the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, the word of God, and perseveres Being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. We said last night that the normative way that that's played out for Christ followers, for Christians, for those who claim allegiance to Jesus, for those who would confess him as Lord That service in the context of the church, of the local church, is the normative place where that is played out and ripples out from there. So we're going to spend some time this morning looking specifically at the church and in a sense backfilling, giving some broader context to some of the things we talked about last night in regards to service. in the church and as a church. So let me pray. We'll get into it. Father, thank you so much for this day that you've given us. Thank you for. A good night's rest. Thank you for the reminder, Lord, that we are not self-sufficient, that we need rest. We need Food. We need things outside of ourselves to be sustained. Father, thank you for these simple but powerful reminders that we are not you Lord, that we are in need of other things to sustain us, Father. And as we look today at community and at being involved in a body, being a part of a body Your church, Father, your bride. Lord, let us wrestle with and grasp, Father, in good and right ways Through the anchoring goodness of your word, through the power of your spirit, let us grasp and grapple with the fact, Father, that we need your church. You've given us your church and not as an option. but as something intrinsic to our walks with Christ. So Father, as we would look at that this morning and we would consider How in the context of your church we cannot merely be hearers of the word, though we must be hearers of your word, but that we would also be doers of your word. Father, thank you for Jesus, who has washed us, Lord, as we see in white as snow, has taken the crimson stain of our sin. And washed us, Lord, that we might come before you clothed in his righteousness clean because of the cross. Because of the washing, Lord, as Paul writes in Ephesians, the washing of the water of the Word. And so as we look at that today, Father, would you be pleased to open our minds to the glories of your scriptures? Set our hands to action in good ways. Lord, we pray that you would use this time for your good, for our good, for your glory. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Um I love the church. I love the church of um the vocational church person for uh 15 years now. Uh before that uh I was on staff with Campus Crusade for Christ In Argentina for about three years. It's where I met my wife, who is from Northern Virginia. The Lord was kind to place us on the same ministry team where we served together again for several years And as a parent church organization, Campus Crusade for Christ, our main sort of objective there in Argentina was to be involved in a university. in a in a large town called La Plata, where there was no uh at the time no uh evangelical Christian work or very few uh reaching out to college students So as part of what we did, part of our strategy though, it's to go and evangelize, build relationships with students. Providing some practical things like English classes, things like this, with the ultimate goal of eventually in a relational way, of sharing the gospel with them And once we did that, what we wanted to do, because we knew we were there temporarily, was uh partner with good, solid local churches to to plug them into so that they as they accepted Christ that they would have a place where they could be where they could where they could grow where they could continue to walk and live out their faith and and and my time there uh the lord used that to give me a great love and appreciation for the local churches so it's Often when I when I teach and I'm just given whatever I want to talk about, I often will come back to in some way the church. I love the church. In my office, I've got a whole shelf full of books on the church. Uh it's ridiculous in one sense how many books there are out there about church because it's like it's like music. Everybody's got an opinion uh on what church should be and how it should be done and and uh they're uh the title just the title of the books are uh sometimes amazing. I've got vintage church and simple church and everyday church and beef church irresistible church Nine Marks of the Healthy Church, Why We Love the Church. I have a book that says why we hate the Church but love Jesus There is no lack of opinion on what the church is, on why it exists, on what it has purposed to accomplish. how it should be conducted. I think you can probably put almost any noun or adjective you can think of in front of the word church. And there's probably a book with that title on it. Um being in D C D C area where uh we have a uh the church that I pastor at, one of many, uh people there who are ministering to folks. Um it's a large church and it's a very transient area. It is not homogenous at all. And so there are people from all walks of life uh in all areas of the country coming in and out uh constantly um of our uh at our area. And there are some certainly some challenges to that Uh but in one sense it gives as as someone who loves the church there's a uh I have I feel uh some sort of unique view of all these different uh opinions on what church is. Um one of the most concerning things to me today uh in North American modern Christianity, uh whatever good and bad comes with that, uh, is that I see a movement today In general, in our whole church society, to separate Christ from his church More and more as as younger generations are moving away from church because they feel it is irrelevant. Because those generations above them have failed to convey the power and importance of the bride of Christ And so a lot of young people that I interact with now do not understand. Most of you guys I think have a sense. of the weight and the value and the importance of what the church is and why Jesus has made it. But it's a rare thing if you have as telling John last night, this is my fourth year here, which is mind-boggling to me But even from the get-go, it's clear that what God has formed here is something very unique and very special. But outside of this , most people I interact with are very confused about what the church is and often very off-put. Uh it's even advocated now by and I won't even call them church leaders. I can't even call them pastors, but it's advocated now in a fairly public way that church even hinders spiritual development. And so we should maybe take a break from church to become closer to God. Now, I understand that at some level there is some twisted grounds for this mentality because there are certainly things out there that would label themselves as churches. But that are not churches. And even in good churches. Because there are people there, right? Because there are people, even good churches have hypocrisy and judgmental attitudes and doctrinal infighting and internal bickering and methods ways of doing or being church that we may or may not agree with or prefer. But the general shift away from the church in our Society is alarming because God has ordained that the church plays a major role in his great work of redemption. And so if our people, if our society, if those around us do not understand that, if they leave the church, if they separate out from the church , You leave the only institution whose mission aims at eternity And whose gospel truly is good news. And so as I want to talk about this morning, uh and what I hope we we see is that we cannot separate Christ from his church. You cannot love Jesus while disregarding his people. You cannot be a doer of the word. While disregarding God's primary vehicle for the spread and preservation of his word And yet, in many aspects, the church today has become what I would, what I tend to think of as a as a runaway bride. So we're going to turn over to Ephesians 5. Ephesians 5, we're going to start looking in verse 25 or 22 rather. Very well-known passage, maybe the clearest and most seminal passage on marriage, and yet at the end of it Paul says it's a great mystery, but I'm saying that it refers primarily to Christ and his church. So let's look at Ephesians 5. Verses 22 through 33. It says this, wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to everything, submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands Love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word of it. So that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that he might be, that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes it and cherishes it. just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife And the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound. And I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. I'm going to give you some overview thoughts on the church. And again, this is in a sense backfilling some of the stuff we talked about last night. We talked about service. doing the word within the church, but we're going to talk about some overview thoughts on the church and then move move out from there. Obviously there are a variety of ways to sort of consider what church is And in my congregation, given that there are so many people from so many different backgrounds. We want to I I I'm generally pretty I want to be fairly uh clear with them uh because you can look at church in a variety of ways. Some people will come in with certain bits, you'll look at it mainly from a historical perspective, mainly from a cultural perspective, mainly from an institutional perspective, mainly from an organizational perspective. But here, Scripture gives a powerful and clear and relational Key term that we that we're going back to, a relational portrait that guides us in how we should view The church, and that is church as bride, church as the bride of Christ. It's not all that the church is, but it's not less. And so let's look at very briefly some some sort of Church 101 basics, and then we'll get into the text. The word Paul uses here, the word I'm sure that you've heard and commonly used in the New Testament is ecclesia. It's a wide range of meaning with that word on the Greek, but it most often means assembly or called out, called out ones, those who have been called out and called into something else, called out of the normative, called out of normal, uh normative cultural societal standards and called into a gathering that is specific uh called out from what? Uh the direct physical context of the word ekklesia Indicated being called out of individual homes, individual family units, to gather and be collected together The spiritual context, 1 Peter 2. 9 tells us, uses the word called out, being called out of darkness into the marvelous light of Christ. And that these are now, that those called out ones, the Ecclesia, are living stones that now make up the church. People who know and love and follow and serve and have been saved from their sins by Jesus. People seeking to faithfully follow him And do his word, hear his word, and do his word by the power of his spirit. The word ekklesia is used approximately 114 times in the New Testament. And is employed mainly in four senses. Ecclesia. First, it represents the body of Christ worldwide. We call it the Big C church. This is The church, all believers for all time, over which the Lord God functions as head. Some examples, if you want to write them down, you can look them up later. Matthew 16, 18 Ephesians 1. 22, 1 Timothy 3. 15. This is Ecclesia in terms of Big C church. It's God's people for all time in all places. Second way this is uh employed is what we call the Little Sea Church. These are you, you are a Little Sea Church, my church, a Little Sea Church, a local church, God's people in a given specific region. Uh Acts nine thirty-one. Um third way this uh eclipse is used frequently uh depicted a local congregation of Christians in a specific city. Not just a region, but in a specific city. For reference, 1 Corinthians 1. 2, Revelation 1. 11 Could also be just a signify, a fourth, more general sense, signify a group of the Lord's people assembled for worship. And that may or may not be something that could just be 1 Corinthians 14, 34 and 35, not necessarily people tied to a legion, but just people who have gathered together in the name of the Lord. And so the word ekclecia refers to Big C Church, Church Universal, all believers for all time. God's perfect view of the church. It also refers to its local expression, the little sea church, the visible local. Expressions, the imperfect view, our imperfect view of one small portion of something much larger. That spans uh all-time existence beyond what we're able to see from our limited view. If you read any systematic theology books, most of them will define church like so. They'll say church is a biblical, grace-based Redemptive community of all true believers in Jesus Christ. It's a good general description. Church is a biblical grace-based redemptive community. of all true believers in Jesus Christ. One particular book, and I did not write down the reference, but it gave a more detailed description, I thought was really good. It said this. So the local church is a community of regenerated believers who confess Jesus Christ as Lord. In obedience to Scripture, they organize under qualified leadership. gather regularly for preaching and worship, observe the biblical sacraments of baptism and communion Are unified by the Spirit, are disciplined for holiness, and scattered to fulfill the Great Commission The Great Commandment and the Great Commission as missionaries to the world for God's glory and for their joy. It sounds piper-ish. Might have been him. There are a lot of things out there, as I said earlier though, that have the label of church. But not all of them are. But for our purposes this morning, this is what I'm speaking of when I refer to church, biblical, grace-based, redemptive community. Two believers in Jesus Christ. Gathering for worship, qualified leadership. That's what we're talking about this morning. And so despite um modern cultural protests, both the Old and New Testaments seem to assume that if you are the people of God You will intentionally assemble in some form as the church. You will be in communion. This is a visible, physical assembly, whether at the temple in the Old Testament or in homes or assembly halls in the New Testament. Structured under qualified leadership. I don't see followers of Jesus in the scriptures expressing the modern notion of, well, it's just me and Jesus kind of thing. What I do see is the people of God first coming together in assembly and then loving each other as an outward and visible expression of their love for Christ And so they come together, but then they disperse and love those around them so as to draw them into the gospel And subsequently draw them into the redemptive, grace-based community of the church. And so I think uh to to consider rightly about the church is to think in terms of community, to think corporally Corp. That's where we get the word corpse. Corpse means body. And so when we see when we think in corporately about the church, we're using the terminology that Paul uses here, that this is a body. Many parts coming together to make up a whole. So to say that involvement in a local church community is somehow not important or to some to say that it is somehow uh not Or or or to say that it is optional seems fairly contradictory to the scriptures. The local church is designed to faithfully point to and represent the Big Sea Church. And that is very important. So we're a part of the Little Sea Church, but part of what the Little Sea Church does is remind us and proclaim that there is a big sea church, that there is something much greater. going on even as a as individuals we are not meant to move in isolation as a church you are not meant to move in isolation because you are part of something much greater, much larger, much grander that the God is doing. And so the Little C church faithfully represents and points to the Big Sea Church a number of years ago, many years ago, as a newer at public speaking and and uh looser maybe with my words. Uh I gave a communion devotion to our uh at our church where I referred to the communion elements uh as as saltines and grape juice. Now they are saltines and grape juice. That's what they literally are, but it spurred a few uh concern emails uh at the time. Uh and and after I got over some youthful arrogance, uh I got the point. Because my language and my use was careless. And here's why It is. Our Canadian elements, sorry, they're saltines and grapeens. That's what we use at my church. But what I failed to do at that particular time was take into account what those elements represented. They represent the body and blood of Jesus. And so the value is not inherent in the elements themselves. Their value is in what they represent and because they are in a sense contextually joined And you can't really separate the two, and in that instance I failed to do so. And so like baptism or like communion, as we mentioned last night, the material aspects of the church. The physical gathering, the outward stuff we do, uh is not an end unto itself, though it is an important part. It's not to downplay that at all But these are means meant to display something much greater. The glory of God. And the wisdom, his wisdom, his power, his grace, his discipline, his mercy, his lordship. God often uses the material to point to the eternal. And that's what we are purposed in a nutshell, I think, as a small sea church. He's using this material thing that exists for this amount of time. To point to something much grander. That's why the heavens tell of the glory of God, Psalm 19. We look at the created material physical things around us and we see in them the invisible attributes of God. That's Romans 1. That it's so clear. That this is creation created by an eternal being whose power is made known that all men are without excuse. That's how clearly God uses material things to point to the eternal. So when we take communion, Paul says in 1 Corinthians that we proclaim the Lord's death. until he comes. It's a uh uh a uh the act of taking communion of taking these physical elements and putting them into your physical mouth and uh that that moment exists in a span of time this this short But it points to something great and eternal. It's not an end unto itself. But the material world is designed to display awesome things about God and awaken our hearts to know and treasure Him. In this context, the visible local church matters a great deal because it is meant to draw us to and point us to Jesus Christ. The imagery of church as bride is important and it's specific. There are a lot of analogies that Scripture uses for church. We see church and we see the Ecclesiah referred to as a body, as a flock, as a household, the household of God. We see it referred to as buildings or temples or tabernacles. But as we uh look at church and bride, our purpose isn't to elevate this one way scripture refers to church. We're not elevating it above The others were simply sort of positioning our limbs for a moment on this one particularly beautiful star. And so we're resting briefly this morning on a particular way of looking and thinking about the church that perhaps we I don't understand fully and at times have tended to gloss over. But again, because doing the word and hearing the word are joined together, because it is relational, I think this is one of the clearest pictures uh that that scripture paints uh in helping us grasp how to navigate that. Church as bride is an incredible and beautiful Metaphor. Church as the bride of Christ. But I mean I have to be honest to say that as I even I've been thinking about this for for a while Uh but it's there's still a part of me that has some level of difficulty uh understanding it because I have never been abroad I've never wanted to be a bride. You will not find me wearing a white dress, wouldn't look good enough. Um and in reality it's a bit of a tricky metaphor, maybe on several levels. Especially, and again, this is uh with my congregation, there's a lot of, there's a wide variety of people coming in with um very a wide spectrum of experience uh regarding marriage. And so when you start talking about church in terms of bride and uh and grooms, uh if they've had good experiences in marriage, well that's good. But for many of them who are who are deeply struggling in their marriages or who have grown up in in broken homes who the context of brides and grooms and seeing uh having a destructive experience with that. And so this is not a positive metaphor for many people. And so to the extent that our experiences discolor these concepts, we may have trouble wrapping our minds around church as bribe, but uh beyond any fleshly hangups we may bring to it Paul's analogy here in Ephesians, his analogy of church as bride, conveys with great strength and promise. The deep and powerfully abiding love that God has for those who are His in Christ. And so this analogy is not about being effeminate. It is about anticipation and preparation. For something that is deeply and infinitely meaningful. It's about a deeply broken people Being relentlessly pursued by a God who is just and jealous and holy and loving, and who is willing to lay down his life , for the good of his bride. If you look through this portion of scripture in Ephesians 5, I think it's clear. That the church has no beauty other than what the bridegroom ascribes to her God is purposeful and he is consistent in this portrayal of church as bride. It's not just in Ephesians 5, Revelation 19, 6 and 7. says then I heard what seemed to be a voice of a great multitude like the roar of many waters like the sound of mighty peals of thunder crying out hallelujah for the Lord The Almighty, the Lord our God, the Almighty, the reigns. Let us rejoice and exult and give him glory. For the marriage, supper of the Lamb has come. His bride has made herself ready. And then in verse 9, blessed are those invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. 2 Corinthians 11 Verse 2, I am jealous for you, Paul writes, with the jealousy of God Himself, for I promised you as a pure bride to one husband, Christ. In the book of Hosea, God commands his prophet to marry an adulteress at the portrait of God's pursuit, his redemptive pursuit of his chosen people. It's not mere symbolism. Hosea is a Christophany, a foreshadowing of Jesus. Hosea 2, 19 and 20, I will make you my wife forever. Showing you righteousness and justice, unfailing love and compassion, I will be faithful to you and make you mine. And you will finally know me as Lord. And then Isaiah Isaiah sixty-two, from the pace, I gather you guys will be there in about fourteen years. God speaks to his prophet and says, and the bridegroom rejoices over his bride, so your God will rejoice over you. And in the example that we're looking at here in Ephesians, Paul is actually quoting Old Testament scripture in verse 31, therefore a man shall leave his father and mother. and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. He's quoting the creation account from Genesis 2 Paul assuming some level of context here. And so let's look at how he builds to what he called a great mystery in the verses leading up to it. Paul's using a variety of analogies here in Ephesians 5, starting with wives submitting to their husbands, as unto the Lord. The trend in my area in some churches. Because we're a very uh politically sensitive area, I guess, is to sort of apologize or skip over some of those verses uh because A lot of people get really hung up on the word submission. I'm not going to go into it, but let me say this in summary. You show me a man who's willing to lay down his life for his wife As Paul prescribes, and I'll show you a woman who has no trouble submitting to his leadership. Verses 22, 23, and 24. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. So a wives, a wife Submission to her husband is an analogy of the church's submission to Christ. Paul says that the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church. Paul's using the Greek word kapale, which literally means head, my grandpa used to play a trick on us when we were kids and say, What? And the w you've got some kind of weird lump right there on your neck. What is it? Oh, that's your head. Uh That's the word Paul using. It literally means that thing that sits on top of your neck. There's a metaphorical connotation that is also of a governing head, a chief, a leader, a cornerstone. Why is the husband the head of his wife like Christ is the head of his church? Is it so that he can boss her around and take advantage of her and subvert her uh God-given personhood No. So that he can lead and love and nurture and cherish his wife as he lays down his wife for her. It's a demonstration of Christ's love for the church Picking up in verse 25, husbands love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. So that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Paul's moving into a second analogy here. An analogy between a husband's love and care for his wife. And Christ's love and his care for his church. And as Paul opens up this analogy with greater detail, he points to this care and this love as having a purifying or sanctifying element. And he talks about cleansing her with the washing of water Now, a lot of scholars will say this is probably a reference to Ezekiel chapter 16, where God's making a similar statement. He enters into covenant with his people, personified. By a despised and unwanted woman whom he washes with water and makes her beauty perfect. And we note here in Paul's wording that the husband is like Christ, but he is not Christ The husband's death doesn't atone or sanctify anything, and so Paul works in sort of this double meaning with the phrase washing of water with the word. Because we know that Jesus is referred to uh as both water and word John 4 refers to Jesus as living water. John chapter 1 refers to him as the word. We see this echoed over in 1 Peter, 1 chapter, the 22nd verse, now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth. Being both hearers and doers of the word, now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth, so that you have sincere love for each other, love one another deeply From the heart. First Peter one twenty-two. Purify by obeying the truth. Purified by obeying the truth. Jesus tells us what this truth is in John 17, that purifying or sanctifying truth. He says in John 17, 17 Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is Again, going back to the word, being hearers and doers of the word. So when James tells us that that those who who hear and do be blessed in their due. Part of that blessing is that we are sanctified, we are cleansed, we are made clean to the washing of the word Sanctify them by the truth, your word is truth, and so the church is the bride of Christ Jesus is the word. He is the living washer. The living washer. The living water. He is also the washer. He is the one washing. Jesus makes us clean. He makes us beautiful. He makes us holy. And a husband's love for his wife through obedience. To the word of God is to reflect and proclaim that very thing. Verses 28 through 30 In the same way, husbands should love their wives of their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh but nourishes it and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. We are members of his body. So Paul now folds in another analogy. What he started back in verse 23 with reference to the head. Now he brings in the image of church as body. Jesus is head, church is body. The role and position of the husband is reflective of this. And so he would care for his bride as he would care for his own body. Now, head and body, those are different, but they are also one. It's not a difficult analogy to understand them. I apologize. for being grisly, but if your head were to be separated from your body, well which one of them is you? Yeah. Are you your head or are you your body? Yep One doesn't work without the other. And so Paul says that the heads Christ, reflected in the husband, are to love and care for the bodies, wife , but the church uh as they would care for their own. This is paralleling, I think, God's commandment that we first hear in Leviticus are that we are to love our neighbor as ourselves. This is echoed throughout scripture. To love others is you're to love yourself. Paul and James in the New Testament over and over talk about loving others as you love yourself, as you already love yourself. It's sort of a A strange command in some ways that because it sounds a little selfish, love others as you love yourself. But the point being is that you already innately love yourself. Apart from Christ, you love yourself more than anything Part of what who we are saved from is that damning love of loving ourselves over Jesus. We already know how to love ourselves. We already know how to take care of ourselves and keep ourselves out of danger and out of harm. We already know how to preserve ourselves And so he's saying , Do for others here, specifically uh husbands to wives, as Christ does for the church, do what you already know how to do for yourself Take care of them with this uh level of discipline and commitment. Verses thirty-one , thirty-two Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, but I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. And so at this point, Paul is quoting Genesis. Chapter 2, verse 24. And then he interprets it for us. Interestingly, he hasn't said all of this. To mainly make the point that the husband and wife are one flesh, but that the church and Christ are one flesh I'm saying it refers to Christ and the church. And this would have been a surprising revelation, I think, in the day. It's sort of a surprising revelation now, but for the the hearers in the context of that time, it would have been surprising. And that's why Paul points out this is a this is a great mystery Indicating that probably you would not have understood this, we would not have understood it , this reference to Christ in his church, outside of God's gracious revelation. And so let's uh flip back to Genesis chapter 2 and take a look at what he's talking about here. Genesis chapter 2. We're going to start with verse eighteen. The Lord God said It is not good that man should be alone. I will make a helper fit for him. Now out of the ground the Lord had formed every beast of the field, every bird of the heavens, and brought them to the man so that he could call them. To see what he would call him. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all the livestock, to the birds of the heavens, to every beast of the field, but for Adam There was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused him to fall into a deep sleep And while he slept, took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man, he made into a woman. And he brought her to the man. And then he said, Then the man said This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. The man and his wife were naked, both naked and not ashamed. And so here in Ephesians, this is what Paul is quoting. He's bringing this context into us Quoting from this sort of crowning moment in creation, as God has formed Adam from the earth. And breathe life into him. And as we read across the section, there's this sort of narrative Suspense, if you read the whole creation account where God uh set the tension by saying, after a series of goods, this is good, and it was good, and it was good, and then we get to this, whoa, it is not good. It's not good that man be alone. It is not good that man is in solitude. It is not good that he is not in community. It is not good that there is no ecclesia. And so after God forms every beast and bird, it's clear that there's no suitable mate for him, no creature qualifies, and so God creates A fellow human being, of the same essence and body as Adam, also made in God's image. Verse 22. It says, and the rib that the Lord God had taken from man, he made into a woman and brought her to the man. You brought her to the myth. It's subtle, but I think what we see here It's something that we see reflected still, and you've probably seen it a hundred times At almost every wedding you've been to, God made a woman and he brings her to a man. This is still ingrained in our culture. A father raises up a daughter and then gives her away. This is and then that results in this new relationship. It's a father giving away a daughter. It's a bride presented to a groom. Adam responds, in verse 23, then the man said, This is bone of my bones, this is flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. And so Adam responds with mankind 's first poetry. And it's his only recorded statement prior to the fall. He celebrates this new relationship with his wife. Verse 24. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And this is what Paul quotes for us in Ephesians 5. It's not about companionship or sex or romance or design. This is God instituting marriage and laying out its pattern and design. We note that throughout this passage, just as in the passage in Ephesians, it's God who is the doer. It's God who is the initiator. It's God who is the maker. It's God who is the bringer, the presenter. God is the giver. Just as in Ephesians, it's Christ who is the one who washes. He is the one who sanctifies. It's his word. And it's himself. He presents himself. With the bride. So God has ordained all of this This is marriage and it is God's creation, one woman to one man, it's his design, it's not man's invention. Adam and Eve, the bride and groom, respond throughout to God's sovereign direction. And so these words hold fast, let them hold fast and why let them become one flesh , imply something much greater than some uh cheap, relational, self-centered sling. It's not merely falling in and out of love or light or passion. It's not light, it's not fluffy, it's not consumeristic. This is about covenant commitment. sovereignly ordered and sovereignly ordained at the hands of God Almighty, showing how a husband and a wife are to relate to each other And a reflection pointing us to how Jesus relates to his bride, the church. Back in Ephesians verse 32 of chapter 5, this mystery is profound. Now I am saying It refers to Christ and the church, marriage, in all its beauty and unity and glory that God has designed it to have It's merely a sign post. It's an impermanent parable that points us to the greater reality of Jesus Christ and his bride. The church. Marriage, our marriages on earth are shadowed. A finite thing , pointing us to something of infinite value and permanence. The Bride of Christ, the Big C church. God did not get his inspiration for loving the church from marriage. Rather, God created marriage as a way That we can understand his love for his bride, the church. And so when we think about church, when we think about hearing the word and doing the word, In the context of ecclesia, the concept of being gathered together, being called out Whatever images or thoughts or connotations that brings up for you, church as bride should be a major part of our consideration regarding the church. Now, for me, there are some practical implications that come up in my mind as I would consider the church as the bride of Christ. Let's say you're your best friend, my best friend, my brother, or my boss, someone I love and respect, someone who maybe had authority over me. Comes to me and says, let me introduce you to this person. This is my this is my bride I need to leave and prepare a place for her. I need to do some things so that she's ready. I'll be gone for a bit, but while I'm gone, I want you to take care of my bride. She's a bit of a mess. But I'm coming back for her. And so while I'm gone, I want you to take care of her. How do you respond to that? Now, um this is gonna sound weird, and it's not, so I'm I am from Kentucky. I married both of my sisters in that I did their wedding. So my wife and her sister Uh were each other 's maids of honor when they each got married. Okay? And so uh watching My mother or my mother-in-law uh take care of their daughters and watching uh my wife and her sister take care of each other when they were each brides, uh I can tell you uh from first hand experience how they cared for the brides to be They each went out of their way. They went into sort of full nurture and care and love mode. They checked in with each other. They're on the phone all the time. They're on the phone a lot anyway, talking to each other, but now even more so and they're making preparations. They're encouraged. No, that just looks great. Maybe not that, but there's a lot of sort of discussion and encouragement uh they're getting together to shop, they're uh doing a million different things to communicate to the bride to be that she is special and loved and beautiful A million different ways. They're communicating their love and their care , their excitement, their encouragement. When the bride gets discouraged, they're like, no, this is right, this is good, keep going. They brushed hair, they did makeup, they tried on clothes and dresses. They made each other look and feel. And they constantly went out of their way to care for the other, to care for the bride. Constantly Pointing the bride to the day that she would be united with the groom Now, again, if you're a dude, the metaphor of bride can be a little tricky, but I can say that as a man, uh if my again, if my brother comes to me Or a or a good friend approaches me and says, hey, I gotta go take care of my bride in my absence. I'm probably not going to go try and address this and stuff like that, but I will go into full sort of protect and serve mode If she is attacked in some way, I would defend her. If someone speaks poorly against her I will defend her. If someone goes up against her, I will blow up against them. Whatever needs she has that I am able to meet I will provide for her in my brother's absence. If she is tempted to sway in any way, I will lead her back to right paths. I'm going to consistently watch out for her, watch over her until my brothers return. And I'll spend my time, I'll spend my giftings, I'll spend my money to make sure that my brother's bride is cared for. She may be an absolute mess. But she's not my bride. She's my brother's bride. So out of love for my brother, I care for his bride. Because I know he's coming back for me. And so I will do all that I can to point her to that day when she is reunited with Her groom. And so as we consider both hearing and doing the Word of God, my question is simply, church, how are we doing with this? How are we doing? Are we caring well for the bride of Christ? Because this is all about Jesus. In the end, this is not about our open-handed uh ways of doing churches. It's not about our our Our preferences. It's not about our liturgy opinions. In the end, this is about Jesus. So if our faith is in him, he is our brother. He is our friend. We are co-heirs with him. Your Savior, your Lord, your shepherd king, your righteous ruler, who is simultaneously eminent and exalted, will return for his bride. Will we be found having cared for her well? He is her head. And he he he tells us here, Paul is making it clear, Jesus is saying, this is my bride, this is The church, I love her so much, I lay down my life for her. We are so close, we are like a head and a body who can't separate us We know from John 14 that Christ has gone to prepare a place for us. For us, his bride. Uh and he will return. He has told us that if we love him We will feed his sheep. We will care for his flock. We will care for his bride. Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord. You know I do. Feed my sheep. First John four, anyone who loves God must also love their brothers and sisters. This is not some, as we said last night, this is not some ethereal sort of conceptual cotton candy conceptual love. This is boots on the ground. It is intentional, sacrificial. Christ exalting, gospel proclaiming, hands-on love. This is love that hurts, love that costs us. Love that doesn't cost you anything probably isn't well. This is a love that is expressed directly and practically to those around you, the bride. And so are we caring well for the bride of Christ? If you're doing well, if you can assess and you can pray and you sense the Lord's pleasure Keep on keeping on. Don't give up. Don't get weary. Do not tire of doing good. Some of us, I hope, are doing well in this area. Some of us may be maybe we're the runaway bride. We live in an age, again, where it is now common to consider or to not consider the church as vile. For a Christian's walk or spiritual growth. And we now have generations of what I would call church daters. The term church shopping, which I hear so often in my area, it blows my mind. As if the church were a buffet. And I and I and I I know people and I I I I try not to be I try not to yell at them. But who literally they they go to my church because they like to worship there, but they go to the church down the street because they like the preaching there and they go to this third church because the small groups are They were the sports book, so we've got a great awana program. I said, Man, this is not a buffalo. This is not a Betha. I'm invading the church. There's no commitment there. So let me see what I can get from it. And so I'll take and I'll pick and I'll choose. I don't want to commit to anything. So are you a runaway bride? Are you here for mainly what you get out of the whole deal? Uh in terms of your personal likes and dislikes. I know a lot of church haters. I know a few church haters. People who are frustrated and critical of the church and disillusioned, many of them sadly, rightly so, because of Things they've been involved in, things that have said we are a church, but they are not churches, and so those people have been hurt. This is none of this is meant as as as judgment or or or guilt trip. I'm simply asking us, calling you and myself to consider the analogy here in Ephesians 5 as church uh of church as bride with our interaction with the bride of Christ With us as the church, with those around you, does it reflect the care, concern, and protection due abri? If it does not, we must ask God to change our hearts on the man. The trend toward I love Jesus, but not the church, is not only foolish, it is unbiblical. If you told me, hey Jason, I really like you, but I can't stand your wife, that's an incompatible statement. We will have issues between us, you and I. You cannot simultaneously say you love me but hate my bride And so to try to separate Jesus from his bride, the church is literally like cutting a head off of a body. It's a groom with no bride. It's a foundation with no building. It's like saying I'm pro-marriage, but I'm anti-wife. It doesn't make sense. Um I'll take the the whole mentality of I'll take Jesus but not the church just It doesn't work. It has no scriptural credibility. To love Jesus is by default to love his bride. And the the the church as bride Uh maybe hard to love sometimes. It is hard to love sometimes. I get that. Is she a met? Often. In many ways. Is she struggling? Often, yes, in many ways. Is she ugly? Sometimes, sometimes she's an ugly bride. Is she perfect? Not yet. Not yet. Is she love? Absolute. Love to the point that Jesus laid down his life. For her. And Jesus is coming back for her. And when he does, the best, most fun, most decadent, blowout, touching, joyous wedding celebration you and I have ever been to. Will be like mud pies and paper towels compared to Jesus coming back for his bride And so if we take seriously the idea of church as bride, if you love Jesus , We should love his church. We should spend some serious thought and prayer and where necessary repentance around this matter. I know that you as a church are facing, have faced transition , perhaps are facing now transition. We talked a little bit last night. Uh and I don't see the thingy, this is not a rebuke of any sort of kinda simply uh as uh as hopefully a a helpful statement. I would be very careful because you have something so good. God has done a good work. here in your church. And so what you must be wary of is not simply looking into the past and saying, man, it was so good. Wasn't it so good, you guys? Back when It could be that the transition that you're looking at now is as some families move out and move on. And John shared that you're raising up now even new new elders, younger, training those. And that's where perhaps in this season of transition you you must begin to look not only, not at the expense of the body that is , but begin to look and think and pray about those whom God will bring. Because this church as it is is only existing in this amount of time. Perhaps God will be kind to bring more. So you need to be ready, to be watching, to be looking, to be praying. For those whom God may bring into this ecclesia. The picture of church as bride displays for us Christ's tenderness. Towards something he treasured so much that he would lay down his life for her. When we see the church as bride, we're drawn back to the beauty and goodness of the gospel, the good news that God, through the perfect life and atoning death and bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ, rescues his people from his own wrath, brings us into his peace with a promise. The hope, the full restoration of his created order, which we will enjoy and marvel at for a billion years and more. All to his praise and glory. And so when Jesus comes back for his bride, you'll want to be around for that. And when he comes back for her, he'll never ever leave her again. Ever. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for the goodness of your word which shows us Who leads us, guides us, anchors us, empowers us, along with your spirit, Lord, to both hear and do, Lord, and as we consider the preciousness your church as your bride. Lord, the relational aspects Of this, Lord, beautiful analogy, of this beautiful portrait that you give us here in Ephesians. Lord, that as we hear your word , And as we do your word, Lord, that it would be Loch set in the ecclesia In the gathering, in the caring for each other, Lord, these people that you have brought together into grace-based redemptive community. Lord, it's messy and it's ugly. And we don't do it right and we don't do it well, but we know, Father, that you are working all things to the good of those who are called according to your purposes. Lord, do we know that as we hear and do the word that we are blessed in our doing, Father, your word tells us so. And so Father help us treasure the bride. Help us care for the bride as she to remember what you have done and give you thanks. To rejoice in what you are doing and give you thanks, and to look forward and expect, Father, that your good works Your blessing will continue. Your church will grow. Your gospel will go out. Your people will rejoice and worship and suffer. And lift each other up. Father, we are grateful for this beautiful picture. Church as bride. Father, help us care for her well. Father, we need you to do that. We pray that you would bless our day, the day ahead of us. Well we thank you for the time that you've given us to pull away and consider these things. When your word has gone out far, I pray that it would take roots and bear much good fruit where my words have gotten in the way, uh Lord, pass them from from memory. The Father with you. Be pleased to continue to dwell among your people today, Father, as we consider these things for the glory of Jesus, for the uh Lord, for the proclamation and the goodness of his name. His name, that name above all names, the name we pray to you through the name of Jesus. Amen.