What do we do in the face of a threat to that which we hold dear? What do we do when our lives as we know them are facing a danger How do we think and respond when the plans that we made for our futures are facing a seeming insurmountable obstacle? There's no sense pretending that this life is safe from harm. There are a million ways to get seriously incapacitated or die. Which is not like a real positive topic. There are millions of things that can cause us pain, whether physical or emotional, financial, or whatever other way we can feel it. This life is simply full of threats. And there are few or no promises addressed to the New Testament last days believers for life on planet Earth to be pleasant or prosperous. There are lots of promises about our spiritual health and God's good intentions for us. But usually these These promises have to do with things God will give us now in order to help us to endure and to prosper spiritually until the end. That is His focus for our lives. Now, granted, we we experiencing it we experience a great amount of blessings, even uh financially, in in our world, in our environment right now for the most part. And we can thank God for those things But that is not the general input on the promise and the focus of God's promises in Scripture. With all of this uncertainty, doesn't it seem that it would be important that we come up with a strategy for how we're going to deal with the threats and the dangers? Doesn't it make sense that we determine to set our faces like Flint on a path we'll pursue when we face such situations? Shouldn't we have a plan to deal with the dangers or the perceptions of dangers that we know we're going to face? I think it's utter foolishness for a person to fail to prepare for what they know they will face. We often say that about non-believers, don't we? We ponder how when they know that everyone who is born dies, that they would not think to prepare for the one thing that they know is going to happen But so many of us as Christians don't prepare ourselves mentally and spiritually for the disasters we're most likely to face. On a sinful planet, we must face death and illness and suffering. We know it will happen. If we breathe, it will happen So shouldn't we, of all people, with all the promises of God at our disposal, determine a mental path we will follow when the wolf howls at the door? This morning we're going to look at a very bad example of someone facing a perceived threat. We'll see how not to face a situation that threatens our safety. And we may find that we have far too much in common with King Ahaz. Verse 1: Now it came to pass in the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah. That uh and then we learn about the king of Syria and the king of Israel come up to Jerusalem to make war against it, but couldn't prevail against it And it was told to the house of David, saying, Syria's forces are deployed in Ephraim, so his heart and the heart of his people were moved as the trees of the wood are moved in the wind. Okay, so in chapter 6 Uzziah died, and Isaiah saw God on his throne. Uzziah led the country into very prosperous prosperous times, and he was competent, though he was not very spiritual. Now Ahaz is king. Ahaz's dad Jotham reigned for sixteen years and he was a good king. And you wonder how it happens. You know, I wonder sometimes if it's not in the mother. Because Uzziah was not a good king, or at least he wasn't a a spiritual king, but Jacob was. For 16 years he was pretty impressive. And then after Jacob, you know, his his same family tree, uh out comes uh Ahaz. And Ahaz is an absolute jerk. He is he is a very evil person Now, I doubt that Isaiah was silent during all that time, but nothing is recorded during that time of what Isaiah said, except it may be mixed in with the rest of the book of Isaiah, and it isn't in chronological order. We don't know that for sure. But now Ahaz is taken over and he is wicked. So God begins to speak through his prophet Isaiah again. Ahaz reigned about 200 years after the Twelve Kingdoms split, after Solomon's death. So to put that in perspective, the U. S. has only been a country for about 221 years. So in terms of antiquity, this was not a very long period of time. And this is the situation. The ten tribes of Israel were making alliances with Syria in order to stand against the almost certain invasion of Assyria. They wanted Judah in their alliance too. So you've got you know the Israel, Judah down here and Syria, I think, I think to the east. I'm not certain of that. Didn't look it up. But anyway These want these to join together so they're stronger against Assyria. And Judah or Judea didn't want to be part of this alliance. So Syria and Israel want to make them part of the alliance, so they are planning to invade. That's the situation here. Now, verse 1 might talk about two invasions where it says that uh but they could not prevail against it. That's either part one of a two-part, or it's jumping into the future and it's saying, this is how it's going to end. Now let me tell you the rest of the story. It's difficult to know because when you look in Chronicles 28, verses 5 through 8, and then uh 2 Chronicles, that is. 285 through 8 and then 2817 and 18, you can't really tell if it's two invasions or one invasion. So we we're I I can't tell the difference anyway. And the scholars go back and forth on that. Now we have to understand this is no small threat. Israel and Syria would have made up a much larger force than Judea had. If you were counting heads, you were going to lose. That force would seem undefeatable by Judea's troops. Now, logical people here would read the writing on the wall, but the writing on the wall isn't true. Really look at this. Shouldn't Ahaz trust his reasoning? Shouldn't Ahaz trust his math? I mean, after all, math is math, isn't it? Shouldn't he be logical about the whole thing? Wouldn't that be a smart thing? Isn't that isn't that reasoning often the reasoning of our disbelief? Isn't that how we defend our faithlessness when someone tries to encourage us to overcome our fears with God's word? Don't we express the same reasonableness about our doubt? Don't we appeal to the common sense? Don't we say I'm just thinking clearly? I'm just doing what I gotta do based on the facts. I've added this up, and it's logical for me to live in fear of this and that. It makes sense for me to dread that which I imagine happening. Because it could happen. And sometimes it's extremely likely it will happen. I think we're all tempted to think like Ahaz. I think every one of us could give our own story about how we faced a threat that was large and we we were afraid of the threat and ignored God's word. Verse 2 tells us, so his heart and the heart of his people were moved as the trees of the woods are moved in the wind. I think it's a pretty poetic expression. Carla and I like to sit on our back porch and watch the wind blow the trees. Now that they're out of range of the house, it's a lot more pleasant experience than it used to be. She can tell how windy it is by how far down the tree the wind bends them. Well, this people were like these trees. Their hearts swayed in the wind. And Ahaz was a wonderful leader for very bad things. Ahaz was a wonderful leader in this swaying heart movement. We see a problem already. It's the problem of an uncommitted and an unfocused heart. It's a life that has not staked its claim on the character and the person of Christ. David shows an alternative here. David shows us the exact opposite of Ahaz, a protection from a wavy heart. Psalms 112, 6 through 8 says this. Surely he will never be shaken. The righteous will be in everlasting remembrance. He will not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is Steadfast. His heart isn't waving. His heart is steadfast. And the next phrase explains why. Trusting in the Lord. His heart is established, it says. He will not be afraid until he sees his desire upon his enemies. This is where the people should have been. They should have been following King David, not King Ahaz. Unsteady hearts is where they are. Our hearts are meant to be steadfast. Our minds are intended to be committed to Christ, come what may. We need to stake that claim and stick to it, despite what evidence come uh against us. When they are steadfast, the result is a spiritual kind of courage. We can face what comes in an all unfaltering manner because our hearts are steadfast, our hearts are set. There's nothing to make up m make our minds up. Because our minds are made up. Look at what Paul tells us in Colossians 3:1 through 5. He says, if you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ is. Sitting at the right hand of God, set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you will also appear with him in glory. And then he goes on to say, Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness. Which is idolatry. So Paul is essentially saying, since you have your identity in Jesus Christ, since that is how who you are now as a result of what he has done for you Fix your mind. Set your minds on things above. Fix your mind. Set your minds on things you pray for when you pray, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Set your head there, set your heart there, set your mind on those things. Do you realize the implication here? This won't just happen to you. This won't happen to you without your effort. You have to commit to it. You have to set. God is not going to set for you. You must do that. He will enable it, he will encourage it, he will inspire it, but he is not going to overpower it You have to commit to it. You have to take action. You need to do the setting. Life's events will not cause this to happen. Life's winds will make our hearts sway if we have not already set our minds and therefore our hearts on a different subject matter. We need to actively be setting our minds on words that come from God's mouth. We need to be doing that when all is going well in our lives, so that we're prepared for those times when all is not going well. Our lives need to rest on the bedrock of Christ. Only then are we prepared for the winds to blow, and they will blow. And there's another thing to notice in our text. It's the power of a bad leader. Sometimes we as leaders are frustrated that people don't lead themselves better. Because it makes our work harder. But that's stupid thinking. If people didn't lead leaders to lead and serve and direct them, he wouldn't give leaders. That's what they're for. Leaders are necessary for the primary reason that all of us need shepherding. So God provides us that shepherding. And if we choose not to lead, when it's in our obligation to do so, there'll be chaos. And the chaos is a direct result of our failure to lead Here Ahaz is leading. And he's leading in disbelief. He's leading in distrust in God. And the people are following. They need a leader who will point them to truth. They need a leader that will stand against them when they stray and strongly say, trust God here. Trust God, I know it looks bad But it doesn't matter. Trust God. I will trust God and you can trust God too. Just watch. He'll come through. That's the leader they needed But AS doesn't. All he does by his leadership is to aid the people under him in their own rebellion against God. That is leadership to avoid. We should never be like that. Here we see Judah living completely at the mercy of their circumstances. They're acting as if there is no God They're shaken like trees in the wind. The world around them is determining their state of being. They're believing what they see and perceive and calculate. with no consideration of the promise and intention of their God. They're depending upon their own power and their own resources. And they're in despair because they know that their own resources will not carry them through this danger. You know, it's too bad they won't believe in what Isaiah saw. It's too bad they won't believe that there is still a God on his throne. Not affected at all in any means by the plans of man. Too bad they won't believe the words that come from God Himself through the prophet Isaiah These people could have lived in much better condition than what they chose. They could have faced this dilemma, quoting the words of the Psalms. In Psalm 16. 8, where it says, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, and I shall not be moved. Not like the trees, I shall not be moved. Psalms 62, 6. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. Have you ever considered how much of our lives have been wasted by not trusting God? I mean it'd be interesting if we would chart how many hours we have wasted. In our own self-created misery by not create not trusting God, not believing Him, not counting on Him. Have we ever considered how much time we've spent worrying and fretting over life situations that God was absolutely full control of and He had given us some insights as to what we should think and what we should what we should trust? Have we ever considered how much better that time could have been spent if we had only taken God at His Word and used the truth to silence our imaginations? That's true spirituality. That's faith in motion. That's what faith looks like in the midst of a threat. It simply believes God. Faith is not blissful ignorance, it's informed trust It doesn't downplay the dangers. It accentuates the power and the love and the grace of God in the face of those dangers. It accepts difficulty, but it never accepts defeat. It says with David in Psalm 73, 26, My flesh and my heart fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. I may not be able to stand up to this physically, but God will carry me through. God will do what he says he'll do. Faith accepts human limitations, but it will not accept any limitation on God. It expects deliverance from him, because that's what he said he would do. So the people who were moved by their circumstances , they were moved by their circumstances, but they were not moved by their belief in God. Verse 3: Then the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out now to meet Ahaz, you and uh Sheer Jashub, your son, at the end of the aqueduct up from the upper pole on the highway of the Fuller's field, and say to him, Take heed and be quiet. Do not fear or be faint-hearted, for these two stubs of smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of resin in Syria and the son of Remaliah. Because Furia, Ephraim, and the son of Rammeliah have plotted evil against you, saying, Let us go up against Judah and trouble it, and let us make a gap in its wall for ourselves and set a king over them, the son of Tabel. Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand, nor shall it come to pass. For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is resin Within sixty-five years Ephraim will be broken, so that it will not be a people. The head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remelize's son. If you will not believe, surely you will not be established. So God tells Isaiah to go meet Ahaz, where he's making preparations for the siege against Jerusalem. He counts on it coming. He's checking out the underwater are the underground water system that provides water to the city. Water was essential to survival, so it makes a whole lot of sense to be Checking this out. You want to make sure that if you're under siege, you at least have a source of water. Now it's interesting that God tells Isaiah to take his son Shir Jaseb. His name means a remnant will return. So you can see Isaiah walking up to the king and saying, Oh, oh, meet my son, a remnant will return. Even while Ahaz may be fearing and preparing for the worst, this young man stands as a tribute to God that says, God will never let his people be wiped out. He's basically saying This is how it's going to end up. A remnant will return. God is still in charge of this whole this whole endeavor The future of Judah did not depend upon Ahaz like Ahaz might have thought. It only depended upon God. Even the son's name would have been a rebuke to Ahab for the current mindset that he was currently in. Now look at the message that Isaiah is to deliver like this. Take heed and be quiet. Do not fear or be faint-hearted for these two stubs of smoking firebrand. Take heed and be quiet may be better paraphrased as be careful to do nothing. Be careful to do nothing. Now, why would Isaiah say that? Why would Isaiah tell the king, be careful to do nothing? Well, we need to understand the position Ahaz was in He was probably being pressured to form an alliance with Assyria to have Assyria come rescue Judah from Syria and Israel. So the prudent and wise thing to do from a human perspective would be to join forces with others against your enemies. And if Judah had no God that it could depend on, that would be a really good idea. But for Judah to ally itself with another country was a slap in God's face. God was to be their ally, and they were to remain independently his people. God is a jealous God. The temptation all throughout chapters 7 and 8 is to depend upon another country to do for Judah what God says he will do himself. In that always the temptation. To trust in something to give us what only God can give us. And we're back to idolatry again. Suppose a wife needs a car, and she tells her husband, and her husband promises to get her one, but then begins the process of finding her one. And in the meantime, she has no confidence in her husband, so she finds another man to buy her a car. That would be similar to what's happening here. The wife is going to be in debt to the man who purchased the car for her There are going to be things that will she will need to compromise to live up to this arrangement. It violates that that initial arrangement, that initial marriage relationship. Well, if Judah makes an alliance with Assyria, there's going to be conditions involved, and Judah will be giving up her independence to some degree. She will be accepting the control of another husband, and she will be reliant upon another for her salvation. So God is saying through Isaiah, Don't do it. Don't do anything. Your best course of action right now, sit still Don't do anything. Be careful about making any human arrangement at all to get yourself out of this mess. Why? Because the threat is not as much of a threat as it seems to be God is saying, stop being moved like you're currently being moved by fear and faint-heartedness, these two huge things in your path. They're like cigarette butts. That's essentially what he's saying. They have all the danger of two cigarette butts. They look menacing, they look like they'll destroy you, but from God's perspective, they are soon going to be nothing. Then Isaiah tells them what these countries are saying and planning. Sure, they're planning to do exactly what Ahaz fears. But those are man's plans. We do better to find out God's perspective on the whole thing. And what is that? Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand, nor shall it come to pass. Why is it that we find so much difficulty In reorienting to what God has said, why is that so hard for us? Why is it that we have such difficulty in just saying, okay? That's all I needed to know. I heard from you. I heard what you said. You've addressed my situation. You've told me what I need to think. You've told me what I need to believe. Good enough. I'll do what you say. Why is that so hard? Isaiah is telling Ahaz. That the thing he fears will not happen. He got that straight from Isaiah, which God who got it straight from God. God even goes on to say, within 65 years, Ephraim will be broken. Wow. This perceived threat? All I need to do is wait and do nothing and it'll go away. That's kind of how I feel about plowing snow. Ahaz is given a specific time when the threat will end. Then Isaiah gets to the punchline. Ahaz has been given the facts. God has revealed the facts about his circumstances that are more sure than Ahaz 's human evaluation of that. Now, Ahaz gets to pick which one he wants to believe. He can believe what he sees and thinks and reasons as his ultimate source of truth, or he can trust what God says as his ultimate source of truth. But he ends by saying, if you will not believe, surely you shall not be established. Good things are not going to come of not believing in God. This may be better understood is you'll live by faith or you won't live at all. Basically, Isaiah is letting Ahaz know that how Ahaz response to this challenge will determine Ahaz's destiny. If Ahaz chooses to trust God, Ahaz will be established. If he chooses not to trust God, his plans will fail and he will end up destroyed. But the choice is held out here to Ahaz. The word if is a very human word. It's a word of options. It's a word of opportunities. And it adds its chance for the danger of us choosing wrongly with the word if. God certainly is sovereign But we live in a world of human choices that matter. How they all fit together? We have no idea. All we know is that they do. We are confronted with ifs very often in Scripture Ahaz is being challenged to the to place his faith in the Lord for the salvation of himself and his people. That's often the crisis we're in. We have to choose. We have to choose who will we rely on for help for our salvation This is true for us in our choice to be right with God. The choice where we initially began the Christian life We can try all kinds of paths on our own that will never make us right with God because they don't do business with the debt of sin that we have. It's a debt we can't pay, so no effort on our behalf will ever get rid of it. It has earned condemnation that we cannot get out of. The only thing that we can do is call out to God and accept his way of dealing with our sin. We must receive what he did on the cross. to take care of our sin because we can't we can't do it any other way. We must by faith receive his way, his salvation, his path. But as Christians, once we've made that commitment, we often have the same kinds of choices as as Ahaz had about the danger in our lives Those things that threaten to do us harm or deprive us of what it is that we think that we want or need. We can walk by faith, believing that God loves us and wants the best for us and is believing in the promises in that regard. So we do what he says gladly, knowing that it will lead to the best of all ends for us We can know that we're making the choice that ultimately leads to our greatest happiness, even though it may take a while of trusting God without receiving the reward before we taste that happiness That's how it goes. I mean that's that's what we learn all through the New Testament, especially in Hebrews. We can believe what God says about our lives instead of believing the so-called truths that we can see with our eyes and imagine in our minds. Or we can choose to trust our own resources. We can provide for ourselves in the strength of our flesh, in the strength of our reason. We can follow our hearts in our pursuit of happiness. But if we do that, our lives will not be established. In fact, we will taste ruin if we will not surrender to God's rule in our lives. Here's a quote from one of the commentaries about what faith is. And faith is the way that Ahaz should have responded. Faith is the way that we should respond. Isaiah 7. 9, this is the quote. Isaiah 7. 9 makes faith in God the central, unavoidable question of our lives. What is faith? And this guy says it has three components. One is the knowledge of God, the second, persuading us to agree with God. And the third, motivating us to embrace God. Faith has three components: knowledge of God. Persuading us to agree with God, motivating us to embrace God John Murray, the s and this is still a quote. John Murray, the Scottish theologian, defines faith as a whole-souled movement, soul as an S-O-U-L -E -D. A whole souled movement of intelligent, consenting, and confiding self-commitment, intellect, feeling, and will converge upon Christ. There's a consensus of all the functions of man's heart and mind in faith. In other words, faith is the God-awakening capacity. The God-awakens capacity to respond fully to Christ. I like that. Faith is the God-awakened capacity to respond fully to Christ. And if that is faith, then unfaith is the fragmentation and breakdown of our inner beings: intellect, feeling, and will. We know that God is more real than the earthly things immediately before us. We know he is more desirable than worldly attractions. We know he is faithful. We know we should live not out of what is, but out of what is promised. I think that's that's pretty essential. Not out of what is, but out of what is promised We know our hearts must be grounded in finality if we hope to go to the distance. And to refuse what we ourselves know to be true tears us apart inside. When we deny the truth we believe and refuse the consent we desire and withhold the trust we were created to enjoy, how can anything go right? The human being unravels. If we are not firm in faith, we are not firm at all. Everything in life, not just religion, flows out of our whole soul movement toward Christ. End of quote. So, what will it be for us? How will we face threat of harm? How will we face threat of disaster? How will we face it when that which we love most is in danger of being lost? How will we face it when the troops mustering on the border And it looks like a matter of time till we bit will be destroyed in one fashion or another. That's real life. This is where our faith is either proven to be real or we prove ourselves to be self-deceived. We can show ourselves to be either like Ahaz or Isaiah. Who are we going to believe is what it comes down to. What will we cling to for authority when we are hard-pressed? When fear knocks on our door, what are we going to turn to? Ahaz went about checking his own provisions. He turned to things under his control. He trusted his resources instead of God. How about us? Who among us will respond to the threat by going to God's word to find out one thing? What does he say about this? What does God say about this? Who will go to it needing to know only how God describes our situation and what God wants us to do about it? Who of us will rejoice when we hear from the Lord? Because we are then set free to obey without concern for anything else. Do you realize that Ahaz should have been rejoicing after Isaiah visited him? Isaiah gave him an option from God for a wonderful ending. Isaiah told him essentially that he had now an option to worry, to stop worrying completely. That's what Isaiah was telling him. He could be pre he could stop preparing for the worst. He could know with certainty that God that God would be a better ally to Judah than any other possible alternative. He could have sternly rebuked rebuked the people as the godly leader that he should have been. He could have spent the time as the troops swarmed at the border thanking and praising God for God's provision, because God promised to rescue the people. What a blessed time this man could have had. What a wonderful ministry he could have had. How he could have been used by God. But Ahaz was too smart for that. Are we? Are we too smart to trust God I don't really get it. Why don't we run the M first? You know, that song or early Let Me Seek You that we were just reading or something to that effect. Why don't we do that? Why don't we enjoy His fellowship instead of fretting away our hours? Why can we be so stubborn when what God is offering us is so good? What is man that he is mindful of us? I don't know. So what are your impending dangers this week? Where are the troops swarming at your borders? Who are you going to trust? Let's close and pray. Lord God, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for the bad example of Ahaz. It helps us to see ourselves in a in a negative light when we act like them and know how silly and how stupid and how foolish and how evil it is to respond faithlessly to a a faithful God. Lord, we ask that you would help us to see the things that we are we are prone to fear. the troops that are swarming on our borders, the things that are threatening to take away that which we regard as most important in life. Help us to face that. Run to your word and find out what you want us to think and what you want us to do. And then enjoy your company while we carry out your mission. Help us to be like Isaiah and not like Ahaz. Help us to see our lives with clarity this week And to see how we are carrying out the Ahazir and turn to the Isaiah obedience. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.