The punishment and discipline of God That's the title. The Punishment and Discipline of God. We tend to be a little sloppy with words, at least I am. I remember talking to Mike about child rearing, and I would talk about punishing our child, and he would often correct me. He would tell me that what I am doing is not punishment, it is discipline. If you do a word study in the Bible, you'll find that punishment is almost always used to describe what God does to the wicked. When God is dealing with his children, he describes it as discipline or correction. If I were to punish the child, it would be for his destruction. That was never my goal, although it may have crossed my mind a few times. But I was trying to correct their behavior for the good. It's important for us as we look at Isaiah to understand the difference between punishment and correction. God was punishing most of the Israelites But there was always a remnant sitting in the middle of that that God was correcting, that God was disciplining, that he was training, and that God was preparing for a better ultimate reality. Christians often sin, and sometimes we do it fully knowing exactly what we're doing. And when we do that, we may feel like we deserve punishment. The fact is, we do deserve punishment. But that's not what God will do. What he will do is discipline us for our good if we are his children. It may be very costly, it may be very painful. Sometimes it has to hurt for us to get the point, just like it always did with our kids. We can be very stubborn, but God is even more stubborn than we are, and we can be thankful for that. He will correct us, and if correction is having no effect, he will end our lives, according to Corinthians. But we can know that God is acting in love toward us, no matter how painful it may feel at the time. But none of this, none of this, not a single word of this is true for the wicked. Anyone that will not respond to God's call on their lives will taste God's wrath. Now we don't know who those people are, but we do know that that's the end result. They will eventually receive God's punishment. The two kingdoms were were going to receive God's punishment. Isaiah doesn't mince any words about that. We talked last week about the wrath of God upon the northern kingdom of Israel. This week we're going to look at the tool that God used to execute his judgment upon Israel. We're going to see God's judgment on Assyria. Assyria was the invading army. And there's something very important for us to get here. The Assyrians were God's tool to punish the rebellious Israelites. The remnant of the Israelites was sitting inside this group of rebellious people, and they were tasting of the punishments of God on their fellow citizens, although technically God was not punishing them as individuals. One group was being punished, the other group was being disciplined or trained or protected, or God was removing them to come be with him. But the third group, the Assyrians, that God was using to accomplish his task, they were not good guys. They weren't going to be rewarded for being God's instrument. Just because they were doing what God wanted them to do, they were not being submissive or obedient. They too were about to be punished. We tend to want a world with good guys and bad guys We want the good kings who do right in the eyes of the Lord. We want to have confidence that there's a hero somewhere that just does good, that we can get behind. But what we find at best, at the very best, are saved sinners who are messed up. But they appreciate and respond to the grace of God. That's as good as it gets. And There are lost sinners who will not bow their knee to God until forced to, and there are some for whom you can't really even guess where they're coming from, whether they're on one side or the other. That's all we have to pick from. Only God, only God Himself is truly good. Only Christ is truly good. Only Christ is our true hero. Only he only does right all the time. So when we read this narrative, we see the world as God deals with it. And the one thing that stands out loud and clear is that evil is never in any danger of overcoming God. We've got to see that in this text. We've got to understand that about God. Evil is powerless against God. Evil is actually used as a tool of God when it serves his purpose And when God has brought every child of his own to himself, evil will be deflated as quickly and easily as a child popping a balloon. That's the perspective to have when we talk about God and evil. There has never been a struggle between good and evil from God's perspective. We struggle with it because we're sinful by nature. God does not. The Assyrians would have been seen as an evil, hideous, godless force moving against the people of God. But this passage tells us the inside truth. They were God's lackeys. God used all their evil motives and all their evil habits to accomplish God's will. We may not like that about God. We may not be able to wrap our heads around how God can be good and still make use of evil It may not fit our definitions or our theologies, but at the end of the day, we ought to be encouraged by this one fact. If we're in Christ, if we have peace between us and God through the blood of Christ , We are completely, absolutely, in every way secure. We have no enemy that is even a threat to the one who holds our lives in the palm of his hands. That's a fact. God's love is completely and totally effective at saving us. If we see nothing else today, we need to let that grip our minds and our hearts. the relationship of God to evil and his absolute supremacy over anything that would be a threat to us. Now let's look at our text. Verses 5 through 44. Verse 5: Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger, and the staff in whose hand is my indignation. I will send him against an ungodly nation, and against the people of my wrath I will give him charge to seize the spoil, to take the prey, and to tread them down like mire in the streets. Yet he does not mean so. That's not what he's thinking, nor does his heart think so, but in his heart it is in his heart to destroy and cut off not a few nations For he says, are not my princes altogether kings? Is not Kalno like Karkamesh and Hammoth like Arpad? And these are all people that they have overcome. As my hand has found the kingdom of the idols, whose carved images excelled those of Jerusalem and Samaria, as I've done to Samaria and her idols, shall I not do the same thing to Jerusalem and her idols? Look at what God says here. It's an odd mix of woe and accomplishment. The passage is about the bad things that God's going to do to the Assyrians for being successful. Successfully used by God for his hands, for his purpose. Doesn't that strike you as being a little bit strange? He says, Woe to Assyria, look out, Assyria, you are about to suffer. Then he describes who he's talking about by saying, The rod of my anger and the staff in whose hand is my indignation. Remember in Psalms 23 how the writer gets comfort from the rod and staff of the shepherd? And when we looked at that, we found out that they were both used to protect not only protect the sheep from their enemies, but to use to pull the sheep out of bad situations and all that sort of thing. So the rod and the staff, when they are for you, are absolutely comforting. But the rod and the staff when they are against you is not a good thing at all. Now he says, Woe to the enemies of God. Here's Assyria is the rod and the staff in God's hand. And it will be used to destroy Israel. Assyria will be. And notice it says the staff is carrying out God's indignation. And that's God's indignation on Israel. The Northern Kingdom. This word for indignation is a frightful word of intense anger. And how can it not be so? When we read the book, when we see what Isaiah was doing, how can it be anything but that? When the people of God had singled out, that God had singled out and given so much to, they've not only rejected that God, but they've turned to other false gods. This would be similar to how a husband might feel who rescued some poor girl from horrible circumstances only to have her run to another man once she tires of the situation. Indignation from the indignity of the treatment of inferiors is what he's doing. Now, does God not have a right to be angry? Notice that God gives Assyria charge, it says. God gives Assyria charge. They didn't take charge. They felt like they took charge, but they didn't take charge. God gave it to them. He gave them charge to the spoils, to the people, and to trample them like mud in the streets. God gave them this opportunity. I think we need to watch telling just anyone that God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. That's one of the one of the tracks that's often used. That is not a universal truth. God did not love these individuals and have a wonderful plan for their lives. He was unlocking the gates to let the lions in. That's what God was doing to these people. Notice verse 7 where it says, yet he does not mean so. I always I I don't know, that just strikes me as being ironic and and Observant of so many things we see. What this tells us is that Assyria did not intend to be useful to God. It did not intend to be the hand of God's wrath. They didn't intend to be a useful tool for God. Their intentions were nothing in line with God's intentions Nor were they being in any way submissive or obedient to God. They were doing his bidding, but only because what they wanted and what God wanted lined up for a short time. Not everyone who does God's will loves God's will. The song that we were singing I thought was was pretty good. Every knee will bow, but the only ones who get any benefit from it are the ones who do it willingly now. Not everyone who does God's will knows God's will. Now, God says he's using Assyria to carry out his will, but how do the Assyrian, power-hungry, bloodthirsty, idol-worshipping humans see it? What do they ascribe this opportunity to? He says, As my hand is found, I've done. These people don't see God's hand at all in this. It's all their own. They're taking full credit for these victories. They compare them with every other victory they say they have and they say well I beat this guy and I beat this guy and I beat this guy and I beat these people just the same way They didn't see that this one may have been different. They're completely unaware of the spiritual spiritual realities that surround them. When you and I talk about politics and world conditions, we should not be viewing it the same way as the world around us. We know the spiritual realities that are in play. We know that God has a plan and Christians are at the very center of his plan. It doesn't matter how it looks. It doesn't matter what's reported. None of that matters. Christians are at the very center of the purpose of God's plan on this planet. We can't predict where persecution will be the thing that triggers more conversions and greater glory given to God. Like the Middle East we see right now. We can't predict how long before God's complacent people will be disciplined for their complacency. But we do know that the world situation is not meaningless and out of control. There are purposes of God being carried out in ways that we would find hard to predict or guess, or even sometimes explain. But we know it is the nature of God to strategize world events to bring all his children home to himself. That is what all human history is for, according to God. We should be people with a hope and a confidence that our God is always on the throne and he was always in control. Doesn't matter what it looks like. President Trump may think he put himself in office by his own shrewdness and cleverness. In fact, if you ask him, I'm sure if he were being honest, that's what he would say. We know better. God had a reason for putting him here where he is. It may be for our benefit, it may be for our discipline, it may be a little bit of both. We can trust though that it did not happen accidentally while God was doing something else. You know, it's not like when the when the eggs boil over. It's not like God didn't know what was happening and didn't intend it. The same is true for ISIL. They probably give their false God all the credit for their accomplishments. But an unintended consequence to their hideous wickedness is that more Muslims are coming to know Christ now than maybe in any other time in history. Frankly, I don't know how and where to draw all these lines and how God works. God does not inspire wickedness. And I'm convinced of, all I'm convinced of is that the wickedness he allows serves an ultimate purpose that makes it worthwhile. And his ultimate purpose is to bring every person that he's going to bring to himself, to himself. The Assyrian leaders took credit for their conquest of Israel, but they were wrong. It was God's doing. Verse 12. Therefore it shall come to pass when the Lord has perform performed all his work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, that's his work of punishing them. that he'll say, I will punish the fruit of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and glory of his and the glory of his haughty looks. For he says, By the strength of my hand I've done it. By my wisdom, because I'm prudent I've removed the boundaries of the people and have robbed their treasures. I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant man. My hand is found Like a nest the riches of the people, and as one gathers eggs in her left off gathered all the earth. And there was no one who moved his wing, nor opened his mouth, even with a peep, because I am so great. Ultimately, God will not share his credit with anyone. For a time he'll relent, but he will not allow this wicked king to keep taking credit for what he did to God's chosen people. So God is going to punish the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria for taking credit for this military conquest. Notice how many times the word I is used in the king's explanation. This is the foolishness of human pride. It says, I, I, I, I, all the while breathing someone else's air that's temporarily unloan to them that could be stopped at any time. Does that not look a little foolish to us? Yeah, we tend to be a foolish lot. Have you ever thought about how deeply rooted our pride is? We can't go through a day without comparing ourselves to someone else in a way to show our superiority to them in some way. And uh I mean if if you don't want to admit it, don't. But I think it's true of all of us. I if you're anything like me. It's so ins Scipient? Is that the right word? Inside of us that we can't even w we don't even know it's going on, but it's going on. Yet everything we have we were given. Think about it. Did you cho choose where you're going to be born? Did you choose your parents? Did you choose what body you would have? Did you choose how your mind would function? Did you choose what environment you would grow up in? No, none of it. None of us chose any of those things. But we take credit for the fruit of all those things. What sense does that mean? We need a king of Assyrian lesson here. Humility is called for in all of our lives. The best that can be said of us is that we played the cards that we were dealt well or poorly And most often the record is poorly. What do we have to brag about? Well, why in the world would we allow our pride an inch when the reality of it is But for the grace of God, we are nothing. When we view ourselves as superior to anyone else, we're simply not looking at the facts. It's only God who is superior. Only God. Verse 15. Shall the axe boast against him who chops with it? Or shall the saw exalt itself against him who saws with it? As if a rod could wield itself against those who lift it up, or as if the staff could lift up as if it were not wood. Don't you love the logic in Scripture? The way it points out the obvious that you may miss in normal day-to-day lives? To emphasize God's previous point, he uses an analogy. Now, Mark, can you imagine picking up a splitting ball, and as you begin to lift it, it starts talking to you. And you hear it say, hey Mark, just watch me split this log. I'm doing great things here. Way better than you could do. Now, besides being surprised to find your mall talking, wouldn't it irritate you that it was taking credit for the work that you were doing? Wouldn't you want to sit them all down and say, have at it? You know, have at it, buddy. I'm watching. God 's point is clear here. Whatever credit we as humans want to give to ourselves, it's always misplaced. Do we want to feel superior because we chose Christ? Well, guess what? We would have never chosen Christ if he didn't choose us first. Do we want to take credit for some virtuous path we have chosen? Well, I think we all know ourselves well enough to know that if the circumstances were very different, we would have chosen differently. Our pride wants to cling to credit like a dog wants to cling to a bone. But it's all misplaced. All glory ultimately goes to God. If not for him, it's difficult to know how things would have turned out in our lives. God is going to show the Assyrian king just how wrong his estimation is of how things really work. Verse 16, therefore the Lord the the Lord of hosts will send leanness among his fat ones And under his glory he will kindle a burning like the burning of a fire. So the light of Israel will be for a fire, and the holy one for a flame. It will burn and devour his thorns and his briars in one day. It'll consume the glory of his forest and his fruitful field, both soul and body, and they will be as when a sick man wastes away. Then the rest of the trees of the forest will be so few in number that a child may write them. It shall come to pass in that day that the remnant of Israel, and such as have escaped the house of it of Jacob will never again depend on him who defeated them, but will depend on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. The Assyrians are the fat ones being described here, and they're about to suffer. God is going to send a fire of judgment. Whatever that judgment actually consists of, it will result in the equivalent of a massive forest reduced to the fingers on two hands. We get the picture pretty clearly. God is going to undo the power of Assyria. Things will happen that will reduce Assyria to a fraction of what it once was. And that bragging axe is going to brag no more. But look at the results. God chooses here to point out the effects of God's discipline, not his punishment. He changes his focus to that. Now we see two remnants. We didn't see those a little bit before. The remnant of Israel and the remnant of Jacob. And what will this suffering have taught God's true people? What will the people of God have learned from this calamity? These people who have come through the discipline of God and are better for it What they learned was that the remnant of Israel and Jacob will never again depend on him who defeated them, but will depend on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel in truth. They will never rely upon outside sources to take the place of God. That's the lesson that they learned through the discipline that they faced and the horror that was all around them. They will never rely upon outside sources to take the place of God. We too should learn that lesson. Never rely on anything to do for you what only God can do and promises to do for you. Remember, we started this study by looking at our own idolatry, and here we have it again. Our hearts truly are idol factories We'll always find a way to replace God with something else if we don't watch our lives closely. And sometimes it's only by God's harsh discipline that we find our way back to trusting God. What competing God do you have in your life? And are you doing business with it? What are you relying upon to provide relief from some enemy you face in your life? If God promises that relief, looking elsewhere is idolatrous. If God promises the solution, we're sinful to look for it somewhere else If God commands us to find it in Him, we rebel when we seek to find it elsewhere, even in our own resources. Don't invite God to take you to his woodshed. All we need to do is turn our hearts to him now and ask him for his help to do the right thing. Notice how God's discipline of his children produces true repentance. These people of his may make a hundred different mistakes. But they'll never again think it's a good thing to make an alliance with a foreign power to provide safety for themselves. They learned that. Sometimes, you know, if we come out of a lesson having learned one thing solidly that we'll never repeat again, it's worth it. It's like uh I've probably told the story, but uh I'm gonna tell it again Um when I I bought that insurance policy in in college and I I bought the the policy And uh didn't realize at the time, because he the guy kept saying, Well I don't need any money now. I don't need any money now and I'm thinking, you have to mean money. And we went back and forth and the guy would not say loan and he would not say note, because he was a crook But anyway, I signed a document. Had thirty days to turn it down. My dad had a heart attack. I never got back to it to turn it down. And I owed two hundred dollars for a loan. to have insurance for a year that I didn't need. You know. So and at the end of that, uh a guy, a good insurance agency, there are good insurance agencies, um, agent, brought us all together. And he said, Essentially you've been ripped off. And I thought, well, I I know that. And uh I came to him afterward and I said, you know, I am a business major, I am a senior in college, and this is an obvious scam and I said, I feel like an utter fool. He said he said, How much do you pay to go here? And I I I thought it was kinda kind of a funny question. I said, I don't know, it must have been about five grand a a semester or something back then And he said so. He said, You you believe in paying for an education? And I said, Yeah, I I guess I do, yeah, yeah, I do. And he said, Well Consider yourself to have just purchased a very good education at a very low price. And you know, it's the one thing, I'll never do that again. You know, just There's a thousand things I'm gonna screw up, but I'm not gonna do that again. And it also gave me a life lesson to go through life with. So anyway, if If we can learn one lesson well from each of God's discipline, we're in pretty good shape. And these guys, they did learn this one thing well. Alright, and then uh we go through the rest of the passage. I'm not going to read it all. But God in his grace gives Judah the rest of the story. He tells them what's going to happen. And Assyria is going to sweep and conquer Israel. And when he's done, he's going to attack Jerusalem. And he'll get so close that he will shake his fist at Jerusalem from outside the walls, but Assyria will never conquer Jerusalem. That's basically what Isaiah is telling him here. God would see to it that they had a reason to leave, and they never came back. The king was actually killed when he went home from that endeavor. So God carried out what Isaiah prophesied to the T. And the threat was ended. That's really what happened. And then in verse 21, it says, The remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob to the mighty God. For though your people, O Israel, be as the sand of the sea, a remnant of them will return. The destruction decreed shall overflow with righteousness, for the Lord God of hosts will make a determined end in the midst of all the land. Here again, this is like like we've been saying, there's always a reason in the midst of this for what God does, and the reason always comes back to the salvation of his people. Here we see what it's all about. God's true people are treated in such a way that it causes them to return to their mighty God. Their afflictions drive them back to their Lord and their master. And even the rebellious northern kingdom has remnants returning. And then look at the sentence in verse 22. It says, the destruction decreed shall overflow with righteousness. The destruction decreed shall overflow with righteousness. This horrible, awful, terrible stuff is going to result in righteousness in the people of God. Have you ever experienced a period of personal destruction? Have you ever seen everything around you falling apart? Maybe it was caused by your own sin, maybe by the sin around you, maybe by the sin of the world, but you're in the middle of turmoil. Can you follow that path to righteousness, even in your own history? Did that situation get used in the hand of God to shape your life in his direction? Did you find yourself eventually maybe drawn to him as your refuge and your strength in a way that you never had been before? Were you then willing to live by his commands, by his word, by his rule? That is so often what calamity is used for in the lives of the people of God. Sometimes we experience these things because of the sin we've committed. Sometimes we experience them because we live in a sinful world. But often we find that our calamity leads us back to a vibrant relationship with Jesus Christ. It ends up overflowing with righteousness. And let's conclude considering the end statements Verses thirty-three and thirty-four. Behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, will lop off the bow with terror, those of high stature will be hewn down, and the haughty will be humbled He will cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon will fall by the mighty one. Who is it that ultimately rescued the city of Jerusalem? Was it a political alliance? Was the the cleverness of the people? Was it their plans that they had carefully crafted and thought out together? Was it the revival of all the people? Was it anything that had human origin at all? No. They wouldn't even trust God to provide for them, and he provided for them anyway. The Lord of hosts did it all by himself. He had no help in this endeavor. The point is, we serve a very capable God. I don't know what enemies you're facing this morning. I know some of mine. We might feel That these enemies cannot be overcome. We might feel we must resort to worldly strategies, but that is not true. Our God is capable Of humbling the haughty. Our God is capable of overcoming all of the obstacles that stand against us. Maybe we need help in knowing how to appropriate God's help. Maybe we need someone to stand with us against our enemies, but our God is capable of overcoming all these obstacles. Will we completely trust him in such a way that if God does not come through for us, we are going to look like an absolute fool? Will we trust him that way? Will we trust him to do for us what he promises to do? That is the lesson here for the children of God. That is the lesson for those of us who sometimes face God's chastening and discipline. But we never experience his punishment. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much. We thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you that in the midst Of a rebellious people, a people for whom there was no hope. There was never going to be a change. That you drew to yourself And prepare the people to love you and know you and honor you and to exhibit your righteousness. We thank you, Lord, that you bring down the pride of the proud and that you show it for what it really is. It's just powerlessness. They uh it's nothing, it's a it's a shadow. Yet you bring out your glory in everything that you do for your people. And we have the wonderful blessing. Of sharing in that process, of sharing in that blessing, of being people who can say, Yeah, yeah, it's only you, Lord. It's only you. Lord, help us to get it. Help us to get that in our heads so that's our first reaction. Help us to wean ourselves from our pride and our arrogance and our self-credit and our comparisons. And just humbly come before you and humbly walk among each other. And we just thank you so much. You have good plans for your people, and you always carry them out. So spank us if you must, but may you receive the glory for your worthy. In Jesus' name. Amen.