The life of a shepherd. And we talked about shepherding as his audience would have understood it. We needed to know this so that we could understand what Jesus was saying properly. This week I hope to bring this closer to home. I keep struggling to bring out the beauty and the comfort of this text to us. When you and I wake up each morning, we know that we need stuff. You and I need provision. We need food, we need clothing and shelter from the elements. And most of us, well, most of us have plenty of that. We sort of take it for granted. Not everyone does, but we have a tendency to. But we are continually reminded of our need every few hours when we get hungry or thirsty. You and I also need protection. We may listen to the news and fear what's happening all around us. We may get in our car and realize the danger of just driving down the road. We fear what evil men and environment can do to us. We know, and we're reminded often, we need protection. Our fears often remind us of the protection that we desire. We also need direction. We need to know how to make decisions in our lives. We need guidance from what house to buy or what car to get or What should I do today? Or what choices should I make in my life? Or you know, those sorts of things. We need to be shown the right path to take all the time. We also need nurture. Sometimes we deeply hurt because of the life we live in this sinful world. People hurt us. We hurt people. We fail. We sin. We get sick. We get heartbroken. We need someone who will deeply understand our pain, who will care about our hurt, and someone who can actually help us get better. Someone who knows our state of being and cares about helping us to heal. We all need that You and I need connection. We need a relationship with a person whose voice means the world to us When we hear his voice, we settle down. We're like a child who hears his parents' voice when he's in need. We need that connection with people. And I'm sure there are more needs that we have. These are just a few, but what I'm describing are the needs of sheep. Precious, beloved sheep. So ultimately, we can sum up all of our needs by saying this: we need a shepherd. You and I, every day. Need a good shepherd. And that's who Jesus is. Well, look at Psalms 23 next week, Lord willing, to see what a wonderful shepherd we have as we go through our lives. The point we're seeing in our text is that Jesus is the shepherd that you and I need as we go through life. Now we need to remember the context that chapter 10 of John is in. It's right after the display of the Pharisees showing their two colors. Remember how they treated the man born blind? It was pitiful. And remember their stated intentions to kill Jesus? Jesus is telling his audience the difference between his leadership and their leadership. What he says about thieves and robbers and wolves and hirelings, he's saying about the Jewish leadership. They're false to the core. None of their true intentions are stated on the surface. It's all a sham. They've come to make a meal out of the sheep. Through these sheep, they have their lust for power and their lust for money fulfilled. That's how they view, that's how the Jewish leadership viewed those people for the money. They see the sheep as existing to serve their desires. They don't see themselves To be spent for the sheep. Then Jesus describes himself in verses two through five that we went over last week. And while Jesus is describing his legitimacy. And he's describing his character, he's also revealing a deep theology of salvation. There's only one way to heaven. And that's through Jesus Christ. He is both the one that comes to gather the sheep, and he's the door that they have to go through. He stretches the word picture there. And again, Jesus doesn't intend his word pictures to be rigidly held. We aren't to worry about the sheep once the shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. In reality, we were talking about this in Sunday school, a dead shepherd would be of no use to sheep. But spiritually for us, having our shepherd die put us in the best place we could possibly find ourselves in. So don't get too wrapped up in that. Jesus is the only way to God. That's his point. Jesus is the only saving shepherd. Then we're told about how God saves his sheep, how God saves us. He comes to us. And even before he does, he knows our names. He knows us. He knows Brad and Diane and Sarah and Dan and Ruth and Jeremiah and Monica. And that's just a portion. Of the church. He knows us. He knows everything about us. He isn't like our spouses who who probably had some idealistic vision of us before they married us, or they might not have made that choice. No, Christ knows the real us before he chooses us, and he chooses us anyway. He knows you. The you that no one else knows. He knew you before you did anything good or bad. And then the shepherd shows up, and the sheep know his voice. We know his voice. How did that happen? He stirs up recognition in our soul that responds to the gospel message. We find ourselves compelled To follow him. And we think that we're deciding to follow him, and so we are, but we can't explain why we have that compulsion. That deep desire, the desire that could not say no to this calling on our life, when so many around us find it very easy to say no. And then once we're his, we'll not follow another voice. This isn't to say that we might not get temporarily confused or think wrongly about some things, but the Lord's effect on our lives is so extreme. That we will continually gravitate back to his voice. We will only orient our lives in his direction Then the shepherd who comes, finds us, knows us, he goes before us. Before we ever face a trial or temptation, Christ has already seen it. It's already come past him. He's already aware of it. He leads us to it, and he leads us through it. He goes ahead. There is nothing that we will face that is a surprise to our Lord. He saw fit to bring us this way, and he saw fit to bring us this way for our good. Then, unless we think that Jesus will just do an okay job for us, which is more than we deserve. But he tells us what kind of shepherd he really is. He's the good shepherd. He's the premier shepherd. He's the best shepherd. The gold standard of shepherding is Jesus. And he tells us his intentions for us. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. How would you answer this question? From your heart of hearts. Those are always the hard ones to answer, from our heart of hearts. What did Christ save you to? What do you think Christ saved you to? What does Christ intend for your life? What is he shooting for in your life? You might think, and there are a lot of good answers for holiness. For godliness, for service. And there's truth in all those answers, and those are good answers. But what Christ desires for his sheep, we're told. Is a full life. Life as full of the goodness of Christ as it can get That's his design for you. That is his desire for you. He isn't leading us beside the still waters and leading us to green pastures so we can be morbid and depressed. He does it so we can flourish, so we can grow, so our souls have something to be satisfied in. So our souls will be satisfied by our shepherd and in our shepherd. This is truly his intention for you, if you are in him. Oh, we need to be careful how we wrap this. Surely, we need to be careful to define it according to scriptural terms. But there are no verses that say that Christ draws us to himself to deprive us of anything good for us. Those are the devil's words. Or like Billy Joel says, I'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints because the sinners have much more fun. It's a lie from hell. No, our wonderful shepherd deprives us of that which kills us. And he grants in abundance that which gives us life. He grants peace and joy and fulfillment and purpose and direction. He grants us the sense of security we need when facing a big, nasty world. Do we believe that? It's more like how much do we believe it? You know, that's really the question. And where we don't We will have a great deal of trouble being obedient in the Christian life. We have mentioned this plenty of times before. No one chooses a life that deprives them from abundance. So if we don't believe that we're getting abundance, if we don't believe that that's the intent of our Savior for us It'll be difficult to obey him in those tough spots. But as we obey, as we believe that he has abundance in mind for us, That his intention is always good, even through the tough stuff. We find, you know, this is in my best interest. This is where I find joy. And then in verse 11, Christ told us that Christ lays down his life for the sheep. Do you know what that means? Christ held you more dear than his very life. That's what this is saying. There is no threat that would cause him to abandon you. Lots of people live with having been abandoned in one form or another. But it was never by Jesus. He would choose to die rather than to abandon you to yourself. That's what this passage is telling us. Now we come to our text. That's just the introduction. You might be thinking, well, that's a pretty long introduction, John. But anyway, verse 14, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Do you ever feel like you're alone? Like all of your thoughts are only your own. Like no one understands you. Like you live your life in an isolated world in your mind. If you are in Christ, you don't. That might be scary to you, or it might be comforting, depending upon what you choose to think about. But you have an ultimate shepherd, a premier shepherd, a preeminent shepherd who knows you completely He knows why you do what you do even when you don't. He knows why you feel what you feel even when you don't. Christ knows you. Your thoughts are not isolated to you. Prayer is how we obliterate that misconception about our lives. Prayer is when we demonstrate to God that I know you know. We jerk our awareness out of our isolation to the reality of our shepherd's care. Talk to God. He already knows your inner world. Talk to him about it. Now he knows you, and every believer knows who his or her good shepherd is. The always good one is not a mere mortal, he is God in the flesh. And the true sheep orient to that fact. We don't always commune to the degree that we should. We may not seek out his voice or fellowship as much as we should or could. I think that's safe to say. But we know who our shepherd is. Then verse 15, just as the Father knows me and I know the Father. Now I don't think the point here is that we know Christ to the perfection that Christ knows his Father But there's no mistaking that we are fully aware that Christ is our shepherd and we are his sheep. That is burnt into our spiritual awareness through our salvation. We didn't put it there and we can't remove it. It can only be spiritually explained. And he says, and I lay down my life for the sheep This is a vital point, and I think there are at least two things worthy of notice here. First, Christ lays down his life for the sheep because we absolutely need it. Our sins are damning to us. For all have sinned, and the wages of sin is death. We know those passages. We are doomed in our natural state. We need a dire We need someone to pay the righteous requirement for our sin. Someone has to die to face the wrath that we deserve. Or would have to pay it. And that is exactly what Christ did. We needed the Good Shepherd to die. We could not live if He did not, if He did not die So his dying met the need of the sheep. Then, second, Christ laying down his life showed the degree of his love for his sheep. Christ voluntarily laid down his life. He was not a victim. And as Jay portrays him in the play , He will see Christ chose to suffer his fate. He was not a victim. His life was not taken from him. He did what he did so his sheep could live It's interesting that he does not say that he laid down his life for all sheep. He says it was for his sheep Then verse 16, and I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. We talked about this earlier. The fold that Christ is talking about is the Jewish nation. Christ is taking these sheep out of Judaism. All of the Old Testament pointed toward this good shepherd. And once he came, the old wineskins could no longer hold him, just as prophesied, this shepherd will take the true sheep of Israel. Out of Judaism and combine them with the true sheep from the Gentile world, the Gentile sheep will respond exactly the same way that the true sheep of Israel did. They'll hear the shepherd's voice in the presentation of the gospel of Christ, and they will know this is the way, this is the truth. I must have Christ. I must follow him. Same thing. I can't say this too many times. When we present the gospel, we are looking for a miracle Don't ever think that your method of presentation is what will win a person. You can run the same exact presentation of the gospel past 100 people, and with 99, there will be no spark. There'll be no appeal. And the hundred, they will have to have this Jesus you just talked about. He or she will have intense interest that cannot be quenched. People listened because they were known by God, chosen by God, and allowed by God's grace to hear God's voice through God's word. Not a whole lot of self in that gospel, is there? Be encouraged. Let this free you to talk about Jesus. Sure, it's good if you can write down the gospel message in a clear and tangible kind of way. And I I encourage everyone to make sure you can state the gospel. We practiced this several years ago with everyone. But be sure that it's But be sure that it is not the gospel that saves people. It is God who saves people through the presentation of the gospel. Only God can do this miracle. And you are not powerful enough to mess it up so bad that this person will never respond. You might not make the presentation clear enough that they understand it and they'll find it somewhere else. But when Christ knows a person's name, it is only a matter of time before that person will know the shepherd's voice. So relax and talk about Jesus. Notice here, too, that the thing that differentiates Christ's sheep from other sheep is how they respond to his voice That means that the way that we will bring other sheep is by speaking the words of Christ. That's the main thrust of evangelism. When we make the main thrust anything but that We are missing the point. We're departing from scripture. In the long run, it will only be seen as a waste of time to try to do evangelism without focusing on proclaiming Christ's words as spoken by Christ. or other biblical writers. If we focus on Christ's words, we'll see some people respond to the word. They might not respond all at once, but they'll be drawn to Christ by the same words that others are repelled by. It's amazing. It's amazing to watch. Then he goes on, so there will be one flock, one shepherd. The whole point in the book of Ephesians is that Christ has brought Jew and Gentile together. If you look at the one-anothers and the together and several other words in the book of Ephesians, you immediately see the theme. It's two groups coming together, and that's a very big deal. We don't think about that much, at least I don't. But if we had grown up being taught Judaism, we were thinking about it a lot. Or if we had lived when the Jews had the market share of God's attention. We would too. This was probably hard for Christ's audience to hear. They would have trouble envisioning eating the Lord's Supper with these heathen Gentile dogs. I mean, that's how they thought. These Gentiles who had never done anything in their life that God told the Jews to do in order to be clean and to be able to worship God and be able to serve God and all these other things, they had never done any of it. But Jesus tells them here how it'll be. The flock's coming from twofold, so brace yourself. I think uh that's kind of between the lines. And I'll love them both the same. Verse 17, for this reason the father loves me. Because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. This statement surprised me. And I guess it's because the love between the father and son has always existed. It's not contingent upon any condition. So why would Jesus say that the Father loved Christ for this reason? You know, this because And I thought that simply existing is reason enough for the Father to love the Son. And so it is. I think that we're told this as a contrast to the false shepherds. The father doesn't love the false the false shepherds because they're false. They don't care for the sheep, they don't care for the father's interest, they think only of themselves, they would never lay down their lives for the sheep. But the father loves Jesus because Jesus is just the opposite of all of that. Jesus' will was identical to his father's will. Christ was willing to die for those who meant so much to the Father. It's not that there was any question of Jesus falling out of God's favor. I don't think that's the intent here. That would be impossible. But the emphasis is that the love between the Father and Son was due to the perfect fellowship. And note that the because contains two actions. I lay down, I take up. A lay down na keta. We must never separate the atoning work of Christ dying From the life-giving act of Christ raising from the dead. The gospel includes both Now I tend to focus on on the atoning part, but I I realize it's an error to separate that and not to include the raising again. And Jesus confessed that he fully intends to do both. It's always interesting that we're told elsewhere that the Father raised Jesus from the dead. It would appear here that he raised himself. These are the kind of mysteries that will one day be solved by a conversation with Christ. Until then, we can ponder the wonders, and we can have some theories about how it works I don't think that's terribly important. If uh Jesus tells us something about how this happens, good enough. I I don't need to figure it out. I wanted to include something D. A. Carson said here about this text. He said, the love of the father for the son is eternally linked with the unqualified obedience of the Son to the Father, his utter dependence upon him culminating in this greatest act of obedience now just before him Willingness to bear the shame and ignomy of Volgatha, the isolation and rejection of death, the sin, and curse reserved for the Lamb of God. Right, let's continue in the text, verse 18. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my father. Alright, so the father and son are one in intention, but they're somehow separate in their experience. The son truly did decide to do the will of his father. In fact, the son was commanded by his father. He was given the command to do it. And in being given the command He was also given the authority to do it. When a soldier is given a command, that command contains with it the authority to carry the command out. When my dad told me to deliver furniture to a certain customer, he was never going to gruel me when I returned by saying, What made you think you were allowed to make that delivery? Well, the command made it allowed. Command that grants authority to carry out the command. Jesus had authority. This means that Jesus is not a robber or a thief who goes where he goes without right or authority. He's in contrast to those bad shepherds, or you know, the the enemies of the sheep. Jesus had full authority to carry out this ministry to the sheep. Now, the onlookers at this point need to decide what to do about this man. They'd heard enough. The claims of Christ couldn't just be dismissed. The way that Christ was saying what he was saying demanded a choice. And the crowd is in the process of deciding. Verse 19, there was again a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said he has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said these are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Alright, we've seen this before. This is not new and it will continue to happen. He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? You know, in fact, we can see the same attitude all day long in our news and social media. Some people think that making false claims about a person long enough And clear enough and dramatic enough will eventually make those those claims true No proof. Just the statement over and over again. There's no need to listen for facts. There's no need for rational proof. The more agreement that can be mustered in the crowd, the less need there is to substantiate any of the claims It becomes completely rational to them to shout so that no other voices can be heard, since the other voices are not worthy of being heard. No reason is necessary because those who are yelling think their position is so morally superior, there's no need to reconsider any facts. In our world, we don't hear so many claims about demon possession. Um, you know, I don't know. I don't know that I've ever heard Trump being accused of being demon-possessed. Maybe maybe he has, I don't know. But with what I'm seeing in our world, that exact insult might actually make some people more popular in some of the popular crowds. No, we hear claims of racism and hatred and various phobias And it shouted over and over and over again. And after a while, many observers assume it must be true because it's displayed so often The crowd thinks that if so many people feel this so strongly about this thing, this concern must be legitimate. Nothing has ever changed. That's what's happening here We're learning about sheep, and our world does not know the voice of the good shepherd. So they'll follow almost anything. Any voice will do. The false shepherds and the false sheep were saying what they were saying about the one true Son of God, the heavenly shepherd sent by God, he has a demon, so he's obviously insane. That is their their conclusion. There's little hope for these folks. Their mind is made up and there's no more room for consideration. Their God is in a box that's closed and wrapped, and they own the box. God is who they say God is. The second group is in his bat off. They say these are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Do you see the difference? The second group is open to proof. They're open to more evidence. They're not convinced for or against yet. Maybe they should have been, but they weren't. They would be open to having a discussion without shouting down what the other party is saying. There are two things that they're seeing about Jesus that are compelling, and they are in contrast to the words of the Pharisees. The first is Jesus isn't speaking like a demon-possessed man What he is saying is sometimes hard to understand and hard to believe, but it's not irrational. He is making sense. His claims are dramatic. But his words are calm and sensible. These are not the words of a madman. It's the first point. The second This man has power of God backing him. He can't be argued with. Words won't make Christ's display of power disappear. Words won't cause the man who can now see to be blind again. Jesus' power is unprecedented and it's undeniable. And these people are seeing that and saying, I can't make the decision like you are about condemning him because there's too much evidence I gotta wrestle with here. In John 10, Jesus has shown us the leadership that we need in our lives. And it's in him. It's in him. He is the good shepherd. He is the door. Two of the seven I am statements that Brad brought out in the introduction to the book are made right here. As we close, I think we should think about the voice of our shepherd. In verse 3, the sheep know the shepherd's voice, so they know to follow him. In verse 4, they know where to go because of his voice. In verse 5, they're kept safe because they will not follow the voice Of another shepherd. And in verse 16, we find that every sheep of the shepherds, no matter which fold, will follow their shepherd's voice. How do you and I hear our shepherd's voice? John 18, 37 says, Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered, You say that I'm a king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world. To bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice So he brings together this idea of witnessing to the truth and what my voice is saying Jesus' voice is Jesus witnessing to the truth. His voice is the words that Christ has said What he has communicated. We need not wait for some mystical experience. Like I want to hear the voice of God. No, we focus on what Christ has said. That is the voice of God. And then the apostles and what the apostles communicated to us and how they applied the voice of God, how they applied Christ's words You can tell if someone is Christ because what Christ says will cause a dramatic change in their lives And we all know that's a process, and it's not a pretty process, and sometimes there are ebbs and starts, and there's lots of failures. But it will happen. There will be a change. They will obey Christ's word. They will follow the shepherd by reading and hearing God's word and then obeying it. That will happen. Think about the safety we experience by obedience. The safety we experience by obedience. How many things in your life do you look back on and you think, man, I've really hurt myself by not obeying God? God's word takes us on paths that Christ has prepared before us. It's the path to the still waters and the green pastures. And what happens when we refuse to listen to our shepherds' words? We put ourselves in dangers that we would not need to face. They're unnecessary dangers. We'll face misfortunes that are due to our strength. If we do nothing else due to this wonderful word from God this morning, all that we would cherish our Father's words, our Savior's words, our shepherd 's words. Or that we would savor his voice to his sheep. That we would stay as close to our shepherd as possible by coming close to his voice daily. The wolves are afraid of Christ's voice. The false teachers can't bear to hear Christ's voice. The hirelings cannot replicate Christ's voice. But we like sheep are prone to stray. Are we like sheep astrayed, Isaiah says? That's what we do when we don't actively focus on the Christ's voice, on our shepherd's voice. Our shepherd knows our name. He tends to our needs. He provides for us. He protects us. He directs us. He nurtures us. Everything that we need is found in Him. How blessed we are when we orient everything in our lives. Around our shepherd's loving voice. Now that there is a wise sheep. I'd like to close in a prayer from the book. The valley of vision, and I've adapted it some for our use, but there are considerable prayers , and I couldn't help but relating to this from our text. Oh Lord God, you are the blessed God. Happy in yourself You're the source of happiness in your creatures. You are our maker, our benefactor, our proprietor, our upholder, our good shepherd. You've produced and sustained us. You've supported and indulged us. You have saved and kept us. You are, in every situation, able to meet our needs and treat our miseries May we live by you. May we live for you. May we never be satisfied with our Christian progress, but only as we resemble Christ. And may conformity to his principles, temper, and conduct grow hourly in our lives. Let your example of love constrain us into holy obedience and render our duty to be our delight. If others think our faith to be folly, our meekness to be infirmity, our zeal to be madness, our hope to be delusions. Our actions to be hypocrisy, may we rejoice to suffer for your name. Keep us walking steadfastly toward the country of everlasting delights. That paradise land, which is our true inheritance. Support us by the strength of heaven that we may never turn back or desire false pleasures. that will disappear into nothing. As we pursue our heavenly journey by your grace, let us be known as people with no aim but that of a burning desire for you And the good and salvation of our fellow men. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.