He gets the the farthest traveled award this this morning. So who is this man named Jesus? That's the context of our text this morning. Who is this man called Jesus? Remember that Jesus had intentionally healed a man on the Sabbath and commanded that man to do something that Jesus knew full well would get the attention of the religious leaders in a very negative way. This was no accident. Jesus intentionally provoked this standoff. And he did it evidently so that he could reveal what he's going to reveal in our text this morning. Now, the Pharisees are looking on, and what they see is a highly charismatic leader who can do miracles, and people are flocking to him. He speaks as one who has authority. He's not quoting all of them when he speaks. He's talking directly about God and about Scripture directly. He doesn't count out to the leaders at all. He does nothing to win their approval or support, which is unlike what the Pharisees and Sadducees are used to. And when he sits down with the best, like the best of the best, like Nicodemus, he silences them with truly-truly statements. They're left dumbfounded and speechless. Yet, they must decide who this Jesus truly is. Jesus doesn't leave them any other options. They can't sit on the fence. If they do nothing, Christ will surely take away their following and their power and their status. They either have to pronounce him as Lord. Or pronounce him as a blasphemer. He doesn't give him any choice. Every human being also has to decide who Jesus is. We'll be talking to the people at the fair this week who have to decide who Jesus is. You and I are all in this position. No human can claim a neutral position with Christ. A non -decision, a decision not to make a decision, is a no-decision. If we respond to God's call on our lives and proclaim him Lord and Savior, we will live forever. If we refuse Jesus his right to our lives, we will be eternally damned. That's the context. It's easy to think that because we're faced with a decision about Christ right now, and nothing seems to be happening while we're deciding. But that's how it'll always be. It's like nothing's happening to me now when as I'm not deciding for Christ. Why should I worry about it? But most assuredly, that won't always be the case. Jesus is about to make clear to these people who are front confronting Christ, and what he says to them applies to us also. For us to really get this text, we have to keep in mind just how radical these words of Jesus were. They leave no wiggle room. Jesus is making it very clear that He is God. And did these rulers have to submit to his authority? They've got to bow. And these those people who say that Christ never declared himself to be equal with God, you know, those so-called scholars They simply don't believe the Bible. I wonder if they've read it. You can't read this passage without understanding the dramatic claims that Christ is making. So let's look at our text. Verse 25. Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. And those who hear will live. Jesus is springing another truth on these guys that they're going to have to have trouble stomaching. It's not the first time for them, and it won't be the last. Jesus is making it clear that it is he who is the source of salvation. Truly, truly is usually how he announces these truths. Now, there's a very interesting statement here. Look at this. An hour is coming. And is now here. An hour is coming and is now here. That's what theologians often refer to as an already not yet. statement. It's something prophesied for the future, but is also fulfilled at least partially in the present. If you ever encounter someone who says that the Bible isn't like them, take them to this passage, because it very clearly states that it is. If the hour is in the future, is coming, and yet is now here, the present, I don't think there's another way to understand this. Now, what is it that's coming but now here? When the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. I think there are two ways of understanding how this is true presently in the period that Christ is talking about. And they're both true, which is always nice. It's always a good spot to be in when you're interpreting scripture and you can't go wrong because even if you're inaccurate, you're not saying anything that's not true. Even if you're technically wrong about the text, you're still fundamentally right about the truth. Now, this could be referring to those who are physically dead. Or to those who are spiritually dead in the present. Who do we know of who was physically dead and still heard the voice of Christ? And you might think immediately of Lazarus. John 11, 43, when he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. Lazarus is dead. Lazarus come out, the man who had died, came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. And Jesus said, Unbind them and let them go. There's no clearer example of a physically dead man hearing the voice of Christ and suddenly living. So Christ could be saying, I'm doing this now and I'm going to do it in bigger scale at the end of the time. I'm doing it now with one God. And in the end of time, I'm going to do it. It's going to be different because they're going to come back with an eternal body, a spiritual body. But I will call people back from physical death. And we know that it's true because he did it. So he could say, is now here, he could be referring to that. But I think Christ was saying something even more important to us. We didn't know Lazarus. And while it's comforting to know that Jesus can raise Lazarus from the dead, Lazarus still died again. Lazarus died later Don't we have our hopes in something better this morning? Really, if Christ kept bringing us back to physical life in this life, At some point it would be more of a punishment than a blessing. No, we want better life. And I think that's what he's saying in our text. And we see this truth in Colossians 2. 13. It says, and you who are dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh. God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. Okay, Paul tells the Colossians, you were dead. You were dead spiritually, and then you were made alive spiritually. But this is better than just being brought back from physical death to physical life. No, we're made spiritually alive. Spiritually dead people hear the voice of God and are made spiritually alive. We have everlasting life. And how does that happen to a human? Romans tells us, Romans 10, 17. So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. That's exactly what Jesus said. We hear the word of Christ and we are brought from death to life. When Jesus spoke, he could truly say, it's now here. It's now here. Dead people were being granted eternal life. They were being risen from spiritual death into spiritual life. That's what baptism displays. Going from death to life. And this was happening during Christ's entire ministry. God was awakening dead people, and they were hearing the words of Christ, and they were receiving it through faith that Christ gave to them. And they who heard Lived. That was happening during Christ's time. It's happening now. But there will be a final resurrection of the dead that will be the ultimate bestowing of life. We will be resurrected with a new body and introduced into eternity with Christ, where there is no longer any death, or sin, or pain, or tears. Notice that Jesus refers to himself as the Son of God here. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. And then in verse 27 it talks about the Son of Man. So here he refers to The Son. Remember that we talked about this earlier in the book of John. Jesus was not created. Jesus is not a creature. He's not a creation. True Porter did not exist until he was conceived. He didn't have life in himself that he could give to himself. It had to be given to him. We're all the same. We're creatures. We're all creatures. We're dependent upon another to bestow life upon us. Christ had life in himself. He's not a creation. He is a creator. His life springs from himself He alone can bring folks back from the chasm of death. He can give the dead life. He can create new life. So Jesus can give life, but that's not all he can do. Verse 27, and he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the son of man, not just the son of God, he's also the son of man. So Christ was given the authority and ability to give life as the Son of God. The Father also gave the incarnate Son the authority to execute judgment. And notice the because here. Because Christ is the Son of Man. The Son of Man. Earlier, Christ was called the Son of God. Here he emphasizes that he is the Son of Man. Now remember in Daniel that the Son of Man was given dominion, glory, and a kingdom that all people on earth might serve him. He will have an eternal kingdom. But the Son of Man title also emphasizes Christ's manhood, and I think that's why it was chosen here. Whenever it's referred to as he refers to himself as the Son of Man, he's talking about the incarnate being of Christ. This takes us to Hebrews and some texts that we recently looked at in our Bible study. Hebrews 2, 17 and 18 says, Therefore he had to be made like his brothers, a man. In every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God. To make propitiation for the sins of the people, because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted And then in Hebrews 4:14 and 16, it says, Since then we have such a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we don't have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted just like we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace. To help in time of need. So the things that made Christ a perfect high priest, able to represent man to God. Also are the qualifications that make him the perfect judge. Since Christ lived as a man and showed us how it could be done. Christ lived that perfect life. He has the perfect right to judge any human who has not. Because Jesus is the Son of Man, He makes the perfect and most qualified judge. Verse 28: Don't marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and they'll come out. Now remember, Christ is talking to his enemies here for the most part. He's appealing to them to have faith in him, but he already knows what the result will be. So he says, don't be amazed at this. Do not marvel at this. It seems to me Christ is saying here, don't be too amazed at what I have just said. Because what I'll say next is even more amazing. And Christ goes on to pile another truth on them that they'll have more trouble with, which he seems to do a lot of with the Pharisees and Sadducees. He's standing in front of these leaders, he's looking them in the eyes, and he's telling them, It is my voice that will cause the dead to rise Mine. Think about that. Try to imagine being a person and having Christ as a normal-looking human being. skin and flesh and dirt in his hair or whatever is standing in front of you and saying that to you It is my voice that will raise the dead in the final judgment Imagine that you don't have the inside scoop like we do about Christ. Imagine you're not looking 2,000 years back, having studied this a good bit of your life. Our first fleshly inclination would be, there's no chance. You're wacky. We tend to think that everything we experience is similar to everything that we have experienced in the past. Don't we? I mean we extrapolate. We take what has happened to us and we think this is more of the same. Well you couldn't do that with Christ, because it wasn't more of the same. It wasn't even similar And our inclinations would be wrong about that, like it is so many times when it comes to God things in our lives. You know, we look at our life, we think, how can this be fixed? And we forget God is God. It's an interesting thing here that says an hour. An hour is coming. That's a short period of time. What he's talking about will happen suddenly in a short period of time, and it will happen in the future. Just like it is happening now in some way. The hour is coming. Christ here, I think, is clearly talking about his second coming. And in this short period of time, it's the judgment for both the godly and the godless. That's one of the reasons that I reject the rapture theology that says that Christ will return twice. Once for Christians and second for unbelievers. I'm just not sure that's accurate given how many times it's stated that Christ comes back once and does the judgment on both. But there's lots of smarter people that believe that, so it's always an interesting discussion. But in this hour, Christ will call, and the impossible will happen. Christ will call and the impossible will happen. Dead people will come out of tombs. We're used to dead people going into tombs. We're not so used to dead people coming out of them. These people will be given new bodies, all of them, in an instant. That is the kind of control our God has on this world. Impossible is not a word that applies to God's talents, to what God can do, to God's work. Oh, it's impossible that God would go against his character. He can't do that. He won't do that. Never. But as far as things that are hard to do. We say it, but I don't think we get it. Nothing is too hard for God to do It's difficult for us to imagine that. It's great doctrine, but it's difficult to imagine. And it's true. You think about it: bringing billions of people back to life and giving them new bodies. No problem. He just has to say it. No delay. No assembly line, no government program, you know, none of that. Poof, done. Are you in a tough spot in your life this morning? Can you not see how God is going to work anything out in this situation you're in? I urge you to call upon Christ. What is harder in your life to fix? than it would be to give a new body to billions of people instantly. I mean, can you really think of something? Do we really think God can't handle the dilemma that we're facing? And he loves you deeply if you're his. He is motivated internally to help you, and he is powerful to help you. Trust him with your life situation this morning, whatever it might be. He is always safe to trust. We continue in on our text. Those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. We need to be careful here. We were talking about this in Sunday school. Is their salvation based on their good deeds? Well Yes. to a person's salvation. And Paul's record straight. He says in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for it's by grace you have been saved through faith This is not of your own doing, not of anything that you do, none of anything you can do. It is a gift of God, completely 100%. Not a result of any kind of effort that you place in order to get right with God. Why? So that nobody can boast. Nobody can say, I played a little part. No. Nothing. Okay, so doing good works plays no part in earning salvation. Salvation is never in any way to any degree earned by any behavior. It's a gift given to those who don't deserve it. That's why there has to be grace. Okay, then what part do they play? I think verse 10 of Ephesians 2 that we just read explains that. For we are his workmanship. We're the work that he's doing. Created in Christ Jesus for what? For good works, which God prepared beforehand for the work, for the people that He's going to save to do, that we should walk in them Good works are what Christians are saved for. That's not the only thing we've learned this morning, too, that we are saved for God's glory. That's ultimately what it's all about. But we are saved for good works. We are saved to good works. We're created in Christ for good works. So it is impossible that a person could be shaped by the hand of God and created in Jesus Christ anew for a purpose, and that purpose never be fulfilled. There are folks out there that hold this theology. You simply pray the sinner's prayer. It doesn't matter if you do a single thing after that. That is consistent with the saving power of Jesus Christ, you're good to go because you prayed that prayer Well, no, you're good to go if God calls you to Himself and saves you. That's when you're good to go. And how do you know when that happens? You see fruit. If a Christian is a Christian, his life will display good deeds, faithful deeds. It cannot be otherwise. Now, this does not say every deed will be good. We know. ourselves. If it's every deed, we're all excluded. We all know what's in the mirror, and it ain't pretty sometimes. But there will be clear evidence of the resurrection power of Christ in a believer's life They won't be as good as they could be, but they'll keep being better than they were. Now, how about an unbeliever? Don't they have good works? You look around. I mean, it's astounding how many unbelievers do things that are beneficial to their environment. But Isaiah describes it. He says in 64, 6 We've all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. And that's lightly saying what that exactly is. It's not pretty. We all fade like a leaf and our iniquities like the wind take us away. So Isaiah tells us no. No. Non-believers do not have good works in the way that Christ is defining it. A non-believer, while what he does may be beneficial to his fellow human beings, and they certainly are, I have been done great kindnesses by unbelievers. Often. Sometimes they put us to shame at their kindness and their generosity. But those deeds are not good by God's definition. They're not done by faith in the completed work of Christ. And anything not done in faith is sin, according to God's definition. So, no matter how benevolent and useful their acts might be, they aren't deemed as good in God's sight A life lived in rebellion against God and rejection of Christ cannot produce anything that is pleasing to God. Nothing. Anything that is truly good. So Christians are judged by their works in the way that we judge that something is a dog if we hear it barking. Barking doesn't make the dog. Being a dog makes him bark. The actions are congruent with its being Don't let verses like this in our text confuse you. The Bible is consistent from beginning to end. We are judged by works. In that way, that they display the work of Christ in our lives. The important thing here to know is that the most important thing you can and must do is trust Christ. for your salvation. Christ said this. John six, twenty eight and twenty nine. We're coming to that pretty soon. Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? Perfectly relevant question for our text this morning. What are these works of God? Jesus answered them, this is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has sent. You believe in him and everything else will follow suit. Get that work right. Everything else will be consistent with that work. That's what God wants and demands of you. You must believe in Christ. You must trust in that what he did on the cross counted for you. The death that he died was required of him by his just Father. Why? It was the only way for our sin. To be punished without us being the one being punished. Our sin had to receive its just penalty God's just amends for the penalty for our sin had to be met, and either we had to meet sin 's just demands and be damned Or Christ could meet them and we could be saved. That's forgiveness 101. Now we must place our full trust in Christ for our salvation. And that kind of faith involves our whole lives We receive Christ as someone who receives the King. That's the word. You know, there's a lot of talk about accepting Jesus as your Savior and accepting Him into your heart. Well, it doesn't really capture The words that are used for salvation. Receive is a word that you use frequently in receiving a king. Well, when you receive a king, you're not receiving him as a buddy, you're receiving him as the Lord of your life You're receiving a king as someone you're going to submit to from the day they enter your gate until you die. We're submitting all of ourselves to him in that expression of faith. That is salvation. And it's all it always results in good works if there's any time left in our lives. You know, the thief on the cross, well, he didn't have all that much time. But he did believe in Christ. He did that one thing. He would have done more had he not been dying on a cross. And when he stands in judgment, that's the good work that Christ will recognize. But keep in mind, we will be judged by works, but those works are always the result of being saved by grace through faith alone. That's how it works. Then verse 30: I can do nothing on my own As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Now, what is the first thing you would think of if you were one of these Jewish leaders hearing Jesus say all this stuff about him being God? Would you not think, who do you think you are? Because there are tremendous claims So they might think, who do you think you are? What gives you the right to claim all this stuff about yourself? You're so arrogant. I think that's why Jesus says what he says next. Jesus is telling the leadership that he hadn't taken any of these titles on himself. He hasn't assigned any of this stuff to himself. They were given to him, and they were given to him by the true God that these leaders claim to be so much following. Christ is declaring that everything he is doing is completely submitted to their Jewish God. Christ does nothing on his own. In fact, he can't. It's impossible. It's impossible that the perfect representation of the Father on earth could vary from being completely in the Father's will. At least that's my take on it. Christ said, I and the Father are one. They're of one mindset. They're of one being. God is not so Schizophrenic. He doesn't have two persons in that sense. He doesn't have a dual personality that's living out two different lives that are contrary to each other. Christ is saying to these leaders, if you have an argument with me, you have an argument with God. If you have an argument with me as Jesus, you have an argument with the Father. And that puts you in a bad spot. Then he goes on, as I hear, I judge, and my judgment 's just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Again, we see the perfect unity between the Son and the Father. The Son hears what the Father says. Now, keep in mind here that Jesus accepted limitation in his humanness. We don't understand that. We don't know how far it goes. We don't know how that all worked out. So hearing from his father regularly appears to be crucial to Christ while he was carrying out his mission. No one prayed more than Christ. He had to be filled in on things when his knowledge was limited by his humanity. So Christ says, I hear the Father. I judge based on what I hear. And my judgment is right, correct, just. Why? Because it's not subject to my human limitations. He's basically telling him, I'm not like you. I don't make mistakes in these kinds of things. Jesus is remarkable here. You know all those places in your life where you decide the thing you believe to be right? You know, you look at it and you think, would it be the right thing to do this, or it would be the right thing not to do this? And at the same time, you have the thing you feel like you really, really want. Or you really, really need. And you opt for the most compelling desire. Jesus is saying, I don't do that. He's telling the leaders, I'm not like you I'm not using my position to be self-serving like you are. I haven't taken this authority upon myself like you have. I'm not fulfilling my passions in a religious gown like you guys do. I'm not like that. No, my judgment is right because I seek not my own will, which would be tempting to do, but the will of him who sent me Jesus is really drawing down on the fact that he's not here on his own desires. He's not claiming anything that he has not been given. He's not doing anything His life is completely submitted to the Father's will. Jesus doesn't allow his flesh to distract him or to rule him Oh, that it could be said of us that we never seek our own will Thank God there are times when we do live like Jesus. Thank God there are times when when we follow him loyally. And take up our cross. And when we have our own selfish desire and we know what He wants, we choose what He wants. Praise God that's the case. Because those those moments Have Jesus fingerprints all over them. But oh that we would live every moment like that That we would live every moment in the way that Christ really deserves we should live. That we would live like Jesus. If you ever want to know what walking in the Spirit looks like, here's the perfect picture of it. Never seeking one's own will, always seeking the will of Him who saved us Let's pray. Lord, we come before you just so