We return this morning to the middle of chapter 2 of Daniel, and Daniel is delivering on his promise to tell Nebuchadnezzar the meaning of the dream that the king had. And this is the dream. You saw, O king, and behold, a great image. The image, mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood before you, and his appearance was frightening The head of this image was of fine gold, its chest and arms of silver, its middle and thighs of bronze, its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay As you looked, the stone was cut out by no human hand, and it struck the image on its feet of iron and clay and broke them in pieces Then the iron and the clay, the bronze and the silver and the gold altogether were broken in pieces and became like chaff of the summer threshing floor. So, the king knows when Daniel is done talking that Daniel really did know what the dream was that King Nebuchadnezzar had on his own without telling anybody. So it's the impossible that Daniel is doing, and had Daniel not done that, had he tried to give a different dream that was the one that the king didn't have, Daniel would have been killed for it. That was the situation. Now, what the king saw in his dream is relatively simple. He saw a great image. The word used for image is normally used to describe a statue. It's the same word as is used for the statue that the king builds in the next chapter. Something made this statue frightening. Maybe it appeared to be alive. Who knows? But it scared the king. And I doubt this king was very easily scared. The image had five parts. The head was gold. Its midsection, beginning from the neck and going down to the waist, was made of silver. From there down to the knees, it was made of bronze, and the rest of the legs were made of iron, and its feet was a mixture of iron and pottery And then a stone, supernaturally made, struck the image in the feet and broke it all up. Then the whole image was broken up until it was like dust it blew away. And like the dust, the remnants of these prior Parts of the statue were gone, they were no longer in existence, and then a stone filled the whole earth. Now it's kind of an odd dream. But let's go to the interpretation. Verse 36b. Now we'll tell the king its interpretation. You, O King, the King of Kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, and the might, and the glory. And into whose hand he has given wherever they dwell, the children of men, the beasts of fields, and the birds of the heavens, making you rule over them, you are the head of gold. The first part's the easiest. It's always the easiest when the Bible interprets for you what the interpretation is. The golden head is Nebuchadnezzar. He was technically a king of kings. He had conquered many other kings and he was king over them, so king of kings. But clearly there was a heavenly king. Over him. And Daniel's making that point. That seemed to be a concept whose implications were hard for the king to accept, just like us And we'll see that further in the king's life. God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, and the might, and the glory, and into whose hand he has given. Now, we read this from our perspective, and many of us have read it many times, so we we might miss the impact. We probably read this differently than Nebuchadnezzar would have heard it The Jewish people to King Nebuchadnezzar and the Jewish territory was just a thorn in the king's flesh. They were an irritating people who simply would not accept his role, wouldn't go by it. He had to go back three times until he deported everyone because they were so unruly. And and sure, you know, these Jewish people that he had conquered. And again, that's the history of that is in a stone tablet that they have. Everybody had a God. You know, this king was used to places have gods. Lots of places had lots of gods. And the king would have seen the Jewish God just like any other God. And he may not have placed much stake in any of them. We're getting the idea from what we've gone over so far that he was pretty tired of the mystical division of his kingdom. And he wanted them to produce or he was going to get rid of them. What Daniel says would be mind-blowing to this king. Daniel is saying that it is the Jewish God who has done all this. The Jewish God has given the Jews into the king's hand, as well as this Jewish God gave all the other kingdoms into his hand. We can rest assured that this is not how Nebuchadnezzar viewed his world. Daniel was telling the king that there is one God, and he and he alone reigns supreme. He's not limited to a nation or to a people, and that's generally how they thought about gods. His existence is not dependent on people believing in him. He exists and he does what he wants to do, when he wants to do it, with whom he wants to do it with. In a word, this God reigns. And he reigns supreme over all men. What we think is irrelevant, he is in charge Our world has done an interesting thing with truth. They've made all truths personal truths. Some would say, I'm happy that you follow Jesus because that seems to make you happy. But the truth that makes me happy is different than the truth that makes you happy. And both are good because truth is relative. The problem with that thinking is that God does not exist because you believe in him. God exists even if you don't know about him. Your belief or disbelief does not change his existence in the least. But for sure, on one real day in the future, your belief in this one true God or lack of it will determine your eternal destiny. We'll all face the Son of God on that day, whether we believe in him or not. King Nebuchadnezzar was probably ignorant of the one true God. I mean he may have heard some things about it, because He conquered that nation. But that made little difference to what the one truth God did. In the end, our belief never determines our reality. Our belief only changes us. It does not shape reality. Reality remains untouched and unchanged. There is absolute truth. Also, we should consider that what Daniel told the king would have probably been seen as an insult to the king's pride. This was an offensive thing that Daniel was telling him. With what we see later, this king wanted to take credit for his triumphs. He wanted to take credit for his accomplishments. He saw it as, you know, I'm pretty great, I'm King Nebuchadnezzar. Look what I did. Don't we always want to take credit for the good things that we do? Daniel's telling the king that the king is simply a pawn in the hand of God God set up his kingdom and he can tear it down whenever he wants. And we go on. Wherever they dwell, the children of men, the beasts of the field, and the birds of the air, making you rule over them all, you are the head of gold. Daniel is making his theology lesson even clearer for the king. This God is in charge of everything. Humans, beasts, birds, all of it. There aren't a bunch of gods with their own domain. Making some crops come up and others, you know, rolling over the animal kingdom and all that sort of thing. No, there is one God who reigns over all those parts. And note that God did not allow the king , he doesn't say he allowed the king to rule over them. He doesn't Foresee that the king will rule over them. He made the king rule over them, is how it's worded. God made the king. Think about that just a little Think of all the details that had to be covered to orchestrate such a thing for God in a period of history to see that Nebuchadnezzar's reign would be exactly like it was. Covering all the nations that it did, accomplishing all the internal building and things that it did. That's impressive. And God takes credit for it. King Nebuchadnezzar thought it was all him, but it wasn't. Now, why is King Nebuchadnezzar referred to as the head of gold? The head of gold? We'll notice something as we go down the body. The head is made out of the most most valuable material, but it's not the strongest material. The iron is the strongest material, but it's the least valuable material. We have a couple of interesting clues In verse 39, it says, the next kingdom that arises will be inferior to Nebuchadnezzar's. Inferior how? But at the same time, in verse 40, we see a kingdom strong as iron because iron destroys things. It seems like two things are being emphasized by the materials. There's the value of the material and the strength to destroy of the material. The value, one metal is superior to the other, the other is inferior, it's less valuable. and the strength to destroy, iron is emphasized because it's most effective at destruction. I believe we're seeing two things. The purity of the authority structure and the technology of the weaponry and warfare. That's my opinion, and take it as that. But we see the authority structure grow from best to worst, and we see the skill of warfare and destruction go from worst to best Now look at let's look at what we already know of King Nebuchadnezzar to look at his uh why he was superior. Who did the king consult when he decided to kill off his mystic division? Nobody. Nobody. He was a king, and other than God's reign, he reigned supreme. He reigned with purity of authority. He didn't need laws. He could speak, and his word was law. That's what pure authority this king had. Now, how does God reign? Does God ask man's counsel or permission in order to make a decision? Of course not. Our God has absolute authority. And what is the law of God? Was it arrived at by a council of men? Did they sit around and vote, well, this ought to be what God says? No, we know better. It's the spoken will of God. The law, the Old Testament law, is the spoken will of God. If Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom is the gold kingdom, God's kingdom is the platinum plus kingdom. That's the point I'm trying to make. God is perfect in the perfect lawgiver and the perfect law enforcer. That's better than this gold kingdom But Nebuchadnezzar was as close as you could get on this planet. He has ultimate imperfect power His word is imperfect law. He imperfectly enforces it. But it reflects God's kingdom more than any others in the purity of its authority. That's why he was the head of gold. Now think about this a little bit. Excluding the kings of Israel and Judah, where else in Scripture do we see God intervene so much in a king's life Where do we see him take so much interest in a king's life? Where does he disciple and discipline and communicate with an other heathen king? I don't know of anywhere in Scripture where God played an active role of disciplining and shaping a king's attitude. A non-Jewish king's attitude. Sometimes Gentile kings were sent warnings of judgment by prophets. But that's about the peak of it. Sometimes they were punished for their sins, but we don't see God doing discipline on them like we see with Nebuchadnezzar. And that made me ask the question, why is that? Why did God single him out? Why was he so special? And I think, and again, this is only an opinion. It's that God gave Nebuchadnezzar such raw authority and such raw power. What is the greatest weakness of that form of government? The person. The person. It's the human that wields the power. Absolute power in the hands of Christ is going to create that perfect government. It'll be absolutely perfect because Christ is absolutely perfect. The ruler is sinless, the ruler is perfect, but in the hands of Nebuchadnezzar, not so much. I think it's highly likely that God was showing his mercy to those under King Nebuchadnezzar's rule. Since God created this kingdom, God was also going to intervene to keep this king in check. And he he's very successful in doing that. We're going to see that. He was going to show the king that he did not have absolute authority. He too had to answer to a higher king. And we'll see this lesson being taught in the next few chapters. And the king, just like us, was a slow learner. Aren't we, though? God was not going to let the king get too big for his riches. This government God gave him had requirements, and King Nebuchadnezzar had to learn, he had to answer to God for it. It's only God who deserved the glory. And God would not share it with Nebuchadnezzar, and he was about to find that out. The other element of this gold head is that warfare was limited The Babylonians only had so much power to destroy. They were not the killing machine that the Roman government turned into be. They certainly did not have the military might of what would now be the US, you know You can kill millions of people from a seat thousands of miles away. I mean it's it it's just grown. Now they were the greatest military might of the time, but their methods were still somewhat crude Before we go to the next kingdoms, there are some important lessons to learn that we have covered so far. First, we see that all earthly kingdoms are controlled by God That's not a new idea. God actually sets the land boundaries for nations as well as everything else. At least that's what Scripture says So before we get too distraught about the outcome of, say, a war in Ukraine, realize that it will work out to the exact effect that God wants it to have when He wants it to have it. Second, all political kingdoms have an after this until God all ends it all with his kingdom. There's an after this on each of these, after the head of gold, after you know the bronze, all that. Just like when I worked for companies, I learned to expect they're going to be purchased and things are going to change. There'll be an after this. So it's true with kingdoms. If the Lord tarries, what will the USA be? We don't know. We don't know. But God has it under control. There will be an after this. Third, the evolutionary model simply never holds when it comes to human history. In the early 1900s, there was an idealist expectation of a utopian world due to the evolution of mankind. Mankind keeps getting better. We keep growing, we keep learning, we keep uh you know advancing But Scripture has it all pegged. Kingdoms are declining. Kingdoms are declining year to year. They have more political power, but less morality, less submission to the highest authority. The governments represent the worst of humankind more, and the desires of God less and less. And fourth, the image that the king sees is a single statue. Five kingdoms, one statue. While the body parts differ in composition, they are still fundamentally a part of a single whole. These are human kingdoms. They have that that similarity. They're as flawed as the humans who run them. Sin is the design flaw, so they'll never function well for too long. When a person makes wine, they have to keep the forming wine from receiving too much oxygen. If too much oxygen reaches the grape juice, it'll turn into vinegar. Sin is the oxygen in the wine of kingdoms. And there's no amount of laws that can be made and created and enforced that will keep sin at bay. Because it's in us. It would be easy to come up with, I mean think about it. It would be easy to come up with a government that would work if everyone was good. Any of them would work. Anyone could come up with an effective one, but it's impossible to come up with one that will work forever when people are sinful. The kingdoms of mankind are all just one big flawed statue that is destined to fall one day at the hands of an eternal kingdom. That's what Daniel is telling us. And fifth, we don't know how the king viewed his kingdom, except that he was very proud of his accomplishments. How would you feel if you were told that in a short while your family tree is just going to end? Your family name is just going to end. For Nebuchadnezzar, this kingdom would have felt that way. It was like his family business. It was painstakingly built piece by piece by his ancestors and then by him, with great effort and price. He probably wanted it to be a a legacy forever. All his buildings, all his territory, all his excellent governing systems that I'm sure he had, all the things that he had worked for. And Daniel's telling them They are all exceedingly transient. That had to be a blower. Do you realize that in 200 years from now, if Christ doesn't return, no one on earth will be regularly thinking about you? How's that for optimism? You might show up on an ancestry chart. Your name might be mentioned. Maybe if you documented it in the right place, your story might be read. That'll be Facebook. And maybe something you wrote will be read then. But the human tribute that we receive by the few people in our lives who regularly think about us, it will be gone. The money you earned will be gone. Your accomplishments will be a distant bit of unwritten history. Solomon recognized that. The only thing that we can do that will last is not to build kingdoms. It's to store up treasures in heaven. We can invest our lives in that which God will reward us for. And for the most part, that means investing in things that last forever, which means investing in each other's lives. Nebuchadnezzar did not believe that, but God was going to teach him a thing or two about that soon. Then, verse 39: another kingdom inferior to you shall arise after you. That's the Silver Kingdom. And it's inferior. How is it inferior? Do you remember the politicians in Babylon when we get to, I forget. by chapter five maybe, how they got King Darius to do his bidding. They got him to write down a law. Once the king wrote down the law, the king himself was not able to change it because the law took precedence over his direct authority. There was a breakdown in the authority structure The rule of law took precedence over the rule of the king. Now, while we regard that, at least I do, as a very, very good thing in a wicked world, It still represents a less pure form of government. The king did not have absolute authority anymore So Darius and the Medes and Persians is most likely the body of silver that he refers to. So that's the next kingdom that came. Then in verse thirty-nine, a third kingdom of bronze came, which shall rule over all the earth. This was more than likely the Grecian Empire formed by Alexander the Great. And there's you know plenty written about that But as an aside here, I want to point out one more time that you've got to be really careful how you apply the word all in Scripture. You've always got to take the context to define all. We should always limit it by context. The context here is referring to the kingdoms in their known world. That's all in their known world. That's all the kingdoms. This doesn't mean that there weren't places in the world like North America that was not under the reign of those kingdoms Verse 40, and there shall be a fourth kingdom strong as iron, because iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things. And like iron that crushes, it shall break and crush all these. Most scholars believe this is referring to the Roman government. The Roman military was an incredible war machine. Others believe that it was the kingdoms of Ptolemy Lagus, which was one of the Alexander's generals And he reigned in Egypt, and Octavius Caesar conquered his land. So they were originally Greek, I think, and then it moved to being Roman. I could be wrong about that. And Seleucus Nicator and other of Alexander's generals who reigned in Syria and Pompeii conquered his land. So eventually they became Rome one way or the other. But those might have been the two legs So both ended up in Rome. Whatever the case, all kingdoms mentioned were extremely violent. Then verse forty one, as you saw the feet and toes, partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, it shall be divided kingdom. But some of the firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft clay. And as the toes of the feet were partly iron and partly clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle. As you saw the iron mixed with clay, so they will mix with one another in marriage, but they will not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay. Now, those who hold a futurist view of Revelation believe that this is a revived Roman Empire, so it's in the future. Many believe that the European common market years ago, and don't even know if some of you have ever heard of that, which is now the European Union. Many people believe that that is the revived Roman Empire. They would say the unity of those countries is very weak, but they have a great military might. They believe that Daniel 7 describes the same kingdom in greater detail in Revelation 12, 13, and 17 and refers to the ten horns and the ten kings. And they think that there'll be thirteen countries in the EU that will consolidate into ten and the Antichrist will come out of one of those countries That is not the only view to take of Revelation. There are lots of other good views. But those who take other views of Revelation believe all kinds of things. But most common is that the ten toes are simply Rome at some point in the future when Daniel was written. It looks to me like the mixture of iron and clay means that politically this is going to be the weakest kingdom so far in terms of straight authority. In other words, i it looks like there'll be more democracy to it It'll be held together by agreements. That's the clay, it's my understanding. And their political arranged marriage where one country gives up something to get something else is not going to be stable. The old Roman government was a republic that had a lot of elements to it like that, that wasn't as stable of a government. The EU most assuredly has a lot of weak alliances. So all this stuff is just like to me interesting. Nothing to write a book about. I think the iron is the power to make war that these countries hold They have a great deal of military power now, but if this passage is speaking of the future, I look for their capacity to inflict destruction to grow mightily in the coming years. Now, it's incredible that Daniel could have made this prophecy in 600 BC for kingdoms that would come for nearly a thousand years to come. And maybe more. It's interesting. Many scholars seek to discredit the book of Daniel as being a book written well after it claims to have been written. Their reasoning is, their biggest argument is that it could not have been written then because it couldn't be so accurately describing the future. It's kind of a circular argument. That's a problem for a secular scholar because the assumption is that all that exists is here and now. But it's easy for us to believe because the Bible declares itself to be a supernatural book. It declares itself to be inspired by God. It declares a God that is above time and space and is not limited with such. The book came from outside of here and now. It was supernaturally provided outside the abilities of man. So, yeah, it can and does predict the future accurately when that's what God wants it to do. Alright, rather than go on to the rock that destroys all kingdoms, we'll we'll stop here and we'll take that up next week, Lord willing. But I think the biggest takeaway from this morning's passage is for us to consider this truth. That there is a God, and that God is in charge. Just like all the other parties in the mystic division in Babylon Our world has all kinds of opinions about God. They had their share. They had a whole department, a whole division. There are many religions. There are many voices expressing many ideas. There are many claiming to have the corner on the market of truth. But just like in Daniel's day, there's still only one true God. And God proves Himself by doing that which none of the false gods can do. That's what happened in Daniel's. And our God does not change at all according to how many people believe in him or how many people do not. At the end of time, it will be Christ and Christ alone that we stand before in judgment All mouths will be stopped on that day. And there will be only one thing that matters. Did you trust in Christ? And the work he did for you on that cross 2,000 years ago to save you from the thing that you most need saved from, which is your sin and the wrath of God. Over your sin? Do you believe in Christ? Did you give all that you know of yourself to all that you know of God Did you surrender to King Jesus in your life? It's just a number of different ways of saying the same thing. Did you believe in Christ? With all the clatter of voices in our world, with all the skeptics mocking God, or even the idea of God. With those who flippantly use his name as if it holds no power at all, as if there is no one behind that name. With all the religions, including the religions saying there is no God at all, with all that, there is coming a day when there will be perfect and absolute clarity for every single human being Every knee will bow to Daniel's God, the only God, who among all the religious voices, could tell ne King Nebuchadnezzar what the future holds when no one else could. It's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you so much