So last week we looked at the forgiveness of God. We established that all sin is punished. All sin is ultimately against God. Sin creates a debt that requires punishment, and forgiveness removes the debt by placing it in Christ. Forgiveness is also necessary to restore fellowship. But it's not a new forgiveness. It's the bringing to bear the forgiveness that Christ has already accomplished. There's something I'd like to add to last week's sermon. I came upon it this week. And uh it was a point that Jay Adams made that I think is very important. He says that forgiveness is not a feeling by God. It's a promise by God that a certain thing will be accomplished. And these are just a few of the examples of that promise. Isaiah 43, 25, he says, I even I to you who blocks out your transgression for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. And Hebrews 8, 10 through 13 says this, for this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their minds and write them on their hearts, and I'll be their God, and they shall be my people. None of them shall teach his neighbor, and none his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and lawless deeds I will remember no more. So forgiveness is ultimately a promise by God to do something. God is promising He'll do it, and He will not go against His promise. It is a commitment on the part of God to not allow this sin to be held against us. I know that my presentation has been and will continue probably to be a little disorganized because every step I go I keep studying and I keep finding more stuff and then when I throw it in it's not always in in as clear uh an order as I would like it to be. But there's so much important about this topic that I just I don't want to miss anything. And this is the point I want to make here. I believe that forgiveness between a believer and a believer is a commitment by one believer to act toward the other according to what God says is true. It's a pledge of orientation. Now when God says I forgive you, when God says I forgive you, God is coming from a position of absolute certainty, absolute uh uh assurance, absolute Um confidence. He has no needs need met. He has no struggle in his process to forgive us. It can be an event for God. It can be something where he pronounces done, and it's done. He's completely consistent. We, however, are not So when we pronounce forgiveness to an unbeliever, no matter what view we might have about forgiveness, we cannot always pronounce our endorsement of God's forgiveness once and done by us. If you've ever done any forgiving, I think that rings true in your own life. It is not easy for us. But we can declare it true of God. And what I find in my experience of forgiveness of another believer is it's more like a promise than it is an admission. When I say you're forgiven, I'm really announcing something that I believe to be true about God, and that I am committing to orient toward that person as being in that forgiven state. I commit myself to live according to where that person stands before God. That that sin is never going to be held against that person again. Sometimes I fail. I suspect anyone that is doing forgiveness fails, but it's a sin. It's a sin of failing in our forgiveness. I may allow the hurt I feel to control my actions and I'll try to make the offending party hurt because I hurt I may bring up their past sin to hurt them, to make them pay. And that is not forgiveness. That is not in keeping with forgiveness. I've come to conclude that I think it's a lot like marriage. At one point I say I do, but from that day forward, everything I I do towards some tempting alternative has to be according to the commitments that I originally made. I either honor marriage or I dishonor it I think in the same way we either honor forgiveness or we dishonor it. I act according to it or contrary to it. And acting contrary to it is dead. When I act contrary to forgiveness, I'm telling God that I think I deserve better treatment than what he received. I think I have a right to hold on to this bread when he says he lets it go. I've been sinned against greater than he has. I mean, what an absurd thought, but that's what it all comes down to. In the last sermon, I talked about answering the question, have I forgiven this person? You know, we were gonna say hopefully by the end of this process we would know how to determine if we have forgiven a person. And I think it's the wrong question. The question is really, am I now acting according to the forgiveness I believe is true for this person? Am I acting according to forgiveness or am I acting contrary to forgiveness? That's really the question. And we are very likely to waver as we go through that process The quality of our forgiveness is only measured according to how well it aligns with the forgiveness that God does. The quality of our forgiveness is only measured according to how well it aligns with the forgiveness that God does. Okay, so this morning we're going to be looking at the forgiveness that Christians are to do. And I ended up breaking this into two parts because it just got longer and longer and longer. So it was either go until one o'clock or uh or or have two installments and I figure two installments would be a little easier to process Now we need to start with the understanding that forgiveness is not an option to a Christian. It is an absolute requirement. Matthew 6, 12 says, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Matthew 6, 14 and 15 says, For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Does this mean if we will not forgive that we lose our salvation? No. That's where the importance of the context of the rest of Scripture comes in The point is, if we are not a forgiving person, we are giving evidence that we are not a forgiven person. If we will not extend forgiveness, we're showing solid evidence that we have never received forgiveness. This is like saying someone is living in darkness is not in the light. You know, if someone is living in darkness, they're not in the light. It's kind of a logical conclusion. Based on the facts. So we need to get this. If a brother sins against us and repentantly confesses their sin and asks us to forgive them, we must Is that just we must absolutely no questions? Now we might get into is this Is this uh confession and is this repentance and those sort of things, and we might differ on that. But if we're convinced that that person has confessed and repented, we must forgive But the next question is also crucial. What does it mean? What are we doing? What are the implications? And that's what we have spent so much time already on and we will continue to We'll talk next week about the two common views of Christian forgiveness that we talked about in Sunday school this morning, and I might have a little more clarity on it as a result. One believes that all forgiveness between people is conditional to their repentance, confession, and request for forgiveness. The other view believes that there are two kinds of forgivenesses. There is the specific kind that is conditional, and there's a general kind that's unconditional. That's at least my way of putting it, and that might not be perfectly clear. But I think of it as a big F and a little F for forgiveness. And well again, we'll get into more detail about that, and we'll have more discussion about that next week. There are many people who are very shallow in regard to their understanding of forgiveness. I think that is over and above where we in the Christian church start. And they take it to mean that we pretend that we don't know what we know. After all, when God forgives, he removes it as far as the each is from the West, doesn't he? Yeah, he does. But but again we have to be very specific in our definitions. We need to be very clear in our thinking. Our brother Skrull explained that God does not suddenly gain amnesia when he forgives the sin. It's not like you couldn't ask him next week, well, I you know, did I do that? And he said, I don't know. I can't remember. Scripture is consistent that when God forgives our sin, it is in regard to remembering it against us in judgment. God will no longer remember a single sin against us in judgment that He has forgiven us of. And praise God for such a wonderful truth. It's the only hope that we have. But God will remember our sin in an effort to help us become what he wants us to become. In the Old Testament, God had no trouble reminding Israel of her past. He used those sins to warn them of the danger of repeating those sins. And this was for their benefit. Paul reminded the Corinthians of their past when he said this in 1 Corinthians 6, 9 through 11. He says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Don't be deceived. And then he goes through a long list of sins. And in verse 11 he says, And such were some of you. But you were washed when you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus by the Spirit of our God. So Paul did not regard mention of people's past sins to always be off-limits. Like you've forgiven given them, you would never, ever, ever mention that sin again. He doesn't go by that rule. We might we might say, wait, I remember when Paul said this. Philippians 3, 13 and 14, brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended, but one thing I do Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal for the prize of the upper call of God in Christ Jesus. And Paul did say it, and he meant it. But he also said this, 1 Timothy 1, 12 and 13. And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who has enabled me because he has counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Although I was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent man, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. Forgetting in Scripture is used in Scripture with a very narrow focus in regard to forgiveness. It is not amnesia. It is refusing to remember something for a very specific purpose. It is a fool who does not learn from his past. Remembering is a very useful tool if we're ever to understand why we do things now and why we did things in the past. A past that cannot be remembered cannot be learned from. So not all reminders of sin come from the accuser of our souls. Sometimes they come from the savior of our souls. Sometimes our repentance has not really gone to the heart of a sin. We float theories about our motives or actions that aren't accurate And when that happens, it's the mercy of God to remind us of a reality that we have not yet fully repented of When the devil reminds you of a sin, it's to condemn you for that sin. It's to cause you pain, it's to discourage you, it's to cause you to doubt your salvation. When the Holy Spirit reminds you of a sin, it is to free you from it, or to keep you from committing it again, or to gain a new appreciation for God's grace. Do not believe the lie that all reminders of sin are from the devil. Not all reminders of sin are given to prove a lack of forgiveness of sin. They are That is always the devil's goal, but that is not a Holy Spirit's and often a fellow believers' goal as well. Now I I touched on this I may touch on this again later. I could probably say that about every sentence. But I wanted to say to here. When we forgive a brother who has confessed his sin to us We are agreeing with God that this sin will no longer be punished, at least that's my understanding. That means that if we act according to forgiveness, We will never use the reminder of that sin to punish that person for what they did. If we act according to forgiveness, we will never use the reminder of that sin to punish that person for what they did. We will not bring it up for the purpose of hurting them. Maybe hurting them for the way it hurts us. This is one evidence of whether we are acting according to forgiveness of someone. Why do we even bring it up? Why do we even talk about it? Again, we need to think deeply about this. And we're going to especially deal with that in the fourth sermon. The pat answers rarely provide the answers we need. They're not livable. But we can pick up a lot of helpful things on the way. So, what is this forgiveness of sin that believers is to do? What does it actually entail? Verse 15 and 16 Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother, but if he will not hear you, take with you one or two more, that by a mouth of by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. There are a bunch of things to learn here. First, when you're sinned against, what are you supposed to do? Are you supposed to go home and let that wound fester? Are you supposed to stubbornly resist acting upon it? Are you supposed to suck your thumb and pig yourself? Are you supposed to pretend that the sin never happens so you don't have to do anything about it? Are you supposed to wait for that person to come to you? Guess what? Every one of those answers is the wrong answer. If we want to obey Christ and we think that a fellow believer has sinned against us, the instruction is not at all vague. It's not a suggestion. It is a command. And if we won't do it, we're sinned. You get yourself in the presence of the one you have a gripe against and you start talking. That's essentially how it starts. Now there are some sins that are pretty clear. If a person is committing adultery, that's a pretty clear sin. If you know that someone has stolen something from you, that's that's pretty clear. That's easy to see. But often the things you're really suspected is nice. In that case, we do well to lead with questions. I don't think we can go exactly like this said, where you go, you've got, you know, you've got the sin that this person has committed. A lot of times it's not like that in our relationships. And in that case, we do well to leave with questions. We may ask, you did this. Why did you do it? Or did they um really even do what it is we think they did? But it's very clear that if we're sinning against If we are sinned against, it is our obligation to go. Oddly enough, if we sin against someone else, it's our obligation to go. You get the thing there. God wants it dealt with. And if we refuse to go, we soak in our heart, we'd be in disobedience to Christ and maybe even rebellious. So it's a big deal. It's really a big deal. Sin in the can. Then we go, and if we discover that this truly is a sin, or we already know that it's a sin, we confront that person with it. Now, notice who is involved in this. It's you and the person sin. It's you and the person sinning. That's what Scripture says. If everybody and their brother knows about it before we go, guess what? We have already blown our instructions. And maybe there are times when we need advice. That can happen. But often our sharing about how we perceive how another person has wronged us has very little to do with getting the wisdom that we need to deal with. It's often just gaining support in our feelings for being missed or whatever. We really do need to do what Jesus said. The second thing we notice is that the goal is to be heard and to gain our brother. The goal is to be heard and to gain our brother. The goal is always reconciliation. The whole process is to be part of the ministry of reconciliation. This cannot be emphasized enough. We are never to become the sin police in hopes of busting somebody. No, we want restoration. And we'll do anything that we can in that regard. Paul makes much of the ministry of reconciliation. 2 Corinthians 5, 17 through 21 says this. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away, behold, all things have become new. Now all things are of God, who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ, and has given us the ministry of reconciliation. He's given us that ministry. That is that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses to them. That's how he defines the reconciliation, which is interestingly how forgiveness is also defined, not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ as though God were pleading through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. that we might become the righteousness of God in him. So while this passage does not use the word forgiveness, it describes very well what we should be doing when we want to seek Forgiveness, and that's for that's our ministry. We're to bring the word of reconciliation We're to bring the word telling people how to be right with God, how they can be reconciled back to God. We could say without stretching any truth how to be forgiven by God. Because the result of God's forgiveness is prescribed here, and it's not imputing their righteousness to them. That is what forgiveness accomplishes. Notice the wording here. We're ambassadors. We what does an ambassador do? We speak in another's behalf. So we're getting our instructions from somewhere else. And we're conveying them to the third party. We'll refer back to this again later. But we also see the same word here in this passage, Matthew 5, 23 and 24. It says Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brothers talking again about this ministry of forgiveness. First be reconciled to your brother and then come and offer your gift. In Matthew 5, in which Jesus is teaching much the same thing as chapter 18. We're told that this is a process of reconciliation. In this case, it says reconciliation to our brother But what is it that we're confessing? Sins. And who are those sins primarily against? God. Now back to 1816. What do we do if the person does not hear? Okay, we're going, we're hoping that we'll be hurt. That's the goal, but they don't. If they won't admit that they're wrong Now we forgive them, right? No. Definitely I mean if you stop there and say, Well, I forgive them We're we fall into some danger, depending on how we're taking it and how we're using it, but you get no sign of that in Matthew 18. If they will not repent, we are not done ministering. That's the fact. We take another witness. Now, this is very significant because this is how courts of law were handled in the Old Testament. Everything legally binding had to be established by two witnesses. One versus one was not legally binding. When doing official legal business, there were requirements. And two witnesses was the requirement. Now, right off the bat, we get the idea that there's something official about this business. There's something extremely legally binding about this process. This isn't at all frivolous. It's extremely serious. Because the outcome to this process has a lot of serious implications. So it's like a legal proceeding. Now, how does that compare to our ideas of forgiveness? Do we regard forgiveness in light of something so serious and formal? And one of you would hold it, well sometimes you do and sometimes you don't, the other would say always. But when we go about this, the way Jesus prescribed it is very serious, and there's a degree of formality to it that we're not real wild about. We're establishing a legal fact about guilt and innocence. And then verse 17, and if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him to be to you like a heathen and a tax collector. Now I don't think the point here is one, two, three strikes you're at. I don't think it's limiting our efforts to three official tries doing official business, but it's describing the escalation process. In my IT world, as the problem becomes more urgent and more difficult to solve, the problem gets escalated to more hands, more expert or maybe authoritative hands. This is done because resolving the problem is so important. So we need to do everything we can as we escalate this. We do everything we can to bring someone living in sin To repentance. Now we prefer the private approach. But definable, deliberate sin in the Church of Christ is too dangerous to be tolerable. Or to be tolerated. And I mentioned definable delivery. Because I think sometimes it's important we establish that label to it. So that we're not confused about all of the things that happen between us because we're sinful people That we'll show each other unkindnesses. We'll show each other to be unloving at times. We'll show each other to be inconsiderate. And there's a sense that that comes from sin. But there's not a sense that you can define every single one of them as that was a sinful thing that you did. So at that point You overlook, or you uh you you're long-suffering with, or you look over that sin. Because you you can get nothing else done if everything that was questionable in all of our relationships was brought to the head all the time saying, that's in, that's in, that's in. So there's that that goes on in human relationships that Scripture takes account of. And I think that's the long-suffering that God has with us as well sometimes. Where he knows all of this stuff and he knows all of the sin that we do. But he doesn't sit back and wait for us to confess every single one of us before we'll go on. There's that process where he knows definitely and does not act on some sins right away and bring them to our attention. We definitely have that going on a lot. But if it is definable and deliberate And you can't find out if it's deliberate until you talk to the person. But if it's definable and deliberate, you go after it. It's dangerous. It's like poison in a well. It cannot be allowed in the body of Christ. It has to be resolved or removed. And that's how big of a deal Jesus made of it. So we pull out all the stocks and we try to keep it as private and as focused on reconciliation as we can through the whole process. Now, if it comes to the final stage of telling it to the church, who's likely to be involved in that? I think that answer is pretty easy. The leadership of the church is going to have to discern if this is a sin and if the next step should be taken They are, after all, responsible for this sort of thing. The point here is that we as elders have got to be men who are committed to this process of reconciliation. And in that process it is essential that we can discern what sin is and that that uh we're committed to pressing the issue and not relenting until we take it to its extreme. We have to be committed to knowing what sin is, calling what sin is, and not backing down no matter what it costs us until that sin is confronted and either ended or the offending member is removed from the church. That is a huge deal. And we're not qualified for leadership in the church if we will not discern what sin is and if we will not carry out what Jesus said to do With sin. Elders are going to have to do what Christ commanded regarding those situations, and they can't relent. The ministry of reconciliation is going to be a huge part of the most important decisions that elders ever make. And there's very little pleasant about it unless it's successful. Unless the thinning party repents. And that's always always the goal. So one of the elders' jobs, as well as everyone's job in the church, is to confront definable, deliberate sin and drive it to one of two conclusions: repentance or removal. There are no third options. It is our job. One of the nice things, which is not really all that nice in the United States, is you rarely get to the third part because most people bail out Once you've confronted their sin and they won't they won't repent. But uh um that's our job Then verse 18, assuredly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you that if two or three if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, It will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two of where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them. Now, we talked about this in Sunday school. What does it mean to bind or loose? The Jewish people hearing this would have understood this very clearly. To bind would mean it was to declare that it was forbidden. To loose would mean to declare that it was allowed. It was a determination of what was forbidden and what was allowed. Now the verb sentence here end up teaching us that it isn't exactly what it might look like at first glance. And there'll be a lot of that in 1 John as well. You could get the idea here that we decide, you know, we we two get together and we decide something and then God gets with the program. It's like he's bound to do now what what we ask him to do. But Jesus isn't saying you guys are so important, I'll do whatever you tell me. That's not the essence of this passage. No, he's saying that you have the important position of representing what I say in these transactions. When you act according to my word and decide according to my word, then you are completely representing me in what you allow and what you forbid. Basically, this is saying when you pronounce a sin, it's a sin. When you pronounce what's not a sin, it's not a sin But you can't go backwards on that. It has to come from God to us, not the other way around. It's again, we talk about this, it's like praying in Jesus' name It's a powerful promise, but the first thing you've got to get right is it's in Jesus' name. If it's not in Jesus' name, you don't have the power. And it's the same thing here. God is in the midst of that process. He's standing in the agreement and endorsement of it. And as they announce a person's guilt or a person's innocence, as long as it agrees with God's word, God is right there saying, yeah, that's the truth. The two or three gathered are not in a prayer meeting here. They are not doing church. No, they are involved in the ministry of reconciliation. They are declaring a person's guilt or innocence. And they are doing everything they can do to bring that person back into solid fellowship with Christ and with the body. Now, what are the alternatives here? If you have two or three pronouncing what sin is to a person who is believed to have sinned, there are only four possibilities, logically. They pronounce that the person has sinned and the person admits that they have sinned. That's a good outcome. They pronounce that the person has sinned and the person declares that he has not sinned. Worst outcome They declare that the person has not sinned and the person declares that they have not sinned. Another good outcome. Or they declare that the person has not sinned, but he still believes he has. Like Zeus. Um at that point, you have some more ministry to do. But that's a good thing. You know, you have some ministry about what the what the word really says about. But that's the nature of the truth that we're dealing with here. But the only big problem is when the two say you've sinned and the third says I have not, and that escalates the process. We're going to break here. Next week we're going to talk about the alternative view to the topic of forgiveness and the implications of it. And then we'll go on to process and We'll go on to the process in the heart of what forgiving each other is like. Um it gets interesting. I added two documents to the Facebook page that represented two different views, at least to some degree. Now everyone is all over the board on this. So you can't look at this and say, well, there's only two views. There's a mixing and blending and all kinds of stuff and varying degrees on all of this. But I think it's really helpful to have it laid out clearly by people that we trust Uh, so that uh we understand people can come to this from different perspectives and and be faithful. about and maybe maybe you can be understanding of me. I don't maybe it comes to that. I don't know. But please try to read them if you haven't. It'll help you understand the complexity of the topic and to understand each other's view. And at the end of the day, we want to live according to truth, but it's got to be also according to love. And love covers an awful lot of sin. Let's close it here. God, we're a little confused. At least I am. But God, we know you have all the answers. Lord, you know we love for Jesus. No matter where we stand on it, we know and we love it. Because it's the only way that we can stand before you without fear of punishment. We praise you and we thank you that you have done such a complete job of atonement for us. And that you have taken upon yourself the Father's wrath toward us. And that we can stand completely confident that if we are in faith and we are in Christ, we are in forgiveness. Help us, Lord, to understand what best represents you in this world that we live in. Help us to understand if it's primarily a godly characteristic of being forgiven. Or if it is delivering the mail of your forgiveness in the person 's way in and pronouncing that. Or both. Then how? At the end of the day, Lord, we don't d want our books to sell or any of that kind of stuff. But we do want to be right because forgiveness is so important. Help us, Lord. Use the process here of give and take. Show us all different perspectives so that we can bring it together and be enriched in the process. of working out exactly what it means. And we thank you that we see that process already as work. And uh we just look forward to continue in this in this venue and Lord never give up on us. Keep us in your will, keep us coming back to you, keep doing that work that you do in our hearts to bring us back to one and complete and absolute fellowship with you. Insibly