All right, so you're remember where we are in our store? We're at Decapolis. And this is a place where a while ago the man filled with a legion of demons was set free. Jesus would not allow that man to come with him. But he sent him back to his people to tell them what had happened to him, to witness to them. He commanded the ex-demoniac to do what he forbade the deaf and mute man from doing The stage had been set by the preaching of the man set free from demons. He had evidently done his job well. These people who showed up were thirsty for the Word of God. They were spiritually hungry. Remember that Jesus got here by making a very large circle up through the northern Gentile territories, and he worked his way around to the eastern side of the Sea of Galilee. From the time he left the top of the Sea of Galilee to the time he returned back to Decapolis was probably at least two months. He had spent this time teaching his disciples at a great physical distance from the Jewish leadership and King Herod, so that they wouldn't get pestered by them. There's something that we need to be aware of as we approach our text. These twelve men were very likely very prejudiced. First, they would have thought that the Gentiles were morally inferior to themselves. These Jewish men would have been taught all their lives that the Gentiles were in a sense scum. They're unclean with filthy habits. And more than moral inferiority, the Gentiles were likely hostile enemies of the Jews. They are enemies of the people of Israel. The Jewish people would have assumed that if these Gentiles had their way, many of them would want to wipe out the Jewish people completely. And it seems that not a whole lot has changed in uh over the years. I was scheduled to fly out to Montana just a few weeks after 9-11 happened And I remember sitting among all the passengers looking for anyone who looked like they were from the Middle East. And I remember wishing that these people would just go away. I feared these people and disliked them without ever knowing any of the individuals sitting in those chairs. Well, I was not raised to dislike people because of their race. Shimokin, Pennsylvania, had a very small black population when I was a kid. But my dad had an employee who was black, and he was an appliance repair guy. He worked for dad as long as I can remember. And it always surprised me when I hear about the terrible mistreatment that this guy would face from our customers from time to time. To me, he was just rich. That was his name, Rich. He was never anything else, because that's how my dad always treated him. So prejudice wasn't something that was fostered in my upbringing. But it's a bit shocking how easily I could regard people badly simply because of their nationality as a result of the tragedy of 9-11. It showed me just how easily I or probably anyone can revert to that kind of thinking. Well, these disciples in our stories had been raised all of their lives. To distrust and to disregard Gentiles. They had been taught to avoid the pollution even of being around these people or touching them. So that kind of training was not going to turn around on a dime. This would take some conditioning. We really need to consider this as we look at this passage. These disciples are surrounded by people who they might actually loathe. At best, they would consider themselves superior to them. Now, before we go on, let's take a quick look at the differences here between the feeding of the 5,000 that we had earlier in Mark and the feeding of the 4,000 here. The first feeding was in Bethseda, which is a Jewish area. This one is in Decapolis, which is a Gentile area. The first had lush grass. This one just mentions ground. The grass had probably all died off by this time of the year. The first involved five loaves and two fish. This one involved seven loaves and one small fish. The first involved people who had listened to Christ for a day. These people had listened to Christ for three days. Okay, with the stage set, let's take a look at our text. In those days, the multitude being very great and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to him and said to them, I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now continued with me three days and have nothing to eat. And if I send them away hungry to their houses, they will faint on the way, for some of them have come very far, come from afar. Okay, we see here that the multitude is very great. How great? 4,000 men. With women and children, it's likely that the crowd was about 20,000 people To put that in perspective, PNC Park can seat 38,000 people. So this would be a crowd that filled a little more than half of the PNC stadium That's a lot of people. We're talking about a huge crowd. Now, what do we know about these people? First, they're primarily Gentile people. If they had a religion, it was likely some form of idolatry Second, by now, they had heard the gospel of what, or the gossip of what Jesus is doing. He was healing people and casting out demons. From last week's text, we see that he was blowing their minds with the miracles that he was doing. They were just hyper-amazed. They were beyond amazed. Third, this ministry had been prepared for by the preaching of that freed demoniac. It's likely that God allowed for this man to have a legion of demons to enter him. so he could be famous in his evil. This became a wonderful stage to show off the goodness of Christ. This allowed the man to make Christ famous for Christ's power and goodness. This man evidently did his ministry excellently because this crowd is prepared for Christ. Fourth, this crowd had been with Jesus nonstop for three days Let that sink in. Three days. Can you think of anything spiritually important enough that you would drop everything that you were doing Leave without any preparations and just try to get close enough so that you can hear what this preacher is saying or this miracle worker is doing. Surely these people did not all have diseases that needed to be cured. Most of the crowd was there to see and hear the ministry of Christ. Imagine this. Think of all the things that we accept as legitimate reasons why we wouldn't do such a thing. These people were sleeping on the ground without camping gear. They were out all day in the hot sun. They would have to contend with whatever bugs there were. There were no food stands or porta potties. I think this group of people are one of the best examples of people who were following Christ maybe for the right reasons. They probably had no nationalistic expectations. They didn't expect a Messiah. They probably didn't know what a Messiah was. They weren't looking for a political messiah. They may have realized that this man Jesus could cure the thing about them that was impossible to cure themselves. Their spiritual lostness, their spiritual longing. Now these people's reckless abandon had put them in a bad spot. They had gone three days, maybe most of that time, without food. They certainly didn't have any food now. They probably never imagined that this would be a three-day event Look at Jesus' response. If ever there was an example to follow, here's one. He says, I have compassion on the multitude. I have compassion on the multitude. The word for use for compassion here means to be moved in one's bowels. Now that is not how we use the word Uh, and that's not how we think. But to the Hebrew the bowels would have been the seat of love and pity. For us it's something different. Our culture tends to view the heart as being the seat of love and pity, but that's not how they viewed it. It's no wonder we read the Bible in a way that often confuses us as to the meaning. Our assumptions are often the most misleading things about us because we think we understand But we don't. Do you know how you feel when you hear news about a loved one suffering? You know, you you hear word of a crisis that a person is in. We've had plenty of that lately. It hurts you inside. It it ruins your day. It puts a whole cloud over over you and you feel something in the pit of your stomach. That's what's being described here. When Jesus looked at the situation these people were in, it hurt him inside. He felt their pain. He had compassion for their situation. This word is used in Scripture in some wonderful situations. The Good Samaritan had compassion on the Jewish traveler who had been beaten and robbed. The Father in the parable had compassion on the prodigal son when the prodigal son returned home. And Jesus had compassion on many of those who followed him throughout the narratives. Sometimes I think we lose track of the reality of this wonderful truth. We fail to incorporate it into our view of God. Let's take a look at what Scripture says about God's compassion. Exodus 34, 6 and 7. It says, And the Lord passed before him, he's talking about Moses, and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious. Long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. By no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. This is what the Lord said about himself when passing before Moses. This is how God introduces himself. Consider this. God was telling Moses about himself. Even though the people that Moses w was representing were far from stellar followers of his. You've got to remember what they're doing down the mountain. One might think that it would be wise for God in this instance to only mention the penalties for not obeying, and that might have been more effective. But that is not the only truth that God chooses to convey. He describes himself as merciful Gracious. Long suffering. That means bearing with us for a long time. Keeping mercy for thousands. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. That is a mouthful. That is absolutely wonderful. Because those three kinds of descriptions of sin pretty much cover any evil that a human is capable of doing. He forgives every single kind of evil that we can do. Do we believe this about God? If we were introducing God, would we introduce God this way? Do we react to God this way? Does our sin cause us to run to him because we know what he is like? Do we throw ourselves on his goodness Or do we think of him as a hard master who only wants what we can't give him? What we say doesn't mean so much. We can all get the test questions right. We're fully aware of how that works How we react to God, to word God, really tells us what we believe more than anything else. How do we react toward God? Do we react as if he is good? As if he is compassionate toward us, as if he loves us. Now, the Lord didn't end his self-revelation, however, at his benevolence toward humans. He also goes on to say that guilt of sin is a very, very big deal with God. And he certainly is not going to allow sin to ride. Sin will for sure be punished. Those who define God by the limits of their ideas of love. Do God a great disservice. We have a whole lot of that going on in our s in our society, in our culture. They they talk about God and they have no idea what they're talking about. They just go off a definition that they have created for love and then they apply it to God and say, well, that's how God is. He he must be because he said he's loving. But they don't get it. God hates sin and God loves justice. He is holy. And none of his attributes are in con competition with any of his other attributes. God exists in perfect consistency. We always have to keep in mind that we only know about God, that which He has revealed to us. And what he has revealed is usually clear, but it's very difficult for us to imagine. Let's look at the next text. Deuteronomy 4, 30 and 31. When you're in distress and all these things come upon you in the later days, when you turn to the Lord your God and obey his voice, for the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not forsake you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. Do you remember a time when you met your parents' disfavor? If you were a kid, you most assuredly did, maybe you did something in complete rebellion to them. And you face punishment. And you felt that loss of relationship. Well, if they were good parents, they were using those tools to get you to change your heart And to change your behavior. What they wanted was unhindered relationship. They wanted true fellowship with you. That's what God does too. God is very good at creating distress in us when we are in sin. And he does it for a very specific purpose. He wants us to turn to him. He wants us to obey his voice. And when we do, then he has a chance to show his great mercy toward us, his great love, his great grace toward us. We can then experience his relationship. It's then we see how merciful God really is. We find that He is not out to harm us. He is out to help us. He's not abandoning us. He is simply preparing us for true relationship. He's not abandoning any promise he has made to his children. He is simply preparing us to enjoy our relationship as children. Is that how we see God? Now, I'm not trying to say that all stressful life situations are the direct results of specific sins we have committed. That is not the case. But sometimes they are. When we're living in rebellion against God. And when we do that, how merciful God is to pursue us, first with his severe hand, and then with his forgiving comfort. Let's look at another scripture. Psalms 103, verse 8. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy. Our enemy does not want us to believe this. That's one thing you can be for certain. God does not want you or Or the devil does not want you to think about God in terms where we see God as being merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy. He would prefer that we either believe that God is so demanding that we can never please him, or he is so loving that we can never displease him. Either one of those accomplish his ends. But God is neither of those things. He has chosen to be pleased by those who faithfully follow him God has chosen to be pleased by those who faithfully follow him. Wow. He is capable of being pleased because he has chosen to be so. But the first thing we must understand is that our sin must be forgiven That obstacle has got to be removed. And the only way it can be forgiven is for it first to be paid for. Justice must be served on our sin. And that's why Christ, what Christ did, is so important. He paid the just penalty for our sin so we could be forgiven of it. We have faith in what he did in the cross to count for us. Oh, how merciful God has been to us, how gracious God has been to us. We have deserved the death penalty for our sin, but he didn't give us the death penalty. Oh, how gracious God has been to us. We did not deserve anything good from his hand, but he granted his children eternal life. Oh, how slow to anger God is. We have all willingly and intentionally sinned against him. But we did not receive the wrath of God that we so deserved. In fact, sometimes God has allowed us to come around without any discipline from him at all. But sometimes his discipline of us is administered to bring us back into fellowship with him. That is what our God is like. In our heart of hearts Where we really respond to God, do we see God that way? One more verse. Well, actually two He has made his Psalms 111 4. He has made his wonderful works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. And one more, Lamentations 3, 21 through 26. He says, this I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. Through the Lord's mercies we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I hope in him. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. Here is a man who understood the compassion of God. He believed that God really and truly is empathetic toward us. If you want to know how to have hope, if you feel sometimes like I have no hope, A hope that will sustain you through the toughest trials. Here it is. Here's the insight. Look at this sentence and let it grip your soul. Let it give you guidance. He says, this I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. You can't get a clearer statement than that. I think about this thing, and as a result of thinking about this thing, I have hope. There's a cause-effect relationship because between what we think and our hope. Jeremiah says there are some things I choose to think about, and when I do, it causes me to have hope. The converse would be true. If I did not recall those things to my mind, I would not have hope. And what does he recall? What thoughts does he choose to think, no matter how much this situation might challenge those thoughts? Verse 22. Through the Lord's mercy we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. His compassions don't fail. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. Great is your faithfulness to us. Jeremiah saw this with great clarity. We all deserve God's judgment. We all deserve the penalty for sin. But God's mercy has withheld that punishment. Why did he withhold it? His compassions His concern for his children. He actually feels for us. Our situation affects him by his choice. His bowels of mercy are moved for us. Now, I know how my empathy goes. With me, it's frequently out of sight, out of mind I quickly get absorbed with the difficulties of my own life and lose sight of the life situations of others. In fact, it's i it it's sometimes disheartening to me how cold I can be towards somebody else's pain. But what about God? What is his concern like? It says his compassions. They're new every morning. If there was something that is too good to be true, that's it. God's compassion for his children never fails. When we wake up every single morning , we wake up to new compassions, newly visited concern of God for our lives. Now, how often do we act like we believe that? How often do we allow ourselves to pity ourselves for our life situations? How often do we act and speak like an unloved, abandoned person would act and speak? How often do we wake up in the morning and thank God for his newly renewed compassions for us? How often do we wake up aware of and expecting this goodness from God again today, like he granted it yesterday? If we get nothing else from this morning, I hope we get the idea that God is compassionate toward us every day. That's an active thing in God's character that He chooses to focus on us as individuals. He provides us every single day, every individual who is his child. New compassions. And if you want to live in hope, you've got to bring that to your mind. It is your job. It is our job to discipline our minds to take those thoughts captive and to bring that to our minds. in counter to what we might be tempted to think. You've got to make the conscious decision that God's character is worth counting upon. Even when the evidence accumulates that others would interpret otherwise. This is the thing that will carry you through your greatest trials. An absolute trust in God's love for you, not because of who you are. But because of who God is. Now back to our story. Then his disciples answered him, How can one satisfy these people with bread here in the wilderness? The word translated to satisfy from the Greek verb uh short Derives its meaning from the world of animal husbandry, where it described livestock eating until they were completely full So when he when these disciples say, who's gonna who's gonna satisfy these people, what he's saying is, who's gonna give them a belly full so that they can't eat anymore? Odd that they would choose that word. Now, did the disciples completely miss the point here? Did they really not have a little deja vu here saying, hey, we've been in this situation before? I remember. Well, we can't know for sure, but the statement they made may have been intended differently than what it would appear. They didn't say that it couldn't be done But they may have been pointing out the fact that none of them could do it. They said, how can one satisfy? Well, this is the same word used to describe how much the people ate at the first miraculous feeding. They may have been referring to what Christ did the last time this situation arose. It's like, hey, people are hungry, they need satisfied, and we can't do it, but you can. If this had been a repeat of their prior performance, their prior failure to trust in Christ to feed the people miraculously, if it had been that, we would expect to see some rebuke or some signs of Christ's displeasure. But we don't see any in this narrative. So maybe this was their way of saying, Jesus, if it's gonna happen, you're gonna have to do it. It is only you that leaves people full when there's nothing to feed them with. That's only you. This may not have been a faithless response, like I've alre uh always read it in the past. Something to think about. Then verses five and six it says, Christ asked them, how many loaves do you have? And they said seven. So it looks like maybe they were ready for their questioning this time. And uh so he commanded the multitude to sit down, and he took the seven loaves and gave thanks, broke them, and gave them to the disciples to set before them, and they set them before the multitude. And they also had a few small fish, and having blessed them, he said to them also before them, he set them, he said to set them also before them. So they ate and were filled, and they took up seven large baskets of leftover fragments. So Christ takes the disciples' food, seven loaves. Then he has everyone sit down. Maybe he did it in the same way that he did it before, organizing them in groups, we don't know. He took the loaves and he gave thanks. In doing so, he was ascribing what he was doing or what was to come next to God his father, who he had just prayed to. Then Christ broke the bread. Again, he was making something out of nothing, and anybody watching would know it. Something impossible to anybody but God. We can't tell from the details how this would have transpired. When and how did the bread and fish multiply? But it did. And again, these people ate until they were filled. They ate more than a few bites. This wasn't a simple entree, it was more like a buffet. They ate until they didn't want any more. Then what? Then the disciples pick up seven baskets. Now these were big baskets. This is the same kind of basket that Paul was let down a city wall in. So it's big enough to fit a human. So these baskets, these are big. Isn't it interesting that the disciples gave up seven loaves, which are probably about the size of a hamburger bun? But what they got back was seven man-sized baskets of food. And that's after feeding, you know, twenty thousand people. The effect this was intended to have seems plain. You can never outgive God. You can never outgive God. What you contribute to his service will never be lost on God. He'll multiply it and reward us a thousand times over. It will not likely be in this life. Some of it is. But he will surely reward our faithfulness. Verses 9 and 10. Now those who had eaten were about 4,000, and he sent them away. Immediately got into the boat with his disciples and came to the region of Dalmanuta. Christ prepared the people for their trip home. And then he sent them home right away. And again, it thought doesn't we don't get any idea that he ministered to them after he fed them. He basically fed them and said get get lost. You know, he he sent them home Then he got in a boat and headed back into the Jewish world. As we look at this story this morning, we've got to remember this is the Christ that we serve. The snapshot this morning tells us a lot about what our Lord is like. We see that for sure, He loves the unlovely He doesn't take a poll about the desirability of a person. He simply chooses those he decides to choose. And it's a good thing. All of us here, as far as I know, were of the undesirable Gentiles. All of us here are here as a result of Christ's compassion on unlovely people. It would be good for us to focus on that fact this week. Christ loved us. Christ loves the unloving. And we are so blessed to be loved by him. Now let's not forget another thing we see about Christ in our story. Look at his sufficiency to meet our needs. We so often look at a situation and feel hopeless. We know that we can't meet the need that we see. But we forget the sufficiency of Christ. There's no lack of resources needed that Christ cannot provide. There is nothing that he cannot do, and what he does do, he does well We don't understand why Christ does not always use his power to provide all those things we know he could do if he wanted to. And that's not ours to know. But he has revealed enough about himself that we know that we can trust ourselves to his care After all, he chose us and loved us, and he provided his body for our benefit. If he provides the provisions we desire, he loves us. If he does not provide the provisions that we desire, he still loves us. We have to keep in mind that his love is everlasting. That's what Scripture says. His love is everlasting. It will never fail to those that he targets it to. His love is preparing us for eternity. We don't know how to accomplish such a thing. We don't know how to prepare a person for eternity. We don't know what it takes in their lives and in other people's lives to accomplish such a thing But he does. And he will. It's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for the display of the miraculous here in the midst of the mundane. We thank you for showing yourself As one to whom nothing is impossible. We thank you that you show us That when you choose to meet a need, you're never at a loss for the resources to do so. Lord, we don't understand why you always do what you do. But we have seen enough to know That we are of all people most blessed to be counted as your children. And we can cry out, Abba Father. Knowing that is the wisest position that a human can occupy to trust in your character. We ask as our trust in your character is tested by life situations that are not at all what we would prefer, that you would help us to cling to you. With everything that we have. And have the wonderful, sweet confidence of knowing you truly love us. Help us to apply that this week as we face the obstacles that we are sure to face. Of expressing our faith. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.