So a few weeks ago we looked at the Rich Young ruler and we saw that he was loaded with potential. What a ministry opportunity. But all of it was a loss when all that potential kept him from eternal life. Then our last sermon was on what Jesus meant when he said that the last shall be first and the first shall be last, and we looked at the parable of the hiring of the laborers. Now, back in Mark 10 in verse 23, we pick up where we left off in the story of the rich young ruler. Jesus wants to give his disciples insight on the topic of what just happened. And what he teaches turns the disciples' mental constructs about life upside down. The rich young ruler had just left with all the wind taken out of his sails. He was asked to give up his idol that he worshipped, and he refused. There is little that will make you more miserable than refusing to give up that which you love more than God. There is little that will make you more miserable than refusing to give up that which you love more than God. Is there anything like that in our lives? If this had been us instead of the rich young ruler, what would Christ have told us that we should get rid of and follow him? Is there anything that we would say no to if we knew that it was God who was asking the question? If there is, that thing, by its very definition, is an idol. Notice that the thing that the rich young ruler held on to was not forbidden by the law. It was permissible. It wasn't expedient, but it was permissible. No one could have shown this guy a scripture and said, you must sell this stuff But even though it was not forbidden for this guy, it was not allowable. Many of the issues in our lives are like this. If we can't thank God for it, if we can't enjoy it in our fellowship with God, it may be something we should rid ourselves of, even though it may be technically permissible. What idol do you have in your life this morning? What do you hold on to tighter than God? That tends to be the sin that God gives the most ink to in Scripture, idolatry, because it's offensive to him and it's dangerous to us. Now let's look at what Jesus says about wealth. Verse 23, then Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God. The Jews had a book of teachings called the Talmud. The Talmud taught that with wealth one could purchase more sacrifice and give more alms. There was a basic understanding that by doing those things, one gained salvation for oneself. The more money you had, essentially, the better salvation you could buy. So Jews were taught that wealth was a desirable goal, even a necessary goal if you really wanted to please God. And it was also understood that wealth was a blessing from God. So if you ask any Jew, will possession of money be a sign of God's approval on you? And a tool to win God's approval of you, most Jews would have said yes. Absolutely yes So when Jesus says how hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God, the disciples must have thought, Jesus, what are you talking about? You have it backwards. Wealth is always good. But wealth is not always good. 1 Timothy 6, 6 through 10 says this. Now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into a temptation and a snare, into many foolish and harmful lusts. which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Look at the contrast in these verses this morning. We have those who have enough money to buy what they need, food and clothing. That is good. That's a proper use of money. That's a proper regard of possessions. You provide for your needs through your labor. Our possessions are fleeting while temporarily necessary. That's how it is. And we should be content with what we have when what we have is what we need. You have enough possessions when your needs are met. But when you have what you need and you're driven to always have more, that's a bad thing. What possession must you have before you will be content? What possession must you have before you will be happy? How much money must you have before you can be content? If the answer isn't, I have all I need , I'm content. Odds are that no amount of possessions will ever make you happy. You'll be just like that rat on the spinning wheel. That desire is fleeting. Look what Paul says about it. But those who desire to be rich desire to have more, they never have enough. They fall into a temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. For which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Trying to get rich and trying to stay rich are both dangerous things Paul says that this desire to always have more ends up trapping a person. That single desire will drive them down all kinds of bad roads. And the end of that road is destruction. All of the money that's gained will not satisfy and it will not save. The poor man who enjoys the fruit of his labor is better off, according to Proverbs, than the rich person who's driven to continually get more and more and more. So, as always, we need to ask ourselves: am I ever content with what I have? Am I content with what I have? Am I satisfied today with the position that God has given me? Or does my discontentment rob me of the enjoyment that I could have? Do I put stress on those around me because I want something that I cannot have? When we cling to the longing of that which we wish we had. We will find that longing will pierce us through with many unnecessary sorrows. The problem with the rich young ruler was that he loved money. He was actually violating the law he claimed to keep. Jesus laid out the law in two principles. Remember? Love God. Love people. It's not real complicated. Love God. That's first. Love people. That's second. The rich ruler was violating both. He loved things. The rich young ruler loved things. He thought himself righteous and a follower of God, but he knew something was wrong. He knew that there was something that he had to do that he had not done yet to please God. What he finds when he comes to Christ and asks his question is that he is neither righteous nor a follower of God. What a blow that would have been to that man. Now, before we go further, I think we should deal with one more thing. Look where Jesus says, those who have riches Those who have riches. Now in our congregation, you know, we can look around and say, well, it's none of us, you know. Look what we drive. You know, it's none of us. But uh what do we think of when we hear that? Who do you know who has riches? When I read it, I always think of somebody else. Like I think Donald Trump, now he has riches. Well, all we need to do to change our perspective is to cross our cross our southern border and enter Mexico. Or take a short flight and go to Haiti. If you ask any of the people living in poverty there who has riches, they would point to any of us, Americanos, and they would say, they have riches. I remember going to Haiti and mothers would bring their children to us and ask them to take them because they knew that they would have A better life with us than they were ever going to have there. We were wealthy, we were rich. Uh we have cupboards full of food. We never go hungry. We can spend money for vacations and experiences. We have houses way better than their cardboard checks. We have cars and electricity. We can't allow this fact to slip by. We have riches Even the poorest of us here have riches. We're the ones with riches. My point is not that we should feel guilty about that. But the point is that we must consider that the text has to be applied to us. Does that stuff that money can buy distract us from obeying and loving God and loving his people? That's the question. Verse 24, and the disciples were astonished at his words. Astonished. But Jesus answered again and said to them, Children, how hard it is for those who trust in riches. To enter the kingdom of God. It's easier for a candle to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. We see that the disciples were astonished. That allows us to see immediately that this is not anything like what they expected Christ to say. It varied dramatically from what they believed. Now, Jesus is not content to let it stay here. He continues to press the point. First, notice what he calls his disciples, children. Or you could say in their vernacular, lads. I recall when Mike was ready to go do something, and we were with him, he would always say, Well, boys, and I can imagine it's it's uh something similar. Except Christ was doing more with this statement than just being familiar or funny. He had taught, he had just taught that we need to be like little children in order to enter the kingdom of heaven When he calls the disciples children, he's alluding to their status. They're the least of these. They're in the kingdom. They're there with little wealth. They didn't get there by any merit or any trust in their merit, although they kept wanting to make their specialness an issue. Jesus always made it Very clear that that was not how they got invited to the picnic. Anyway, Christ says children. Then next notice he says, those who trust in riches. He doesn't say those who have riches. He's already covered that. But now he points out the potential problem with riches. It's the issue of trust. Let me ask you, when is the last time any of us prayed, give us this day our daily bread, and really meant it? No, we go to our cupboard with that prayer, and our cupboard always delivers. We don't need God How do you think our brothers and sisters in Syria pray that prayer? How do you think they regard God? I'll bet they understand how much they need God on a daily basis. Their survival is in God's hands visibly to them. Wealth allows us to deceive ourselves into thinking that we don't need God to provide for us. And eventually we can easily lose sight of our need for God. There's an odd application here. Are things really tight for you financially? That is a spiritual advantage. You'll tend to be more dependent upon God, and that dependence is a good thing. As things get more comfortable for us financially, we need to ask the question: who do I really trust? Or better yet, what do I really trust? Maybe a better way to get to the heart of the matter is to ask, what am I most afraid of losing? What would I most grieve if I suddenly lost it? What would cause me to feel like my life is completely out of control? If it's stuff that money can buy, we should be very concerned about our souls. That's evidence that we're trusting it to give us those things that only God can give us. Then Jesus says this it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Now, if you've been taught, like I have, that this is really talking about camels entering a gate in Jerusalem, you can pretty well throw that idea out. What Jesus was using was an idiom that was well known in their culture. The written version uses an elephant instead of a camel. But a camel was the largest animal in Judea at the time, so to Jesus, a camel it was. Now, imagine squeezing a camel through the eye of a needle One thing is for sure. It isn't going to do the camel or the needle any good. The thing's impossible. That was Jesus' point. It cannot be done. It is impossible for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Why so? I think we should include what Jesus just said about the real problem. Rich people tend to trust riches. They trust their own provisions. They are the exact opposite of the children that Christ describes. Those we are told we must be like to enter heaven. Children get in. Childlike people used in a very limited comparison get in. But rich people do not The problem is that if you trust anything other than Christ, other than the provisions that God has provided for you, you will never get in. And the rich person wants to trust something else. Children enter the kingdom no matter what their age, not rich people, no matter what their wealth. In this case, a rich person, like the one in our story, comes to Christ in their merit. They come hoping to add one more thing to their lives. They hope to get into God's kingdom by the good things that they bring. They see themselves as being sufficient. They think in terms of what good things they can do to enter the kingdom. That's what the rich person asked. What good thing can I do to enter the kingdom? And as they are, they can never enter the kingdom. They're completely excluded. They're disqualified. Verse 26. And they were greatly astonished, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With men it's impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible. The word astonished here means to expel with a blow. I don't know in the football game if that happened at all, but it's it 's that kind of thing. Uh Jesus' statement knocked the wind out of them. Not literally, but figuratively. It blew their minds. It's a statement that affected them inwardly and outwardly. So we can see that they truly did believe something different about money before Jesus began talking. What Jesus said was dramatically different than what they believed. And then they said, who can be saved? They should have known. They should have remembered. Those who are like a child, in specific ways that Christ says, those who are like a child will be saved. But that wasn't the frequency that they were on. They were still thinking about the world as they understood it. The wealthy ones were the ones that everyone assumed would be with God. They were the first ones in. They were what everyone wanted to be. And Jesus says, nope, none of them. At all. Ever. If they're relying on their own, trusting in their riches. Then Jesus makes a statement that gives tremendous insight into the salvation that God provides. With men, their efforts, their merit, everything they try, everything they have, everything they bring to the picnic, any potential they have whatsoever, with men salvation is impossible. But not with God. For with God, all things are possible. Salvation never originates with mankind. It's impossible for humans to save themselves. It's impossible for them to do anything to make them okay with God. Many religions, in fact maybe all religions for Christianity, hold out that kind of hope to mankind. People are told all kinds of things that they can do to get them in a better spiritual state. Christianity says nothing of that kind. In Christianity, it's impossible for salvation to come out of a man's efforts. Then what hope do we have? Where does salvation lie? With God. It's always with God. With God all things are possible. Do you rem remember our study in Romans? Romans 9, 15 through 26. For he says to Moses, I'll have mercy on whomever I have mercy, and I'll have compassion on whomever I will have compassion. So then it's not of him who wills nor of him who runs, it's but of but of God who shows mercy. For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may show my power in you, and that my name may be declared in all the earth. Therefore, he has mercy on whom he wills And whom he wills, he hardens. You'll say to me then, why does he find fault? For who's resisted his will? What could you do? How could you stand up against God? But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Will the thing formed say to him who formed it, Why have you made me like this? Doesn't the potter have the power over the clay from the same lump to make one vessel for honor and another for dishonor? What if God, wanting to show his wrath and to make his power known? endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, and that he might make known the riches of his glory in the vessels of mercy, which he had prepared beforehand for glory. Even us whom he called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles. As he also says in Hosea, I'll call them my people who are not my people, and her beloved who is not beloved. And it shall come to pass in the place where it was said to them, You are not my people, there they shall be called sons of the living God. We're reminded in Romans that what Christ says is the core of the truth. For with God, all things are possible. Salvation begins and ends with God. Coming to Christ as a little child accepts that gladly and willingly and receives the salvation that is offered. Coming to Christ as a rich man will say no to God's means of salvation every time. But God can do the impossible and make the rich man into the little child. God's power can break our hearts. God's light can cause us to see. Verse 28. Then Peter began to say, see, we have left all and followed you. Well, at least Peter was listening. Christ had said to the rich ruler, One thing you lack, go your way, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor, and you'll have treasure in heaven, and come, take up the cross and follow me And Peter's, you know, rang a bell with him. He said, I'm doing that. Peter probably associated what Christ told the rich man with the outcome that all of them hoped to receive. You know, they they wanted to have eternal life. So he probably figures that if we do what Jesus told the rich guy to do, we'll get treasure in heaven. So Peter tries it out. He essentially says, we did what you told this guy to do. So, what's in it for me? Now we might get some idea of what leaving, leaving all means here. This is very helpful. Jesus didn't correct Peter. He didn't say, no, you didn't leave all. So this might be an indication that Peter and the rest really did leave all by the way that Jesus is talking about. We have indications that Peter still took care of his family. He was still with them when he could be. He cared for his mother-in-law. He never completely renounced all these things. He never said, No, I'm not gonna have anything to do with those people. I'm leaving them. But the leaving he did was to prioritize the mission of Christ and sacrifice time that would have been ordinarily been used. to build the family business and to enjoy the financial benefits of the rest of the family, to fulfill a mission that was more central to God's plans. So either leaving in a sense In order to accomplish what it is that God once accomplished, Peter didn't just drop his relationship with his wife and kids and extended family, but he prioritized Christ's mission higher. So rather than correcting Peter or rebuking Peter, Christ honestly answers Peter's question They had given up much. The disciples had. Christ doesn't deny that. And Christ wants them to know what what was truly in it for them. So he responds in verse 29 he says, so Jesus answered and said, Assuredly I say to you, there's no one who has left House or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or ch children or lands for my sake and the gospels who shall not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands With persecutions, and that is an extremely important addition, and in the age to come, eternal life. But many who are first will be last and the last first. Jesus is essentially telling Peter, Yes, I always, without exceptions, pay my workers well. Which probably led into what we read last week in Matthew about the parable of the workers. Notice the reason for leaving that Jesus says. My sake and the gospels, he says. These are often one and the same. For God or for God's message There are lots of other reasons that people leave their families, but this is not talking about those. This is only for God or for the gospel's sake. Then look at what they are leaving. Given that Christ has been talking about financial resources and trusting financial resources, That's the context that we're in. It's talking to the rich young ruler. Financial resources. It's likely that this leaving has a lot to do with dependence upon those systems to provide for one's needs and the needs of those who depend upon you. These are ways that the rich rich man would depend upon his riches. These are systems that we trust to provide us with security. So to anyone who sacrifices that for God, risks that for God, Christ says there will be two rewards. Actually, three will three will rewards. First, you'll get a hundred times more now. Second, the ones you get now will come with persecutions. And third, you'll get eternal life later. Now, how in the world do we receive a hundred times more than we give up here and now? Should I leave my first wife to marry a hundred more women? I mean, yeah, the the idea is pretty funny. And have four hundred kids That's obviously not what Christ is talking about. But I left my home where I had a father and mother and two siblings. I came down here and I've enjoyed the fellowship of people who were the equivalents of fathers and mothers and sisters and brothers and children. And there have been a bunch of them. I left four and got twenty or thirty at least I think that's what Jesus is talking about. So could it mean some kind of prosperity promise Well we can rest assured some have twisted it into that sort of thing. You know, leave what you got and you get all this extra, you know, riches. Well, wouldn't that be a little absurd in our text? That's clearly not what it is. How can we know? Because Christ says the ones you get now come with persecutions. Jesus wanted to prepare his disciples. There will definitely be blessings here and now that are associated with following Christ and doing his will. Christ promises that, and that's a wonderful thing. But those blessings will be experienced in an environment that is hostile to God. This world is not our home. Never has been. Can't say it never will be. Once God scours it, I think this is likely where we'll live. But we are not in our final geography. It's important for us to notice something. Jesus says that we are a blessing to each other. We are a benefit to following Christ here and now. Do we regard each other as that? Our relationships are the perks for following Jesus. Our relationships are the perks for following Jesus You're intended to be a reward to other brothers and sisters. You're intended to be a benefit, an encouragement. Do we act that way? Do we think that way? How could we this week Actually, be more of a benefit to our brothers and sisters? How could we be more beneficial to our brothers and sisters? How could we be more of a reward for their walk in Christ? Then the third thing Christ said is eternal life. I hope that all of you who got the CDs on heaven a few years ago have listened to them. We truly must have our eyes fixed on where we are going in order to get there in the shape that we should be in. If we lose sight of our eternal destination, our behaviors will deteriorate, our hope will dissipate, and our zeal will disappear. We've got to keep that heavenly city in view. It's the only thing that will keep our perspective correct. No matter what we face, whether it appears to be accidental, self-inflicted, even caused by our own failure, we've got to keep it in light of our eternal purpose and our eternal reward. And then Christ finishes by saying, But many who are first will be last and last first. While we might take this as being a positive statement to Peter and the disciples, it's more than likely a general rebuke. These guys so often wanted to be first. They'll be arguing about who is the greatest until Christ is lifted up on the cross. So what Jesus is likely saying is, while you guys have left all to follow me, there's a butt here, don't get too cocky The attitudes you guys have are not helping you. You might think yourself to be first, you might think yourself to be the greatest disciples, but those guys often end up being last. The disciples are not as important or useful to the kingdom as they might think themselves to be, definitely not in their fleshly state. And there are often those who see themselves as being completely insignificant, and they end up being the most useful and the most recognized by God. We saw in Matthew that the last to work were the first to be paid, and that didn't set well with the first to work. This morning, God has given us, I think, in our text, a lot to work with. First off, we see the danger of idolatry. And uh, you know, it's so difficult to rip from our minds idolatry being the little statues in the corner, if it were only that easy But this is something that we really need to apply. What are we afraid of losing? What are we afraid of losing? What can we not hold in an open hand before God? Where do we feel we must cling to those things no matter what God thinks? We don't really care what he thinks. I'm gonna have that. I'm gonna keep that. I'm gonna get that. An attitude like that is extremely dangerous, especially on a planet where death and disease run rampant And then we see that the reward of following Christ is relationships that come in the environment of persecution. We are essentially promised brothers in arms, comrades. Is that what we value? Because that's what we're getting. Is that what we value? Do we cultivate our appreciation of those gifts that God has given to us? Do we see the people around us as our blessing for following Christ now? Because that's how he sees them. Or are we hoping for some equation that gives us earthly reward, earthly riches, for our heavenly faithfulness and focus? That is a foolish expectation, given what Christ has said about life. This week we would do well to consider what am I afraid to give up? What am I afraid to lose? And we need to trust that thing intentionally into God's hands. Accepting whatever fate he has in mind, and pledging ourselves to that position. After all, our doctrine says that he loves us , Do we really believe our doctrine? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you again for your word. We thank you for how it shows us things about you and shows us things about us and it shows us. How to live in this weird predicament that we find ourselves in, part of one kingdom and living in the midst of another. Hoping for a different geography than what we are currently in while being part of something really eternal in the meantime. Lord, help us to receive the blessings that you give us as blessings. Help us to see it from your perspective. And it seems, Lord, the more we enter the battle, the more we need our comrades. Help us to be fully engaged in your will, in the things that matter, in the things that last forever. So that we can appreciate the wonderful gifts that you have given us in the fellowship of the saints. And Lord, help us to examine our hearts for idols and idolatry. Help us to call it what it is and bring experiences into our life this week that reveal those things clearly. So that we can call them what they are and deal with them appropriately and get rid of anything that holds us back in our worship of you. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.