Psalms 51 is the gold standard of repentance. We're not going to take it verse by verse, even though that would be very profitable, but we'll refer to it as we finish out this study. Now we've covered the forgiveness of God. We've determined that sin creates a debt that has to be punished. And our sins are forgiven, the process that our sins are forgiven is by Christ dying for those sins, by taking the actual punishment that we deserve. The sins we commit after our salvation cut us off from fellowship. And confession is required to restore fellowship with Christ and fellow believers. The ministry of reconciliation by fellow believers is carried out in an ambassadorial function. Representing God. We're declaring what we believe to be true about sins that are covered by Christ's crucifixion and about those that that are not because that person is not in Christ We heartily endorse that forgiveness. We endorse it. We get behind it. We join in aligning our attitudes and our actions. With that forgiveness that we are pronouncing from God. So we are forgiving. We push for closure. Um We push for closure to the end either by repentance of the sinner or excommunication by the church if they will not repent of that sin and cling to rebellion. Now, let's look at some of the implications of forgiveness. In Psalms 51, we have God pointing out David's sin and David's response to that conviction. 51 is David's response to that conviction. We see what repentance is supposed to look like. Note that David saw David's sin somehow, we don't know how, and he went to David representing God's interest in that regard, just like we've been talking about. He was God's ambassador in his ministry of reconciliation. Nathan confronted David and David hurt. David's heart was stricken with his sin. He got it. David, the sin that he had committed primarily was against God and secondarily against everyone else. That's how he understood it. That's how he came to grasp it. Then we see the fruit of true repentance. He confesses this sin clearly and thoroughly and has supreme remorse for what he has done. But one of the most important things we have to see is that the consequence of the sin and the forgiveness of the sin are not the same thing. David was not released from the consequences of his sin. That baby was going to die. It did not matter that God had completely forgiven David of the sin. The sin debt had been undone. Praise God. That's how it always is when a believer confesses their sin. The sin debt is gone. In fact, it was completed in Christ. David was not going to be punished eternally for the sin that he had committed. God would never hold it against David to be used to condemn David. That is the forgiveness part of the equation. And it was complete and it was absolute. Then there was the fellowship part of the equation. David prayed that fellowship would not be denied, but that it would be restored in his prayer. He prayed that he could recover from this sin and be restored back into meaningful fellowship with God and his people. The Bible shows us that this happened. But David, we find elsewhere, prayed for the consequences of his sin to be removed. And God did not answer that prayer. He would not answer that prayer. So again, we see that forgiveness accomplished a removal of God's judgment and restored fellowship with God and with his people, but it did not free him. From the results of the sin that he had committed. If we define forgiveness in such a way that forgiveness is supposed to remove the consequences of our sin, we are going to be disappointed by the Holy Spirit. Spirit and fellow believers when they offer us forgiveness from God, or their forgiveness, which is ultimately entwined together. That's one of the reasons that it is so important that we understand what forgiveness is and what forgiveness is not. Now, look at David's attitude Because David turned on God and say, hey, I confessed. I repented. Why are you still going to kill my son? I thought forgiveness would take care of this. No, we don't see anything of that kind. David understands what repentance is. He desperately wants his fellowship restored with God more than anything else. He cannot stand the thought of the Holy Spirit's presence being pulled from his life. He realizes that whatever the consequences for his sins, they are fully deserved. And the longer he considers his sins, the deeper that understanding goes until he finally gets it and he says, I didn't just commit sins, I was steeped in sin. I was born in sin. That's how big this problem is. This is what I just did. It's just like the icing on the cake. He could say, Father, forgive me for I am the sinner. That's the gist that he got to. Then he appeals to the blood for forgiveness. It's easy for us to understand that that's Christ's blood. He probably was seeing it more from an Old Testament model, where it was the blood of the Hyssim. But he says, Me with hyssop and I shall be clean, wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Now, was the David a believer before he prayed this? All of our indications are is are that he was. So he is essentially he is essentially told what we're told. Confess your sins and Christ is faithful and just to forgive us of your sin and to cleanse you. From all unrighteousness. That's the prayer here. It's an Old Testament prayer. And it's referring to Christ's sacrifice of blood that saves him from his sin. His forgiveness is not based on God turning his head and ignoring his sins. It's based on the blood penalty for his sins that has already been paid for us and we was looking forward to being paid in Christ. It's just like our forgiveness. It's just so New Testament Then he goes on, verse 6, Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part you will make me to know wisdom. Here's the goal. Here's the goal of sanctification. Here's the goal in the Christian life. This is what God is shooting for in our lives. He is not looking for legal technicalities. And you know, we've got hung up a little bit on that. Forgive. because we're trying to think it through and it begins looking like this legal technicality thing that we're doing. It's far more than that. God wants a person to come clean before him with all that he is He wants us to fully come clean before God and to call us faith a state. Look at this and think of Isaiah, verse 17. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. These, O God, you will not despise. What God wants is you What God wants is you, at the heart of you. He wants you coming before Him without pretension, without any theory of some goodness that lingers in our past. He wants us to look at our sin and say, I sinned because that is who I was in my heart of hearts. All of our defenses are lies. I am that person. I have no defense. I have no goodness. I don't bring anything to this picture. I am utterly and completely fallen. And how does God respond when we get to that place? How does God respond when we've come to that complete openness about who we are and what we are and why we do what we do? Does he rub it in our faces? No, from what I gather in scripture, it's more like God to say, well, it's about time. It's about time, because I've been looking for this kind of fellowship from you for a long time. There's something I wanted to add here. It's a little side road. We never have to fear the sin that we find when we look at ourselves at the heart of who we are. We never have to live in fear of the skin that we will find when we look at who we really are. We never have to hide from it. Or run from that fear. The devil wants you running. He always wants you running away from something. And the less he can clarify what it is you're running from, the more effective his his work is in your life. He wants to keep you running from your sin. He wants you to keep you running from your guilt. He does not want you to look closely at it. When we look closely at our lives, we'll always find some ugly And as we look at it harder, it gets uglier. And that's discouraging. But that sin never ever has the power to keep cutting us off from fellowship with Christ, no matter what that sin is. And the more we admit it and repent of it, the more fellowship is restored. That's what he's after And the more fellowship is restored, the more grateful we are. And we'll find that it's really true that he who is forgiven much truly loves much. That is the result of true repentance. When we restore that fellowship and see, God does. He does love me just as I am. How? I don't know. But he does. We simply cannot help respond in that way. So never be afraid to look at your life closely. Okay, back to our train of thought. So true repentance sees sin for what it is and accepts the consequences of that sin as being perfectly justified It does not seek to escape justice about the consequences of sin, while knowing that it escaped God's penalty for that sin through Christ. I hope we're clear on it. That's extremely important. 2 Corinthians 7, 9 through 11 covers some of this as well. 2 Corinthians 7, 9 through 11. He says, now I rejoice, not that you were made sorry. I'm not rejoicing because you feel bad now. Well that's good. But that your sorrow led to repentance. For you were made sorry in a godly manner, that you might suffer loss from us in nothing. For godly sorrow, and this is like the major text on learning in the New Testament about repentance, for godly sorrow. produces repentance leading to salvation. Not to be regretted, but the sorrow of the world produces death. So you've got godly sorrow, and that that goes to good things. Worldly sorrow That goes to bad things. For observe this very thing that you sorrowed in a godly manner. What diligence it produced in you! What clearing of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what vehement desire, what zeal, what vindication, in all things you proved yourself to be clear in this manner. That is the kind of thing that repentance will do. It will cause this zeal for God 's truth, and that God's truth in us even To be revealed, to be seen, to be dealt with. True repentance of sin does not produce a desire to escape the consequences of our sin. Our sin natures do that by default. True repentance creates a willingness to do whatever will set things right, no matter what it costs. It wants tooth revealed, and it wants it in the depth of our very souls. It's not looking to cover sin or excuse sin. It's looking to reveal sin and have it truly forgiven. To have that way clearly removed that blockage in our relationship and our fellowship with God, to have that cleared out. So that we can we can commune with him as as he wants us to. And this repentance, like I say, leads to restored fellowship with God. Okay, and that's how David experienced it. Now However we define forgiveness, it has to be applicable in the following situation I'm going to give you. We'll use it to test what we believe. I chose the example because it's a clear one I think and I don't think anyone here is guilty of it. And that makes it a safe one. Here's a situation. It's a hypothetical situation. A wife confesses to a husband after 15 years of marriage that she committed adultery in their first year of marriage. Okay, that's the situation. It was never repeated. She asks for his forgiveness. Now, what does forgiveness mean? Here. In this situation, with this in this setting, what would we do? What would we say? How do we think? How is this carried out in this instance? Whatever forgiveness is has to be able to be carried out here. Okay, the first thing we need to look at is what Jesus says about this sin in regards to marriage. Matthew 5, 31 and 32 says, but furthermore it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you, but again, I say to you, and this is Jesus, I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. Now, if this means exactly what it says, and I understand it properly, if we read this with any kind of logic, we have to conclude that Jesus says that what the wife did is grounds for that man to divorce his wife. There's lots of people who argue with that, but let's just take it for this example. God does not prescribe what he forbids. That's a Bible tenet, uh uh uh uh principle in Bible study. God does not prescribe what he forbids. He does not tell you not to do something and tell you how to do something at the same time. Now, why is this the one allowable grounds for divorce? Probably because this is the only thing in marriage that is completely different than in any other relationship that we have It has strict boundaries. Marriage has strict boundaries. And violation of that boundary is the reason to dissolve the marriage relationship. That's my understanding. And again, this isn't really a topic about divorce, but just to just to make the case. Now, this is important. Does this mean that the husband then is free not to forgive his wife? No. No. There is no instance anywhere of a believer having a reason to not forgive any other believer when they have confessed. Forgiveness in the face of repentant confession is mandatory in the Christian life. So the man must forgive the wife if he is a believer. So logically, he can forgive her and divorce her at the same time. That is how it appears to me. The consequences of the sin and the forgiveness of the sin are two different things. Forgiveness is like that. Forgiveness does not change our history, it changes our destiny. This pretty well demolishes the idea that forgiveness means the consequences of the sin are immediately undone when a person is forgiven Forgiveness is something. Forgiveness is amazing. Forgiveness is important, but it does not remove the consequences of sin. If a person killed somebody, they must face the civil authorities, no matter how forgiven of that sin they are. David was going to lose his son, no matter how forgiven he was. I guess I 'd throw this in here too. That doesn't mean we always have to cling to those consequences, like make them pay the consequences of those sins. I'm just saying that it is a it is a principle here we have to keep in mind. Now suppose the person in our illustration chooses to remain in the marriage, which would be a you know obviously we would think that would be a very good thing to do. He must forgive his wife. That's mandatory. He cannot view his wife as being defined by her sin. He must understand that her sin against him will never be punished by God. And he should be, he should have just been absolutely thrilled at that, glad for that. Wonderful. He must forgive her from his heart. He has to get behind what that transaction is and say, yeah, I'd vote for it too. He must be glad for the grace that God shows his wife. That's what forgiveness does. But he does not need to continue in the marriage. Okay, we we talked about that. But if he does, how do we apply forgiveness? Does this mean she says, forgive me? He says, I forgive you, and the topic can never come up again. Is that the true test for forgiveness? I've never seen a relationship that works that way. And I'm not convinced that this is how forgiveness works inside the church, nor am I sure that that is how it is supposed to work. I believe that forgiveness is as much a commitment as an event. The commitment to forgive may be decided at one point. I may say, I forgive you. We talked about this last week. But then realize that there are installment payments that I hadn't I hadn't really thought about. And I might be as sincere as I can be, but that commitment will need to be remembered tomorrow. When the pain from the sin is discovered in maybe some new implication or memory or whatever. I think it's similar to the decision to marry. We say I do one day. And when other tempting opportunities come up to say I don't, we stick with the original commitment of I do. Forgiveness is a commitment to deal with a person from a position of them being forgiven of their sin that they have committed. We must orient to the fact that God no longer holds that sin against them and will fellowship with them in spite of their past sins and their implications and consequences, and we are heavily on board with that, and we're cheering. For that forgiveness that happens at that point. In our example, the husband has at least three issues to deal with. I'm sure there's more and everyone would deal with it differently, that's for sure. But first is aligning with the fact With God and the fact that the sin is forgiven. When we've adequately spoken about that. Okay? We join into that forgiveness between people and between God. Second, he has to wrap his mind around the sin that was committed. He has to do business with the reality of the sin that was done. Some might say he should just refuse to think about it. But how can you process something that you refuse to think about? How can you apply God's word to something that you have you refuse to allow in your mind? How can you work through the anger and hurt or whatever it is without thinking about how God's word applies to the process that you're going through? You're not going to be very deep as a person if you just block it out. You cannot possibly learn about God's word in real life if you simply refuse to think about it. Growth comes from believing and applying God's word in every situation in your life as you process your way through it. And that doesn't mean to grubble in it and to think about it in wrong ways. There are some times when you've got to say, I've got to stop thinking about this because I'm thinking the wrong way and it's not going anywhere good. But I'm talking about processing things so that you remove the power that they have in your life. So this man is likely to experience a great deal of growth by applying God's word to his feelings and thoughts. And odds are he's going to gain a deeper appreciation of God's love for him. And just how much God has forgiven him from. The third thing is that the man in this situation needs to deal with the issue of who his wife is or what. Because he's in this relationship. And that might be a harder issue. The wife may have only been unfaithful once, but she was deceptive many times. How would that man deal with the relational implications of that deception? What is the man to think of those years when in one area of her life he was living with a stranger? Do you see what I mean? The sin has implications and consequences that aren't aren't always obvious, and forgiveness. This thing called forgiveness is not for sissies or fools. To deal with these issues takes a great deal of wisdom. What's the statute of limitations on processing the herd of confusion? When has a person truly forgiven? When have they gone over the boundary and now it's it's serving no purpose? Or or is this no longer about forgiveness? Is it simply about how to live up to the commitment of forgiveness? How to go on not defining this person by their sin? While still having a having and developing a deeper and deeper relationship with that person. Now, suppose the woman in our illustration goes to the elder with a complaint and she says, My husband has not forgiven me. he keeps wanting to talk about this. He keeps asking questions. At this point , you elders are probably thinking, man, I know there was this kind of stuff. I would have never said yeah. Elders must be discerning about sin. This is one of the primary responsibilities of elders since the ministry of reconciliation is much of what the church is about. We have to be good at discerning what sin is and what it is not. We have to be absolutely committed to carrying out Jesus' instructions of go take someone and take it to the church, no matter what the personal implications are for us. That's a requirement of an elder. And then on top of that, we've got to be wise at sorting through the implications of forgiveness in our relationships with each other And that is not simple. Should the elders be hard on the guy for having to work through the implications of the sin? In this relationship? Should the instructions be, hey, you say you forgave, now forgive? Again, you see the difficulties here. If the husband is punishing his wife by needlessly and cruelly rubbing her nose in her sin, yes, he needs to stop. If she thinks that forgiveness means that she can't work through his his hurt and betrayal, she's mistaken. If she thinks he's being cruel because he's trying to heal and needs to help to do so, she's mistaken. But where are the limits in all of this? You can see the problem. Ultimately, I think the process of working through the process. Of living up to our commitment of forgiveness needs to be refereed by what Scripture says about love, not about forgiveness. We must be committed to the welfare of the other person. And that's the conversation that the elders need to have in mind as they're sorting out these sorts of things. The husband must be committed to the welfare of the wife and be willing to pay whatever price is right to pay. The wife must be committed to the welfare of the husband and be willing to pay whatever price is right to pay. And one can expect that the process will be highly charged emotionally for both parties. You can just expect that That is the kind of stuff that Christians have to take on if they want to represent Christ in relationship with each other. That's why we can't afford to have some flippant view about forgiveness. Part of the problem with forgiveness is that to the degree that a person has sinned against us in a very important way, the forgiving party must bear the repercussions of that sin, even though they didn't commit the sin. If we come up with a different view of forgiveness that doesn't add a burden onto the person who's doing the forgiven, I think we've missed we've missed the the the mark there. The consequences of sin often do not go away when the damnation of them leaves. And forgiveness does not mean pretending. It doesn't mean if you really mean it when you say that you forgive somebody that poof, the sin never happened. The sin did no harm. The sin was nothing. Forgiveness is serious business because sin is serious business. It is a serious commitment to go against our fleshly responses for the good of another believer. And it's like parenting. If it's easy, we're probably not doing it right. When we are for Amen. When we are forgiven That does not free us from the harm that our sin has done to others. When we forgive, that does not free us from the harm that sin has done to us. Forgiveness means that God will not damn us for it and believers will not define us by it. That's what forgiveness is, and we're glad for that. If we expect that forgiveness will free us from the harm our sin has done, we'll always be dissatisfied by the quality of the fellow believers' forgiveness of us. At the end of the day, if we had wanted to be free from the harm that our sin does to others, we should not have committed the sin. That's sort of the point when God warns us a million times about that. Don't do it. Once we have, the consequences are on us. I know that I've posed more questions than answers in this illustration. But I think it's important that we really think through this stuff. If we have pat answers, we need to consider if they really fit every situation, if we really would carry them out, given any situation we found ourselves in. If it's commanded by Christ, we better be sure exactly what it is and what it's not. Now let's look at another angle. I said that our repentance and our restoration of fellowship last week, I believe, was on a continuum. It's not an all-or-nothing like justification. With justification, if you're in Christ, you are completely forgiven of every sin that you will ever commit. That's nuts. I mean, but that's on off. Uh this is not on off. Repentance and fellowship are continuum. We're somewhere on that zero to a hundred in our in our uh um Honesty with Christ about ourselves. So let's look at it from a perspective of repentance. Suppose I've stolen a hundred thousand from you, knowing I shouldn't have, but I did it anyway And I confess to you that I stole a thousand from you, explaining you the great duress of debt I had that would have destroyed my family, so I stole it, and I justified it in my mind What happens in partial confession and what happens in partial repentance? We can fool ourselves in a lot of different kinds of ways. Anyone who knows themselves knows, like we've been saying, we're the trickiest people we know. So even if I give partial repentance, I might be sincerely confessing what I believe about myself. I mean that might be as far down as I've gone, and that's as much as I can confess to. But what happens at that point? Well, we only have restored fellowship to the degree that we have true repentance We only have restored fellowship to the degree that we have true repentance. If I'm hiding something from myself, I will not have fellowship restored on that level, on that thing, until I confess it and repent of it. Does that mean that the sin will be held against me in final judgment? No, that is impossible if I am a believer. If I am in Christ, I cannot be punished for the sins he was punished for. That would be legally unjust and God is just. That can happen but deep in my heart the problem is I know the truth I know the truth about me even if I won't think about it I know it and as long as I feel I need to hide the truth I'll never be set free from It will always impede my relationship with God and fellow believers. Oh, it's hard to put your fingers on it, and it's hard to say just how much and just how. But there's that degree that we know ourselves. We see this in Psalms 51, and I think I That's why it's so good. It is so refreshing to read this. Truth to the core is the goal in repentance. Truth to the core is the goal in repentance. The goal is not to have just enough truth that we can get somebody else off our back. It's not just enough truth that we can make them look silly for having a bad opinion of us. No, it's gut level truth that does not care what people might make of it. It it's looking at our situation, not trying to figure out the angles to make light of what we did or to get ourselves kind of off the hook or whatever, but uh and to see it in its best light. It's digging to the bottom, letting the evidence guide us to what is really true about us and then saying, yeah That's me. That's what David was talking about. Now we can do less. Thankfully, God does not require absolute complete repentance Before he puts us in Christ and tells us, you're going to be forgiven of that anyway. You are forgiven of that anyway. We can do less, and when we do less, we'll end up with a shallower relationship with God and His people But if we'll let the Holy Spirit have his way, if we have the guts to say, I want to see the truth, I don't care how bad it is We'll have repentance that sets us free in the deepest levels. We'll walk in the light as he is in the light. That is what John is talking about. That's pleasing to God. Now, how do you know if I've forgiven you and if you have forgiven me? That's a million-dollar question, I think. That's a very important question for us to ask. It's my test of forgiveness, but if you have forgiven me, that you'll never bring up my past. If I have that test of forgiveness, and then you bring up my past, then I can say, well, you haven't forgiven me, when maybe you have. And the Holy Spirit and Paul don't seem to live by that rule. So maybe we should drop that as a litmus test. So how do we know? What test can we have? And I think the test is do I believe that God will never punish you for your sin? If I have forgiven you I believe that God will never punish you for your sin, and I'm glad. Do I define you by what Christ has done or what you have done? Do I define you by what Christ has done or what you have done? Do I see you as a child of God, dearly loved by God? Those are pretty good signs of forgiveness. Not all of them. I'm sure we could could come up with others that would be very helpful. If I bring up your past that you have already confessed, or you bring up mine, the question to ask then is, why is this happening? Why is this happening? If you're trying to tell me I can never be forgiven, or that my sin is unforgivable, or that fellowship can never be restored, that's the ministry of the devil He's the great accuser of our souls, he wants to destroy us, and he he wants us to think there is no path back From the sin that I have committed. He wants us, he wants to use our sins to convince us that we're unforgivable. If that is my goal or that is yours, we need to go back and look at what you and I have been forgiven from. We need to go back and and look at the sin that we were and the sins that we did and that Christ forgave us from. Because that is not forgiveness. God condemns that kind of behavior categorically when we define the sin of others and use it to beat them over their heads. There's no excuse for that. But if you bring up my sin because I've become hostile, And forgotten where I came from, you're doing me a favor. Paul did that in his epistles. If you bring up my sin because you believe that I've only partially repented of things that are obvious to you, that might be a kindness if it's in cooperation with the thing. the what the Holy Spirit is doing. That's a million dollar but. Although, you know, I might not regard it real right off the bat as such. It might be. If you bring up my sin because you're trying to deal with the repercussions of it, it's difficult for you. There might be a time and place for that. At the end of the day, forgiveness means the debt that we have for the punishment of our sins is released. And it means the fellowship with God and with believers. Has been restored based on the relationship that we have with God. And conclusion. If a person commits himself to that process, he is on the right side of the equation. We 'll never do this perfectly. But we must be committed to pronouncing each other children of God and forgiven of their sins. And we need to get good at it. So this ends what I wanted to share about what I've learned about forgiveness. I hope it doesn't end our study of forgiveness. And I certainly hope it doesn't stop our application for forgiveness. But I thought it might be good to close out this study with what God says about that which should surround and motivate this ministry of forgiveness. It's a change of topic, but I think it helps us to know if what we're doing is from flesh or from God. And we go to 1 Corinthians 13, 4 through 8, and we close with this. 1 Corinthians 4 through 8. Love suffers long and is kind. Love does not envy. Love does not parade itself. Love is not puffed up. Love does not behave rudely. Love does not seek its own. Love is not provoked. Love thinks no evil. Love does not rejoice in iniquity, but love rejoices in the truth. Love bears all things. Love believes all things. Love hopes all things. Love endures all things. Love never fails. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that you don't leave us out there to Just wonder about having no clarity about our own forgiveness, not knowing that we start we start our class with an A on the test Knowing that our forgiveness is complete when we are in Christ. And then knowing that we can have even deeper and greater fellowship with you and your people as we are more and more real about ourselves and our sin and confess it and repent of it Lord, we ask that you would help us to use this that we have either learned or refreshed or whatever it is that we've done. And that we would grow in the truth, in the appreciation of what you have done for us, and in the ministry of emphasizing the same to others. Help us to be wise about the process and help us to be relentless and hard on ourselves about making sure that our motives are correct as we go about the process on either end. And we just we thank you, Lord, for bringing us together as a body and giving us this opportunity to look at this important topic. Lead us and guide us in all. In Jesus' name. Amen.