It's a pleasure to be here today. It is I think it's wonderful. I've been in ministry for I don't know about twenty or so years. And to have this relationship we do with the churches in this area like mind and like faithful. We get to preach in each other's shed. It's a it's a great privilege and it's fun. So it's uh not only that, but we get to know the other churches and the people of the churches. And it's great that we are not in competition with one another. We are all just missionaries on a mission field and we're all working for the same men. So I'm grateful uh the relationship I have with John and Carla and So it's great. But if you could turn your Bibles to Mark chapter twelve. Mark chapter twelve. We're going to be looking at verses twenty-eight through thirty-four. We see that this um in this passage Jesus is heading to Jerusalem. He is spending his last week in the city, in and out of the city, and he is being confronted with people that are against him. trying to demoralize him, to demolish his teaching, to demolish his ministry. At the same time, he knows what the future holds. He knows that he's heading to the cross. And he knows that in just a few days, he is going to be completely deserted by the 12 men that he spent the past three, three and a half years with. But this is what Mark says in Mark chapter 12, verses 28-34. The great commandment. And one of the scribes came up and heard and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, Which commandment is the most important of all? Jesus answered, the most important is hear, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. The second is this. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said to him, You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is the one, and there is no one besides him. And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength that love one's neighbor as oneself is much more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions. There's another legend. has a wealthy merchant of the first century who had a desire to meet the Apostle Paul And one day he encountered Timothy who arranged for a visit with Paul while he was in Rome in prison. This wealthy man stepped inside, and the merchant was surprised. He thought Paul would be this robust Paul order, but he found he was surprised to find a rather old man physically frail, but whose serenity and magnetism challenged the visitor. They talked for hours. Finally the merchant left with Paul's blessing. As he was leaving, he encountered Timothy, and he asked, What is the secret to Paul's serenity and power? I have never seen anything like Paul before. And Timothy said, Paul is in love. The merchant said, in love? What do you mean by that? And Timothy, yes, Paul is in love with Jesus. The merchant looked even more bewildered and said, is that all? Timothy answered and replied, sir, that is everything. And I find it rather humorous, but also grateful that the last song we said, I'd rather have Jesus more than anything. perfectly goes with this passage. Is God our everything? Is every God our everything? And that's kind of what the purpose of this question that Jesus was asked. Now, if we were to sit there, if someone, if you were to ask maybe your kids or maybe the average Joe and say, what is the greatest commandment? Well, you know, that's easy. We only have ten to choose from the ten commandments But in that context, we have to see that he was not just choosing from ten. During that day there was six hundred and thirteen commandments That the average Jew was to follow. Not just 10, but 613. And the religious leaders at that time had counted them up. There were 248 that were positive. You must do this, you must do that, you must do this. 365 were negative. Thou shalt not, you shall not do this, you shall not do that. So basically what they thought was that a don't a day kept the devil away. So if you want to keep in mind with God, each day you had something that you weren't to do. Then what we see is that Jesus, for the first time while he's in Jerusalem, doesn't answer the crowd with another question. And if you were to read the context of where he is in Jerusalem, every time he was asked a question, he would not return an answer. But he would re-inv and return the thing back upon the religious leaders and ask them a question. To answer their question And we see here Jesus gives a two-fold question to the answer. What is the greatest commandment? So out of 613, Jesus picks, and answering him, he takes two commandments and puts them together. Look at verse 30. This is the first. And you shall love the Lord with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. So we see the first commandment is this idea that we are to love God with all that you have. We are to love God with all that you have, with all that you are. So it's this idea that you will love. It's not just a one-time decision, but it's a decision that has ongoing future application and implication. Now, you know, if you think of this idea of love and you put and you bring that into our future today, I think the American Church has taken the word love and has watered it down. Or you cannot even taste or experience the original meaning of what that means. Yeah, God loves us. God loves all of his creatures. And maybe even aliens. We don't know. So we'll see. But I won't be here next week, so I'll have to ask John what the answer is to that. But today we think of this love. Oh yeah, well God created us. Didn't he love everyone? Well, we see in scripture that God does love some of his creation But he doesn't follow everyone the same way to the same thing. But what Jesus here is saying is that he chooses a word here that says love is more than a feeling It's primarily an action. You know, we look at this idea of love, puppy love, love, emotional love, romantic love as a feeling. You can fall in love and you can fall out of love. That's not the love that Jesus is talking about here or that God talked about when he first originally said this in Jude to the nation of Israel. He used the word Agapato To love, which speaks of the never-ending, unchanging, unconditional, all-consuming love That Christ had for us when he died on the cross. That's the same type of love that we are to show God. Even though it's going to be imperfect, we have to achieve to love God, and that's what we have to understand. Love is not a feeling. It's a choice. It's done volitionally. So we can we can choose to love even though we don't like what God is doing in our life. We can choose to be committed to him even when we don't understand. We see love is more than a feeling, but we also see that love is to be comprehensive. It's to encompass everything that we are. You know, God's God shows what this idea is for true love for us. Even though we can't meet that standard, we are called to do as much as we can to do this. And if you notice in that verse, that he uses the word all four different times. He says, love your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. So we see Jesus is basically saying that you are to love God with everything that you have, with devotion in your hearts, with passion in your souls, thoughtfulness in your heads. And also passionate energy to your hands and your feet. Read the love of God emotionally, intellectually, volitionally, and physically. So anything that we are, anything we say, anything that we do should come and spring from the love of God. You know, I I I like what Charles Spurgeon said one time. Says if Christ is not all to you, he is nothing to you. He will never go into partnership as a parsaki of men. And I think this is what I like about this quote. If he be something, he must be everything. And if he not be everything, he is nothing to you. If he be something, he must be everything. And if he be not everything, he is nothing to you. So if God, if God is not everything to us, then eventually he will be nothing to us. We must love God in everything that we do, and everything that we think, and everything that we say. Yeah, you know that that's kind of easy. And I think even for the first century Jew, it was probably easy because what they saw is they what they thought. was these religious leaders in Jerusalem loving God. Well they gave up everything. They prayed and they spent all their time in the temple. And even when they were in a marketplace, they would stand on the corners and pray. But what they didn't understand was that they were doing it just for show, for earthly reward. They weren't really loving God with everything. They just wanted to let everybody know that they were doing it. So we see that Jesus here answers and gives the question and covers a vertical dimension, how we are to relate to God, how we are to love God and what that means. But then he doesn't stop there. Look at verse 31. He says, the second. Now then the gentleman asks her, What is the greatest commandment? But what we still what we see is that Jesus later on combines these two. If you love God, then you're going to love your neighbor. You can't have one without the other. And he says this in verse 31. The second is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other greater commandment. Greater than these. I like how he says commandment, singular, and uses these for if they're putting someone in this is taken from Leviticus 1918 You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. So we're to love God, He shall be everything to us, and we are to love our neighbor as yourself. Now, I imagine if as Jesus was teaching You could sit there and if , if he was teaching to a Baptist church in the South, you know, as he was sitting there saying, you know, love God with everything, love God with all your mind, if you sit there saying, yeah, preach it. Amen. Amen. Amen. You'd have this But all of a sudden he would go to point two and say, Love your neighbor as yourself. And he would go, What? All of a sudden these agreeing faces would turn would turn to be wilderments. Because no rabbi, no teacher can ever combine these two together and tell Jesus. And again, we see he uses the word agapato again. We are to love our neighbor with limitless and unconditional love. Not just God, but we are to love our neighbor with limitless and unconditional love. Now that's five You know, the great thing about speaking of churches, you can use funny illustrations if you've already used it to one church. I want to share an illustration of how not to love your neighbor. Probably about, I'd say 15 years ago, we were living in Ohio. And we had bought our second house, and I've always been one to want to have a great mall. So what I would do is that we had a small lawn, it was less than a quarter of an acre, and I would, you know, I it's uh once a month I would fertilize it. In fact I had to mow it twice a week because I would water it and it was just green and thick Now I don't I don't care about whether and it had no weeds, there was no dead spots, it was green, in fact, I was the envy of the whole neighborhood Because everybody else would call Tim Lawn and all these stocks to come and do their own AP this m a lot of money. But my lawn is always It was a source of pride. Really it was a source of pride in a bad way. Now see I don't do that anymore. I don't I have four acres of walk. If I can mow it once a week, I'm doing good. So I could care less about watering it. Of course, I don't have to water it because we've already had 12 inches of rain this year. I mean this month, so it's already good. But you know, what had happened before we bought the house, the house had been vacant for about six to eight months And my next door neighbor had these two huge dogs. So what they had this idea that they're just going to use my lawn as their litter box. So they trained their dogs for eight months to go over and use the bathroom in my lawn. And I could tell when I got there, it's like I'm going to do a lot of work to the shard. Not only that, but I also decided that I wanted to plant roses and try that out. And hence I no longer fertilize and I no longer grow roses. I have no ages for that anything else. But yeah, I got this, and you know, I would work really hard and would do this, and they would still come over and do their business in my lawn. So not only would there be these big piles, but they would also burn out my grass when they would go to the bathroom. So I would go over there and talk to the neighbors and they will try to do better, but it just would not happen. So I did something which is not what God wanted me to do. I decided one day to take a paper bath, go over into my lawn, and pick up all the dog turds. But they were there. And then I put them in a paper bag and I went over to the neighboring doors, dropped it on their welcome mat and left. Now I did not catch it on fire. I did not knock it and went on fire. But then they came out and from that day until they moved from the house which was about a year, I did not have a good relationship with my neighbors. That is not what it means to love your neighbors as yourself Sometimes we have to learn the hard way. And the bad thing was is that that neighbor knew that I was going to sit in there and become a pastor. So, you know, one day I will be judged on how I used my, lost my witness there. But Jesus says, not only are you love God, but you are to love your neighbors limitless and unconditionally. As we go through this, the same love that we give to ourselves, we are to show to those around us. And there's no other commandment greater than these. We see that he combines them. Jesus was asked for one commandment and Jesus gives two. But he does this because he is saying loving others. is the practical outworking of the mind God. If we say that we love others, but we don't have love for our fellow man, no matter who he or she is , then we don't truly love God. If we love God, we will love others as well. Now It's funny how sometimes God will put something in the scriptures and for years and years and years we don't understand this. But see, God had already combined these two commandments together. Think of the Ten Commandments. The first four of the commandments. Covers our love for God and our relationship with God. We will love God, therefore we will have no other images, we will not worship anything, we will not take his mean and vain. We will remember the Sabbath day we keep it holy. And the last six is how we love others as ourselves. We will not lie, we will not steal, we will not covet, we will honor our mothers, our parents. So we see this idea that even though the religious leaders never saw the connection God had always said, if you love me, you're going to love others. And you can't love others like I want you to unless you love me first. And this even is brought out also in Matthew's account of this passage, and he goes on and says in Matthew 22, of these two commandments depend all the laws and the prophets. One version says, on these two commandments came all the law and the prophets. Have you ever had a door where one of the hinges was broken? You know, yeah, if you have what you know, I I've had a screen door one time where um the the top hinge always came loose Because the s the screws were stripped. So you go out the door and you try to shut it and you'd have to kind of bang it to shut to get it back there. You can have, you know, the top hinge is broken. The door doesn't work correctly. Or if the bottom hinge is broken, the door won't shut. So we see that the law, everything that God has commanded us to do, hangs or swings on these two commandments Love God and love others as yourself. You know, it's pretty easy to say we love God, but it's another matter to say that we love our neighbors. One gentleman put it this way. To love the world, to love the world to me is no chore. I have big trouble with the guy next door. Or another one wrote, To dwell above with the saints, in love will be grace and glory. But to live with the saints we know is a different story. Sometimes living with those that maybe our family or maybe our church family are some of the hardest things to do. Jesus is not saying that we should just tolerate our neighbors. But we should or just be nice to them, but we are to love them. And I think what we see here, you know, back in 1968, in February 1968 , you guys ever remember the Mr. Roger show? You know, there's a movie being made by um about him that stars Tom Hanks coming out. But he used to have, you know, it would you know, this gentleman, you know I I I know it's still on a re-round so we don't have TV or PDF or not like this, but he would say, let's make the most of this beautiful day. Since we're together, might as well we say Would you be mine? Could you be mine? Won't you be my neighbor? So who is our neighbor? Is it just those that are next door to us, which are the farm next to us? Is it just the people that we have something in common with? Or is it someone that's, you know, or is it just the person down the road? Is it someone that lives in the same town? Could the person across the world be our neighbor? Or even the person next right next to us that we work with be our neighbor? The question I think we need to do is that what God is, what Jesus is saying here is that a neighbor is not just someone who's in close proximity to us. But a neighbor is someone whose needs I see and whose needs I can meet. You know, the Pharisees The Jews typic typically interpret neighbor as one who's near, just the Jew. Remember they didn't if they had to go through Samaria, they would go around it because they didn't think that the half Jew, half Gentile people were their neighbors The Pharisees only rejected ordinary people. And what we see is that in communities such as like the Qumrod are those that kind of sequestered themselves. They excluded everyone else. Their neighbor was only the people around them, no one else. So the question is that who isn't the question is not who is my neighbor? But whose neighbor am I? Whose neighbor am I called to be? And Jesus says, here a neighbor is sown whose needing I see, whose needs I can meet. And we see this. This is uh um in this question is the focus on what I owe to the suffering people around me A neighbor is anyone in need that God brings in front of me. So whoever God brings in front of me, and I have the ability Or the resources, either intellectually, physically, or monetarily, to meet those needs, they are no need for We see this from the parable to give Samiris. Remember that the Jew who was robbed on the way to Jericho? Two Jews decided to pass by, didn't want anything to do with them, but this hated Samaritan comes in and sees the need, and he meets it Who is my need? Anyone whose God has placed in front of me, who is suffering, who is in need, and that I am able to satisfy that need. So really what Jesus is calling us to is to love God and love others. What is God's will for your life today, for tomorrow? God 's love is to love God and love others. The whole law, the whole scriptures of God does this. We all have a purpose. So you may have woke up today, Lord, what is my purpose today? Well, I'm here to answer that. Love God, love others. Being you're dismissed. We're not done quite yet. But see, we all have a purpose There's a story one time at a church camp which had been Camp Hickory, I don't know. But the speaker was talking to these young kids about how God has a purpose for everything in his creation. They explained that there were reasons for dirt, wind, trees, animals, and even mosquitoes. I was just reading in the news, I think from MPR, that we have the ability genetically make the mosquito extinct. Well I would say that'd be awesome. But you know we don't know what that would bring upon the world, so I didn't read it at all. I just saw the headline But he even said that mosquitoes and cockroaches all have a purpose. And then all of a sudden, one children raised his hand and he asked the question: if everything God has made has a purpose. Why did God make poison item? So the the the speaker was sitting here and he was stubborn, so he began to think And all of a sudden another child raised his hand and said, God made poison iron because he wanted us to know that there are things that we should keep our grubby little hands off. So but you know you know you look at this in you know from the the mouths of babies. But really what is the purpose, you know, the you know We actually in our Sunday school last week we were saying what is the purpose of dogs and cats? You see, I I come to believe that God did create things after the fall. He created dogs before the the first sin. He created cats after the first sin. So I'm I'm just a dog person, I'm not a cat person. So don't don't don't sow me, don't throw your tomatoes, you're a coffee ducky. But everything has a purpose. Everyone has a purpose. And what we are doing, we are called to love God and bless others. In his book, Discover Your Mission Now, Dave Ferguson recounts, reading a doctor thesis entitled Blessed vs. Converters. The researcher looked at two teams of short-term missionaries to Thailand with very distinctive different Strategies. One team with the Tyrant to be blessers. They went to the intention of simply blessing people in practical ways while sharing the gospel. The others were converters. They went with the sole intention of just sharing the gospel and asking people to be saved. And the thesis, and here's a summary of what we discovered. The blessers had a greater impact than the converters, with 50 times as many conversions as the converters. You see, we are here not only to love God, but we are here to bless those that are in a mess. What if God meant we're to love our actual neighbors? I think what we see is the way that we love God is to be a blessing to those who are to be a blessing to those whose lives are in less. We aren't just to sit here and just to knock on doors, which we can, which I've done in the past, and just share the gospel, but we are to try to take the whole person into effect. You know, a person may need spiritual salvation, but they also may need food. You know, so how can we be a blessing? How can we love others just like we have love ourselves? Well, I I I saw the circrostic one time. It means blessed, B-L -E-S -S. How can we love our neighbors as ourselves by being a blessing? Number one. One way we can do that is begin with prayer. B. I'm a Baptist preacher, but I have to have an across. So here it is. So God, how can you begin with prayer? How do you want me to bless the people in the places you have sent me? Think of your think of the orbit of God of the people that are in your orbit on a daily or regular basis. Begin to pray, how can I bless those? How can I be a blessing? How can I truly love them as you have loved me in those places? And I think as you pray, God opens your eyes to steal it. Then secondly we listen with purpose We begin taking the time to listen to the needs, struggles, and pain of the people around you. Be present. Make yourself an easy person to bump into. You know, so as we pray, I think God will have um opportunities where we can actually God can use us. So we we pray and then we listen to purpose. And then we eat together. Hey, we're Baptists. We can eat together. How do we love show love for our neighbors? We eat. We look for ways to have a cup of coffee or a meal or a dessert. And sit down and conversate with them. And I think this is one of the biggest problems of the American culture. Our job we eat just to fill our stomachs. So most of the time we are so busy that we run through McDonald's, we run through Taco Bell, where we go and get food and we just scarf it down all the way to our next appointment. You know, you look at the French. They you know they did not create the French fries, but they you know it takes them an hour and a half to eat their dinner meal. Why is that? Do they eat a lot? No. They eat less than less But they mix their conversation. They mix their meals of conversation. They get to know one another. They talk with one another. Yeah, I think the only time that we, you know, sometimes baptists do this better because we love potlucks. So we get together, but we eat together, listen, pray. And then we serve them with love. Look for ways to respond to their needs and struggles and the pain of people. How has God placed you in this person's path to meet their needs? To love them. to share with them to serve them. And lastly we see to share the story of folks. Share with them. As you are meeting with these, as you are blessing them, as you are eating with them, listening to them, and praying for them, share with them what it means. Jews come to Christ. What what story it doesn't mean that we go through our across it of, you know, the five rows of the roads or whatever, but how has Christ made a difference in your life? And that same hope is there for them. We see that God has called us to love him and to love others as much or more than we love ourselves. What is our purpose as Christians? Is to love God, to worship Him, and also to be a blessing of others. That's at the end of two simple ways that we can pray to better so that we can better ourselves. So that we can love God better and love others better. Because I think sometimes it's just that we get so tied up in what we do each and every day, the business of life, that we forget that we're to love God and love others. So, how can we change our perspective in doing that? So we can do that by saying these two simple prayers every day. God help me to love you better today than I did yesterday. And help me to love my neighbor better today than I did yesterday. And what we see is that our purpose to love God and love others. It 's brought to mind, and our perspective is different than it was yesterday because we're focusing on the opportunity. And God may bring some mind in our path To love them and to show and to show and share the love of Christ with them. So let's pray. And the funny thing was is that That was pretty much the gospel. Because he says later on, he says that you are near to him. That's the gospel. God loved us. So he sent his only son to die for us. We can never repay that love completely, but we have to show that love to God, and we are to show that. Love to others. We are the love where you live. Heavenly Father, I thank you for today. I thank you for the opportunity that I have here to open up your word, to share the words of Christ with those that are In your bodies. And Lord, I pray that as we leave here today and as we go about our business this week, as we work, as we take care of our families, And we do the things that you called us to do, that we would make a commitment to love you more today than we did yesterday. Allow the distractions, the things that take us off track. Help us to refocus on you each and everything through your word. But that's more than that, Lord, as we each as we carry out our business each and every day. Lord, I pray that you would bring people along our path That we may be able to help. Not only to bring that along our path, but to change our perspective and help us to be prepared for those. Help us to love those. And love you wherever and whenever we do. Thank you very much to them.