Pretty much everyone who studies the book of Isaiah breaks the book in two pieces at chapter forty. Why? Well, because the prophet is no longer talking about the Judeans in the Prophet's period of time. Now he begins to prophesy to them about the future of Jerusalem. Now, what would you guess the liberal scholars might begin saying when Isaiah starts talking factually in 800 BC about events that won't happen until 600 B. C. Their assumptions begin to peek true. This couldn't happen, is what they say. Their mindset says that everything that happens has to be able to be explained in such a way that God need not exist. Which is sort of odd if you're talking about the Bible. In fact, the assumption seems to be that God must not exist. So they begin coming up with theories They think there are multiple authors to the book of Isaiah written over multiple periods of time. Why? Well there must be. After all, no person can know the future. That's their reasoning. What we see in Isaiah is that chapters 1 through 39 address the people who were Isaiah's contemporaries The message is mostly one of confrontation, then it changes its tone. Chapters 40 through 55 speak to the Jews during the period of the Babylonian exile. And chapters 56 through 66 seem to lose sight of time altogether and apply everything in the book of Isaiah to anyone who happens to read the book. Now. What makes us think that the book only has one author? Well, the heading of the book itself contains it says this. The vision of Isaiah, the son of Amos. That's what it says. Then when the New Testament quotes the book, it always refers to the person of Isaiah, the prophet, when it quotes the book of Isaiah. So if we're to believe Jesus, we have no reason to doubt that Isaiah was the author, the single author. Does that require us to leave the natural world of cause and effect? Well, yeah, that does. But what law of cause and effect will result in one man, the man Christ Jesus being the mediator between God and man. What law of cause and effect comes up with one man paying for the sins of all humans who are ever to be saved? If we can only believe what can be explained by natural forces, there would be no way for us to be saved at all. At some point, we have to believe that God is God and sees the future as the past and has always chosen to communicate with human beings when he feels good and ready to do so. There's no reason not to believe that the prophet Isaiah wrote the book of Isaiah as he was led by the Spirit to do. Now, I like how Mr. Ortland describes this. He says, Isaiah was, above all, a herald of good news for bad people from a surprising God. Now let's look at chapter 40. We're breaking race with dealing with Isaiah's contemporaries, as we said. We can break this chapter into three sections. Verses 1 through 11, God comforts with the news of a worldwide salvation. Verses 1 through 11, God comforts with the news of a worldwide salvation. That's what we're going to deal with today Verses 12 through 26, God shows that he is able to do what he says he will do. Verses 12 through 26. God shows that he's able to do what he says he'll do. And verses 27 through 31, God shows how we can live a life now in hope of what he will eventually do. Verses 27 through 31, God shows how we can live now, the life of Hope now, and what he will eventually do. We'll start with the first eleven verses this morning, and I'll borrow some more from Mr. Orkland in terms of a uh outline. Verses 1 and 2 are the occasion of his comforting promise. The occasion of his comforting promise. Verses 3 through 5 is the content of this comforting promise. 3 through 5 is the content. of his comforting promise. Verses six through eight is the certainty of his comforting and promise The certainty of his comforting promise. And verses 9 through 11 is the spreading of his comfortable promise. Verses 9 through 11, the spreading of his comfortable promise. We need to realize at this point that Isaiah is seeing 100 to 200 years in the future. Babylon will grow into a mighty power and sweep through the region much like Assyria had done before it. But Jerusalem was in such a state of moral decay that God had lifted his protecting hand. Jerusalem no longer trusted their God, so their God delivered them into bondage of the enemies until they returned. to their God until the discipline accomplishes what the discipline is supposed to do. Now we need to put ourselves in the life positions of these people. They used to be special They used to have their own unique identity , their own unique culture, their own unique religion, but now they've been swallowed up in a godless world. They're no longer waking up to see the temple where they believed their God lived. They're no longer seeing the animals sacrificed for their sins, as comforting as that may have been Their God was now distant. At least that's how it would have appeared to them. They may have felt abandoned by their God, living in a land completely different than the land that they had lived in. Maybe you watch the news. Maybe you watch the world's entertainment. Maybe you listen to the conversations around you. I sometimes get angry about how little what God says matters in our world. No one, not even professing Christians, seem to care what God has so clearly spoken. It's like we're surrounded by zombies who simply cannot think above what choices they are making. They might claim to not know what's right and wrong, but in most cases it's more they don't care what is right or wrong. What they care about is worshiping their idols. They want that thing they feel they cannot live without. They want that thing that their heart leads them to. And they'll pay any price to purchase it, even the lives of their children. Truly, nothing changes. Nothing changes. Scripture points it out, and we see life as it is It doesn't matter what things mean. I have another another quote from Mr. Ortland. When we see how far we have fallen and how broken the world is, it explains something It explains why disappointment pervades our experience. As we see more and more of life, we're confronted with disappointment so persistently And so convincingly, folks start to look just plain stupid. We become disappointed in our ideals, disappointed in romance Disappointed in our careers, disappointed in the people we trust, disappointed in ourselves. When all human hopes have let us down, We might be ready for the only real salvation that exists. And that's the point that Israel had to get to. That's precisely where we drop into our text. Oh, the wonder of comfort in a world like ours. Oh, the need for comfort in hearts like ours. Oh, the beauty of God's intervention in a world like ours. God truly is so good. Verse 1, comfort, yes. Comfort my people, says your God. Speak comfort to Jerusalem and cry out to her, that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned. For she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Have you ever considered that if God's deepest desire was to punish sin All hope would be lost. We could give up immediately, and rightly so. If that's what God wanted, if what God wanted most was to punish sin, there would be no one who escaped his completely justified eternal wrath. But that is not God's primary foe. Oh, we can't be mistaken about this. Sin will be punished. It must be But that's not God's primary focus. His primary focus is rescuing his people so they can worship him forever without competition. So what message does God hold out to these people who have abandoned him and are now paying a harsh consequence for their rebellion? Rat? No, comfort, comfort. What God desires is for mankind's salvation. There is one sense that God wills for all humans to be saved. We see that in 1 Timothy. He takes no satisfaction in a person dying in their rebellion. It would require a different study to investigate the uses of the word will in Scripture regarding to God But God gets no kick out of destroying people. He'll do it, and his justice demands that he does it. But what God seems to get a kick out of is saving people. So here are all these people who are tasting the consequences of abandoning their gods. And the God who they have abandoned reaches out to them with a word of comfort, a message bringing some relief. to their pain. There's something we must all understand here. No person will ever respond to God if they don't feel that God is offering them a chance to get right with him. No person is going to respond to a God that's all anger and no forgiveness. No person will come to God in the face of God's resistance. No one's going to fight God to be right with God. What we must believe, what it is impossible to not have when we come to God, is to believe what Hebrews 11, 6 says And I prepared this before church came. I knew uh about Hebrews eleven, but I hadn't I had no idea what Jason was going to talk about, or very little. Hebrews 11:6, but without faith it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. Before we're going to come to God, we've got to believe that God wants a relationship. God wants to restore a relationship. No one's going to come to God if they don't believe that. Not the true God, not the God of anger and uh justice and all the scary things. God is all about showing off his grace to have a people who will truly enjoy his company forever in the proper perspective that his holiness demands. That's what God is after. That's his end game. God does not discipline believers for sin because he just lusts thanking his children. Now, we aren't good people. And I think all of us by now have good enough theology that we would admit that no, even if I don't feel it like it some days, I know the fact to be that we are afraid. We are not good people. But even we don't do that. You know? Even we don't train our kids because we like training our kids. At least I hope not. We only spank our children because they need it. It's like last resort. They they drive us to it. It's not our primary purpose. It's not like, well, I want to be a parent because I'm going to spank kids. It's it's a means to an end When we think they have gotten the point, we're glad to stop and to restore the fellowship, because the restored fellowship is what we're after to begin with. That's what we're doing it for. Now, do we really think that we're better than God? Of course not. Of course, God is better than us. God wants to grant us comfort. God wants to grant us a chance to start again. Mercy's new every morning. I think that's a very considerable fresh start. And are not our lives a clear example of this? What did we deserve by the sins we committed in our past? We know clearly what that is. But what did God grant us? He granted us a chance to start over, to start afresh. Oh, there are consequences to our sins, but it's amazing how many even of our consequences he doesn't demand from us And look how God refers to the people he's addressing. He says, My people. My people is what he calls them. How wonderful is that? These people that have messed up so badly that he had to send them into exile. These people who still really weren't what they should be, yet he says, my people. How fortunate we are to have a God like that. She goes on that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Is it not the salvation message? The word for warfare could also mean hard service. This is probably talking about the end of the Babylonian exile and the return to Jerusalem. We need to think about this a little bit. What happens when we come to Christ? You know, when we come to Christ for salvation, what happens? Our heavy load is lifted. Christ's burden is life. The warfare or heavy service is over. Our iniquity is paid by Christ. And we've received all the penalty that we're going to get. What a wonderful thing. What a wonderful thing to have our sins forgiven. And to know that they're forgiven because they're forgiven on the basis of Christ's death. Nothing could be more certain. These Judeans had committed sins enough to be kicked out of Jerusalem. They had inspired God's anger. God had much better in mind for them, but they chose to rebel. They completely deserved to be destroyed. Just like God. But God did not. His intention was salvation God's intention was salvation. And he did everything that it took to bring the people around. Certainly, these are not the same human beings who went into exile. They as a people, individuals that lived through several generations by now. But in our case, it often is the same person who commits the sin. who God's discipline uh corrects us or his uh his Holy Spirit drives us to himself We are the same people who have deserved God's penalty, but we receive his gracious salvation. Voice thr uh verse three, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill brought low. The crooked places shall be made straight and the rough places smooth. We begin to be told about the salvation that's going to be provided. Here's the comfort that is being announced by the Prophet. Let's look at this. The voice cries out in the wilderness. That's where it starts. The voice cries out in the wilderness. The wilderness is where we live. Where we all live. We live in the barren spirituality of our own souls. We live in a land that has little of God's richness in it by default Our lives apart from God are nothing if not barren wilderness. We need someone to cry out to our emptiness. We need someone to announce to us something better than what we can see and touch and feel. We need a voice that comes from somewhere else. We know that this prophecy was fulfilled in John the Baptist telling people about the coming of Christ. But it speaks a message about God's call to any of his children. We're all in the same boat. We need a voice from outside of ourselves announcing something of God to us. And what does the voice say? Now, I've always thought of this as a highway for people to reach God. But that's not what it says. It's a highway for God to reach us. It's the way of the Lord. It's the highway of our God. Do you know what that means? The king's on his way. The building program is for the king being on his way. That's the point they would have got when they heard this scripture. The king is coming to us where we live. He's coming to us as we are. And he's not going to allow any human obstacle stand in his way of getting all of his people. That's what that's saying. Look at the imagery here. Here are people living in a wasteland. They have little to offer. You know, you don't build a highway into the wilderness to get something worth, unless you're gonna mine or you know, pay a timber or something. But these aren't people of status or wealth. They are for the most part outcasts. Yet what does God do? He gives us the imagery of a massive road-building program. Years ago it cost the government a million dollars a mile to build an expressway. I'm sure it's a lot more than that now. A million dollars a mile. When Carla and I travel east on 68, we were always amazed at Sidling Hill. And now there are no little kids, so she gets to look at it. The mountain was leveled to some degree. For the ease of travelers. You can see that. It's an amazing work. This is the imagery we're seeing here. God's doing whatever it takes to make his trip to his people unimpeded. Mr. Ortland presents a very reformed view. He says he's talking about the disruptive advance of salvation. He's saying that lifting and lowering and leveling and smoothing are necessary to the kingdom of Christ He's talking about depression being relieved, pride being flattened, troubled personal troubled personalities becoming placid, and difficult people becoming easy to get along with. And he's also implying that if we cling to the status quo and refuse God's upsetting but constructive salvation, we risk having no parts with Christ. Basically, how Mr. Ortwin reads it, and I think very accurately, is this this imagery is uh is talking about what happens In God's salvation. God will pull down the crowd and He'll lift up the trod. He'll do what it takes in our world and in our lives to provide for us his salvation. His highway To get to us will be effective. So if we're living in our pride and arrogance, God will pull us down. If we're living in in a uh a a a state of being trodden down and oppressed, he will lift us up. But he's gonna make that road level. He's gonna level it out so that we can be saved. Verse 5 The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. What is this glory of God? How would we answer that question? How would we describe the glory of God? What do we really think of the glory of God? John Piper says this, I think it's a helpful insight. He says, you know, in the church, our view of God is so small instead of huge. So marginal instead of crucial, so vague instead of clear, so impotent instead of determining, all determining. And so uninspiring instead of ravishing that the responsibility to live to the glory of God is a thought without content. The words can come out of our mouths, but ask the average Christian to tell what they know about the glory of this God and they are going to live it, that they are going to live for And the answer will not be a lengthy one. This is a huge thing. That's what the road was built for. We exist for the glory of God. God saves people, not because he's a begging savior, so in love with his creation that he cannot bear the rejection by them. I used to think that. I used to even teach that. We don't find that in scripture. God saves people because he deserves glory and he is filling people with those who recognize his value. He is filling eternity with people like that. If you don't like a God like that, you're going to have to pick another religion, because that's the God we have. And He's worthy of it. That's what our God is like. He is glorious. He deserves all glory. And he will be glorified by all those that he chooses. Salvation is never primarily about those who are being saved, but about the one who is saving them and the one who he is saving them to. It is all about the glory of Jesus. Now, if you're dealing with someone who speaks ill of God, if you're dealing with someone who appears to hate God, if you're dealing with someone who makes fun of even the very idea of God that the Bible preaches, Don't get too bent out of shape. Every single one of those people will one day face that very same God. Tells us right here, all flesh shall see it. Together. All flesh shall see it together. This will be a shared experience of all humanity one day. Verse 6, the voice said, Cry out, and he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all its loveliness is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades, because the breath of God blows upon it. Surely the people are crashed. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. Now the prophet is to lay out the real contrast. God is to be glorified. That is true. That is wonderful. That's what gives our lives purpose. What's the other side of this message? What's the other side? There is a truth about humans that needs to be understood. This is truth to us this morning. We human beings are both naturally idolatrous and naturally desiring of other people's worship. We're idol factories and at the same time longing to be the replacement of the idols that we produce. You say, well, yeah, I'm not like that. Look at a photograph. We've used this illustration lots of times before. What do you look for? What's the first thing you look for in a photograph? You look for you. And how do you determine if it's a good photograph? I look good, eh? I I don't know of anyone that's not dreamed for. How do you determine if your family get together is a good one? Isn't the first question that we ask, we're not going to say it, we're not going to write it down, but isn't the first question the question of how was I treated? Or we may give a passing concern about whether Jesus was glorified, but ultimately how we were treated, how we were praised, how our contribution was lifted up, that tends to be our primary concern. That's where we start. Our hearts are so very, very tricky. And they're even trickier when we'll not admit the worship, desire, and tendencies of our own souls. And this isn't okay because it's normal. It's wicked. Wicked. We are grass. We've got to get this. We've got to understand this. This is the point of the prophet. We are not worthy of worship. If there's anything good about us , Guess where it came from? It came from God's work in our lives. It has Jesus' fingerprints all over it. If we spend one moment moping for how our contribution has ducked and praised for all its value, that's a moment wasted. We're a flower that's fading fast. The span is measured in just a few hours That's the point we're supposed to be getting here from what Isaiah says. There is nothing in the flower to be praised. It can be enjoyed, but there's nothing in the flower to be praised. But praise for any beauty in the garden goes to the gardener. We can never get the idea that the focus of human beings around us should be on lost lifting up us, should be losting our glory As soon as we think such a thing, we're sinning. And when we react negatively to the failure of those around us to worship us, we're sinning doubly. We need to call that stuff what it is, and we need to tell the truth to those around us when we see it's happening. This is Isaiah laying out the words of God. This isn't just our opinion. This is what God thinks. What lasts forever? What is worth worship? He says, but the word of our God stands forever. The word of our God stands forever. We really need to get this and we need to incorporate it in our daily lives, in our family, in our church expectations, in our marriages, in everything. We need to tell the truth to each other. Only the word of the Lord stands forever. Only what God has to say is worth orienting to and being concerned about in our social circles. How our name is honored is a worthless concern. How God's word is honored, now that's something else. That's something worth focusing on. Now what do we get micked about? What do we get upset about? What gets us off the tracks? Is it how God's Word is treated? The work that lasts forever? Or is it how we are treated? The ones who fade like Christ? We believers always need to flight this desire we have to be worshipped. Verse 9, O Zion, you who bring good tidings, get up into the high mountain. O Jerusalem, you who bring good tidings, lift up your voice with strength. Lift it up. Be not afraid. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God shall come with a strong hand, and his arms shall rule for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him. He will feed his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom and gently lead those Or with young. This was addressed to Zion, but it's equally applicable to us. This is a call to be bold about the goodness of our God Isaiah is saying, get conspicuous in your glory unto God. Make it loud, make it obvious, make it visible, make it unhidable and unignorable. And say it to the people who say they are gods. When is the last time you had a conversation with a non-believer more than 10 cents? When is the last time you had a conversation with a non-believer about Jesus? Isaiah is telling us that we do not have time to always worry about being appropriate. It's interesting. Again, this was prepared prior to church camp. This is clearly a message the Holy Spirit wants us to hear. I had no idea where Jason was heading in church camp. Isaiah is telling us that we do not have time to always worry about being appropriate. Remember the prostitute in the elderly meeting? You know That uh that Jason talked about. Jesus is worthy of praise Will we praise him? Will we be congruent with what we really think and feel and believe? What are we going to do? Verse 10 and 11 tell us another reason this is so important. God is the only source of ultimate reward. God is the only way people will last forever in any kind of lift. God is this kind of God. Why would we hold that? We have the only good news the world will ever hear. We cannot hold back. But maybe the truth is we really don't believe it. Is this how you respond to God? Is this how we respond to God? If people watched how you responded to day-to-day situations in this last month, would the onlookers say this? Is this how they would evaluate your day-to-day life? They believed that God would richly reward them when he saw them. They trusted that checkbooks and financial security were not the gauge of their security. They trusted that God would feed his flock like a shepherd, so they did not worry about how they would make it. They trusted that their shepherd would carry them when they could not take care of themselves. So they did not worry about what harm God would allow to intrude into their lives. They trusted that God would only require from them what they could handle He would gently lead those who are with young. So they refuse to be anxious about what bad might befall them in this life. Is that what we are living? Is that what we are displaying? Is that what we are showing? Is that what we are thinking? Is that what we are believing? Is that how we are reacting? Is this the trust in God we are living now? Is this one way in which we are making much of our God by our absolute trust in Him in every one of our life situations? You see, this is real spirituality. Being able to sermonize means nothing. Getting a multiple choice test correct about the attributes of God means nothing. What matters is do we believe God? Do we trust God? Will we lay our lives in His control? Does it make our responses different than the world's? Does it make our responses different than they were a year ago? Faith acts. Faith trusts. Faith expects good from God. Faith does not fear. We can make whatever excuses we want, but this is the truth. This is the message Isaiah is putting out. He's telling us about the real God. We can take it or we can leave it. But the message itself demands. That a believer takes it and lives it. Close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you work in our hearts. We thank you that your Holy Spirit has provided us. uh an emphasis to us, obviously because we need the emphasis. Lord help us stop being worrying about our appropriateness And start concerning ourselves more and more with your glory. And that we would represent you well inside of our homes, outside of our homes, in everything that we do, with everyone that we speak to. that people would know there is something different when a person has God work on them That a person doesn't get hit by a back truck and stay the same. And then we cannot be hit by the resurrection power of Jesus Christ and look like we did before. Move in us, break us, change us, make us, do whatever is necessary to glorify yourself in this little body. That we would make much of Jesus Christ, that he would be pleased when we get to see him. Lord, we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.