The painful failure of a king. Last week we drew attention to the wonderful example that Daniel provides to us. While Christ had not yet entered the world through his virgin birth, Daniel was certainly an excellent example of a Christian. Looking forward by faith to what what God was going to do. He was a faithful one of God 's. He was surely saved by faith This morning I hope to finish up chapter 6. The first thing we should look at is the mystery of the identity of King Darius. The name of King Darius never shows up in any historical records, Jeremiah says, yet. Yet there there were uh records of kings Provided for that period of time. If they find you know they found it in stones and all that sort of thing. So as I looked at all the options, there are two that seem most likely why Darius never shows up. The first could be that Darius and Cyrus were the same person. It's a bit of a stretch, but the last verse in the chapter could be translated in a way That means Darius and Cyrus were actually the same person. It it doesn't absolutely contradict that possibility. But I think the second, given all the evidence, I think the second is more likely. It's possible that Cyrus appointed one of his generals, Ugbara, or actually Ugbaru , to be the king of Babylon If so, it would have been a reward to his general for capturing the city, because how he went about it was pretty clever, diverting the river a mile upstream so they could march in underneath the gate or underneath the the wall So we've seen that it was very common for a man back then to have two names. Daniel had names two names, in fact all of the Hebrew children had two names. So it wouldn't be unusual if Ubaru was also called Darius. Don't know why. But think about it. A general would be used to the dynamics in a battlefield. That would be his field of expertise. But he may not have been completely familiar with political wranglings. This might be why he wasn't more suspicious of the political move that Daniel's enemies made He may have been new at this. It might also be why he didn't come up with the second law that superseded the first law that he had put into place. When we read in the book of Esther, we read Ahasaris was tricked into making a law about the Jews. And it would have jeopardized uh the life of Esther as well as the life of all the rest of the Jews. And remember that Ahasiris made a law then that the Jews could defend themselves because he could not rescind his first command that allowed the killing of the Jews. So he he never rescinded the first one. He just created the second one. Well, if if Agbaru was a brand new king, he would be revealing weakness by creating a command to rescue Daniel. Can you see how that would be the case? He could have commanded that maybe all the lions be killed that evening before Daniel is thrown into the lion's death. So he wouldn't have been s he wouldn't have been removing what he said But he would have been undermining it. But if he'd have done that, he'd have lost the respect of the people. So it would make a lot of sense if Darius was a brand new king trying to prove himself that he's not going to do that. He can't. He he knows he can't get away with that. He's he's not got enough power to do that So these are just theories and take them as that. No one really knows. I just think it adds a different color to the story that makes you makes you pity Darius even a little bit more Okay, so we know that the leaders in Babylon were envious of Daniel. Envy. And that that envy drove them to a plan to murder Daniel Are there any areas of your life where you can't be glad for the blessings that a brother or sister receives because you're too busy wishing you had those blessings? So you can't join in them with their joy over something good that has happened, something good that they have received, because you're envious. You want it too badly. Be careful if you can't share another's joys because of envy. Envy can drive you to sins that you would never believe you could commit. In verses 6 through 9, we see the officials having a pre-arranged meeting with King Darius. Darius. What they say is that all of the leaders in the kingdom have agreed on this plan of action. Okay, we've all agreed, King, to do this. That's a flat-out lie. You know there's at least one person they did not consult. If the king had checked it out, he would have found out Daniel for sure never agreed to this blasphemous plan. He was never included in those meetings. Maybe the king should have applied our Bible study principle that all does not always mean all. Now what was the edict that they were pushing for? It's interesting. King Darius, for 30 days we want you to be God. That's essentially what they're saying. King Darius, for 30 days, we want you to act like God. We want you to be our God. I don't know if Darius had ever heard the story of Adam and Eve in the garden. But if he had, he would have known that the devil was behind this evil seduction. Like he was then, he is now. It was the snake who delivered this thought to Eve. God is holding out on you. If you will just do what I say, you will become as God 's. Is that not at the center of most of our problems? We elevate our position higher than we should. We think that we have the right to the forbidden fruit in our lives. We want to be the God calling the shot in our lives. We want the world to gravitate around our wishes, our desires. Does that not affect every human relationship we have? Where peace and joy are possible, we find resentment and conflict. It's because, as James says, we want those things we don't have and we want them to serve our fleshly lusts. That's always driving us. It's always in us. It's always in our flesh. No, King Darius, we want to say, don't do it. Don't do it. No man should ever take the place of God at any time for any reason at all, ever. It's evil. Don't be duped. Did you find yourself thinking that as you read the story? Had the king had greater wisdom, he would have realized that all those people who are suggesting that the king be godlike for 30 days All wish that they could have that privilege privilege for a lifetime. He would have seen through it. It was not sincere. The fleshly human probably cannot even wish that another person serve as their god unless they hope that that mini-god will serve their wishes. We're too fleshly to want another human to have what we what we at our worst want most. The plan is clearly duplicitous, no matter how it gets packaged. Now I don't know how your kids were. Uh I I pity my kids for having been in my family because they're used so often in illustrations. But but ours tended to ha behave worst after birthdays. Did you guys ever find that? When they were made the center of their little worlds, it did not make them as happy as it should have, and they did not want to give up the attention when it was over. Our hearts are like that. All of our hearts are like that. We are at our very best when we are submissively serving our God. Not when we are trying to take his place in our hearts. I was listening to a sermon on this passage, and the preacher made an obvious observation. By the way, there I should have just put spoiler alert in in the Sunday school agenda this morning because we we talked about so many of these things. But why just 30 days? Why just thirty days? Why would any selfish human, when being offered to be God for a month Wouldn't extend that a little bit. Say, well, I I I think I'd like that idea. How about a month? How about how about a year? How about ten years? How about as long as I'm king? Carla early on, yeah, I I I can Pity Carla too for being part of the family. Carla early on in our marriage would kiddly let me know that the real position she was after was not so much being merely my wife. She would actually prefer to be the queen if the position were available. Why would Darius limit his godship to thirty days? Well, even that should be be it should have given him a clue. This whole thing is a little arbitrary and silly. I really ought to look into what's going on here. Why would these guys be doing this? But maybe vanity drove them to say yes. Who wants to reject being God for a day? Maybe naivety caused him to say yes. Wisdom must have been vacation in that week, because wisdom would not have allowed such a thing The next thing we see in the text is that Daniel is going about his business. Why? Because Daniel always went about his business. He marched to a different drummer. The leaders could play the fiddle all they wanted, but to Daniel, he'd never dance. He wouldn't dance to their tune. He didn't care what tune they were playing. He took his orders from heaven. And he'll do quite well, thank you. These leaders probably knew that when they got that law signed by Darius, they had succeeded in their plot. Daniel's obedience was a constant and sure thing. Still they watched his window. You know, that's the, you know, if they had somebody on On watch, on window watch, from that point on. Now, he could have not prayed at the window. We talked about that. But Daniel was not going to change a thing. So he was caught red-handed. Daniel had the audacity to pray to the Most High God, not Darius or Darius, whatever, the man. In verses 12 through 19, we see this play out. These politicians have outplayed the rise. They won this round. They skillfully manipulated Darius to do their bidding. And they look like little kids tattling on another little kid in this story. It was at this point that the king instantly understood that he had allowed himself to be duped. He had allowed something to replace reason and wisdom. The traits that a king is expected to and should have. What we see is the difference between a compliment and flattery The difference between a compliment and flattery. A compliment is a sincere statement of truth about a virtue that someone holds. It's generally given for a constructive purpose and often an encouraging purpose. Flattery is given to manipulate, to make a person more pliable to the issuer's intentions. The thing that makes it tricky is that a compliment and flattery can actually be about the same thing. It can be the same statement, it can be the same words, but the motives behind them are radically different. King Darius is paying a huge amount for his education at this point, but now he knows for sure he was played. What I really like about this story is how Darius responds to his failure. I love this. It's a good example for a ruler to follow. First, he recognized his failure. The NKJV says that Darius was greatly displeased with himself. Darius was displeased. with himself. Now he could have blamed those who duped him. They certainly did dupe him. They had, after it all, tricked him. He could have thought they caused me to fail. They made me fail. But any leader worth his salt takes full responsibility for all of his failures. Darius knew that the quality of his leadership did not lie in the performance of those he was leading. The quality of his leadership was dependent upon the performance of the leader. Hemingway made a statement that if a man's any good at all, everything is his fault. While that's overstated, there's a lot of truth to that. One of the first reactions by a good leader to failure in the area he's responsible for is to take full responsibility for the failure of his leadership. Then he must ask, how could I have done better? How could I have done better? Until we identify our Failures and own them as our failures without blaming others, we cannot learn from our failures. We will never gain the maximum lesson that we can learn. We cannot improve. Blame is the attitude that makes all our failures someone else's fault. We think to free ourselves from our responsibility by blaming others King Darius did not do that. He was angry with himself for his failure in his leadership Now we find out he wasn't only angry at himself. We're going to see that a little bit later. And his anger was very effective. But anyway, then the next thing he did was try to find a way to fix the situation he created by his failure He owned the failure. He owned the consequences of his failure, and he applied himself constructively to fix his failure. It says he labored He worked. He poured himself into constructive behavior after admitting that his decisions caused the problem. Blame diverts us from fixing stuff. Blame diverts us from labor. After all, if it's someone else's fault, there's nothing we're responsible to do about it. It falls on to someone else to do something about it. Admission of our own failure, our part of the failure, the part of the failure that played in our situation. Frees us to apply ourselves to do the one thing we can do. Do the work as much as we can to fix it. Sometimes we can, sometimes we can't. I have a question to those of us who are husbands. How easy it is it To blame our wives for the problems in our relationships How easy is it for us to blame our wives for the problems in our relationships? And how easy is it to allow that blame to divert our attention from the things that are in our power to change? I understand that our wives are every bit as flawed as we are. So it's not like they they get a a free ride. They can do whatever they want, nothing's their flaw. I'm not trying to say that. Now granted, they are often flawed in ways that we have great trouble understanding. I think that that's probably universal, maybe not. And they are certainly part of the problem in our relationship, because, well, they're in the relationship. But my point is this, we're the leaders. God has placed us in responsibility over our families. We are the leaders. As such, we cannot just accept a failure in our relationships by blaming it on the other party. It's rare that there is not something different we could try. Maybe we can change a response in us that breaks a pattern. If one way of relating does not turn the corner in a relationship, maybe we should try something we have not yet tried. I'm not trying to say that good leadership will fix everything. Christ is a perfect leader, and his church can still be pretty screwed up. So it's not a formula. But what I am saying is that Christ appointed us as leaders in our families so that we will, well, lead And when we focus primarily on blame, it wrongly relieves us of our responsibility to be proactive in the solutions to the problems. We need to follow Darius's example of laboring over the problems that fall in our realms. This is also true of parents with children Elders with the care of the flock. Employers with employees. Anywhere where there's leadership. The principle of blame also goes both ways. Wives, do you blame your husbands for their responses to you? Try this. Chart the things you say right before you get the negative responses. Just make a chart of them, write them down, and then think about them. Is there anything you could change? Fixing things is often that simple. When we take full responsibility for what we do, we can often fix the things that are affecting other people. If you want to blame your husband, you can, but he may not be able to fix something that is really your problem So Darius took the responsibility for his failure of leadership, and then he tried to do what he could to fix it. We should take a quick look at verse 13 before we move on. Then they answered instead before the king, Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays no attention to you, O king, or the injunction you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day. Look again how the enemies, remember how Belshazzar addressed Daniel? Well, this is very similar. Look how the enemies of Daniel present Daniel to Darius. Now keep in mind, it was probably close to 70 years ago that Daniel was brought from Judah. He's been a Babylonian way more than he was ever a Judean. While what they say was substantially true, it was hardly the most significant fact about Daniel. They may have wanted to mention that this Daniel has faithfully served for 70 years through each regime change. He's been the senior administrator for most of those years. He's been a close counselor of kings, and he comes up with the answers that nobody else can come up with. Yeah, they could have mentioned that We should never count on our enemies to be objective in their reporting of us. They're biased, and their bias is going to come out. Then they outright lie. They say he pays no attention to you. This is the second time in the book that a claim like this is made. Remember the fiery furnace story? In 3 verse 8, the enemies of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego reported, They have not paid due regard to you. That's what they told the king. In reality, they did pay proper regard to the king. It was everyone else that paid undue regard. These statements were designed to get a rise out of the king I think verse 15 was really the final straw for these leaders. They overplayed their hand. They essentially strong armed, strong armed a king. They made it clear that now the king was obligated by their trickery to throw Daniel into the lion's den. And they were right. So that's what he did. But we clearly see that this king was more loyal to Daniel than he was to the enemies. Verse 16: Then the king commanded, and Daniel was brought and cast into the den of blinds. And the king declared that Daniel, May your God, whom you serve, continually deliver you. Now think about this. What would an arrogant person in Darius' shoes do at this point? Wouldn't he try to cover his mistake Wouldn't they focus on blaming the problem on somebody else? You can know something about a person who will never confess Or admit failure. You can know something about a person who will never confess or admit failure. Truth is not what they love, something else is Darius knew he screwed up. He did not want Daniel to be a victim of his foolishness. So he is essentially saying here: you do not deserve this penalty that I've been tricked in placing on you. I hope that your God will do what I cannot do. It's also interesting that the king understands Daniel's devotion to his God. Now that seems to be something that everybody knows about Daniel So a stone was placed and a king's seal was placed on it. Presumably, anyone who tampered with the seal would end up being lying food as well. And then verse 18: Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting. No diversions were brought to him, and sleep fled from him. Then at break of day the king arose and went in haste to the Den of Lions. How many things are there that can keep you sleepless for a whole night? How many things are there that keep you sleepless? Like in your history, what do you remember? What do you remember ever being sleepless about all night? Because you're worried about something or it's that serious to you. Certainly we've all experienced some of those things, but I'd venture to guess it's rare. I have lots of things I'll wake up and think about in the middle of the night and can't get back to sleep. But I rarely have a night that I go completely sleepless because of a single issue. It takes something very extreme to rob us of a full night's sleep. That may not be true for everyone. That's true for me. That was how important Daniel's welfare was to the king. That's my point. That is how important it was. I don't think that it's hard to imagine that Darius's guilt would have been a huge part of the problem. The king knew that Daniel was in his spot due to the king's failure. How would you like knowing that someone was going to die because of a mistake you made? I used to mention from time to time our telephony team at work that the worst case, our failures were probably keeping wealthy people from getting wealthier. One can learn to live with that. If the phones didn't work properly, nobody's life was on the line. I would also say no matter what we do, they can't eat us Turns out neither of these things was true in our story this morning. Daniel's life was on the line and they could eat it. Now, Darius was distraught at the potential consequences of his failure for the situation that Daniel was in. I think this reveals a lot about Darius and about his relationship with Daniel I think Daniel was growing on Darius. I suspect he liked Daniel and respected Daniel far more than was true of the rest of the political riff-raff that he had to deal with daily. So the king had a sleepless night worrying about Daniel. And then as soon as he could do so, the king went to check on Daniel. It turned out that the king had a sleepless night worrying about the state of Daniel, while Daniel probably had a restful night in the lion's den. This may well be the difference between those who have faith in God, whose faith in God, and those who have no faith in the one true God. The world will spend much time fretting about the dangers that could be, while believers can live without worry for the danger that is present in their lives. The world will spend much time fretting about the dangers that could be, while believers can live without worry for the danger that is present in their lives. Last week we looked at Daniel's response to the king. Can you imagine the relief that flooded the king's soul when he heard Daniel respond? His mistake bore none of the disastrous consequences that it could have. Do you know that feeling? When you made a mistake and you were afraid of what it was going to cost, I mean I I've done that a lot of times in relationships. Um You you've made a big mistake, but nothing really bad came of it. That's what we have here. It wouldn't surprise me when we talk to Daniel about this, that he'll tell us that while he was in the lion's den He was just pitying poor King Darius and what he had to go through that evening. If only they had cell phones. Now, we move on to the consequence of the of Daniel's enemies. Looks like there was going to be a restructuring at the Babylonian Enterprises. Most of the leadership suddenly came up missing. We can learn from this that wisdom lives life more like chess than checkers. In chess, you think several moves ahead. In checkers, not so much. What did these guys really think they would gain from the king once they had Daniel killed? How stupid could you be? Did they think the king would say, wow, I really admire you guys for manipulating me into a spot where I was forced to kill a man whose head and shoulders above all you guys. Man, that is such a good thing that you did. I can't wait to reward that I would just love to have one of you be my second in command now, so I can completely trust you with everything that we're going to do in the future. Yeah, I really needed a sleepless night worried sick about a friend that you arranged to kill through me. That's so endearing to me The hatred for Daniel and the enemies of Daniel made them very, very short-sighted. There is nothing to say that even if Daniel had died in the lion's den, that his enemies would not have followed him. Do you really want to power play this king on a Tuesday when you know there's going to be a Wednesday? Not their brightest strategy. Of course, envy often causes us to do stuff like that and evil and selfishness. If you're gonna play those power plays, you'd better be good at it. And these guys clearly were not. So Daniel's enemies and their families were fed to the lions. There'd be no lineage left of those families who so deeply violated the king's trust. And notice too, the lions were hungry the whole time. But angels can easily protect God's people from the ravenous appetite of the harshest predators, wild animals or humans. Then look what the king said as a result. Verse 25, then King Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth. Peace be multiplied to you. I make a decree that in all my royal dominion people are to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel. For he is the living God, enduring forever. His kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall be to the end. He delivers and rescues. He works powers, he works signs and wonders in heaven and earth. He who has saved Daniel from the power of the lions , so this Daniel prospered during the reign of King Daraus and the reign of Cyrus Persian. Here again, God turns a pagan king into an evangelist. Here again, God does what God wants, when God wants, with whom he wants to do it. We never need to think that our God needs our help. We keep coming back to that because it's that important. It is more accurate to think that he chooses to win our company. He never lacks the ability to accomplish all of his plan without our help. But fortunately, it's like God to include us in the execution of his plan. Now it's true that this decree greatly honors God, and so it should. But look at the way this is worded. Again, a pagan king gives the Jewish religion a protected status. God 's people were protected in their freedom of religion here. Think about how good this would have been for God's people. This king is endorsing the Jewish God as the living God, enduring forever. His kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall never be come to an end. Well, Darius is not stating that this God is the only God. I think Nebuchadnezzar came closer to that. He does make God out to be the one in ultimate control. Maybe Darius read up on Nebuchadnezzar's story and knew about the kingdom that would replace all the other kingdoms in the end. I certainly would read up if I'd been through this ordeal. But the next thing he says he knew from personal experience He delivers and rescues. He works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth. He who has saved Daniel from the power of the lions This pagan king is declaring something that we so often as Christians lose sight of. Our God delivers and rescues. That's what our God is like. Temporarily, that does not always work out the way we might like it to. But permanently, it is always true There is no believer that he will not ultimately deliver and rescue. We will be a sign and wonder before both heaven and earth's inhabitants when that happens And it's the same God who sent his angels to keep one old man in a lion's den as safe as he would have been at home in his own bed. The king is telling everyone that this God should and can be trusted and worshipped, because at the end of the day this God delivers. There are many applications we could make from this story, but I think one of the most helpful might be to examine how we look at and handle and own our own failures. How much do we allow blame of others to distract us from the things that we can and should change in our own lives? How much does blame divert focus from what we need to do to improve our situations? How blatantly honest do we allow ourselves to be when we look at our situations? Seeking out our points of failure that ultimately lead to the situations which we're so clo quick to blame others about. Maybe what we should simply do is ask those closest to us Where do I fail in ways that I do not see or acknowledge? Ask those closest to us that question. That's a brave question now. Where do I fail in ways that I do not see or acknowledge? Let's close in prayer. Lord God, we thank you for this wonderful story, these wonderful examples.