All right, we'll get back to the context here a little bit about the text that we're in. In chapters 1 through 39 in Isaiah, Isaiah confronts his own generation with how they had repeatedly failed God. They acted as if they did not care if God existed or not. They were going to do what they wanted to do. And Isaiah warned that they would be hauled off to Babylon for judgment. Then in chapters 40 through 55, Isaiah begins speaking to a generation that did not yet exist God promises salvation for his people. So he calls people to prepare for the good things that God was going to do for them. And in the midst of all these prophecies, there are prophecies that span to the coming of Christ and to the second coming of Christ. Everything that matters hangs on Christ's coming first to take upon himself the penalty for our sins and his second coming to take us to be with him. In his kingdom forever. Now, in Isaiah 56 through 66, the prophet shows us how to get with the program. He'll show us how to prepare and cooperate with what God is doing. He also warns about what happens if we resist it. Our outline this morning is borrowed from Mr. Ortland. Point A is that God's people, as they should be and will be , Is found in 56, 1 through 8. That's God's people as they should be and will be. 56, 1 through 8. Point B is God's people as they shouldn't be, but are. 569 through 5721. It seems like What we uh we shouldn't be but R gets most of the press this morning. And then uh self-seekers our self-seeking leaders is in fifty-six nine through twelve. So that's kind of like a subset of the above. We start with the first part of verse 1. Thus says the Lord, Keep justice and do righteousness. Thus says the Lord, see justice and do righteousness. How do the words justice and righteousness strike you? Just when you hear those words, justice and righteousness. Keep justice and do righteousness. I don't know how you experience it, but when I read them I cringe. I cringe because I know in one sense these words are my enemies. Suppose God were to have carried out his justice upon me before I knew Christ, I would have been cast into hell. And I would have deserved every second of it. I don't want justice from God. You know, that's that's my first thought. I don't want justice from God. I want grace from God. And the same thing is true of righteousness. I do not want to be held to an absolute standard of righteousness. I'm a failure. I failed yesterday, I'll fail today, and I'll fail tomorrow. No, I can't do it. And I certainly can't be it. So those words scare me. They discourage me. I cannot live up to those words. But we need to read the rest of the verse. It says, For my salvation is about to come and my righteousness will be revealed. Here's the secret to loving justice and righteousness without feeling masochistic or hypocritical. We have got to look to the salvation of God. We need to understand the salvation of God and bask in it. What do we know about the salvation that God provided? God carried out the just penalty. There's justice. He carried out the just penalty for our sin on Christ. Justice was fully served, and Christ was punished. Christ was perfect righteousness. And now we have been imputed that same righteousness. That isn't something that that you you gather up. It's something that was counted for you at one at one point. Our position before God has been changed to where now we are justified. Now we stand justly before God with no guilty charge to damn us. And we stand righteous before Christ as if he made a righteous robe that only fits Him, even to all of us to wear. Now, why does that matter? Well, it frees us to love what God loves. And it frees us to change our behavior to be more fitting with our new identity. Now we are free to act differently because we are different. We're a different person, a new creature in Christ We can act righteously toward God and toward each other because we have been granted a righteous standing We can now do the right thing for the right reason, not to earn something from God, but to express something to God for what He has already given us. Christ's righteousness is imputed to us through justification. But in justification, we begin to act righteous. In justification, we get his righteousness. In sanctification, we begin to act like what we are. That's the effect that regeneration has on a person. When we have the resurrection power of Jesus Christ in us, it cannot help but change us. And justice is a good thing. It's a wonderful thing. You'll never find the Bible say anything bad about justice. God is just. It's part of his makeup. It's part of who he is. It's one of his attributes. The word judgment here means a legal decision, a claim. It refers often to a legal decision given by God to be followed through by the by the people. I'm sorry, the word justice here means the legal decision, the claim. When we see the strong take advantage of the weak. We instinctively want justice for the weak. We've all you know we're little kids, we we saw that and we would instinctively uh move on the the strong taking advantage of the weak and that's a good thing. When we see the rich take advantage of the poor We want the same thing. That reflects to some degree an attribute of God. So you can see the goodness in it. So it's very good for us to want to treat people justly and righteously. And we should want to treat them right. That's essentially what this is saying. And we should want to treat our God rightly too. We should have righteousness in the way we we respond to God. And when we see a person who is justly under the damning penalty of God for their sin, we should also want for them what Christ wanted for us. We should want the penalty to be paid for that person by what Christ has already done. So to want grace for someone who is. Someone who does not have a relationship with Christ is not to despise justice, it's to love Christ. Now, how do we get from where we are to where we keep justice and do righteousness? Well, like all the things the scripture commands of us, we need a word from God. And that's what our passage is describing here this morning. And when we watch what happens when God goes about it, we'll scratch our heads and wonder. His ways truly are not our ways. They really aren't. Verse 2. Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who lays hold on it, who keeps from defiling the Sabbath, and keeps his hand from doing evil. So, blessed is the man who keeps justice and does righteousness. In good favor with God is the person who does those things, is what is telling us. And the Son of Man who lays hold on it. The word for lays hold on it emphasizes the strength which something is grasped I once decided to climb a rock wall that may have been about 40 feet high without ropes. But it was a shale rock wall. It was decidedly stupid. But I was bulletproof when I was 20, like so many of the guys are here. We can remember that. And there was one thing I had not considered. The top of the cliff was on a on a was just dirt on a steep hill. So I get to the top of the rock and it's dirt. I realized the danger I was in when I reached the top. Now one would think it would have been better to think about that before that point, but I had nothing to grab hold of to pull myself over the edge. Eventually I found a root. Now, I could easily use the word in our text for what I did. I lay hold on it. At that point, it was not about to slip out of my grasp. Now, look at yourself. Do you really want to grasp on to living righteously before God? Do you want to grasp on to doing everything you are sure he wants you to do and doing nothing that you are sure that he does not want you to do? Do you really want your life limited to no reactions but the one God of truth? Do you want to grasp onto that and not let go of it? Is that what you want to grasp? Do you want no alternatives open but the ones that please God? Do you want to grab onto that like your life depends upon it? Because that's what this is talking about. I know one thing for myself. Saying that I want to do it and really wanting to do it from the bottom of my heart are very two very different things. I love the idea of it. I love the theory of it. I love the quest of it. But the reality of it, well, that's not so alluring. To live like that requires that I die to flesh daily. It means telling my intuitions and perceptions and fleshly cravings and psychological reactions And every other old nature thing about me to pack stand. That does not come easy. Galatians 5, 16 through 26. I say then, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. That's what this is talking about. That's what this laying hold of is talking about. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary to one another, so that you don't do the things that you wish. So our experiences in something new. This is what's being described here. It is not easy to do this. But if you're led by the Spirit, you're not under the law Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies. Outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like. So he's basically saying I'm touching on something, hoping that I I you know I put something in front of you that's really what you struggle with, but there's more, so if I missed it, you know, you can fill in that brain for yourself Of which I tell you beforehand, just because I also told you in time passing, those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. This is a huge data. Those who continually habitually practice this thing are not going to be part of the kingdom. So it's serious business for us But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such there is no law. And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. You know, that is describing the normal Christian life If we live in the Spirit, it says, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another and envying one another. This is a hard package to grasp. This is a hard package to want to lay hold of, like the root. It's hard to want to, and it's hard to do. The flesh lusts against the spirit. This is not some tame stuff. If your Christian life is easy, you probably aren't doing it right. How hard your struggle is is not an indicator of how spiritual you are. We might think that if we were really spiritual, the struggle to do right would be easy for us. Scripture doesn't say that anywhere. It's not true. If you follow the Spirit, no matter how hard it is, that's an indication of your spiritual success. If you do what Christ says to do, that's the indication of your spiritual success if you're trusting Him and loving Him and are glad to be part of that process. Our problem is not usually in figuring out what we are doing that's wrong. Our problem is stopping. Our problem is saying yes to God when we feel like we're being robbed of something that's important to us. That's exactly the dilemma that he had. It's difficult to say no to the deceiving spirits and the doctrines of demons, like we learned about in 1 Timothy. The snake is still smooth talking. Our problem is that in our heart of hearts, we really do not trust God with the outcome that we desire. We prefer our own. Like I said before, what we need is more compliance to the Holy Spirit's work in us. We need a movement of God. We need God to work in us what we only partly want now. I've heard it said that the best we can do is we want to want to, and then we call on God to finish the rest. Sometimes He does this by taking us to the very end of our world. By displaying to ourselves and everyone who knows us that our way doesn't work. Our ways are not as good as God's ways It doesn't result in good truth. He sometimes makes us desperate to change because our failures are so dramatic and painful. But God will do whatever is necessary to revive our hearts. So let's keep continuing to pray that God does whatever is needed to conform us to his will. That's a good prayer. That is in the Lord's will, and you will be surprised sometimes at the way he answers that. It's not always the way we wanted at first. It's a dangerous prayer. But it's a prayer God takes seriously. Now let's look at the second part of verse 2. Who keeps from defiling the Sabbath and keeps his hand from doing any evil It looks to me like the second half of the verse defines what is meant by the first half of the verse. Blessed is the man who keeps from defiling the Sabbath, which ultimately means that they do no evil. Notice that the goal is not that a person does no activity. The real Sabbath we need is the changed life that refuses to do anything evil. We learn about that rest in Hebrews and even preciousness. We're all ready to be busy about things. We're to be busy about justice and righteousness. These things ought to be done on the Sabbath. But no either. Now let me ask you, when is the last time you confessed to doing something evil? When is the last time you confess to doing something evil? Have you ever used that word evil to describe what you did? We talk about ourselves and we use words like stupid, foolish, disobedient, maybe even rebellious, if we're really getting down there. But we rarely use the word evil But if it's not just or righteous, it is evil Even now, when we confess our sins to one another, do we ever use the word evil? Do we even think of it of what we did as evil? Maybe that's where our repentance really starts. We should start calling stuff what God calls stuff. If we called it evil, maybe we'd be begin to treat it as evil. Now, let's take a quick look at the Sabbath. First, it was a weekly celebration of God's perfect creation in the beginning. We see that in Genesis 2, 1 through 3. And then it was a taste of what life would be like when creation would be renewed at the end of time. We see that in Isaiah 66, 22 through 23. Which said this. Now we're just talking about the Sabbath. For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, says the Lord, so shall your descendants and your name remain. And it shall come to pass that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, all flesh shall come to worship before me, says the Lord. The Sabbath was intended to be practiced for eternity. It was saying, my life is no longer business as usual. My life is for God. He has taken care of me. I am living in rest and under his command. I'm living this way now in my anticipation of what is to come. So I carry out the technicalities of it now in anticipation of the reality of it later. It was held with strict requirements, but the essence of it was far more encompassing than living by a set of rules and not picking up any sticks. It was resting upon the sufficiency of God, depending upon him for our provision and living our life for him. That's what the Sabbath in essence was it's about. Now when these people heard it, they probably thought Sabbath days, keep it strict, you know, by the rules. But that when we look when we take it into the New Testament, we see it means more than that. We see that insight in Hebrews 4, 1 through 11, where it says, Therefore, since a promise remains of entering his rest, it's out. A promise remains of entering his rest. Let us fear lest any of you seem to have come short of entering that rest, of being in that state. For indeed the gospel was preached to us well as to them, but the word which they heard didn't profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard it. For we who have believed do enter that rest, as he said, So I swore in my wrath, and thou shalt not enter my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. For he has spoken in a certain place of the seventh day in this way, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works Then skipping down to verse 9, there remains therefore a rest for the people of God. For he who has entered his rest has himself also ceased from his works as God did from his. Let us therefore be diligent to enter that rest, lest anyone fall according to the same example of disobedience So we can see from this that the Sabbath was bigger than just keeping the rules one day of the week. It was represented a bigger rest. To enter into. And that it could be actually entered into. You know, the Sabbath was something you did over and over again. This is talking about a state that you enter into It was a state of being we were either in or not, not a weekly occurrence. So the essence of the Sabbath was a state of dependence upon God and obedience to God. And it's through Christ that we enter this rest, this Sabbath. So the people reading our text would have taken our text very literally, but for us to live in Christ would be the ultimate fulfillment of keeping the Sabbath and not refiling it. Living the Christian life the way that God has described it is keeping the Sabbath in its greatest essence. Now on with our Isaiah text, verse 3. Don't let the son of a foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord speak, saying It's interesting. This is counseling 101 to the person who came in from outside. The Lord has utterly separated from me from his people. That's his thought. That's the thought that this person is thinking. Don't let him Nor let the eunuchs say, Here I am a dry tree. For thus saith the Lord to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbath and choose what pleases me, and hold fast my covenant. Even to them I will give in my house and within my walls a place and a name better than that of sons and daughters. I'll give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Have you ever been part of a group that you felt completely out of place with? Have you ever felt Completely out of place in a group this year. I I'm right now surrounded by some tech guys. And I mean they know their stuff. And I feel like I don't even know what the sentences mean. So I know a little bit about that right now, but have you ever felt like you were a second class citizen somewhere because you didn't have the qualifications that others have? I know that some of you have come to Christ from unchurched backgrounds. Maybe at first you felt very uncomfortable. Well, rest assured, God wants you included. Look at the emphasis here. Look at the efforts of inclusion in this verse and these verses. It's really dramatic. Look at the heart for the outsider that's included in this passage. Here we have the foreigners in verse 3. Here are people far from God and very unlikely candidates for the kingdom of heaven. And if we look at Romans, here we are, as Gentiles, outsiders of the chosen people of God too. We're in that group. And what does it say? Does it say, make it hard on these people to test to see how sincere they are? See if they live up to the proud heritage of being a Jew first. There's nothing like it. This is really beautiful. Don't let the foreigner that is sincere in his devotion to me say, God has cut me out of being a real member of his family. Again, this is this is counseling. Here's the person, here's what they think. They think something wrong, don't let it stand. Do something about it. Don't let him say or think that he is excluded because of his bloodline or his history. Even the sins he committed don't don't disqualify him. Isn't that a wonderful thing? We're given a command here by extension. Don't let sinners who come to Christ think in any way that they are second-class citizens in the kingdom of heaven when they come in. Isn't that wonderful? God too believes in inclusion. You know, our world talks about inclusion all the time, and they have no idea what they're talking about. God believes in inclusion. But the terms of inclusion are faith in Jesus Christ for salvation that results in repentance and a changed life. Then there's the eunuch. Okay, we have the foreigner. Now there's the unit. Now a unit, a unit is someone who has parts removed that will not allow him to reproduce. Look at the love held out to these human beings. In the Jewish culture, bloodline, the family tree, was of great importance. If you didn't have kids, you had a lower status right off the bat. And you're often seen as being cursed by God when that happens. Now, add to this that a person with this particular condition was not even allowed in the Jewish place of worship or in the temple or in the Gentile courts. They were considered unfit They weren't allowed to get close to God. Well, God has something to say to the undesirables. He has something to say to these misfits, to these outsiders, to these lower castes. He says, hey, if you're truly one of mine, and that'll be known by what you do, if you have the Christian disease that makes you want to obey God no matter what, If you have held fast to a relationship with God and all that it entails, if you keep the Sabbath as intended to be kept, if you're finding out and doing those things that are pleasing to God If you're absorbed with living for Christ, if you are a true believer, and that's what all this stuff is describing, then this is what God plans to them. Even to them I will give in my house and within my walls a place and a name better than of sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Look at this. God is saying to those who are technically unable due to the law to even enter his courts. That he will personally give them not just entrance, but a home in his home. He's talking about a favorable status. In fact, it's even more favorable than the natural sons. It's even more favorable than the ones might suit who might seem to qualify. It's more favorable than the good people. He'll get a name and a reputation better than those who seem to be the status holders, the ones who seem to fit in naturally, those who are established in the institution. This is like saying to a new member to the church that they're going to get blessings from God greater than the elders who have served for 50 years. That's that's essentially what it looks like. Look at this. This adopted son with obvious deficiencies, according to what the world expects, is going to the head of the class. These eunuchs that everyone would look down on, God is going to single out for honor. They're going to be the Joseph that was elevated over all the Egyptians. And these people are going to have a continuing heritage. They'll have a name that will not end in their death. You see, that was the very downside of being a unit. It guarantees that the family line would end, the name would be extinguished at that point. But God guarantees here that the name will continue because its blessings are better than what we can imagine. They're always better than we think of it. They're higher than our ways. That you just can't avoid that. The heritage will be lasting Then verse 6. Also the sons of the foreigner who join themselves to the Lord to serve him and to love the name of the Lord, to be his servants. Everyone who keeps from defiling the Sabbath and holds fast my covenant. You know what that is? That's a description of every true believer. This is not a description of an exceptional Follower. This is by nature what the Holy Spirit makes a person into if he regenerates a person. We are all sons of foreigners. We're all Gentiles here. Excuse me, as far as I know. If we're believers, we have responded to God's call in our lives and have been joined to the Lord to serve Him. Now we can't think that we can be joined to the Lord with some kind of different outcome than what's being described here. Oh, it can happen for a while. You know, we may not understand that we're required to do what God says for a while. We may only abor avoid We may only obey the parts of his rule that we like. For a while. But eventually God will bring it to a head where we see that we must obey Christ and we must serve Him the way He describes it. And in that, we will grow in our appreciation of His grace and His rule, His name. We'll come to love everything that Christ represents. It's a process. It takes time. As such, we come as servants. Christ calls us all to servant leadership. We looked at that a few weeks ago. This is describing true Christianity. This is describing the life in Christ. This is a true believer no matter what our past, no matter what our culture, no matter what our status, no matter what our background. This is a New Testament believer. And what will God do for these unlikely candidates of His grace? Verse 7. Even them I will bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my house shall be called the house of prayer for all nations. The Lord God, who gathers the outcast of Israel, says, Yet I will gather to him others besides those who are gathered to him. What we see is inclusion and blessing and relationship. There's no second class status anywhere to be found here. The emphasis in verse 7 is all nations. Sometimes it's easy to get some idea that we're in a church and we're surrounded by the mean-bad world, and this place is a sanctuary. And there's some truth in that, and it's a wonderful thing. But God's heart goes far beyond that perimeter. His church must be an outreach center as well. If it's to represent him in what God wants. Because God wants to include people. That's what we're seeing here. And he wants to include the least likely of people. God has people he wants to include in his family, and it's our job to recruit, to advertise, to proclaim the good news, that they are invited to be in a relationship with Jesus Christ. That's what we represent. We're to be proclaiming that good news in an effort to have people who want to be discipled in Christ. And look what he wants to do to them. He wants to make them joyful in my house of prayer. Joyful in my house of prayer. He wants them to rejoice in their new status. He wants to set them free from all the luggage and garbage that they're bringing. From all the wrong ways of thinking that they've thought. So all the end products of bad thinking that they have absorbed. He wants them to be able to be rejoicing. In their new status, in their new relationship, in their new significance in his kingdom. Are we Are we joyful in our relationship with Christ? Do we feel down deep sincerely blessed to simply have a seat at his table? If we aren't, it's no surprise that we don't have a great following into the temple's door. God wants a mass of people who fellowship together in praise of Jesus. He wants thanksgiving and rejoicing to be commonplace and always appropriate. Is that what we want? Is that what we want to grab hold of? Do we share God's heart in this regard? I hope this morning that we're impressed with God's desire for inclusion in His family. He wants those who are not like us to surround us in our worship of Him. It glorifies God to display his mercy towards all kinds of people, especially the most unlikely. And we should know all about that. We're one of them. Closing prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for calling us into relationship with you. For that You've done all the heavy lifting and we can come in and enjoy the benefits. And in that, Lord, we see the struggle. We don't want to give up our stuff. We don't want to give up our lives in the ways that we feel we must respond. And those the things that we feel we must have to have life worthwhile. But your ways are above our ways, and more we see it and It must seem so incredibly stupid to you how we evil to you, how we cling to that which is worthless. And won't receive from you the the bread and wine that we talked about. God changes us. Do what it takes to conform us to your image. And we invite from you whatever that takes. And we love that to be