The first thing I said to myself when I approached this passage this morning is Oh boy. I say that because this is another passage about the end times that may have several explanations. And we'll try to focus on that which is clear and just make mention of that which is not. We'll get the most mileage out of it that way. Now set the stage for what God has to say this morning. We have to back up to see what God has just said through the prophet Isaiah He was talking about how the enemies of God would be destroyed back in the end of chapter 10, verses 33 and 34. And he said, Behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, will lop off the bow with terror. Those of high stature will be hewn down, and the haughty will be humbled. He will cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon will fall by the mighty one. God is taking the best that humans can do against him in all their pride and arrogance and self assurance and human reckoning. And he swings the axe and it's leveled. That is the stage. God has torn down the Tower of Babel. He has destroyed all those who thought they by defeating God's people. had defeated the God of those people. No, God silences them. There's comfort in this truth While it's good for us to become indignant when our God is mocked by his creations, and while it's good for us to stand brazenly against their attacks on his character, It is also important for us to know that they have zero effect on God. All of their words are just background noise in God's plans. They are simply revealing who they are. And one day God will take his turn and reveal to them who he is. And there will be no grand battle. There will be no extended quests against God There will be devastation as the wrath of God removes all of his enemies. Now, have you ever seen a tree fight back against an axe? Does it take its branches and swing at the one who's wielding the axe? Oh, branches might fall, but the tree is powerless against the axe That's how the world is against the wrath of God. Some may boast and taunt and ridicule, but all of that is just a pitiful display of powerlessness when the acts Begins to swing when the axe of God begins to swing. The Bill Mayers and the Stephen Hawkings will be looking for a place to hide when they encounter the reality of God if they have not repented before them. Keep that in mind when people like that speak. It won't go on for much longer. So God has hewn down his enemies, then what? Out of that devastation comes a wonderful development. Verse 1 in our text. There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of its roots. Isaiah paints the picture of a stump that was left after desolation. And we've we've all seen ground that has been cleared of all of its trees, and all you've got are the stumps. And there is There it sits, you know. There is no hope for it evident. And what happens in this image, a new branch begins to grow out of the stump Now look at the imagery. This is talking about a royal line. But look closely. Why does it start with Jesse, who was never even a king? It doesn't start with David. It starts with Jesse. It doesn't start with Saul. It starts with Jesse. And it appears to end in a dead stone. What we see here is the futility of human potential. There is no kingly line with all its glory and pomp. There's no dignified progression of righteous leadership pointed out. No, it starts with human potential and it ends up in a in a hewn stump sticking out of the dirt. There is nothing for it to commend itself. That is the exact situation when Christ appeared. The Jewish race had been without its own king for about 600 years. What virtues that line may have seemed to have had over time had not been visible for hundreds of years. And I think that was on purpose. No one should make the mistake of thinking that the beauty was in that human bloodline, as if it was something human that was being passed on. That bloodline ended up as a stump. Ahaz was what it produced. But then life appeared mysteriously, miraculously. Now we're going to be looking at one of those prophecies that doesn't differentiate between Christ's first and second coming. It doesn't tell us when and how these things will happen. It mostly focuses on the who it will happen to. We're not going to concern ourselves much with how this all fits into the last days charts. But we will glean out of it lots of application and fuel for our minds and our lives. Now the branch is clearly talking about Christ. There was no human king of David's bloodline that ever matched the description that Isaiah gives here. Only Christ ever did and ever will fulfill this description given by Isaiah And the description of a rod or branch is basically the wording means it's a weak and tender product. It's an unlikely origin. It's certainly not like the tree itself where you would look at it and you would think of it as the tower of stability and all that sort of thing. It's not what one would expect great power to come from. It's a twig. You know, it's a little tiny branch. And again, with the birth of Christ, this was all very clear to see. He was that unlikely king of kings born in poverty conditions with shepherds and angels being the first heralds. So Christ fit the bill here for what was being prophesied. Verse 2: the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might. the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. Oh, what a king. I'm in the process of getting a new boss. And it may take a while, but that's what is destined to happen. Now, getting a new boss is a little scary. I don't know if he'll be wise and understanding. I don't know if he'll be knowledgeable. And I sure don't know if he'll fear the Lord. And even if all those things are true, he or she will have limits. So I need to learn the parameters in which I would trust this person. You know, I've got to kind of wade through that water a little carefully But this was also true of all the Israelite kings up to this point. They were simply human beings with human limitations That was the surrounding. But Jesus is a king that can be absolutely trusted and submitted to due to all of his virtues, the virtues of perfection. There is never any good reason to say no to anything he tells us to do. There is never any reason to hold back and think, boy, I better think through this because they might be making a mistake. We don't have to. There's no reason not to fully trust everything the King Jesus says. He is displaying the attributes and the resources of God when he speaks and when he acts. So, the question comes down to if Christ is the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord, why do we do it? Why do we think we can know what is best for ourselves in contrast to what King Jesus tells us? I've been learning a hard lesson. The lesson is that I cannot define my needs based on the desperation that I may feel about something. Just because I may feel uh like I you know go insane or something without something, that doesn't mean I need it. Just because I feel I must have it does not mean I need it Now I would have passed this test on a multiple choice question, and I'd have got this right. I could easily pass the theology test on this, but I would not have and often have not passed the life question on this. In fact, I've often failed. While I would have said that we must trust Christ and not our seemers, how many times have I said that? When my steamer responds powerfully, it is difficult to stick to my theology. I suspect we're not I'm not alone here. I'm learning experientially that I cannot tell God what I need. Unless his word says that I need it. I'm not the expert on me and my life. God is. And he has given me what I'm calling the opportunity of desperation to test what I really believe. I'm in a situation where I have the golden opportunity to trust God and God alone to provide what I need. And if He gives it, I'll know that I need it. And if He does not, I must learn to trust that I do not need it. And I'm left with no other option than to cling to him more dearly. I would not have asked for this opportunity, but now that it's mine, I hope to make the best of it I'm sure there are some of you that know exactly the kind of struggle that I am talking about because you too face the same thing. The struggle that comes when your life demands that you trust Christ for that which you feel you must have. We cannot allow our steamers, our intuition, our gut feelings to tell us what we must or what we should or what we can't do. That privilege is reserved for the Word of God and reasoning based upon the Word of God. Well, our text this morning should be a real help. Look at who we are called to trust. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord We are loved with all the resources of God. We are the wisest of humans to go fully and quickly throw ourselves upon him and his wonderful virtues. We get it all right when we run to Christ and cling to Christ. We do well to tell our seamer, shut up. You don't know what you're talking about. It's not like it seems, it's exactly as Christ says And I will trust Christ with no exceptions and no limit limits. That's what we need to be telling ourselves. That's the self-speech we need to learn. And even as it comes off the lips, we know that we'll fail But we know that Christ will not. He is our strength. He is where our help comes from. He is the great and mighty King. And he is the only person who has ever had the proper qualifications to rule the world. I came across an excellent quote this week, and it really resonated with me. And this is it. When we start to trust Jesus more than we trust ourselves, we're beginning to understand what it means to trust Jesus at all. When we start to trust Jesus more than we trust ourselves, we're beginning to understand what it means to trust Jesus at all. If you're in the battle of trusting Jesus while being besieged by a seamer that tells you that you cannot, let's trust our King Jesus together. Let's have this week be the one that glorifies him by the lives of the people who put their money where their mouth is and trust Christ. I just love what the next verse says. Verse 3. His delight is in the fear of the Lord, and he shall not judge by the sight of his eyes, nor decide by the hearing of his ears. Get this. His delight is in the fear of the Lord, and he, this is talking about Christ, will not judge by the sight of his eyes, nor decide by the hearing of his ears. You see what that's saying? I mean, it's pretty dramatic. King Jesus does not do that which he tells us not to do. He does what he tells us to do. Jesus displayed absolute trust in God. That's the essence, I believe, of having his delight in the fear of the Lord. Christ's delight is in the fear of the Lord. Christ's life was to serve his Father's wishes. There was nothing more important to Christ than that. To know God and enjoy him fully seems to be what Christ was doing. It delighted Christ to live in his reverential awe toward his Father. He is giving the perfect example for us to follow. In Deuteronomy 6. 5, it says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. In Matthew 6. 33 it says, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Jesus told us to do both things, and here we find him doing the thing that he's telling us to do. And what will he in his human form not do? He will not judge by the sight of his eyes or decide by the hearing of his ears. Christ would not allow his human senses, his human attributes to distract him from the truth that comes from his father that he could not experience through his senses. Isn't that wonderful? We see that even Christ was tempted to do what we're so often tempted to do He was tempted to believe his own excuses. He was tempted to trust his temer, his senses, or what he could learn from his senses, what he could experience from his senses. What we can see from this is that even Christ could not tread through our wilderness in the power of his own senses. He needed the word of God. Carla 's been emphasizing in her class on Bible study just how true that is. We find that even Christ, when doing battle with Satan, with all of humanity's salvation online, said as much in Matthew 4. 4 Where he said, it is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. You know, that's an amazing statement. I don't think we we take it far enough. We don't grasp it enough that that's the only source for our authority for living. The obvious point is that if Christ was who God in the flesh, if if Christ if Christ who was God in the flesh could not trust his own senses, what makes us think that we're wise or Or even allowed to do such a thing when he wouldn't do it. We can't. We can't trust Just what we see and hear and experience. We have got to orient our lives according to what God says, even when it seems like the most difficult thing in the world to do. I was talking to a woman at work this week, uh, and she said that her husband says that if he cannot see or touch something, he's not going to believe it. Wasn't that interesting? Christ Himself, who was God in the flesh, did not go by such a rule. And he created the joint. All Christ had to know is, did my father say? Did my father say that was enough? Verse 4. But with righteousness he shall judge the poor and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. He shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall lay he shall slay the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his loins, and faithfulness the belt of his waist In ancient times, the belt held the wardrobe together. I'm not exactly sure how that worked, but this is saying that righteousness and faithfulness are holding everything together. Frankly, I don't look at righteousness like I should. Righteousness is a wonderful thing. It's an amazing thing. But when I hear the word righteous, the first thing that comes to my mind is unattainable. Unattainable for me. And that's true It is the perfection of rightness. The perfection of rightness. I'll never achieve that. Not on this earth. That would be like running a three and three quarter minute mile for me, which is laughable. It ain't gonna happen and it would be a sad sight to see. I would die trying. Do you know what I mean? Righteousness has a negative connotation in my mind because I can never reach it But how do I want to be dealt with? With the kind of people what kind of people do I want holding authority over me? What actions would I like to see coming out of my life and your life? Righteous ones, faithful ones, doing the right thing for the right reason. People who do the right things. That's what we want. That's how we want to be treated, to some degree at least Well, the thing that holds Christ's garments together in this imagery is the quality of his that he always does the right thing. No. That would ultimately be a bad thing for us in our sin, because the right thing would be for God to destroy us in his justice. But Christ did that amazing thing we sing about. Christ died in our place. Mike emphasized this point when we were studying Romans, and I still can't get over it. It's just Too wonderful. I hope we're all in this together. Once Christ died for our sins, his sacrifice was so perfect and so adequate. That now it would be unjust for God to punish us for our sins. The work of Christ was so adequate that now it would be unjust for God to punish us for our sins. It would be unjust for God to grant to us whatever sin we committed deserved. You talk about something. Being too good to be true. Now that if we didn't know it was true, would be too good to be true. It's difficult to understand why the whole world doesn't rush. To have this for themselves. Righteousness is the quality of God that allows us to stake our hope in Him without fear God cannot violate what is right. He cannot go against who he is. So we can know that if we are in Christ, he will, without a doubt, deliver us in the end. And we know more. We hear about Militant Muslims putting Christians to death, and worse. We hear about all the evil and just pure wickedness. And when we hear that, don't our hearts cry out for righteousness? We we're like the people at the uh under the altar in in heaven saying, God, how long? How how long are you gonna let this go? Do we not want and need an authority that will settle these wrongs? Don't we want dad to step in here like we were kids when, you know, when a our Siblings were mistreating us. You want dad to step in, you know. You want an authority to to come in for you. Righteousness is really wonderful, and the fact that we cannot attain it should not rob us of its appreciation of its beauty. A wonderful day awaits every true believer. It's a day when God will execute all his righteousness on sin. Christians will fly under the radar because of Christ's work on our behalf. We have voted for righteousness. We have surrendered our rebellion We have bowed our knees willingly. We have said that we want what Christ has for us. So our ultimate destiny will be, can we believe this? Righteousness Wonder of wonders. But everyone who has rejected Christ, everyone who has for whatever reason rejected his glorious invitation, will be fully exposed to the wrath of God. They have not invited the ultimate transformation. They have not bought into God's program. They ultimately do not want to be righteous. The only way God offers to make us righteous So they will be destroyed by that very righteousness of God. The meek of the earth, those who constantly and continually are orienting to the voice and the direction of God, will be the winners. in this world. And those who make them suffer for their devotion will pay dearly. Now, what will this kingdom look like where righteousness reigns supreme? The world and the world's media would have us to believe that would be awful. It would be awful to have God uh basically enforce everything that he says. Think of all the restrictions on human freedom, human self-expression, human degrad degradation. Yeah. Yeah, that would be awful. Yeah, let's look at verse six. The wolf will lay down Shall also dwell with the lamb, the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, the calf, and the young lion and the fatling together, and a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze, their young ones shall lie down together, and the lion eat straw like an ox. The nursing child shall play by the cobra's hole, and the weaning child shall put his hand in the viper's den Sure wouldn't make it a lot easier than child rearing, wouldn't it? Um look at this. The predator is laying down with its favorite prey. That's the essence of what this is saying. They were specifically choosing which prey and and lumping it with which uh predator I've developed a saying, it's kind of a realization, this planet is not a safe place to live. I I repeat that it's kind of a mantra. And we all know it's true. Things that threaten our lives are all around us every day. We're carrying it on our bodies right now. There's little insects like mosquitoes and ticks. Kill people. From what I've understand, a mosquito has killed more people in human history than anything else. Bacteria and viruses surround us unseen. Cellular changes turn life-sustaining cells into life-ending cells. Wild animals threaten us. And then we have the human threat. North Korea would kill us all if that raving lunatic who rules the country had a chance. But what about the world where righteousness reigns? Where these people called Christians are finally at home with their master. What about that? Peace. Peace. Finally and completely, peace. All the threat's gone There's no reason for suffering, and there is no suffering. Children, the most undiscerning, who do what we would regard as the stupidest things, are not in danger at all. All those animals that pose such a threat are no longer a threat. I wonder what the wasps will do. In this environment, the animals still live, but they're changed. And I suspect they're changed into what they were before sin existed on our planet. Are you facing a lot in your life right now? Is it hard? Do you sometimes feel like quitting, like giving up? Do you wonder sometimes, is it worth it? Is it worth it being faithful in the midst of what I am facing? And you see some avenues where maybe you could get out of it And it's tempting. Well, wonder no more. You will look and feel like a genius if you just hold on. Don't back down. Don't believe the father of lies. Don't give into your temptations. Every sacrifice you make, every obedience you cling to, every resistance of evil will be worth it a million times over. This is what we get. We need to keep this firm in our minds. When we cross the finish line, this is what we finish into. Bliss, peace, contentment, health, joy, Christ, righteousness Isn't that what we crave? Isn't that really the answer to everything we want? Quit looking around you at what you're losing. It's all a flash in the pan. It's here today and gone tomorrow. Fix your eyes on things above, like Colossians tells us in verses 1 through 10. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you will appear with him in glory. Therefore put to death your members which are on the earth Fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Because of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience In which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. But now you yourselves are to put off all these: anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds and put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him. Paul gave us some very good guidance here. Paul knew that if we didn't think about the reward, we would not value the reward. If we don't think about the eternal reward we will receive, we will not value the eternal reward that we will receive. It will have no bearing in our decision making. We need to get it into our heads that the glory God will share with us is far better than any worldly pleasure that is being offered to us at that moment. We need to get it into our heads that God is not asking for us to give up valuable things to get worthless things. That's what the devil does. That's what the temptations do. That is always the deal he's trying to make. But God is asking us to give up temporary pleasures for eternal, amazing experiences that go on forever. Hasn't the devil already gotten enough of our compliance? Don't we have enough experience with him to know that the trinkets he sells are never worth the price How long will we give up our joy and assurance to have the trinkets that he tempts us with? Paul tells us to live in a congruent life. If we were raised with Christ and live in that realm, live like people who are going to live forever. Live like people who have a reward coming that cannot compare to anything that this world is going to offer. That is the therefore he gives us that enables us to view everything else as junk. Let's look a little more at the prize we're being offered. Verse 9: They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain. For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters covereth the sea. They shall not hurt nor destroy. Oh, isn't that what we want? Isn't that what our hearts crave for? Don't we know deep in our spirits that this is what we were designed for? Every one of us has to get this. We have all experienced that the promises in this life always over promise and under deliver. Think of those things that you expected most highly. How did that turn out for us? There's hurt waiting everywhere. And much of it we create for ourselves because of our own sinful hearts. But in eternity, no hurt, no destruction. Bring it on Death doesn't look so bad when this is waiting on the other side. And finally, the knowledge of God will be the reigning mindset. Today there are a thousand godless philosophies, but in that day there will be one congruent understanding that runs across all borders and all people. We will be walking in the understanding that the grace of God has been our rescue and the goodness of God has allowed us this wonderful, unending happiness. Everyone will finally get it. Everyone will know God. Everyone who has left. From verse 10 to the end of the chapter, we see Israel as being politically superior. All their enemies shall be crushed under the root of Jesse, and the Gentiles will seek him. The world will be coming together under Christ, and he'll be drawing some from everywhere to himself There'll be peace between all the tribes and the enemies will be removed. Now we see here some warfare happening, so it's difficult to know exactly when all this is happening and where it's happening and how it's happening. Maybe the good stuff is happening in happening in heaven while some bad stuff continues on the earth while it's in transition. I don't know. But we're certain about one thing. We're certain about the to whom it is happening. Very, very good things are happening to God's people, and very, very bad things are happening to God's enemies. That's how it works out. I like verse 16, where it says, There will be a highway for the remnant of his people who will be left from Assyria. As it was for Israel in that day, he came up from the land of Egypt. There'll be a highway for the remnant of his people who are basically returning to God. God always makes a way for his people to return to him, for them to experience his blessing, for them to get back into relationship with God Think about your own history. Don't our lives exhibit that same truth? Even though we have chosen paths that would lead in the wrong direction, and we've all done it. God finds a way to bring us back to Himself. He always makes that road one we can easily travel. This highway. This isn't a path. This isn't a footpath. This is a highway. In fact, sometimes he makes every other path so bad that we can't help but choose the right one. How many times have we done that too? We've chosen every one until we beat ourselves to death. And finally came to our realization, like the prodigal son said, there's gotta be something better than this. There's gotta be a better road than this one Well, here we have it again. From the pen of Isaiah, we're drawn into the rich grace of God. We're given every reason to throw ourselves completely and quickly onto Him in obedience and worship. And we're given wonderful things to enthrall our imaginations and to inspire our worship. Praise be to Jesus. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much. We thank you for this imagery that we're given so we can see what eternity will be like. So w you can wet our lips in seeing this this wonderful reality. And our anticipation can grow, knowing that it will not always be like it is now, and that it's going to be vastly better. And that you will be there, and we will be with you, and there'll be no enmity, and there'll be no continued sin, and there'll be no temptation, and all the things that we wrestle with that uh create misery in our lives. We just thank you that you love us so much as to provide us with this look into eternity. And we ask that you would help us to live in a manner that is congruent with people who believe that everything that you say is true. Help us to live in such a way this week that the people around us know that our hope isn't here. It's only in you and for what you promised to bring us. In Jesus' name, Amen.