How many of us have asked this question? What is the Lord's will for my life? When we ask that, we often have in mind, what mission does the Lord want me to do? Or what should my life occupation be? Or where would the Lord like me to live? Or should I go to this mission field? What study should I take up And to all those questions, I can give you a solid answer. I don't know. I don't know. Scripture doesn't say But I can assure you of one thing. If you're breathing, it's the Lord's will that you work. How do you feel when you hear that? It's the Lord's will that you work. For real. How do you feel when you hear that statement? I have a tendency to think of that truth very negatively. I by nature tend to think about work wrongly. I am constantly correcting uh myself, and and Carla helps me. I think of it as uh something I must get done in order to do the things I want to do. Uh do you think of it that way too? If so, I think we need to re-educate ourselves by God's word. Work in Scripture as seen as something predominantly good Very good, in fact. Do you realize that work was given to man even before sin hit the planet? God gave Adam work right off the bat. Now, why would that be? Think of it, uh, if we think that it's because God needed work to be done, so he created people so we'd have workers. We'd be wrong. That's absurd. If God wanted to, he could have created a perfectly pruned and perfect garden and all the animals could have come with name tags. So all Adam had to do is goof off all day. But he didn't do that. He created a creation that needed labor for improvement and maintenance. How do you feel if you do no labor for a few days? Oh, maybe on vacation we may rest and recreate and all that, but But even then we usually fill our time with some kind of activity that you could maybe creatively call work. But if you were to lay around for a couple of days and spend all that time on your pleasure, how do you feel? Do you not find yourself rebuking yourself and saying, come on, self, get busy. You know, do something constructive, get something done. You and I are hardwired for work. We need it for happiness. Without it, we'll be unhappy. You and I are created to accomplish things, to order things, to create things, to beautify things, to improve things. And the truth is we all have some forms of work we actually like to do. It gives us a sense of satisfaction when we complete it that can't be found any other way. Work is good. Not all work is pleasant, but work is good, and we're designed to do work. We need it Ecclesiastes 2. 24 says, Nothing is better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw was from the hand of God. Ecclesiastes 3. 13. Every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor. It's the gift of God Ecclesiastes 5, 19 and 20 As for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth and given him power to eat of it, to receive his heritage and rejoice in his labor, this is the gift of God. For he will not dwell unduly on the days of his life, because God keeps him busy with the joy of his heart Now I know that some of you here are much better about regarding work than than I am naturally. I see how some of you embrace it and approach it. very positively and I admire that. But for those of us who are like me, we may need to give our seamers a talking to regularly. Work is a gift to man from God. Without it, we won't be happy. It's an aid to our happiness when we regard it properly. It's interesting, too, that God often picks people for special service. Who are who are already doing jobs? What was David doing when God chose him to leave He was doing shepherd work. So was Moses. Some of the disciples were fishing. Matthew was collecting taxes. There are lots of examples in Scripture. God chose people for special services who are already being of service. They weren't waiting for a job. They were busy doing a job and God gave them another one. Even the Father and the Son are busy working John 5, 17 says, but Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. So if you have a job that you wake up to every morning Learn to thank God for that. You're at least doing one thing that is God's will for your life. Maybe your job is to earn a living. Maybe the job is to organize a household. Maybe your job is to carry out the chores your parents give you to do We can actually begin the day by thanking God that He has given us meaningful things to do. Now, have you ever considered what happened when God cursed the ground? This did not create the need for work. It created the futility in work. Now, since the curse, it's guaranteed that everything that we do will require extra effort. Now why would God do that? Why would God do that? I think it was so that we would long for a world where there is no curse But even the curse serves a useful purpose in this sinful world. It makes us work harder and longer. It keeps us from sitting around idle. Because idleness is not a good environment for spirituality. Sloth is sin, and sloth breeds sin. Really, how often do we get in spiritual trouble while we're hard at work? It happens. But that's not usually the case. So work is good. Not all work is pleasant, but the nature of work is a good thing for human beings. It gives us things we can get no other way. Okay, let's look at what Paul says in our text. Verse 6. Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you receive from us. So he starts with, we command you, brothers. And I spoke last week about this idea of commands. Commands are good things when they carry the Lord's authority. But often they make us do business with our rebellious fleshly responses. And here Paul lays it out. He's essentially saying, it doesn't matter how you feel. It doesn't matter what contrary thoughts you might come up with. I'm telling you that Jesus Christ Himself is commanding you to do this thing. You have got to keep away from brothers who are sinning in this manner. How are they sinning? They're living a lifestyle of not providing for themselves and their families. They're living a lifestyle of not providing for themselves and their families. Now look at this. They might be studying their Bibles. They might be praying. They might have very spiritual things to say. But they are not doing their jobs. They're not performing their labor to provide for themselves and their loved ones. Do you look at that as being a big a a big deal? Well, God does. Men, don't sell your occupations short. It's not a nothing. It's not a little thing. Doing your job is a big thing It is a big thing. Husbands, we should pay attention to the work our wives do and be thankful for it. We should express appreciation and gratitude for their hard work that they do. Wives, you should commend your husbands for the work they do. Let them know how much you depend upon them doing this difficult thing and how much you appreciate that they are doing it. It provides that platform that for that whole family. This is the kind of thing we notice how important it is most when it stops happening. We rely upon each other's work. In the church. It's the same way. We rely upon each other's work. We are all dependent upon each other's work. Now, Paul commands this in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul is saying, I command this in the name of our heavenly master This is the marching order, not from me. This is a marching order from God. And it's like a military command given to us from God. So Paul can give this order with absolute authority because he knows it's God's will based on God's word. The word for idleness here also means out of step. So Paul is commanding, you faithful ones who are reading this letter, you obey God in this because you have people among you who are not obeying God. You walk in step in contrast to the person who will not walk in step that you've got to deal with. You're to be a contrast to them. You obey me in this while they disobey me in other things. Notice too, this person has not simply made a couple of temporary mistakes. We all make temporary mistakes. No, this is a way of life. It is a walking in It is habitual and it is willful. This person has decided to live this way. He has decided to live rebelliously. Those are the sins we need to concern ourselves with most in our lives and in the lives of fellow believers. It's only willful, habitual sin that will get a person excommunicated from a fellowship. We can all fall into the worst kinds of sins. This week I read something from our friend Bodhi Bacchum And he said something to this effect. It's not exactly his words, but he said, if I think I'm too good to fall into sexual sin, I must think I am greater than the most godly man, David Stronger than the strongest man, Samson, and wiser than the wisest man, Solomon. No, we can all fall into grave, notorious sins. But falling into a sin, while it can have disastrous consequences, is not nearly as bad as choosing to walk in a known sin, contrary to the command of God. How do we know when we're doing such a thing? We know it because it's a walk that is contrary to Paul's words, the tradition that you received from us. We know it because we are going against God's word. This is when we choose to walk for whatever reason, with whatever excuse, in a way contrary to what Scripture says. Again, we need to make sure we're talking about a scriptural, God-given truth passed down that has authority over us. And not simply a man-made application from Scripture that may or may not be true, may or may not be binding. Now we're told to keep away from any brother living currently and unrepentantly in this specific sin. Now let's jump ahead to see exactly what Paul means by this, keep away from any brother. How exactly are we to have this treatment? Verse 14 says, if anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed. Do not regard him as an enemy, but warn him as a brother. There's a whole lot piled into these verses, or this verses. Okay, we are to keep away from the brother. We are to have nothing to do with the brother. We are not to regard him as an enemy. We are to warn him as a brother. And our goal is that he's ashamed. Our goal is that he is ashamed. Now remember, these people are not sinning what we would regard as a notorious sin. Suppose they're choosing to live on welfare when they're fully capable of working. Does that seem like that big of a deal? They're just living on the hard work of others instead of the fruit of their own hard work. Well, Paul says that is a big deal. It may not be easy on our sensibilities to respond to a person in this manner. After all, all this person is doing is escaping their responsibilities in some manner. Habitually, willfully, unwilling to do what it would take to change. Well, sin in the camp is that big of a deal. We would need to keep away from that person. If that person doesn't want to talk about getting out of this sinful situation, we have nothing to say to them After the warning is given, after God's word is revealed, we are to exhibit an intentional coldness Even if it's breaking our heart while we do it. That's what he's that's the picture that he's painting. No shared hobbies, no shared entertainment, no friendly chit-chat. This person has has got to get the idea that they have crossed. a line that they must uncross if they want to have warm fellowship again. The hope is that they value the fellowship so dearly that missing it will cause them unbearable pain. The part of this that I like is we're not told to keep badgering the person with what they already know once we have warned them. We don't say much, but we do much. We respond with a consequence instead of a lecture. This is so much more effective with with people, and it doesn't put us easily into the position where we just seem to be all talk and no power. No, we deprive the person of our relationship. There's dignity in that We are definitely to warn them, but that doesn't take a lot of words often. Once they understand the position they have placed themselves in, we act, we move. Now, that's what we do. But what's going on inside of us while we do it? What what attitudes are we supposed to have while we're doing this? How are we to be thinking? Well, we're not to regard him as an enemy. We're to warn him as a brother, and our goal is that he be ashamed. Regarding is referring to our thinking. Regard is a thinking word. This is how we're to be thinking. This person is not my enemy. I'm not doing this to protect myself against this person. I'm not doing it I'm doing it primarily for their good I'm not doing that which is most natural to me. I'm not doing that which is most easy to me. I am doing what is most beneficial for this brother I love. Really, isn't the easiest thing for us to just ignore these kind of sins? Isn't it much easier to just dodge this conversation? But that is not an option to a believer. When I talk to him, when I warn him, it's not with hatred, it's not with self-righteous condemnation. I'm not better than that person. No, we warn him as we beg him to change, as we yearn for his repentance. We're not trying to prove how right we are about the person's failure. That's assumed. It's coming from the Word of God. We're trying to convince him how urgent it is that he changes for his own sake. We want to do whatever we can that is most likely to stir up feelings of shame. We want him ashamed of what he has done. Lectures are more likely to get him to defend himself and to shut us out, to make the pain stop. The best way to train a person to stop listening to us is to keep restating their failure that they're already very aware of. If they can tell me what I'm about to say, I'm wasting my time to tell them They'll tune us out in self-defense. You can watch kids do it. In fact, you can watch yourself do it. No, it's far better to do something if you have an avenue to do it than to say something that you've already said about a situation. When they understand the situation, when they understand the situation. But if he sees that we are brokenhearted and we yearn for his return, that kind of response is likely to get him to feel ashamed. About what he has done, and that that has put him in this condition. That's what we're shooting for. Whatever will have the greatest effect to bring him to shame. Now, as things progress, we may have to bring him to the church and actually excommunicate the person. What Paul says here in our text seems to be somewhere in that process. He's not to the end yet. He's saying, get this thing moving. Coordinate yourselves, do this in a way that's going to get this person's attention. In light of where we are in our membership process and discussion, I thought it would be good to look more extensively at this discipline process. And that's what we'll end with today, and then take this passage up more next week, Lord willing. Now we need to keep in mind Church is a big deal to Christ. I talked to another person, oh, two weeks ago, I think. And he's not somebody I know real well, and he he'd gone to our home church for a little bit. And uh we were talking about church and he said, you know A Christian doesn't have to go to church. I'm thinking , how do you respond to that in a few words? Everything about a Christian is addressed in church. Half the things that we're told to do in the New Testament have to do with church. How can you think that you you don't You won't naturally want to involve yourself in this desperate process of growing in Christ by being surrounded by people who are growing in Christ. So our the church, it it can't be run the way our steamers tell us to run it. You can't go by your natural intuitions about how a church is to be run. We can't run it in the way that the world would think is reasonable. We have to take our orders from the head of our church, Christ, and we have to go by his tradition. And this is what came out of his mouth, Matthew 18, 15 through 20. I'm sure we heard this a bunch of times, but it's always important to remember. If your brother sins against you , Go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you've gained your brother. But if he hasn't listened, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, sell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be as a Gentile and a tax collector. Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven, for where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them Now Jesus is talking about a person sinning against someone. Like if someone sins against you in this instance. But he doesn't address here if a brother is sinning against Christ. Not against you, but against Christ And but Paul will apply Jesus' words in a a situation like that in a minute or two. And we'll see we deal with it the same way. We deal with this the same way. This person who was in close fellowship with us is now to be treated like an outsider, like someone we have nothing in common with. We may need to speak with them in our worldly business, but they're no longer an insider. They are no longer close. They are no longer intimate. That is, if they won't repent. And it's always, if they won't repent, if they will repent, great, you know, we we invite them back willingly. Everything we are doing and every motive we have should be for their repentance We want them to listen. We want them to respond. We want them to say, yes, Lord, you are right and I am wrong. That is the goal, always. This quest for this person's soul is such an important thing that the whole body of Christ puts on a full court press to urge this person to turn. That's why we take it to the church. Note here that this is a known specific group of people. This is not the universal church. The universal church is not called to do this. Like every one every Christian in the world isn't going to come over and uh start addressing this person. It's a local body of believers and they all know who she who each other is. And we've been really emphasizing that in our membership focus. They know who the members are, whether this membership is officially kept or not. And it's a group ministry effort. We don't bring this information to the body as a court of condemnation to all gang up on this person to basically tell them how sinful they are. It's the idea that if one person's appeal doesn't work, maybe the next person's appeal will work. And maybe the next person's appeal will work. Until we we wear out every opportunity. And what we usually find in our world is they leave far before we get to the end of the process of saying that you're no longer welcome. But if they won't, if they won't change, if they won't repent, then we have to do the kingdom business. We pronounce that as As of this current moment, as far as we can tell, this person is not a follower of Christ. So, how about when the person has not sinned against me, but I know they're sinning against the Lord? Well, there we find that in 1 Corinthians 5, 4 through 5 and 9 through 13. It says, When you're assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus, and my Spirit is present with this power of our Lord Jesus You are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people, not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world or the greedy and swindlers or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother, if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler. Not even to eat with such a one. For with what I have with what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those outside. Purge the evil person from among you. Here we see that Paul applies Jesus' teaching by having the person living in known sin, after being confronted and being unrepentant, cast out of the church. Now, isn't it interesting how this is worded? Deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of his flesh. Deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of this place. We're not taking this guy by the hand and lead him to Satan's house and it you know basically saying here here you go Keep in mind, all these believers are doing is kicking this man out of the church. Can you see from this how significant how significant the church is? To be removed from the church is the same as to be delivered to Satan Most people who do not think a commitment to the church is a big deal don't really understand the significance that Christ puts on his church. When a church casts out a member because of sin, when they do it correctly, representing God in Jesus' name, God Himself will treat this person differently. That person is given over to Satan's dominion in such a way that if the person truly is a believer, they will wean him, this will wean him from that behavior and that attitude. But again, look at the motive. It's not for his destruction, it's for his restoration. It's a severe mercy. And we get a little better idea how we should treat this person who has been cast out. We're to treat people in the world who do not know Christ in a different way than this person A person of the world should be seen as an opportunity for the gospel. We see that plenty of other places. We can welcome interaction with those people who are known sinners you know, known to be living innocent. We can welcome interaction with those people. We can talk about the weather with them in efforts to get into a better conversation. We're looking for an opportunity to share the gospel with that person. But with this cast out believer, we will appear to be colder toward them, more distant toward them, less welcoming welcoming toward them. them because with them we're trying to make a point. They had a relationship, but they have it no more. So, in some ways, it'll certainly look like we love the non-believer more than the cast-out believer But it's only because our method of loving them is different. And what they need for their soul is different. We're trying to love both parties just differently. I think it's interesting how Paul puts this: God judges those who are outside the church. That's none of our business. And none of our actions are to be with that purpose. But those inside the church, they are our business. We must judge their actions. You know, we hear all this about Don't judge and how that's a horrible thing. Well, we're commanded to judge. We must be involved in their discipline. That is our realm. It is our responsibility. We can't brush that off on God. God has given that to the church to do. So some possible applications, and you hopefully the Lord will reveal to you lots of other ones, but thank God for work. Thank God for work. Thank God for all the work being done by all those who are doing it. All the work that we benefit from by all those people who are doing it. Every important institution exists through the work of its members, whether it's the family, the church, the government, whatever. It runs by work and it is destroyed by slaughter. Think about the goodness of work while you're working. Yesterday, Carl and I were detaching the ivy from our house, and it was arduous And I found it helpful to think about the nature of work. In those times that I actually did think about it, and it it was not all the time, I found my attitude toward what I was doing Was better. Work is good. Another possible application is that we should value the church and our relationship with it more highly Paul saw the worst thing that could be done to a Christian by the church was to separate a person from the church. Is that how we see church? Is it that big of a deal to us? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you give us the