Isn't it nice to be in a nice warm church with a the wind blowing and we're not feeling free? And uh Snow coming down. I I just think that's a pretty cool that is in a very good life. Alright. Have you ever feared anything happening whose consequence would destroy your life as you go? When you look at the situation, you can't imagine anything but the worst consequence. When you think of the fallout from that event, you cannot imagine anything but disaster. That's not uncommon on this life on this planet. God's own people here were facing such a thing at the time of Isaiah. They were surrounded by enemies that were far stronger and more numerous than any Judeo than Judea would ever be. And the harm that these enemies threatened was severe, and their intentions were were to their uh their demise. And by all appearances, there'd be nothing to stop the calamity. A person looking on could not see how this would not happen. One would have seemed merely logical to pronounce womb and doom. That's what the people who simply believed the facts would have concluded. That's the audience that Isaiah is addressing in our text. And what is Isaiah's message? Does he applaud their logical, rational thinking? Does he say, I understand, you feel that way, I do too? Does he attempt to use logic to work his way out of this dilemma? What does Isaiah offer these people who are in the throes of despair? He offers them what we all need. He offers them hope. Hope. And where does that hope come from? The promises of God. We all experience despair from different lies. Oh, the threats are real, but the conclusions are lies. We all have to do battle with this stuff in our minds. Every one of us is tempted with despair. The problem with our world is that the mock and rust do destroy, just like Jesus said. Investments fail. Businesses go out of business. Countries invade other countries. Jobs are lost. People make bad decisions. Marriages fail. Relationships sour. Cars wreck. Houses burn down, food runs out. A lot of very, very bad things can happen to us as the clock ticks. And yet there is nothing said in Scripture that allows the people of God to live in gloom and doom. Why? Because the future is always as bright as the promises of God. That's the essence of it. The future is always as bright as the promises of God. And what do we see here? Isaiah is not speaking to these people telling them, hey, look on the bright side. See your glasses being half full. He's not saying that. He's telling them what is sure to happen and to trust God who's going to make it happen. When believers have no hope, it's because we either don't know what God has promised or we don't believe he's going to do. We'll have lots of excuses. We always are good at coming up with excuses, but that is the truth of our hearts. Hopelessness is neither due to ignorance or disbelief. In Scripture we see over and over again that despair is disarmed by hope. And hope is earnestly and excitedly looking forward to not what we think God might do, but what he has promised that he surely will do. That's the difference in our English definition of hope and the biblical definition of hope. Hope, we think, is looking forward to the Christmas gift we might get. in our mindset. That is not how Scripture deals with it. Hope is looking forward to what we know is going to happen because God promised that it will. Okay, let's look at our text to see what God was telling the Judeans here. Verse 17: Is it not a very little while till Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field be esteemed as a forest? Lebanon was known for its trees. Both of the Jewish temples were built with the trees from Lebanon. The forest was a symbol of strength and plenty. of might. It was a wealth of resource that was regarded very favorably. When you fought of Lebanon, you fought of strength, you fought of forest, you fought of trees. Even now, if you look at that area on the world on Google Maps satellite, you'll see that Lebanon is about the only green spot on that all brown horizon. It was interesting seeing it. I wasn't sure if they would allow you to see Israel from Google Maps, but you can. So what is Isaiah saying? First, Lebanon is going to be stripped of its tribe. Its forest is going to be leveled. That's not the focus of the text, but it's the assumption in the text. All the things that men boast in have to go before God's salvation arrives. We see this thing all through Scripture. Salvation is not of works. Salvation is not of us. Salvation is not of our contribution to what God does. Lest anybody should boast. No, what we're most proud of, it's gotta go. Then we're ready for his work in our life. The trees of Lebanon, they gotta go. Then what? Then the stripped landscape, the land devoid of human pride, will become something it could not have been in its former state. It would become a fruitful field. It'll now become useful to sustain life. No longer will it be used to build castles, it will now feed people. And it will be amazingly good at it. And in fact, it will be as something, it will be seen as being something of a forest of a field. Which is an odd mix of imagery. You know, I my first thought was corn that's, you know, twenty feet tall. You know, it's something like a a forest of field. Maybe the fields will grow crops so well they appear as a forest. No one knows exactly what it means, but it looks to me like the land will be more productive for food than it ever was for trees. Or the field will have more value as a field than it could have had as a force. I don't know. But again, is this any surprise? How useful were we before we came to Christ? Jeremiah gets a look at it. He's pretty aware of how valuable he was. Of what value were our contributions back then to anything that lasted forever? Did not God have to strip us down in order to make us useful to Him? Did He not need to remove our pride and our self-assurance before we were willing to trust Him with our lives? What God does to Lebanon is what he does to all of us. Some think that this prophecy was literal and they match it to the time periods when Lebanon was devastated and then restored. Others think it was figurative to talk about how the Gentiles have come to the gospel. I'm not sure how to know exactly when or how it happened. But I am sure that what's being described here is something that God continually does. He brings down in order to lift up. Is God in the process of tearing down your life? Is he showing you that your way doesn't work? That your strength is not strong enough? Your wisdom isn't wise enough? Well, lean into it. Don't kick against those goats. Learn from Jesus as quickly as you can. His yoke is easy, and his burden is light. Our burdens can get pretty unruly pretty quickly. Okay, verse 18. In that day the deaf shall hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness When God does this work of unbuilding and rebuilding, some amazing things will happen in people's lives Remember how earlier in our text Isaiah described what happened when the truth was brought to the literate man and to the illiterate man? Do you remember that? Neither of them could find a good enough reason to go through the trouble of reading the book. The literate man said, steal, I don't want to go through that trouble, I might take a risk. The illiterate man said, I don't want to learn how to read It's okay, I don't need to know this stuff. This is what God's truth is to the mind of the natural man. It may be a curiosity, but it does not grip them at the core of their soul. Now, look what Isaiah describes. The deaf shall hear the words of his book. The blind will see the truth in it. Now is this a reference to what Christ would one day literally do? You know, deal with deafness and the blindness? Maybe so. But this kind of thing always happens when God is at work in the human heart. Think about it. If it didn't, none of us would be here. We would still be coming up with excuses for why the book is so much trouble. Too much trouble for us. But God will supernaturally remove the obstacles to seeing. That's the only way we as humans ever see. God has to make the deaf here and the blind see, and we never would. And we're all the deaf and the blind until God intervenes. Now look at what they hear. They hear the words of the book. That 's where salvation is, in the words of the book. At the end of our text this morning, we see the word doctrine. I think any preacher worth this salt wants to get his lips in here. Uh the words of the book aren't very cool in our culture. But they they are all we have of God in this life, unless God provides some divine guidance, which I believe he does sometimes. But for the most part, what we have of God for us to live by, for us to know, for us to understand of God is doctrine. His book, words in his book. So just like we would value a letter from someone we love but have not seen for a long time So we will value the words in God's book. We will value doctrine because doctrine is the story of our beloved. Notice too that it says, the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and darkness. These two words here are interesting. The first means dusk Any hunter knows the process of watching for deer as the light is fading. Last night I was within 60 yards of a deer in thick brush. But eventually I had to give up because it would be impossible for me to know what I was shooting at or where I was aiming. Dust makes it so we aren't sure of what we're seeing. Everything is unclear, everything is a puzzle. We might think we see something, but we aren't sure. And I suspect that's the best of human potential. We see creation and we have some rough idea of there being a God somewhere, a creator, but it's all a bit fuzzy to us. But the next word is utter darkness. It also means destruction and death. That's the result of utter darkness. That's where the blind man starts, utter darkness That's where every one of us starts. We're blind until God grants us uh sight Verse 19. The humble also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. Remember, Isaiah is telling Judea all this stuff when the wolf is knocking at the door. God hardly ever does things in the way we expect or the way we would do them. I don't know if you've noticed that in your Christian life. Here Isaiah is telling people about payday. First, let's start with the word humility. What is humility? Well, in this case, the King James uses the word meek. The word means meek, humble, poor, lowly, and is usually used of people who put themselves after others in importance. People who put themselves after others. And of course, just like the New Testament tells us to do. How do you know if you are meet? Well, the easiest way is just let somebody ignore your contribution. Or think badly of you as a person, or treat you as if you are in a lower position, or not give you the recognition that you feel you deserve. Humility doesn't get all worked over up about that sort of thing. Not so with pride. Pride can't let it go. In our text, those people who accept lower status in their minds, who do not see themselves as anyone with merit Those are the people who will have increased joy. That humble yet be increased joy. This is like the foreign spirit that Christ referred to, and he says, Blessed are the foreign spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. In our text, we go from the blind and the deaf to the humble And all of them are being blessed. This is a lot of good New Testament teaching here. The best position a human being can be in is to see. Seeing himself exactly as he is before God. That's like the start of wisdom there. And what do we see? When we see ourselves the way God sees us, when we see ourselves the way the Bible portrays us, what do we see? We see clay. We see sheep. We see children. We see peeps. We see wheat and chaff. We see goats and sheep. And ultimately we see sinners in need of God's grace. That's us. We certainly have potential, but our potential only is achieved when God does the shaping and we submit to it. Nothing of us is going to accomplish anything. That's not a good resume. There is nothing glorious or grand about us. When we see ourselves as we are, we begin to love Jesus as he is. We begin to appreciate him in the manner that will do us the most good. And we increase in joy and we rejoice when that happens. When we see ourselves as we are, we see God as He is, then we rejoice and we increase in joy. Why? Why would that be the result of humility? Why would this increased joy be the result of humility? Actually, it makes perfect sense. Joy is not an event that is based on good circumstances. Happiness might be joy is not. Otherwise, when we face bad circumstances, we would lose joy. Joy is the deep-seated understanding that we are perfectly okay in God forever. Joy is that deep-seated realization of where we stand in Christ. It's that deep-seated understanding that we're good. And I don't mean morally good, but we're in a good spot. We are safe in the hands of Jesus. It's the default position of a believer. When our world crashes around us, We are continually reorienting to this center point, and this center point is joy. Look at the words of our hymn, Is Well with My Soul. We're going to sing that at the end. That is the foundation of joy. It is well with my soul. Now, if we're looking to ourselves, we can't have this kind of confidence. If we're depending upon our resources, our skill, our intelligence, our virtue, our anything, our ability to control our world, we're gonna plummet. Is that where our independence is? Because we know we'll fail. We know we will. We know we can't attain what we want. We know we can't attain what we need. But when we reach a humble understanding of ourselves, we can suddenly relax. And that's been one of the neatest things to see in my life and in the lives of those who I'm intimate with. It is to see the relaxing that happens when we finally understand who God is and who we are. And then we're loved. And we don't need to produce anything to be loved. We can relax, we can tell any truth about ourselves, and it doesn't hurt our position. We don't have anything to defend, anything to protect against. We can tell the truth about our past, our present, with confidence that nothing of importance is harmed when the truth comes out. Our future does not rely upon those things. Both hope and joy have nothing to do with our performance and intention. They have to do with Christ's performance and intention. Humility cuts the cord of dependence on everything that has any chance of failure. It admits that truly all we bring to Christ is our need. And he knew that was the beginning. He knew it way more than we knew it when we came to Christ. Sometimes that dawns on me. I suspect it dawns on you sometimes too. Christ knew I was going to be a goof up. Before he selected me. He knew the sins that I was going to commit before he chose me. I don't know why you would do such a thing. But God. And we can know that Christ is completely competent to meet our need, and he has promised that he will do just that And the humble man increases in joy each day. He rejoices in God because that is the source of everything good in his life. That's what humility gets you to. True humility is such a relief because it doesn't depend on the goodness of self anymore for anything. Isn't that a wonderful truth? Do you have joy? Can you sing, It is well with my soul, and believe it is well with your soul? Is there any cord still connected to some dependence upon your goodness or your virtue or your ability to protect yourself? Today is an excellent day to cut that course. Christ truly does receive us just as I am, and he saves us just as he is. Is your orientation point in times of trouble? I am safe in the hands of Jesus. It can be, and more than that, it must be. In fact, any other stance is an insult to Christ. Which of us really wants to call Christ a liar? So Isaiah is telling these people about the work God will do, the deaf, the blind, the poor. They will all be in the catbird seat. And that's us if we tell the truth about ourselves, if we're humble. Verse 20 and 21. For the terrible one is brought to nothing, the scornful one is consumed, and all who watch for iniquity are cut off. Who make a man an offender by a word, and lay a snare for him who recruits in the gate, and turn aside the just by empty words. We have here a picture of something God hates. And we've been getting this over and over again. As Brad read this morning, you heard it again. God hates injustice in the people who should be providing justice. And we have a clear picture of the tools here that are used in the trade of the unjust, at least in his example this morning We've all seen all through Isaiah that God hates it when those who are responsible to administer justice use their position for personal gain and to administer injustice. Verse 21 gives us an important clue. It says, in the gate. In the gate. By now most of us know that is where court was held. That is where the town decisions were made by the elders. That's where the decisions by leadership were announced. That's where justice should be in the gates. You should be able to go to the gates and get justice. So who is this terrible one? This horrible one? Those who watch for iniquity? As far as I can tell, he's talking about the Jewish leadership. This would be true as a principle for all authority, but the application here I think is to the leaders of Judea. Now look what they are called. Terrible. This is a ruler who behaves ruthlessly towards his subjects. Scornful, that means to deride or to boast so as to express utter contempt. But the third one is a little trickier. Who keep a lookout for iniquity? Who keep a lookout for iniquity Now, based on other scripture, this can't mean it's describing someone who watches out for sin so that they can deal with it properly. That's what elders are supposed to do in the church. So that can't be a bad thing. So it must either mean that this person is keeping an eye out for sin so he can join it, or he's watching for supposed iniquity so he can falsely punish it. Based on the context, I think it might be the later, the latter. When we look at the terrible one, the scornful one, and the one wanting to falsely accuse We don't have to go far to find some really good examples in Scripture. Just look at the headlines, or actually We'll start with looking at the headlines today. We see this deadly trio at work in both political parties all day long. But we're wise not to expect much from the world Another great example was the Pharisees of that day, of Jesus' day. They were watching for supposed iniquity all day long. Remember at all the schemes they came up with to trick Jesus to find something that they could hang him for, real or imagine. They were always trying to hang Christ for the tiniest failures in obeying the tradition or the law. Weren't they guilty of all these things that Isaiah has just pointed out? Who make a man an offender by a word? They're always watching Jesus' words. to find a a a word that they could hang him for or to lay a snare for him who reproves in the gate. Well he was reproving in the gate alright. He was telling the Jewish leadership where they were wrong and they were going to find a way to hang him. And to turn aside the just by empty words. They they also tried to do that. Um they they tried to sway the faithful with slander and lies. Remember their strategy when they they uh Uh they were dealing with the man who was born blind and they're just haranguing him with their doctrine and in ways that, you know, they that Jesus couldn't have done this, or Jesus is not good. And he said, well I don't know. I don't know much. But I know it was blind. I know not anymore. I don't know any more than that. So anyway, we saw that at attempt by them. God hates injustice. We do well to make sure that there's nothing in our lives anywhere that punishes good behavior or rewards bad behavior. Simply because it might make our lives easier or richer to do so. When we reward evil, we punish good. When we punish good, we reward evil. That's how things work. Verse 22. Therefore, thus says the Lord who redeemed Abraham concerning the house of Jacob, Jacob shall not now be ashamed, nor shall his face now grow pale. From what I understand, the wording in verse 22 really emphasizes what God did with Abraham. God redeemed him, it says. He brought him out of slavery. Now, we would normally use those words of the Israelites coming out of Egypt But what here, what God did to Abraham is essentially equated with the exodus from Egypt God brought Abraham out of the land of idolatry. God picked this man to say And again, we look at some of the Old Testament Hebrews, and I know I I do this anyway, and I look at them as being special people, as being faithful people, as being people, you know, uh warranting admiration. But none of them started out that way. There was nothing about Abraham that made him so special that God had to have him. No, in fact, it would appear in Scripture God picked him partly because he was so unspecial. We all have a chance. It was easy for God to show off in the life of Abraham. And God seems to like picking people that it's easy to show off in. And God redeemed him. The word means to deliver by any means. To ransom. God picked Abraham in the midst of sin, in the midst of idolatry, through no virtue of Abraham's. He was probably an idol worshiper like everybody else And he was chosen to be God's chosen people. God brought him out of sin and into a walk with him. That is the picture of God's work in every single believer. He loved us while we were still walking and living in sin and choosing to live in sin. It wasn't that we were so lovely, it was that he was so loving. And he moved us to himself by the Holy Spirit, and he did it so he would have a people for himself forever. So God is referred to as the one who redeemed Abraham. But interestingly here, the topic isn't even Abraham. The topic is Jacob. Jacob shall now not now be ashamed, nor shall his face now grow pale, but when he sees his children, the work of my hands in his midst, they will hallow my name and hallow the Holy One of Jacob and fear the God of Israel. Jacob was given the promises by God about the future of Israel. So he was told, you're going to have a people that forever. And if they had not been fulfilled, if those promises had not been fulfilled, Jacob would now be ashamed of both his people and the God that he served. He would have had reason to have second thoughts about this God. He would have reason to have the blood run out of his face, as when happens when you hear terrible news. If God had not come through, this would have been a tragic position for Jacob. If Jacob's heirs ended, Jacob would have been embarrassed to have believed this God this whole time and God not come through for him. If they failed to serve God, he would also be embarrassed because that's what his heritage did. But as always, God follows through on his promises. All of them. So instead of being ashamed, Jacob will be glad. And what will Jacob see? Jacob will see his offspring. And they will not be in the state they were when Isaiah spoke. They will be in a new state that God brings them to. There's hope for Israel because God has promised something better and God always delivers on his promises. So Jacob sees his offspring. Now, how does God refer to them? You've got to love this. How does God refer to this offspring that's finally doing good instead of bad? He refers to them as the work of my hands. The work of my hands. Oh those hands. Oh those wonderful fingerprints of God. What he can do with clay is amazing, isn't it? What he can do with sheep is amazing, isn't it? No wonder our hearts want to worship him. Of course they do. Look what his hands do Look at your own life. What is the value? It's got jeans fingerprints all over it And that's what happens when God gets his hands on a person. Look at the rest. He says, They will howl my name, and I'll howl the Holy One of Jacob and fear the God of Israel. Our primary purpose as human beings is to love God and to give him glory. When God goes about doing something good in the lives of people, that is always his intention. That's his end game. That's what God is shooting for. He will have a people who will howlow and fear God. He will. He always has, he always will. In eternity, it will be only people who howlow and fear God. The word for hallow is actually sanctified. They will set God's name apart as something special. They will dedicate themselves to this God. I think we can all affirm with our experiences that this doesn't happen completely or immediately. Sanctification is a process. God has set us apart, and now we are setting him apart. He does all things well. We don't. We start with God-inspired good intentions You think about our our coming to Christ and the good intentions we have. But we by nature think too much of ourselves. We think too well of ourselves. We think that we can carry out all these good intentions But our behavior proves otherwise. But God does not give up. He convicts us. He shows us the ends of ourselves, the ends that we have to see before we can grow any more in Christ. And he goads us on to continue in him. And the process ends up with a deeper understanding of the goodness of God A deeper appreciation for the grace of God, and a greater dedication of ourselves to the glory of God. Is that what's happening in our lives today? Is that the process you can see happening in your life? Slow and steady maybe, but that process. Maybe more so than last year, or ten years ago, or twenty years ago. Well it should be, because that's God's work in a person's life. That is what God is doing in a Christian's life. He is worthy of all glory, honor, and power, and he is convincing his people of that as we live. That is what God does in a person's life. That is where he leaves his fingerprints. That's what his hands are doing today, just like always. Is he doing it in us? Verse 24, last verse. These also who erred in spirit will come to understanding, and those who complain will learn doctrine. Those who complain will learn doctrine. Isn't this just wonderful? Isn't this just wonderful? There is always hope. There's always a chance. No matter how bad we blew it in the past, there is a second chance here. Even those who no one would guess were going to make it, even those who you thought were beyond all hope, here they come across a finish line. Our behavior may have been bad. Our attitudes may have been awful. Maybe we were whiners and complainers is essentially what this is saying. But God wasn't done with us yet. Oh, those hands, those wonderful hands He is still working on our hearts. And we can't help but notice those not notice the last word. What will those slow learners get? What will those who took the wrong path end up with? In both cases, it's the same thing. Understanding our doctrine. We'll end up thinking right about God and ourselves and our world. Doctrine. A wonderful doctrine. It is, after all, the thinking of God for dummies. That's what doctrine is. The words important enough for God to spend lots of his best people to get it to us. Doctrine. Carla and I still have letters we sent to each other when we were dating. And uh it it's easy to see that I wanted Carla to know who I was. I wanted to impress upon her that What was important to me, and I wanted her to know that I loved her. In some ways, that's what God's word is to us. It's no wonder God would place such a value on it. If he loves us, of course he wants us to have it and read it and believe it and depend upon it, because it communicates to us who God is and what he wants and how he loves us. Of course, he wants us to know that. Given these statements above, it's very easy to see that it's very important to God that we think right about him. So whatever he is doing in your life, it probably has something to do with fixing your doctrine. He wants you to think right about him. He wants you to glorify him. He wants you to love him. And that communication to you from him is vital. And he is opening our eyes to it if he is at work. in our hearts. Let's close by singing uh river or uh yeah. No three thirty nine. When he 's like a river I stand in my way, when smartly Whatever my heart thou hast got me to say It is well, it is well in my soul It is done well with my soul It is well, it is well with my soul So saint to God and though I will bless his church control. That price has me got in my elderness thing, and that 's dead someone for my soul. It is to help work with my soul, it is to hell in hell with my soul. I see all the place of this glorious part. My sin might go. It was way under God in my way, no more thing , no. Well , with my soul , it is where it is well , it is my soul. Lord is the day when the face shall be spied, the clouds be rolled back and the stone. Shall we sound and the Lord shall be said my soul is well Well we can, thank you. Oh, those things. Lord, we ask that you help us. To lean into the work you're doing in our lives. To not resist it. To not come up with excuses To not buck against it, to not ignore it. Say yes, Lord And the same quickly and often to where we get really, really good at it. It's all about your glory. Make of us a people. Who make much of you. Make of us a people that glorify you. And we will watch, because we know that's a prayer. You will ask. Use your hands in our lives. In Jesus' name.