What we read this morning is what Jesus has to say about following him. Now I'd like to read you a few quotes from popular so-called Christian teachers about what they say about following Christ. These are quotes. All it takes is one, seeing or visualizing whatever you need, whether physical or financial, two. Staking your claim on scripture, and three, speaking it into existence. Here's another. First, make a clear-cut goal, then draw a mental picture, vivid and graphic, to visualize success then incubate it into a reality and finally speak it into existence through the creative power of the spoken word. Another one says, if you develop an image of victory, success, health, abundance, joy, and peace and happiness, nothing on earth will be able to hold those things from you. Another says, You were born to win. You were born for greatness. You were created to be a champion in life He wants you to live in abundance. He wants to give you the desires of your heart. God is turning things around in your favor. Before we were ever formed, he programmed us to live abundant lives, to be happy, healthy, and whole. But when our thinking becomes contaminated, it is no longer in line with God's word. Now, does any of that sound anything like what Jesus Christ preached? Does it appeal to the same motivations? Does it predict the same outcome? There's no there's no similarity. Not at all. Jesus was making an appeal to the masses to follow him. But notice that he does not appeal to a single outcome that would be positive to this fleshly existence. Oh, there's rich reward, extremely rich reward, above and beyond any measure. But it isn't here and it isn't now for the most part. Imagine Christ with our modern-day false prophets that I quoted earlier. It isn't hard to imagine them approaching Christ like Peter and helping him. We can imagine the advice they would give. Jesus, you can't be so negative. People don't respond to that kind of negativity. You need a positive message. What they want is for their lives to improve. That's what you need to offer them If you want people flocking to you, you need to offer them a better life now. You've got to convince them that life here and now is going to be better for them. Then they'll follow you. Then they'll get with your program. Then they'll support you. They would say, no, Jesus, you can't get followers with the message that you're preaching. But you see, people were already flocking to Christ, and Christ knew it meant nothing. Maybe our modern-day false prophets don't know that. Or maybe they do know that, but they don't care because their methods are so lucrative. Whatever the case, this morning, we're going to look at Christ's call to discipleship. We're going to look at the cost of being a follower of Christ. And there's nothing melt-toast about what he's going to say. He lays it all out there right at the first, right for anybody listening. No hidden agenda, nothing. He lays it out clearly. Verse 34. When he had called the people to himself with his disciples also, he said to them, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Now keep in mind the context. Jesus had just rebuked Peter for Peter's satanic advice intended to help Christ. Peter reacted badly to Christ saying that he had to suffer and die. Now Christ calls the crowds around him. Right after this, Christ calls the crowd around him. We don't see that very often. Christ was usually sort of trying to avoid the crowds. But this time he calls them to himself along with the disciples. It's like he's about to make a pronouncement that is important for everyone to hear. And look at the pep talk he gives them. What a motivational speech we have here. Whoever desires to come after me Let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Jesus said those words to that crowd. This expectant crowd, this crowd that had messianic ideals of what Christ would do, he looks at them, declares this. Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. He's essentially saying, you people have been flocking after me. You've listened to me speak. You've come to me for miracles, but do you really want to be a follower of mine? Do you want to be committed to me for the long haul? Okay, if you do, this is what it will take. Deny yourself, take up your cross, follow me. What does this really mean? These words are pregnant with meaning. What does Christ command every single one of his followers to do? Now, realize this morning if we claim to be a believer, these words of Christ address us. This text is talking to us if we want to follow Christ. First, deny yourself. The word for deny is a very strong term. It means to have no association with. To disown completely. It's the same word used to describe Peter's denial of Christ When you know we remember how strongly that was, if Peter denied knowing Christ, it's the same word for how Christ will deny those in heaven who deny Christ now. Same word Christ is not saying here, now deny yourself certain things. He's not saying if you want ice cream, don't eat it for my sake. No, what Christ is saying goes deeper. It's much more thorough. He is saying that we must disown ourselves Disown ourselves. Wow. That is all encompassing. What's the greatest point of failure in the Christian life? Why do we not submit ourselves to Christ's rule of our lives? Why do we make such horrendous mistakes and sin such hideous sins? It's largely because we trust self. We love self, we admire self, and we listen to self. I see what I want and I pursue it. Why? Because it appeals to self. All humans have the natural predisposition to place self where only God should be. Look at the messes that we've made in our lives. Weren't they caused from trusting and following and living for self? Did you get in that self-created misery by being obedient and faithful? Unless it's suffering for the sake of Christ, which is actually a blessing, we probably created much of our own misery because we will not do or have not done The first thing that Christ said. We need to disown self. We need to take self off the throne of our lives. We've got to quit believing our flesh's assessment of our situations. Ourself lies. Our flesh is deceitful. The worship of Christ requires emptying the throne of our lives. We've got to get self off the authority seat. We've got to disown and dethrone self To deny oneself is to cease to make the self the object of one's life and actions. To deny oneself is to cease to make self the object of one's life and actions. To say Christ is Lord is to say that there is no Lord other than Christ. It means he has the absolute sway and say of what goes on and what stays in our lives. It means we do his bidding his way. That's lordship. And there's no room for ourselves in Christ in that spot of authority and leadership. Have we ever done business with this? Have we ever truly received Christ as the absolute ruler in our lives, in our hearts? Have we considered that being a Christian is the surrender of all our other preferences to the rule of Christ? Maybe that's the problem with people who proclaim to be Christians. Maybe this is why many marriages are wrecks. Many lives are powerless Our hours are pointless and our years seem meaningless. I've learned the hard way that value is found through commitment. Will only feel as valuable as that to which we are committed to. If I am committed to John Ziggler, I am living for something that has little value and I'm going to feel that way. But if my life is continually committed to Jesus Christ and His will, I will experience His value I'll know that I am a simple little servant, but I am committed to a great God who is accomplishing great things in his way and his time. Life takes on a greater meaning and a greater purpose. And it becomes filled with hope. Hope. That's something that's in short supply in our world. But in following Christ, our lives become filled with hope, and that hope will never disappoint us, Scripture says. If we're believers, we must deny ourselves. We must disown our precious selves. We must take ourselves off the throne of our lives. We must accept that God has the only right to be the absolute dictator of our lives. And that's the way of peace and joy. So, deny himself. No, take up his cross. I've been in discussions about what our cross is. And the participants in the discussion talked about difficult things in their lives as if they were crosses to carry. Maybe it was a difficult mother-in-law or a rebellious child. That kind of thinking completely misses how this statement would have actually blown the disciples' minds. The disciples all would have received the statement that Christ made in one way. And that's the best way for us to take it. They knew about crosses. There were probably 30,000 crucifixions of Jews during Christ's lifetime. They would be memorable. You would not forget a crucifixion. As you would be walking into town, you would see a person, maybe someone you knew, in agonizing torture along the side of the road. He would be dying one breath at a time. There was nothing cool or heroic about it. It was designed to be a very belittling death. The Romans designed this type of punishment to dissuade anyone from doing the crimes against the state that the crucified person was guilty of. Our equivalent today would be the electric chair. Except that the electric chair is a far kinder way to end somebody's life. But we get the point. It's something you die on. And the point here is that Christ is worth dying for. Christ was not appealing to us to suddenly enjoy getting tortured. That wasn't that wasn't the point he was trying to make. His point is basically that he is worth dying for. In fact, he is worth suffering anything for. His value is so great that we embrace death for his sake as an honor. We know that if we suffer because of our identification with Christ, we are very blessed. We are being honored by sharing in his sufferings. So when we sign on, if we want to follow Christ, we are accepting the willingness to show a loyalty to him. That will accept torture and death as a worthy consequence of following Christ Do we see our lives that way? Do we see following Christ as being worth that? In our evangelism, it's easy to get a person to sign up for Jesus who's going to improve the things that they love the most. You know, when we offer them, well, Jesus will make you feel less lonely or this or that. When I was young there was an evangelistic campaign that used the slogan, Things Go Better With Christ. Maybe you remember seeing the bumper stickers if you're old. Really? Things go better with Christ. Really? Is crucifi is crucifixion our idea of better? Because that's what he's saying. No, if we exp if what we expect is for Christ to improve our here and now circumstances, we're signing up for the wrong reasons. He never promised to do that. The false teachers promise that all day long. And they get lots of followers. You see them on TV. But they're not true followers of Jesus until they are ready to spend the things they care about selfishly to have the things that last forever. Are you a follower of Christ? Have you taken up his cross? Have you embraced loyalty to him and the person of Christ to the place that if it comes to dying, dying it will be. Because we love him and he is worth it. This is what Christ said about following him in John 15, 18 through 21. If the world hates you , You know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you're not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. But all these things they will do to you for my name's sake, because they do not know him who sent me. So Christ said, deny yourself. He said, take up your cross. And then Christ said, and follow me. Now, what does it mean to follow Christ? Let's look at an instance where Christ used that word. In John 10, 27, it says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And they follow me. We might think of following a certain diet or following a certain philosophy, but when we think of it that way, we miss the point here. Christ didn't mean we decide to sit to submit to some philosophical construct, like I'm going to follow this idea of Christ. Christ meant it like sheep following a shepherd. A sheep owes its very existence to the hands of the shepherd. Everything it needs will be coming from the shepherd's hands. And the shepherd, in this case, owns the sheep. What we see here is a tender, obedient, dependent relationship, a very relational thing. That's how a Christian is to follow Christ. We go where Christ goes. We do what Christ does. We own what is important to Christ. We stay away from the dangers that He warns us of. We feed on the good things that He gives us our eyes are continually and dependently fixed upon our master. When we minister to people in the fair every year. There's a bunch of people who see themselves as Christians. I think probably all of us have had those same experiences in ministering down there. Sometimes they'll say that they prayed a prayer and got saved. Sometimes they don't go into the details. They just tell you, yes, I'm a Christian. Yet you see them living with no real concern for God in their day-to-day choices. They don't know the answers to simple questions from Scripture, even scripture or scripture about fundamental salvation. They have no idea. You don't get the sense that their lives have really changed at all Their lives show no sign of following a good shepherd. This is not Christianity that Christ was describing. It might be something It might be a religion, but it is not Christianity the way that Christ described it. It has nothing to do with denying self, accepting the cost of one's life as being worth trading for this relationship And obediently submitting to and following the Lord. Maybe our lives are like that. If so, today is a wonderful day to repent. We need to all come to Christ on Christ's terms. Surrender our lives to his control. and truly follow him, going where he leads, wanting only to know how we can best please him. See our lives as existing only for his pleasure and his glory. It no longer is your own. It's his. We're his servants. That's what the true Christian life looks like. That's what he described. That's what is required to follow him. Verse 35. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. Whoever loses his life for my sake in the gospels will save it. In this verse, we see what the problem is in those who are not following Christ. They desire to save their own lives. They desire to get as much pleasure out of this life as they possibly can. And they'll protect that pursuit jealously. Is that what our lives are about? When we get up in the morning, is that what's primary in our thoughts? Are we absorbed with having our best life now? Do we only cling to Christ for the ways that He can add selfish things to our lives? Well, if our present life is based around me, we are trying to save our lives. If our lives are based around me, we are trying to save our lives. And Christ says the outcome will not be good. It isn't like you'll just squeeze into heaven in that mindset. This verse says you will be lost. If your life is lived for you, you will lose your life. You may cram a bunch of pleasure into this life now, but it will be lost for eternity. If you're living to save it, you'll surely lose it, he says. If you live merely for here and now, here and now is all you're going to get. But Christ goes on, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. This is what it looks like when a person denies himself, takes up his cross, and follows Christ. That person loses his life. Obviously, they're not stricken dead at that point. So, you know, it's not that they are killed. It's not that they no longer cease to function as a human. But something changes. Sometimes we lose our lives because we're killed for following Christ. That's the extreme. We see that a lot. I've got something I posted From Syria, back on the back, that came from uh Steve Van Valkenberg. He is encountering people who are encountering that firsthand every day. His life is taken from him. We have brothers and sisters who are going through that. It's happening often in Muslim territories, especially. But sometimes these lives are given over to the Lord's work one day at a time, one minute at a time. Believers are giving up selfish pursuits to do those things they know The Lord cares about. They could be wealthy, but they chose other things. They could be popular, but they chose other things. They could be comfortable, but they chose other things. As as I was preparing this, I had to ask the question What are our lives absorbed with? What are our lives absorbed with? Is it the same things that all of our worldly associates are absorbed with? Is there really any difference in how we spend our time and how they spend their time? Really, if they saw the hours of our day and how we fill them, would any of them cause to wonder why we do it? Would any of them be shocked and surprised and amazed and just puzzled? Or would they simply conclude, no, they might go to church, but they're just like me If our lives do not reflect things that are different, can we really claim to be followers? Can we deny ourselves, take up the cross and follow Christ, and have our lives look identical to those who don't follow Christ? How are we losing our lives a day at a time for Christ's sake and the gospel's sake? How are those things costing us anything? How does it show up in our schedule, in our hours, in our minutes? Is it possible that why we have so many problems that look just like the world's problems, It's because we're just like the world. Is it possible that that it's this is why so little happens in our lives that looks like the power of Christ? Because we are not invested in his kingdom. Is it possible that's why our world looks so much different than it did a hundred years ago in terms of a Christian witness? I think those are questions that we need to consider. If our lives were more devoted to the things that God cares about , How much different would they look? Then verse 36, for what will it profit a man if he gains the world and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? Now, if we follow the thought through in this whole context, we see that those who are trying to save their lives are the ones who are seeking to gain the world. And to make the point clearly, Christ takes it to his extreme, or its extreme. Suppose you're one of those who have the life by the tail. You've made it I don't think any of us would be lumped in that category, but you've made it. You have all the money you could ever need. You have power. You have prestige. Suppose you reach the level that most of the rats in the spinning wheels are trying to reach, you know, the top. Suppose you were able to even go further. Suppose you were to get it all, all that the world has to offer you Every pleasure, every power, every whim of your heart would be given to you. Kind of the situation that Solomon found himself in. Suppose you can have it all. Maybe you're here thinking, man, that would be pretty good. That's what I've wanted. That's what I've always been working for. Now weigh that against living forever with Christ, which is more profitable Which has more value? Which is worth more? That's the question here The difference between a believer and a non-believer is that a non-believer would say, give me the world. A believer would say, give me my soul. Someone who truly knows God knows that what God has in store for us for eternity far surpasses anything that the world can offer us and anything that we have to give up in our in our trek. To eternity. There are many people in our world that will tell you straight out that they don't believe this They have their hearts set on here and now. They have their philosophies laid out in such a way that says as much. And they don't think there is anything better out there for them. We talked to a girl just the other day that says that she hopes that at the end of the life there's just blackness. Because she knows a little bit about hell. A believer trusts God to the point that he will give up pleasure now, trusting in what Christ will provide him later. Money is a tool now to use for eternal purposes. Time is a tool now to use for eternal purposes. A believer's view of God and life will shape his use of time and money and ours. There'll be a difference in a believer's life because of what he believes about what life is for. And then he goes on to say, what will a man give in exchange for his soul? The problem is that there is nothing a man can give in exchange for his soul. He can't buy his soul back. Most humans accept what this world has to offer as being worth more than their soul. When you sit back and you think about it, that has got to be the stupidest thing that anyone could ever do. But Everyone all around us all day long is doing that very thing. But once that deal is made and finished in death, it can't be unmade. There is no turning back and trading something for one's life at the end. A man cannot gain the world and then use part of his earnings to buy his eternal life. It can happen. So the question serves to emphasize what a bad deal most people make regarding their souls. What a thought-provoking question this is. What is your soul worth? Is it worth all the trinkets and experiences you can gain over a lifetime? Is it worth everything that this world could possibly offer you? No, never. To trade your soul Your eternity with Christ in an existence without sin and with his presence in the presence of people who love him to trade your soul For anything less than that is a fool's trade. Yet that is exactly the trade that most humans think is a good deal. Verse 38 For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man will also be ashamed, and when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. Again, there's a flow of thought here. The person who seeks to save his life is the same person who tries to gain the world, and it's the same person who will be ashamed of Christ. They're all three part of the same mindset. Ashamed means to despise, reject, or refuse to accept. This is interesting. A follower of Christ is someone who denies himself. He essentially writes himself off. He has no trust in his old way of thinking, in the old person that he was. In fact, there's always a degree of shame regarding the old man. Paul captures that clearly in his writings. He is ashamed of who he was and what he did But Paul is not ashamed of the gospel. He says in Romans 1:16, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes. For the Jew first and also for the Greek. What it comes down to is if we are seeking to gain the most from this life and trying to gain the world, we will be ashamed of Christ and his word. Because Christ and His Word shines a light on everyone and on us. And it will be very offensive to all those who are who we are seeking to use to get the world through. It'll offend political allies. It'll offend business partners. It'll offend romantic interests. Christ's words will stand in our way of getting what we are after here and now. The gospel will either draw people to Christ. And that in itself will make them more difficult for us to manipulate, or the gospel will repel them from Christ and with us if we identify with Christ. So our identification with Christ, or our refusal to identify with Christ, shows what we are really after in this life. And we might be confused about it, but God isn't. He looks at our lives, he knows We're told that if we're ashamed of Christ, if we despise him and reject him and refuse to stand for him, even at the cost of our lives, he will despise us and reject us and refuse to stand for us at judgment. It's very important we look very carefully at our lives. What difference does Christ really make to us? Have we really denied ourselves and taken up the cross and followed Christ? Does that define our lives and our use of time and energy and life? Or is our life primarily a pursuit of the here and now stuff? Are we losing our lives for Christ's sake? Or are we trying to gain our lives in the world? This isn't optional stuff. This isn't how to go from grade C Christianity to grade B Christianity. This is your in or your out stuff. What we see in our lives tells us about what we're really living for and whether we are a believer or a non-believer. What does our lives say? Are you ashamed of yourself? Are you denying yourself? Are we ashamed of Christ and denying Christ? I think we would do well to answer those questions in ways that we are certain of. To look at our lives and see, I know that my life is being lived for Christ. It's not being lived perfectly, but I know that it is. Or we look at it and say, you know. There is no difference between me and the people who are walking down the street. My life looks just the same. I just claim a Christianity that has no power over my life. I'm not denying my my life. I'm not denying myself, I'm not taking up Christ's cross, I'm not following him. We need to examine it Living for Christ isn't always going to look a specific way, but we know what it is in our life that is different because we're dedicated to Him. And we should define those things and be certain that we are following him daily. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your call to us. We thank you that you didn't manipulate or appeal to our flesh when you made your calling. But that you showed your worth, but your value, your holiness And that it is worth following you, being yours, being in relationship with you, is worth more than this world could ever offer us. We ask that you would help us in our pursuit of following you, and as we examine our lives, that we would see the truth About whether we are yours or whether we are not, and then about how we could live in such a way that would more please you, that would more further your cause. That would accomplish more for your kingdom, that would reward us even more in your eternal kingdom. And that we would consider your worth in all of this. And to know that you are worthy to receive glory, honor, and power forever. Amen.