Over 30 years ago, Carla and I had planned to go for a week's training at Buffalo, New York. It was training done by the Billy Graham organization. And it counted as uh required training that we were required to have at that time by you for Christ. Carla had just finished a week long vacation Bible school, and she was glad to have that completed and I was really looking forward to this uh this week. But on the drive there, Carla began getting all the signs that she was pregnant and she would not be enjoying this week with me. She usually got very, very sick at the beginning. And I think how she felt is much like the disciples felt in our story this morning. Have you ever had a time in your life where you worked very hard for an extended period of time doing very difficult things? But your work went well, and you just wanted to have a break. And you planned a break, and you wanted to kick back and relax, and you wanted to share an evening with close friends or with your family. Happens. Company drops in or a tragedy strikes, so you get called into action again. And then something else happens and you get pulled in a different direction. And the whole time thinking, I'm not getting what I deserve. I'm not getting what I expected. I'm not getting what I need. And it's just thing after thing. It's like God is pushing you beyond your breaking point. I think that's what we're looking at this morning. And I don't think it's not an accident. Sometimes we think Ask for advice, knowing the advice that they would get would be perfect. How wonderful that would be. Well, Scripture shows us What the real discipleship school of Jesus was really like. Jesus sent these guys out to minister, and things went really well. They were healing people in Jesus' name. They were casting out demons in Jesus' name. They were big shots and they were received well, and there was a lot of excitement with their them coming into town. They had just experienced a high point and they wanted to relish that success with Jesus. That's the setting of the story as we come to the feeding of the 5,000. Then they came back and all their expectations of comfort and pleasure were crushed by these pesky mobs of needy people that Jesus had compassion on. The same people that the disciples wished would just go away. Then the crowd gets unruly and they want to force Christ to be their king. And Christ was very aware of all the complexities of that situation. There are several things to notice in that, you know, as in this setting that they had just come from. First, some of Christ's disciples probably would have liked the idea of the people taking Christ by force and making him king. I think Judas would have cheered for it So, this event was not a good thing for his disciples to be in the middle of. Second, if this were to happen, Rome would likely step in if there was an insurrection by these 5,000 men, and Christ's teaching time would turn into a military battlefield. So Christ was not going to allow that. And then third, the disciples may have been in danger if they tried to stop the crowds from taking Christ by force as their king. So no matter what the prevailing reason, Jesus wanted them out of there. And in Matthew 14, 22, this story we're told in a couple of uh Passages, not just John. Matthew 14, 22 tells us that Christ made the disciples get into the boat and skedaddle. Uh the word used means that he made them do something they did not want to do. I'm sure we Do that with our children from time to time. We cannot know what the reasons were that made them want to stay. Maybe they wanted to help crown Christ king. Maybe they wanted to protect Christ. Maybe they wanted to watch. We don't know. All we know is they didn't want to go and Christ said go and they obeyed. Now keep in mind, as far as we know, they still have twelve baskets of fish and bread in the boat. Now let me ask you at this point, does being a disciple of Christ still look so idyllic? To you. Personally, I'd rather sit home and read his words than to be put in the middle of the stuff they were being put in the middle of. But now they're going to enter a period of absolute futility. Christ commanded them to go out and row their boat in a storm that he knew full well was going to blow up. Think about this. Christ intended for them to enter this hardship after the last setting that he had been in And I think every one of the disciples, when they saw the storm coming, would have responded by saying something like, oh great, this is the last thing we need. All we wanted was time, quiet time with Jesus, and this is what we get. Are you in a period where all the good things you were looking forward to? are being taken away from you by unexpected life events. If so, pay attention this morning, because that's the situation the disciples are in. Verse 16: When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. Mark tells us that Jesus had initially told the disciples to go to Beth Seda. And the plan was probably that Jesus would walk there to Beth Seda, which was a little bit aways from there, and then join them. And then also in Mark , Jesus commands them to do this even though it was against their wills, like we had just heard. And I would guess that most of the things that were happening to the disciples in these last couple of days were against their wills. This was tough training. But think about this a little bit. The Church of Christ was going to be spread by this rag tag group of guys. It's no wonder that the most important positions ever held by men would require some very severe toughness training. It's only trials that give us the kind of attitudes that these men had to have. So it's no big surprise when Christ made things rough at times for them. What you may be going through right now is training that will prepare you for greater usefulness for Christ. He may be preparing you for future ministry. And sometimes you've got to go through some rough things so you know what you're talking about when you minister to others So just keep asking, whatever you're in, Lord, please teach me in this trial that which would most glorify you. Teach me in this trial what would most glorify you. Please show me what I'm to learn or to do. And I trust that you know what you're doing, and I know it is for my good. So the disciples are at Besteta and Jesus doesn't arrive. So for some reason they believe that they're to try to cross the sea and go to Capernaum. But things said Something like that. We don't know that. Verse 18: the sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing. Here they are. They're doing exactly what Christ told them to do. They're transporting themselves and their cargo of bread and fish across the lake. And they're rowing. We learn in a little bit that the sails wouldn't have done them any good because they were rowing into the wind. Has the Lord ever given you a task to do? And then he seems to make it exceedingly hard to do it. Maybe he's given you a child to raise, and over time you discover the child is stubborn and headstrong. I know what that's like. Um maybe maybe he's given you a spouse, but the spouse is not very willing or able to negotiate the marriage w waters that you are in I think of Charlie Kirk's wife this morning, needing to raise her children without a father. Um You 're rowing your boat faithfully. You're doing the thing that put God put in in front of you. You're doing what you are doing Obediently, even when others may have given up, or others choose other paths. You are doing what God says, and then Jesus arranges your life, so it's even harder than it was before. It looks like Christ has given you a futile task. You can't make any progress toward the goal that He has given you. That's where these guys are. You keep a rowing, but you ain't getting anywhere. You know, that's that's what this is about. Matthew tells us more of the story in Matthew uh Forget which chapter, but verse twenty-three. And after Jesus had dismissed the crowds, he went up to the mountain by himself to pray. And when evening came, he was there alone. But the boat by this time was a long way from land, beaten by the waves, for the wind was against them. The point to get here Is that when you are growing and it feels like you're not getting anywhere, no matter how hard you try, No matter how faithful you are, you are not achieving that goal. When you are rowing, Jesus is watching. When you are rowing, Jesus is watching. There is never any evidence that we should allow to be convinced that Christ does not care. No matter what circumstance happens in our life, we should never use it as evidence that God is removed from us. That Christ will not help, that God does not care. Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ Romans 8, 38, for I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers can separate us. From the love of Christ. We do well to ask this question in any circumstance that we're in. Am I doing what Scripture tells me that I should be doing right now? No matter how frustrating, no matter how futile, if we are tempted to read it and say, oh, I must not be doing something right because it's so ineffective I I seem to be failing more than I'm succeeding. The question is, am I doing what Scripture tells me to do right now? If so, understand that Jesus is intently working out your welfare in what storm you are in. John tells us when they had rode about three or four miles, Now the disciples had left for Capernaum sometime between 6 and 9 p. m. That's in John 6. 16. And Mark 6. 48 says it's now the fourth watch of the night, which is 3 o'clock to 6 o'clock a. m. So for at least six hours of rowing and at most twelve hours of rowing, they had rode almost four miles. Now these guys are experienced rowers. They could probably normally row about three miles per hour So tonight they were going anywhere from a third of a mile per hour to one mile per hour. These guys had to be frustrated and exhausted and demoralized because they're not getting any of their expectations met No matter how hard they tried to do what the Savior said to do, they just couldn't do it. Just again, just a couple of weeks earlier, these guys were watching demons flee from people that these demons had infested for years. Now they can't even brow a boat. Something they're probably excellent at normally. What's going on? What was going on that they they were being prepared to depend upon Jesus? That's what's happening. They're being prepared to depend upon Jesus. They were getting ready to call upon Jesus. That's what's happening next. They were seeing with every stroke of their human effort that they needed their Savior to intervene. This is when what we read next happened. They saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they were frightened. Mark 6. 48 says, and about the fourth watch of the night he came to them walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them. But when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought it was a ghost and cried out, for they all saw him and were terrified. So John understates this a little bit. He says they were scared. Mark tells us they were scared out of their wits. The first thing we need to keep in mind is that Jesus always intended to meet these men in this crisis in this way. They were never outside of his watchful care. They were never outside of his sovereign plan, no matter how it would have seemed to them to be. A storm blew up. They're thinking, this just happened. Uh-uh. Second, he never lacked the resources to meet their need. This thing that was so hard for them was effortless for Jesus. They're fighting the wind and the waves with all their strength. Jesus looks like he's taking a stroll in the park, a park that happens to be moving up and down. He's evidently walking so fast it looks like he's going to walk past him without stopping That's what the language conveys to me anyway. I'm not sure exactly how we're to understand he meant to pass them by. But I think it was he was giving the impression he's on his way, he'll meet him on the shore Was Christ walking so quickly and directly that they had they not yelled out, he would have walked right past them and got to the shore before them? Maybe that's what we're supposed to understand here. I'm not sure But now look what comes out of those men. These guys are not strangers to storms. This this area was known for storms because of the the high altitude of the mountains that surround it and the wind that would come off of those mountains, i it would blow up on a dime you didn't know they were coming. So uh they'd seen bad storms and they've been they're not scared of that. But see of Jesus terrified them. And what did they say? There's a ghost. There's a ghost. What comes out of them is superstition. Normally, they would have probably said there's no such thing as ghosts. They might have laughed about it. But evidently, that's not what comes out of them when they see something they can't understand. We know there are no such things as ghosts. There are only demons and angels. And in this case, it was neither. What they were seeing was a man walking on the water. Jesus is bringing impossible resources to the disciples, the disciples' utterly frustrating situation. Jesus brings his power to their futility. They can't do anything by their strength and experience and their life situations and their innate talents. And Christ comes by controlling rules of nature like it's nothing. What Jesus can do is scary. So these men are terrified. Man, these guys have gone through just about every emotion you can have in the last few weeks. But I'll bet this one made the longest-lasting impression. Terror. Terror. They're encountering something that they have no frame of reference to explain. They not only don't know who this is, they don't even know what this is. And there in the middle of the darkness and the rolling waves and the mysterious events. Christ speaks. And what he says makes all the difference in the world. Verse 20 But he said to them It is I. Don't be afraid. What an instant relief they must have felt in that moment Can you imagine you're in a in a bad situation late at night in a small boat and a big storm and nothing you do has any effect and then you see something coming across the water and all you can see are shadows and you can't make it out but you know there's something not right about it. Never saw this before, and you hear the voice of Jesus. Just hearing the voice of Jesus would have been a great comfort. But what the voice says is even a greater comfort. It is I. It is I. This isn't a ghost. This isn't a stranger. This isn't an enemy. This is Jesus. And because it's Jesus, you have no reason to be afraid. No reason to be afraid. Brothers and sisters, how much time we waste being afraid when Jesus is right here What torture we extend for ourselves because we don't believe what Scripture tells us. There is no situation in your life in which you cannot say that Christ is here. I do not need to be afraid. We see this comfort all through Scripture. What does God say when He wants His children to leave their fear? Genesis 26, 24, the Lord said to Isaac, Fear not. Why? For I am with you. Isaiah 34:4, say to those who have an anxious heart, Be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance and with the recompense of God. He will come and save you. Why not fear? Because God will come to you, He will be with you. Isaiah 41, 10, fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Isaiah 43 :5, fear not, for I am with you. I will bring your offspring from the east and from the west, I will gather you. Jeremiah 46, 28, fear not, O Jacob, my servant, declares the Lord, for I am with you. I will make a full end of all the nations to which I have driven you, but of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure, and I will by no means leave you unpunished. That one wasn't quite as pleasant. Hebrews 13, 6. So we can confidently say, the Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? We need not fear because the Lord is with us, helping us. Matthew 28, 19 and 20, probably the most common one. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, of the and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold I am with you always to the end of the age. The point is that in every trial we face, we can declare this truth. Christ is with me. I need not live in fear. It's as true for us today, right now, as it was for the apostles, afraid in the night of ghosts. Jesus is saying in his word, It is me, I am here. You don't need to give in to this fear. Where in your life does fear drive your behavior? Apply these words of Jesus. He is here. He is present. He is in us through the Holy Spirit. He is in his body, the church. Now in Matthew 14, we see one more element of this wonderful event. Verse 28: And Peter answered, Lord, if it's you, command me to come to you in the water. And he said, Come. By this point, if Angie were here, she'd be smiling because this is a Peter thing. She always likes the Peter things. Uh I wonder why Peter did this. You know, probably his because he was Peter, I'm guessing. He he wasn't big on analyzing future plans. He was very impulsive, and in this case he became the only man other than Jesus to ever walk on the water that we know of anyway. Jesus invited Peter to come experience this with Christ. And I'm sure it's going to turn out to be a great learning experience for all of us. So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus. We gotta hand it to Peter. At least I I think we should. He got out of his safety. He left the boat. He left his only source of earthly physical security. And he trusted Jesus to do the impossible. He finally wasn't telling Jesus what he couldn't do. Now, not only was Peter no longer afraid, Peter was full of confidence in Jesus. He was boldly trusting Christ. That's very rare in people , especially what we see with Jesus Do you think you would have gotten out of the boat on the first impulse in those settings on that evening with the water going up and down? Verse 30, but when he saw the wind But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and began to think. He cried out, Lord, save me. I think this is where the what in the world was I doing hit Peter. When he was looking at Jesus, when everything in him was focused on being with Jesus, all was good. But the trouble came When he took his focus off the one who walks on water and began to look at the water, his mind would say , Look at the wind. If you have a brain in your head, Peter, you're right to be afraid. Look at the waves, Peter. If you have a brain in your head, you should be scared of that. You know the facts. People drown in this kind of water. Doesn't this describe our problem in every tumultuous event in our lives? Our eyes go from the Lord to our situation. To the Lord to our situation. To the Lord to our situation. If we trust our steamer that tells us that we know what waves and wind do to people, we're going to go out of control. We're going to be swept away by the trial. We're going to be sent into a tailspin. But if we trust the Lord of the wind and the waves , We'll do the impossible. We'll face the trial with the peace of God. We'll trust that our God is a good God and He will not let us fall. He will carry us through every trial that He has placed in our lives for our good. Peter succeeded when he trusted Christ for the impossible. Peter failed when he trusted what he saw and knew about life, apart from Christ. And we do the same thing. So then Peter sank into the kind of waves that Peter knew killed people, and naturally he drowned, and Jesus went on without him. Obviously, we know that. No, nothing like that. Immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, and oh you of little faith, why did you doubt? Why did you doubt? Jesus will even rescue us when we suffer from our faithlessness. We know that because we're still here. And we know that we have never responded completely faithful in any area of our life for any length of time. It is always his faithfulness that carries us. Christ does not abandon us even in our failure. The moral of his story is to call out to Jesus at any stage of help. Even if you just failed. Peter called out. When he wanted to come to Jesus, you know, he's willing to leave his comfort and safety, and then he called out again to Christ because he was surely going to die from his lack of faith. Isn't that beautiful? Christ meets us where we are. In every stage. Christ meets us where we are. Were you frustrated with your failures this week? Maybe you intended to pray daily, but you didn't. Maybe you wanted to be patient with your kids all week, but you weren't. Maybe you wanted to love your wife better this week, but you lost your temper. Our trials can be a thousand things. Maybe you came here this morning frustrated with your performance from last week. The point here is that you can and should and must call out to Jesus now In wherever you are, in your success, in your failure. Call out to Jesus. He will reach out his hand in the situation that you are in and help you. We can know for sure that the problem with our failure is not God's ability to cause us to succeed. Our lack of trust in Him and His provision is always our issue. It's always on our side. He is faithful even when we're not. We're the ones with little faith. We are the dumb doubters. That's us. You know, it it is stupid to doubt. It's stupid. It doesn't make any sense. With all of our theology, when we lay it all out, and you lay it, you know, what's smart, what's dumb. It's dumb To doubt. But we are good at it. You know, we gravitate toward it, and it's natural. But even when we fail, we aren't going to get a lecture, we're going to get help. We won't get a hammer, we're going to get a hand. Okay, so Peter gets back in the boat and back they go to rowing against the current and getting nowhere. No, that's not it either. Sometimes it happens that way. Sometimes the Lord prepares us for the rest of our seems like futile efforts. Sometimes our trials can go on and on, even when we're faithfully dealing with them, but sometimes they only last as long as they need to to get us the point. And that seems to be the case here. Verse 21. Then they were glad to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. They were glad to take Christ into the boat. I think that's one of the most massive understatements in all of Scripture. They probably wanted to party at this point. They're probably rejoicing. They're overflowing with ecstasy to have Christ sitting in their boat. They were all probably thanking God in their hearts. And then Mark gives us a few more details. And he got into the boat with them, and the winds ceased. And they were utterly astounded. So they're as thrilled as thrilled can be to get Christ in the boat, but better yet, when he gets into Christ, when he gets in the boat, the trial's over. This trip was full of wonders. First, Christ feeds 20,000 people with the makings for one lunch. Then he walks on the water. Then he causes Peter to walk on the water. Then he stirs the wind, and then he immediately gets them to their destination. Something they were trying to do for hours and hours and hours. No wonder they were astounded. We would be too. But we learn something in the next verse in Mark's story, and it looks like Jesus was expecting them not to be astounded. Look at this, verse 52. For they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened. Their hearts were hardened. I'm actually borrowing the conclusion to this story from my study in Mark many years ago. Christ was blaming the disciples for their lack of understanding. It was the disciples' fault that they didn't get the point that when Jesus created food out of nothing, they should have made more of that. They should have enveloped that into their recognition of who Christ was They should have understood that he was the creator and had absolute control over matter and the world. It should have impressed them that that what they encountered was only something God can do, but they didn't get the full picture yet. And they didn't get it because they were resisting what God was doing. But fortunately, it wasn't all failure. We learn in Matthew that this lesson was not lost on them. In Matthew 14, 33 it says, Then those who were in the boat came and worshipped Christ. Saying, truly you are the son of God. God is so good to us in that he does not give up until he causes us to get whatever point it is that he wants us to get. Sometimes we make it hard on ourselves. But he won't stop until we get the point that we need to get. Evidently the disciples could have gotten this teaching point at the feeding of the 5,000, but they didn't. So then things escalate The disciples are going to have to pay a higher price for this next education, but it's well worth the price. And when it's done, they have all gotten this point. Christ is the Son of God. They had to get this right. They had to get it down deep. They had to develop this as their first reaction. Carly used to be a diver, and not every dive went well. So she learned that when her body was going to hit the water badly, her best response was to relax her body. That is the exact opposite of the reaction I would have. Like I I'd I'd tense up. We naturally stiffen up. So when her eight foot ladder collapsed one day, that was her reaction. She relaxed, and as a result of that training, she only suffered minor injuries from the ball. That's the kind of trained response that we're talking about here. Our normal reaction to things in our lives is panic and worry and fear. Jesus is teaching these men their reaction needs to change. It needs to be Christ is the Son of God. He is in control of this situation. We can trust him with every point of this in our lives, and he has caused this to happen in our lives. It was vital that they understood that Christ was deity. This is the point in their theology and their beliefs that they have It has to come out of them as their first response to life and life situations. And we have to get it too. Until we believe that Christ has ultimate power over everything in life, we will not live in a way that glorifies him. It's not until we trust him as Lord that we represent him to the world as he truly is. We must trust him as Lord before we can truly proclaim him and represent him To the world as Lord. When we worry, we are testifying that Jesus is not Lord. Jesus is not the Son of God. We display a practical atheism when we react like we're at the mercy of the wind and the rain. We testify to the world that our God is no better than their God. But our God is worthy of so much more. He is worthy of the trust like Daniel before the lions, or the three Hebrew children in the furnace. That is our God. This go goes along with what we've been learning under Paul Tripp. All of our sin problems are worship problems. Is Jesus Lord of everything? I hope this text has been an encouragement to us this week. Let's pray. Lord, our lives don't always look like we want them to.