Have you ever failed the Lord? Have you ever failed him in a way that you thought you could not be forgiven? Have you ever failed him in a way that you felt you couldn't go to to him for forgiveness? Have you failed him in a way that you thought you lost any chance of fellowship with God's people? Have you failed him in a way that you knew any chance of of a leadership position was now gone. Have you ever thought you've done irreparable harm, irreparable damage to the reputation of Christ? And in any of these failings, the greatest self-condemnation came in the fact that you knew better, but you didn't do it, or you did it anyway. I don't know about you, but I have. If you haven't, maybe your rooster hasn't croved yet. Maybe you're not aware of the gravity of your failures. But nonetheless, our sermon this morning is for those who have colossally Failed. The Lord. It's one of the most encouraging passages in the Bible. Most of you probably know what I mean. I thank God for Peter's failure. I thank God that the Holy Spirit included this in the things that were brought to remembrance when men were writing down the gospel. Because you see, if Peter can repent, if Peter can be forgiven, If Peter can be restored to fellowship, if Peter can be given a position of leadership, there's hope for all of us. Verse 66. Now as Peter was below in the courtyard one of the servant girls of the high priest came. And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with Jesus of Nazareth. But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you are saying. And he Went out on the porch and a rooster croak. The courtyard that Peter was sitting in was the courtyard shared between Caiaphas 's and Annas ' palaces. They were built next to each other and they shared the courtyard. And that uh Peter Peter didn't need to move in order to be in the middle of both of those trials. And that removes an apparent contradiction in the text. Peter got into the courtyard based on the contacts of one of the other disciples, probably John. It's likely that John and Peter are both there, but the other disciple isn't mentioned again. Now, Peter's sitting here. Just a few hours ago, he was sharing with Jesus the Passover meal. It was a very intimate meeting. Meeting. He was having intimate fellowship with his Lord. Christ shared a lot of teaching at that point. But the betrayal was also predictive. And that was a shock. That was a real shock to their meeting. And then he saw Christ in severe action. Agony in the garden. And Peter can't stay awake. And then all of a sudden the mob was there to take Christ. Would have come in a hurry in from his perspective. Peter reacted, the only way Peter knew how, without action. He began swinging his sword. Christ put Malchus's ear back on, and Peter is rebuked for the one thing that he did. Peter had done all he could do for Christ. Peter had done his fleshly best for Christ, and Jesus had rebuked him for it. Now Peter is secretly following Christ. Christ wouldn't let Peter do it Peter's way. Christ rejected the Peter. The best, most loyal, most valiant of Peter's fleshly way of doing things. And look what's happened. Everything that Jesus had risked his life for, all the things he sacrificed for, all his Hopes and dreams are now on trial in a nearby room. At least that's how Peter would see it. And the verdict is certain. Peter is looking at the depth of his dreams and the death of his friend. Have you ever tried? To accomplish something you think God wants done. But you did it your way? This often happens when people try to minister for Christ. Countless churches have been led by men with ambitions to That they think are spiritual, but they're really fleshly. They have more to do with numbers and image and uh building uh an organization than they do serving uh serving a flock. These people build their programs by the strength of their will, but they fail to consider God's instructions for how to do God's bidding. They don't really know what's important to God. And ultimately they fail. Even when they succeed, they fail. That's what happens when flesh follows Christ. Peter is sitting in such a place. He sees failure where he expected success. He sits in humiliation where he thought he would be praying. He thought he was the greatest, but he found out he wasn't so great after all. I'm sure that every one of us has sat in his spot. This is the fall that comes after pride. So Peter's in a bad spot, and he doesn't understand. He doesn't understand how it could have come to this. After all, wasn't he doing everything the best he could? I remember in Youth for Christ I learned about it in his evangelistic event that a lot of other chapters were using at the time. And a company would come into the school and do an in-school assembly with a nice moral message, you know, an upbeat kind of thing. And then the students would be invited to an after-school assembly. I was never convinced the gospel presentation was all that good, but I decided to try it because everybody else was using it to such grand success. So I arranged the in-school assembly. Well, I remember I talked to the people ahead of time. I said, What's the worst that ever happened? And they said, Oh, one time we had this little glitch and it took five minutes to straighten out. I'm thinking, well, I can live with that. Well, this time they had a technical malfunction that caused the complete presentation to failed. The kids didn't see any of it. There were three hundred students in an auditorium with nothing to do and it was my fault. Well, you don't forget something like that. Like that very quickly. I was trying to do a good thing. I had what I thought were good motives and now I look like an utter fool. I got the point. At least I I think I did. I never tried something like that again. The only message I represented from that point is the gospel. Sitting there in this state of mind, Peter in our text, a servant girl of the high priest notices him. Here is the greatest, Peter, in an interaction with a lowly servant girl. Remember the arguments that Peter would have where he would have all this evidence how he was the greatest? Well now he's toe-to-toe with the servant girl. And how does he hold up? Verse 67, and when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with Jesus of Nazareth. All this girl is saying is, This one's a disciple, which he obviously Was. After having tried to look out for Christ in Peter's flesh, now Peter resorts to looking out for Peter in Peter's flesh, and this is what comes out of him in verse 68. He denied it. I neither know nor understand what you're saying. And he went out on the porch in a rooster crow. Peter looks at this girl and tells her out a flat out lie. I don't know what you're talking about. I think we've all used that statement before. I don't know what you're talking about. The word for deny here is the opposite of the word for confess. That's kind of interesting. Scripture tells us that we are to confess with our mouths that Jesus is Lord and we are to deny ourselves and take up the cross and follow Christ. Here Peter does the direct opposite. He denies the Lord, fails to confess Christ. He confesses his denial. Had the servant girl been alone, maybe Peter's denial may not have been so dramatic. We've got to at least grant him that. But since he was in a crowd of unfriendlies, Peter is very blatant and expressive in his denial. Then the first Rooster crowed. Nothing happened. The crow served as no warning to Peter. It's like all those warnings that we get that we can see in retrospect, but we don't see See them at the time. We can see them now as warning signs that we were going in the wrong direction, but we couldn't see them when they happened. Verse 69. And the servant girl saw him again and began to say th to those who stood by, This is one of them. But he denied it again. Luke also tells us of this second denial, and he says, After a while another saw him and said, You also are of them. But Peter said, Man I am not. So the servant girl must have mentioned this to men at the fire, and they then question Peter. emphatic. Notice that Peter is not yet suffering guilt or shame. Often that's how it is. We're in the thick of sin, but we're nonchalant about it. We don't see it as a big deal. In fact, we might see it as a nothing. God isn't stopping us, God isn't punishing us, so it must not be a big deal. But if the Holy Spirit is in us. The rooster is going to crow in a way that gets our attention sometime. He always does. Isn't it interesting that Judas was referred to as one of the twelve in order to show how guilty he was? of the his betrayal of Christ. Remember that? Here the onlookers referred To uh Peter as one of them, and it emphasizes how guilty Peter was of his denial of Christ. And a little later in our text, and a little later, those who stood By said to Peter again, Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean, and your speech shows it. Then he began to curse and swear, I do not know this man you s of whom you speak. A second time the rooster crowed. Luke tells us in verse 59, then after an hour had passed, another confidently affirmed, saying, Surely this fellow also was with him, for he is a Galilean. But Peter said, Man, I do not know. Know what you are saying. Immediately while he was speaking, the rooster crowed. Each of the disciples reported it their own way, but it's easy to see it's a piece of real life. We we've seen I mean it it's just it just rings true in how it's told. And this time Peter is hemmed in. These people are convinced now that they had seen Peter with Christ. Now they're not not guessing anymore. They're they have no second thoughts. These guys aren't gonna be as easy to dissuade. They're confident that Peter is a disciple. And they're gonna keep badgering him until he admits it. And Peter knows now he's hemmed in, he's in trouble. Jesus was from Galilee, and so was Peter. Peter's accent betrays him. He can't deny that he is a Galilean. And he can't tell these people who are sure of themselves that they don't know what they say. But he's about to try. We're told that Peter began to curse and swear. Based on what we see as the biblical definitions, we can see that what we think of when we heard curse and swear is not what these guys were doing. I'll quote from John MacArthur here. The verb curse from the Greek word anamethetizo, from which the English word aneth anathematize is derived, indicates that Peter pronounced a curse of divine judgment on his own head if he were lying. That's what a curse is. The verb to swear, a form of omnuo, refers to a solemn pledge of truthfulness. What began as a knee jerk reaction to the inquiry of a servant girl had escalated into a premeditated tirada of dogmatic deceit and disloyalty punctuated with cursing and swearing that echoed throughout the courtyard. When we think of cursing and swearing, we usually think of a bunch of four-letter words. We can get very dogmatic about those words. But from what I've seen, the emphasis in scripture is not so much on which words we choose in our vocabulary. But the content of what it is that we are saying. Here Peter was placing a curse upon himself if he was lying. And he was lying. And it's a good thing that God forgives even. These sins. He was pledging to God his truthfulness while he was lying about knowing the Savior. Both the cursing and swearing involve speech before God, appealing to God as a witness. They were appealing to God's judgment in order to be believed. This is precisely the kind of swearing and cursing that God that the Lord had forbidden, that Jesus had taught against. Jesus had told the disciples not to swear. He said, but let your yes be yes and your no be no. Peter was forgetting his teaching rapidly. I guess this might be a good time to say that we need to define the words that Scripture uses. before we can accurately apply them. It's dangerous when we assume that we know what the words mean without looking into them. It's easy to completely miss the mark of an application when we get our definitions wrong. I've never really considered that what Peter did here was doubly damning. Not only was he denying that he knew Christ, which that really stands out to us as we read it, without without any help, but he was Calling upon God to judge him if he were not telling the truth. Can you imagine how this would have impacted Peter when the truth dawned on him? He is not going to forget what he said in God's presence. He did something worthy of damnation, and then he had called down God's judgment upon himself in doing it. How easy it would have been for him to think all is lost. How could Could Christ possibly forgive him with what he had just done? How easy to think that he is beyond forgiveness. This is going to make or break Peter. Satan is going to sift Peter like wheat, just like he had asked. And Peter had just handed him the perfect tool guilt. Honest to goodness, no way to deny, hidden. Peter's either going to learn the w glorious, wonderful , amazing , awesome depths of God's grace and how to apply it in his life. Or he's going to join Judas in self-condemnation and hopelessness. But this story isn't over. Then Peter called to mind the word that Jesus had said to him. Before the rooster Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And when he thought about it, he wept. Now it hits Peter. Now it hits him. The Holy Spirit scores a hit. Peter gets it. He understands the depths of his depravity in a way only Only failure will teach us. It's easy for us to accept total depravity in theory. The doctrine is kind of easy to accept as a principle. It's something different to feel it in your own agony. I really like this line. It's so understated. And when he thought about it, He wept. Isn't that the story of our lives? When we thought about what we did and why we did it. We wept. We didn't weep when we did it. A lot of times that's the case. At the time we felt like we were doing something we had to do, or something we wanted to do, or something that wasn't a big deal, or or whatever. We had all kinds of reasons it seemed Reasonable to us. But when we thought about it, then we wept. Oh, that we would save ourselves so much trouble. Oh that That we would think about it first. Oh, that we would avoid the things that are going to lead to our weeping. We often know what they are. Oh, we might not see the hurt coming our way, but we hear God's warning. We read his loving admonition and his commands. We know what he wants, but we want what we want. And only after doing it, and then thinking about it, do we weep. No that if God forbids it and you do it, there's going to be weeping. Or if God commands it and you refuse to do it, there's going to be weeping. Weeping is in your future. When you're sinning against God. Ask any believer who married a non-believer. Ask any believing spouse that had cheated on their spouse. Ask any kid who has rebelled his way out from under his parents' authority. Well when he thought about it, he wept. And what we see next is what really drives the message home. We're told this in Luke, Luke 22, 54 through 62. And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said to him, Before the rooster crows, you'll deny me three times. So Peter went out and wept. Bitterly. The Lord turned and looked at Peter. Evidently, Jesus was in a spot temporarily where Peter and Christ could see each other. At this very opportune moment, Jesus looks at Peter. There are several things to notice. First, our failures and rebellions and disobediences are always done in Christ's name. presence. It isn't like he'll find out one day. It isn't like the humans that surround us. Christ knows right now. When Christ saw Peter, Peter knew Christ knew what Peter had said. Done. Second, the word for looked is the same word that was used when Christ initially looked at Peter. It was a positive word, a relational look, a loving look. But in this instance it had to also contain her. Christ had to take what Peter had done personally as a human. Now, put yourself in Christ's place. Can you imagine your next comment to God if you had been Jesus here? Yes, God. Just what I needed. Wouldn't that be like us? I I really needed my best friend to deny he even knows me right now. Don't I have enough on my place? Wouldn't we complain bitterly at this point? Wouldn't we savor that grudge? That's us, but that wasn't Christ. Christ held on to the big picture, even in the midst of the worst relational death. Here's a great lesson for us to follow. Even when trial falls on trial, God will pull us through. We can trust in Him in that. He is there, and he has good intentions for us that he is sure to carry out. I remember calling out to God at one point in my life, Lord, I don't need this. The odd thing is I've I've lived long enough to know Yes I did. Yes I did. I didn't know how I was gonna make it through the trial. trial, but God did, and that's how all of our trials are. And we may think, God, I don't need this. But yeah, we do. Christ looked lovingly at Peter, and at that moment that would have even increased Peter's pain. Christ did not break off communion with Peter, even though it was Peter's sin along with ours that broke off Christ's communion with his Father. How loving our Lord is. Is to us. How loving our Lord is, period. His ministry to Peter in the midst of his pain is just incredible. Peter had a lot more pain. To experience. Christ was going to be gone for three days. And during that time, Peter's sin was going to punish him. That is the nature of sin. Sin punishes. That's how it is. Imagine. Imagine what Peter was going to go through. He didn't know what the repercussions of what he did were going to be. Regret had to loom very large in his mind every waking hour. Do we know how that feels? And didn't Christ say, Therefore, whoever confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before Men. Him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. Didn't Christ say that? Think about that. Was this true? Was Peter now doomed because he had denied Christ? There's no denying the fact that Peter denied Christ. And here's a passage that condemned that very action. This had to weigh heavy in Peter's thoughts. I think there's a lesson here of how Now we we need to be very careful how we use Scripture. We have to avoid the error of Job's friends, who use the fact of God's holiness to condemn Job with all the truth they knew about God. And they were right about most of it. We need to remember that there's more to God than his justice and his wrath. There's always his grace. And the fact that we have done a sin does not mean that that sin defines us. Paul explains the difference in First Corinthians six nine through through eleven. He says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers. nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards. I think covetous is thrown in there just to get us all. Nor revilers nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. Well, isn't that all of us? Isn't that us? We've we've committed those sins, some of them, our favorites. And such were some of you, Paul goes on to say, but you were washed. But you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. Just because we are guilty of committing a sin doesn't mean we are condemned for that sin. If we confess our sins, God is faithful. faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Sin is condemned. God hates sin, and those who love sin and are committed to it will be condemned as well. Those are facts. But those who repent can be forgiven forgiven of any sin, no matter how damning it might look. We've got to remember that for ourselves and we've got to apply that to everyone we minister to. Now, we simply can't stick to our text this morning. We can't do that any more than the twilight can hold back the coming sunrise. We need to move to hope. We need to see the grace of God in the face of. We know that Peter did not keep himself in isolation. First good thing that Peter did. That's a very good start. He went to be with the eleven. In John 22 through ten, it was Peter and John who raced to the empty tomb and it was Peter who first saw the risen Christ. In First Corinthians fifteen five we see that he was with the or no, it that's first thing first Corinthians fifteen five that Peter was the first to see the risen Christ. He was with the disciples in the upper room. He went to Galilee to wait for the Lord, and it was there that Jesus did his restoration to this hurting disciple. As John twenty-one, fifteen through seventeen recounts for us. So when they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my lamb. He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? And he said, He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And he said to him, Shepherd my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, Son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. Do you know that I love you? And Jesus said to him, Tend to my sheep. Isn't this wonderful? Isn't it absolutely amazingly wonderful? Isn't this just like God? Jesus restores Peter to the ministry of feeding his sheep. He doesn't make him pay. He doesn't rub it in his face. He simply asks the relevant question. Do you love me? No matter what you said or what you did in the past, do you love me? How about now? Do you love me? I don't want to go into this text too deeply, but I just want to show that Peter got more than forgiveness for his terrible failure. He got restoration. Oh, how he failed Christ would never be erased in Peter's mind. He would always have this monument to the failure of his flesh. He would always have this painful reminder of what he was. He would always have that monument to grace in his history. He may wish forever that he did not, but he does. And it will make him a better minister. Those who need grace most can dispense it the best. God's best ministers are the ones who have most experienced their own need. for grace. What a joy this principle can be to us. What a wonderful truth. Let me reask the initial questions. Have you ever failed the Lord? Have you ever failed him in a way that you thought you could not be forgiven? Have you ever failed him in a way that you felt that you couldn't go to him for forgiveness? Have you failed him in a way that you thought you lost any chance of fellowship? With God's people? Have you failed him in a way that you knew any chance of leadership position was gone? Have you ever thought you've done irreparable damage to the reputation of Christ? Christ. And the greatest condemnation came in the fact that you knew better, but you did it anyway. Peter did all of this. And Christ forgave him and restored him. And Peter serves as an example to what Christ will do to repentant sinners. I think this story exists to remind us of the grace of God. It's like the towers that they would build of rocks when they would cross the rivers. In the Old Testament. Here is a monument in one of the favorites of Christ, of the grace of God, that is needed. In every believer's life. It's there to encourage us in that no matter what we have done, we can be forgiven and we can be restored. Praise God for his amazing grace. Let's sing uh