Well, to get the full picture of our text this morning, we need to take a look at a parallel passage in Matthew. That's Matthew chapter 20, verses 20 through 20. twenty eight. It tells the same story, but some of the details are revealed a little bit differently. In verse 20 it says, Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to Christ with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him. And he said to her, What do you wish? And she said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit one on your right hand and the other on your left in your kingdom. But Jesus answered and said, You don't know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup? cup that I'm about to drink and be baptized with the baptism that I'm about to be baptized with? And they said, We're able. So he said to them, You will indeed drink my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with. But to sit on my right hand And on my left is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it is prepared by my father. And when the ten heard it they were greatly displeased with the two brothers. But Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them, yet it shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant, and whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your slave. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his ransom, his life a ransom for many. Now it's important to understand that the mother of James and John was probably Salome. And Salome Was the sister of Mary, Jesus' mother. So this was very clearly a play by these disciples to use family relationships as leverage to get what they want. James and John had clearly calculated. What their best chance was at procuring a good management position. They probably figured their mother was an ace in the hole in this, because that's something that the other disciples didn't have. Jesus would have had an element of respect for his. mother 's sister for his aunt. James and John may have thought that Jesus would be foolish enough to grant their request if coming from his aunt without ever hearing the request. We can rest assured that James and John had discussed this strategy in advance. They planned it out. They thought about exactly what they should say and how they should say it to in order to most assure Their success in this plan. We can also guess that they didn't care how this would affect the rest of the disciples. Think about it. They were not going to be able to keep this secret. They would have known the animosity it would raise with the rest of the group. Surely. I mean they weren't that out of touch. But they cared more about their power seat than they did about the rest of the disciples. It's very likely that the idea for this request had its origins in James and John, so Mark could leave out Salome out of the picture in his narration, and it did really little change the story or the outcome of the story. But Matthew did include Salome. Now Jesus had just told the disciples that he was gonna d going to Jerusalem to die. But these disciples were future death. All through. They they could never Hear the future, the words about the future. Whenever Jesus started talking about what was going to happen to him, they couldn't hear. It wouldn't register in their brains. They couldn't believe it. Obviously, again, these two disciples serve as an example. That we should not follow. Rather than focus on the needs of Jesus, rather than listen to him and prepare for what he has said, all that ran through their minds was how to gain an advantage for themselves. How to make it work out well for these guys. It was interesting at my job at a corporation, watching people jockeying for the best position. I guess it doesn't really matter how big the organization is, that's always happening. And then once they got their positions, it was interesting watching them jockeying for influence with those who were higher on the ladder than they were. And nothing ever changes. In the world that's what happens. But this should never be happening inside the church. We can't allow that part of ourselves to be active in trying to jockey for better positions of authority and influence inside the church, whether they're official or unofficial uh statuses. How saddened Jesus must have been at this request. Can you imagine being in Jesus' shoes? Can you imagine being in that spot? He only had a short time left. He had weeks. And here is his Really, is this the best they can do? Then Mark ten thirty five says, Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him saying, Teacher, we want you to do And they said, Grant us that we may sit, one on your right hand and the other on your left. And then again in Matthew, then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him, basically, kneeling down and asking him something. So James and John and Salome approach Christ. Well, that's good. That's a good thing, good starting point. That's a good thing for us to do. Approach Christ. They kneel down. They're reading. Really gone out of the way on this thought-through strategy, kneeling down would have displayed that they regarded Christ as being their superior. It would have also shown an outward compliance to his will. So their positive Posturing all the right things. They're looking really good when they show up. They have signs of it. This is a good in encounter. Then they together somehow ask Jesus to grant a request. By the way it's worded, it looks like a good thing. It looks like they wanted Jesus to agree to granting the request without ever hearing what it was. They should have known by now that such an approach would never work with Christ. After all, he knew the hearts of men. We've already seen that. He doesn't exactly drop everything when somebody plays the family card. So what's the request? They said to him, Grant us that we may sit one on your right hand and the other on your left in glory. And uh Salome said to him, Grant Grant that these two sons of mine may sit one on your right hand and the other on the left in your kingdom. It isn't real hard to to imagine this situation, given that we have two different uh accounts and they appear to have uh they have an apparent consequence. contradiction, but wouldn't have to be. Uh first the mother asks her sons to get the asks for the her sons to get these choice positions, and we can imagine Jesus standing there saying nothing. In fact Maybe he acts like he didn't even hear what she said. Then James and John kick in thinking that they need to help Jesus understand it, so they say it again. Or c it could have happened the other way around. Maybe the sons first say it and then Salome says it. We don't know. But it's It's easy to see how that would have been the the case. Now, you know, if this request had been different, this event could have had a very different ending. Think of all the things that they could have said. Coming to Christ, all of them together kneeling at his feet. Think of all the genuine responses that would have been fitting in that position. They could have kneeled down and praised him. Certainly he was worthy of praise. They could have kneeled down and asked for forgiveness, because surely they were becoming aware of their sins. They could have kneeled down and asked Jesus for all the things that they longed for in In order to better serve and please him. Wonderful request, perfectly fitting, something that would have honored Christ, something he could have granted. This could have been a very good thing. But in the gospel, of worshiping Christ, they are really just trying to use Christ to worship themselves. Does that remind you of any other scripture? James four. 1 through 10. Where do wars and fights come from among you? Don't they come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? You lust and don't have? You murder and covet and can't obtain? You fight in war, yet you don't have because you do not ask. Then the next part is what really applies to these guys in this setting. Verse three, you ask and do not receive. That's what happened here. They asked you. They didn't receive. Why? Because you ask amiss that you may spend it on your pleasures. Adulterers and adulteresses. I mean, that is extremely strong language. That's way stronger than what what it is when we read it. Very negative. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? And that's what they're displaying here. They want to be a big shot in that world. Whoever, therefore, wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain, the Spirit who dwells in us yearns jealously? But he gives more grace. Therefore he says, God Resist the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Therefore submit to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he'll draw near to you. Cleanse. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Lament and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. Both of these texts are addressing the same thing. It's the uh problem of approaching God with a backwards perspective. How easy it is to fool ourselves. Aren't we experts at that? How easy it is to think that because we're kneeling before God, that we are even praying to God, that we have gotten ourselves into a compliant metal attitude before God. To think that we are petitioning for things that God wants. Just because we are getting ourselves in some state or in some, you know, some framework, it's so easy to fool ourselves. To think that we are really seeking God's will at that point, that we are really behind what God says. Prayer was never designed as a way for fleshly people to fulfill fleshly desires. If that's how we seek Prayer. If that's how we approach God, we're going about it all backwards. Look at the prayer that the Lord prayed. Look how it starts. Look at the mindset toward God that it assumes before it ever asks for a single personal need. In Matthew six, ten, the beginning of uh the Lord's Prayer, verse nine, in this manner, therefore, pray. Okay? Jesus is saying, This is how you do it. Guys. This is how you pray. And these guys had already heard this. This is how you do it. You start with our Father who our Father in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Your kingdom come. Your kingdom. will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Prayer as Jesus taught it always begins with God. Prayer as Jesus taught it always begins with God. It begins with what he wants. And it starts with our reorientation to God's will. That's where prayer ought to start. A reorientation of our hearts and our minds and our thoughts to God's will. Will. First, we consider who God is. Before we go on to ask for things, we consider who God is. He's hallowed. He's holy. He is the one to be worshipped. We start there. Then we move to what life is about , even before we get to the asking part. We picture God, we come before God, we remember who we are in front of. front of. And then we reorient to what life is about. It's all about God's kingdom. And what about God's kingdom? It is about it being accomplished on earth In us like it is in heaven. It's not about doing uh God doing our will, it's about us becoming obsessed with his will. How often have we got Backwards and we've gotten ourselves in a spiritual death spiral because we approach it backwards. We come to God with what we want, our expectations, our desires, our things that we we feel deeply our needs. And then we know that he can do what he asks us or what we're asking him to do, but he doesn't do it. And maybe he won't do it. And down we go, adding one wrong conclusion to the next one. And we waste our time and we do ourselves and everyone in our path harm instead of good. We proclaim the wisdom of unbelief, and we we proclaim the foolishness of faith without. needing to speak a word. This isn't just depression. It's fruit of unbelief. And the whole problem is that we didn't start at the proper starting point. We didn't start with a true reverence for God. We may think we did, but we proved by our actions in the long run what we really believe. We didn't start with a reorientation to wanting God's will in our our lives no matter what it might cost us. Really, when is the last time that kind of orientation, that kind of solid trust and submission to God got you in trouble? Really? When is the last time that that kind of trust, that kind of submission to God got you in trouble? When's the last time it led you to to unbelief? When has it led to powerlessness or hopelessness? That orientation does not travel down that path. If only Salome and James and John had started there, the rest of our story would be so much better. And they did get there eventually. If only we would start there. The story of our lives would be so different, so much better. So Jesus responds to James and John's fleshly. Request. Jesus said to them, You don't know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? What James and John think they are asking is And what they are really asking are two different things. What they think they are asking for is a cushy power seat in a new political kingdom. What they're really asking for is to be the next in line for the same kind of Now, if they were applying for the later, which they really were, but they didn't know it, if they were applying to suffer, then the next question Ought to be, well, are you qualified? Can you suffer? And how would you show your qualifications for the Christ's kingdom? It would be by your ability to suffer for Christ's sake. So that's the question, Christ says. Well, you're signed up for the job, you qualified? It's essentially are you able to handle the same kind of suffering that I'm about to experience? Because that's what you're signing up for. And what was their response? Typical, you would expect it. As predictable as a sunrise. They said, We're able. We could do this. Ambitious flesh always overestimates its abilities. And people often lie to get a good job. James and John think that. their request is actually being considered here. You can see it. You can see it in the dynamic of the story. They think they have a chance to accomplish what it is that they're asking for. They smell success. So they're likely going to say anything to keep this conversation going. Because it's going down the path they think they want it to. Sure, we're the right people for this position. Whatever it takes, we'll find a way to do it. We're with you, Christ. We've got your back. We'll do whatever you say. Just let us have the job. It strikes me that often. All of us were a bit like this when we first came to Christ. We had very little idea what we were signing up for. We didn't know ourselves, we didn't know the cost of discipleship, we didn't know God. In fact, we didn't know much of anything. But we said, yes, we want this. And then as life went on, we found out what the this is. And some people bail out, some people don't. These guys would find out what the this is. Jesus said to them, You will indeed drink the cup that I drink, and with the baptism I am baptized, you will be baptized. Who was the first disciple martyred? James. He was the first. to go. And what about John? Well, he was actually, as far as we know, the last to go. But he too suffered. He may have died of natural causes, but he probably died in prison away from his friends and family. So These guys did show themselves able to suffer well in the long run. In the long run. Right at that moment, they wouldn't have passed the test. But in the long run they did show themselves. In the short, they ran just like everybody else. But eventually they grew into their calling and accepted the price of following Christ. Eventually they did share in the cup that Christ drank. And isn't that encouraging too? That even in our failures, even when we don't know ourselves at all, Even when we we are acting in flesh, but we are truly believers, that God reaches out to us and brings us to the place where we can be successful in his kingdom, where we can do the things that he wants us to do and be the people that he wants us to do. us to be. God will get his people where God wants them. And we can be thankful for that. So they would share in the cup, but Christ goes on to talk about the positions that they were requesting. And here he does something odd. He essentially says that he's not in charge of human resources placement. He's not the HR director in this campaign. He says, but to sit on my right hand and on my left, that's not mine to give. But it is For those for whom it is prepared. Essentially, Christ's answer, if I understand it right, is this isn't in my authority. This is not what I'm supposed to be doing. This shows us something about Christ and his relationship to his father. Christ is per s perfectly submissive to his father and they both have different jobs. This isn't in the realm of Christ's responsibilities or duties. God's got it covered. But second, look at how it's worded. This is very interesting to me. We can see that preparation is done for these positions. And isn't it odd that the people are not prepared for the positions? But the positions are prepared for the people. I don't know what that means. I I don't know what the significance of that is. It would be interesting to talk about in Sunday school. But uh that's what it says. There are people who will sit on Christ's left and on his right, but that's God's business. Now, the next verse is probably one of the least surprising verses in the Bible. Verse 41. And when the ten heard it, they began to be greatly displeased with James and John. That's gotta be an understatement. Yep. That would be about how every one of us would respond. We would all feel like that, you know. What are we? Chop liver? Who do you think you are? And uh we would be right to feel that way. But even more than this, James and John were doing something that all these guys seem to want to do. And you see that in the dynamic as well. They're probably not so upset that James and John are scrambling for the top spot. They're probably more upset that it could have worked and bumped all the others out of the running. They were more concerned about the success of their attempt than the inappropriateness of their attempt. Now Jesus calls everyone. Everyone together and uses this as one more teaching and you you can think of James and John can't be thinking this is going to be a good thing. Because now Jesus says, Well, let's talk about this all together. It isn't like The first time that he said this, and it won't be the last. It's something that these guys and we really need to learn. Verse 42. But Jesus called them to himself and said to them, You know that those who are considered rulers over the Gentiles lorded over. them and their great ones exercise authority over them. I borrowed a short quote from John MacArthur. He says, rulers were and still are, and I think we can see it in the news every day, ambitious, autocratic. Self -promoting, confident, arrogant, prideful, dictatorial, and domineering. The world has always been filled with ambitious, overconfident, competitive self-promoters. Who know no limits to their ambition. Many reach the heights of power. Driven by corrupt, proud hearts, they seek power at the expense of others. Ambition, overconfidence, and competitiveness. Mark the worldly pursuits of greatness by self promotion. That's end a quote. Our flesh craves such power. We all have in us a desire to be God. We want everyone to serve our wishes. If you were to fantasize the ultimate fleshly experience, it would involve in some manner, other people serving your wishes and us being the center of that small universe. Powers seeks appeal to flesh. They always have, and they always have Always will. But that's not how the kingdom of God is supposed to run. Verse 43, Christ says, Yet it shall not be so among you. This is pretty straightforward. The church. Church is not a place where anyone in authority is to get a fleshly payoff for being so placed. Brad and Mark and Jeremiah and I don't get to tell you what to do at some whim we might have. We can't commit. Command you to come over and mow our grass. It's just the idea of it's pretty funny. Or command you to volunteer for some service that we might even think is important. The kingdom doesn't work that way. We have little authority That is self-serving. The authority that we carry is to apply the Word of God in such a way that will do you good even when it doesn't feel like it's doing you good. I can assure you that since these guys have expected. accepted leadership positions, they've probably done more work for you than they've previously done. I don't know if that's true, but I suspect it is. Nope. Leadership in the church does not give us power. For selfish payoff. But whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant, and whoever of you desires to be first shall be slave of all. This would have been an amazing concept to these guys. That's why it was They were so slow to get it. They just didn't want it, for one thing. But they couldn't imagine it being true. Even the Jewish rabbis would have seen it differently. Do you want to be a great one in the kingdom of God? You know, that's really The question. Do you want to be a great one in the kingdom of God? Well, that's a good ambition. That's an excellent ambition. Do you want to be an exceptional, exceptional person for God? Do you want to be cut apart from the herd and be so someone noteworthy in the kingdom of God? That's not a bad question. It's a good one. That's a good thing to want to be. I hope there's something in all of us that says, yeah, I want to be that kind of person. I want to be exceptional in the kingdom of God. I want to be uh I want to be someone who excels in the kingdom of God. Christ surely deserves that from me. I want to I want to serve Christ in a great way. Okay, how do I do it? How do I accomplish that? Well , start by looking around this morning, looking at the people sitting next to you, thinking of all the people who would normally be here, or maybe should be here. Serve every one of 'em. Not real complicated. Serve every one of 'em. Get to know 'em, find out what they need, and spend yourself to bring it to 'em. And this applies to more than just inside of our church. Outside as well, believers that we know, serving them, non-believers that we know, serving them in an effort to bring them the gospel. Steve Van Balkenberg challenged us to pray for each other and to pray for others. That's a loving Christian ministry. We don't get anything out of it. In fact, if we do it right, nobody even knows we did it. But often God will lead us to do more than pray. We're often led to use our time and resources to meet those needs. But like Caleb said, we don't know each other's needs and we're not talking to each other. So how do we We know if we're getting better at this, your service to others becomes freer and freer. You become more and more absorbed with it, and it seems like less and less of a sacrifice. Then Christ finishes what he has to say. Verse forty five For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. So who's the best example of what we're supposed to be? Who did best the things we're supposed to do? The author of our faith. Jesus Himself. Let me ask you, who was the person in the universe who most deserved the service of every human on this planet. That would be Jesus. And who displayed himself as being the best servant that this world has ever known? That would be Jesus. We can rest assured in this. Even if we get to be the best we can possibly be at serving others, we will never live up to the example that Christ has set for us. We'll never serve as selflessly and as effectively. And as graciously as he did. But you know what? Trying to serve as well as Christ while we are looking to only please Christ is never going to hurt us. Trying to serve as well as Christ while we look to please Christ is only going to do good. Let's close the prayer.