Okay. And you look to this last week. Okay. All right. I thought we were done with our study of Daniel 7, and then I attended a meeting by Wally Weeks, the pastor of Pleasant View. And the meeting had in it a guy named Scott Callahan, and he is the professor of Hebrew at the Institute of Public Theology. And he he was representing the founders group, who are a group of like-minded people who are trying to bring back churches to taking the Word of God accurately and seriously. So it was very Very like-minded people. Anyway, he pointed out something about chapter seven that I had missed entirely in my study. And then Daniel Sisler, who was there also, pointed out a book to me that I had not known about. And it's titled With the Clouds of Heaven by James Hamilton As a result, it challenged some of my views on Daniel. I would like to say it changed my views, but it's hard to say change a position that you've not arrived at yet. So uh it at least inspired more thought. I've determined that even retirement does not provide me enough time to understand the book of Daniel. It has been a very frustrating process for me. It's been helpful, and I'm sure it's been useful, but it's been difficult. So let's trudge forward and focus on the things that are most clear. And please, I hope you're studying with me so that you can bring to me some of the insights that you've got that I miss. First, we start with a chiasm in the book of Daniel. And this is not something that maybe you or I would spot, but a Hebrew scholar would. Chiasm is is something that builds to a point and then it has a matching path back to the original point. So this chiasm looks like this. You've got Daniel, imagine it going in steps. And then going back in steps. You've got Daniel in exile, chapter 1. Daniel 2. is the the statue of the four kingdoms and the everlasting dominion. So you've got kingdoms. So one is exile, two is the kingdoms, then third is They were delivered from the fiery furnace. So you have deliverance. Then Daniel 4 and 5 are both A result of humans being humbled. Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 4, Belshazzar in Daniel 5. Then Daniel 6, we're back to deliver. We've got Daniel delivered from the lion's den. Then Daniel 7 through 9, we have visions. Now, Daniel. 2, we had a statue. In 7 through 9, we have visions, but we have four kingdoms and an everlasting dominion. So you've got the same thing gotten to by different ways, different routes. And then Daniel 10 and 11, or 10 through 12, we have return from exile. So we've got exile, four kingdoms, delivered, humbled, humbled, delivered , four kingdoms returned from exile. That's a chiasm. Now, if this chiasm was the intended meeting, we allow the chiasm to direct our study. It gives us a clue into how we should take it. It actually helps our interpretation. It allows a mechanism in Scripture to help us understand Scripture, much like parallelism does for us. Remember when we were going through, especially in Psalms, It's used a lot in the Old Testament. In parallelism, the same thing is said two different ways. So you've got a statement A second statement, the second statement means nearly identical to what the first statement is, it's just poetically put different. And then that gives us an insight and says, oh, I I know now I have both of these sentences more clearly because they're saying the same thing. That helps me to understand. So we know that when parallelism is being employed, we're given a greater insight into the text. Well a chiasm is the same kind of literary device. It helps us to know how to interpret it. The most important point that we can get is that we can expect Daniel 2 and Daniel 7 and 9 to be very similar. That's why it was so helpful to me this week, or the week that I studied this. If we can assume that the four kingdoms in Daniel 2 are the same kingdoms as Daniel 7, we can now build on that and learn more about them from both passages. Plus, we don't need to be as confused about what they are. James Hamilton, in that book I referred to, presents the prophecies in Daniel like this. He says they're all about the same four kingdoms. Some focus on all four. Daniel 2 and Daniel 7 and Daniel 11 through 12 deal with four kingdoms Chapter eight, which we're going to get to next week, only deals with two of those four kingdoms, the middle ones. Mr. Hamilton takes great effort to show that there are a whole lot of similarities between the results of the third And the fourth kingdoms. In fact, when you read them, you get confused. You think, well, there's a little horn, there's a little horn. They must be the same little horn. No, they're not. And that 's difficult to deal with. But Babylon is the first kingdom. The Medes and Persians are the second kingdom. Greece is the third kingdom. And Rome is the fourth kingdom And depending on how you see it, a revived Roman kingdom may be the fourth kingdom, part two. We don't know. But Mr. Hamilton's point is that Antiochus Epiphanes, and we're going to deal with him in some detail Next week, conquered Jerusalem, and he sacked the city, and he sacrificed a pig on the temple altar. It was considered the abomination of desolation. We're going to get to that more too next week. Then again, in 70 AD, Titus in the Roman government sacked the city and destroyed the temple. Mr. Hamilton says you start getting a pattern. This pattern emerges. And the pattern of activity of the arch enemy of God's people includes vicious persecution. Self-exaltation, an attempt to stamp out the worship of God, and an unexpected demise of the wicked king. Persecution, self-exaltation, stamping out the worship, and unexpected demise of the wicked king. through which God's people are saved. That happened with Nebuchadnezzar and all the kings afterwards in these beasts. And that's what we can expect. Then there's also a pattern of the part the little horn plays in two kingdoms: the third kingdom and the fourth kingdom, in the Greek kingdom and in the Roman kingdom. He says this. The elements of this pattern are straightforward. One, at the time of the end, two, a king of exaggerated wickedness arises Three, who attacks God's people, and four, tries to keep them from worshiping him. I I think I put all of these in Slack if you follow their so you'd be able to get these again. Five, setting up instead an abomination of desolation. Six, thereupon a horrible time of tribulation will continue for three and a half years seven, before the wicked king meets sudden irreversible destruction, and eight, resulting in deliverance for the righteous This is admittedly a composite of what Daniel describes in more detail could no doubt be added to the pattern. So what he's saying is we see the same thing happen in the third kingdom as we see in the fourth kingdom. And there are those who argue that this is what we will also see at the end of time before right before the final judgment. So there's either two of these things happening or there's One happens and then the second was is foretelling what's going to happen in the future. Or there's a three. One happened in Greek, one happened in Romans, another one's going to happen at the end of time. They're all going to look the same. Which is kind of remarkable, except the devil knows what he wants to accomplish and he's gotten pretty good at it by now I had some trouble figuring out, but I think Mr. Hamilton is a futurist, believing that the little horn in Daniel Steven will arise and carry out this pattern. At the end of time, at the end of before the la final judgment. And his arguments were compelling As I studied what he said, I was thinking, that's all I need. More compelling, conflicting points of view. But that's what we got. But anyway, this may be helpful in our understanding of the kingdoms in Daniel It takes away the need to make every kingdom that seems to be the same to be the same. If the third kingdom desecrates the temple. That doesn't mean that the fourth kingdom can't do the same thing. And if the fourth does it, maybe the revived fourth kingdom can do it again. We don't know. Anyway, I felt that I needed to bring this to your attention, and it may be a motive of misery loves company. Uh-huh. Alright, now for the part of the study I really want to emphasize is the Son of Man This phrase is used 193 times, and most often it's used to describe mankind. Humans, in Scripture. If you go to Old Testament and you just read it for the Son of Man, you're going to find it used a whole lot of times. Numbers 23. 19 says, God is not man that he should lie, or a son of man that he should change his mind. That's a parallelism, by the way. He's saying the same thing twice. Has he said and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will he not fulfill it? So we're to understand that God is not like man. Parallelism is used. God is not a man. God is not a son of man. That means both of them are the same. Clearly, son of man here is intended to mean a man. God is not like a man. That's what it's saying. Here again, Psalms 8, 3 through 6, it says, When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, and the moon and the stars which you have set in place , What is man that you are mindful of him and the son of man that you care for him? Again, parallelism. It's the same thing. Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands, you have put all things under his feet. Notice here that David is amazed that God cares for mankind. He cares for the Son of Man, he cares for humans. And it's to humans that God gave dominion to man over the living creatures. He gave that to the Son of Man. You won't find that in some of the literature we see about treating animals nicely and all that, but that's what God says. I found only one reference to a son of man in the Old Testament that was clearly anything different than purely a man, and it's in our text this morning. Verse 13, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. Now look at this closely. It says, one like a son of man. He is like a man in ways, and he is not like a man in ways. Again, we we mentioned this pretty pretty consistently, but what a mystery that would have been to Daniel. What could he think about this? We see this son of man elevated by the ancient of days. It's remarkable. This is clearly not your usual son of man. And now we jump to the New Testament. The phrase Son of Man is used 115 times, and every time it is Jesus referring to himself. Here are some examples. Foxes have holes and birds of the year have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners, yet wisdom is justified by her deeds. For the Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth As time went on, it was clearer and clearer that Jesus is talking about the Daniel, son of man. Matthew 13, 41. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and lawbreakers. and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father who has ears, he who has ears let him hear. Now it's talking about the final judgment. Which remember, Daniel in that, like the son of man, that was talking about him being put on a throne to judge. And then Matthew 16, 28, it says, Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming into his kingdom. Every time Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man, he's referring to our text in Daniel 7. So that makes Daniel 7 a very, very important text to understanding Jesus, to understanding Jesus' mission, to understanding what Jesus said I never fully grasped the significance of that until the day I was studying this. When Jesus spoke to Jews They would have all had their minds drawn. Every time he says son of man, they would have had their minds drawn to this mysterious figure who had his own throne with the ancient of days He was granted authority and dominion. Every time Jesus said that phrase, Son of Man, he was letting those around him know he was that God man. That mystery in the Old Testament. That's who I am, Jesus was saying. Now look at Matthew 16, 13 Through 19. It says, Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea, Philippi asked his disciples, and this is it, I never caught this before, at least not that I remember , but I do forget. Who do people say that the Son of Man is? Who do people say that the Son of Man is? I always took that as who do people say that I am? That's not what he's saying. Who do people say that the Son of Man is? Now that looks like a theological question, doesn't it? When you look at Daniel and you see the Son of Man, who do you think that is? That's what he's asking. And he said, and they said, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. So they're answering this philosophical biblical question. Who's the son of man? Well, I don't know. It might be John the Baptist, it might be Elijah, it might be Jeremiah, I don't know. Okay, so that's what they think about theology. That's how they understand Daniel's reference to the Son of Man. But Jesus goes on. I call myself the Son of Man. I'm that guy. So he said to him, verse 15, he said, but who do you say that I am? That's a different question, I think. He's taken out this objective theology mode that, you know, we can all hide in that. You know, we can talk pretty theological And now he's putting it into a place of commitment. A place where they can't rest on somebody else's opinion. Who do you think that I am? Because I keep calling myself the son of man. Who do you think I am? And Simon Peter replied, You're the Christ, the Son of the living God. Peter may not have understood the Daniel reference, but he could answer this question. Wow, Peter did good this time. Jesus, while you you may somehow be a man, you're not like every other son of man. You're a different son of man altogether. You are the Messiah. You are the Son of the Living God. Now, Peter would have agreed that Jesus was like a son of man and that he had a human body and he dwelled in it with uh Most of its limitations, but his source was not man. He was not of man His source was God. He was God in flesh. Now he may not have completely understood that at this point, but he knew that there was something significantly different. about Jesus than everybody else. And that is the mystery in Daniel solved. Now, what does Jesus think of that answer? Jesus answered him and said, Blessed are you, Simon of Barjona, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. Knowing what we know of Peter, it may have been a bit of surprise that he got that question right. But he sure did. But he couldn't take credit for being so smart because he cheated. God gave him the answer. Now he didn't know that God gave him the answer, but God did. He could not have figured that one out, but there it is. The Son of Man in Daniel is God in the flesh. The Son of Man in Daniel is the Messiah. That 's something I'm sure Daniel would have loved to know. He probably could guess and make some educated guesses, but he did not know. And actually, the best clue for that the Messiah was the Son of God is in Psalms 110, 1 and 2. It says, the Lord said to my Lord. One's L-O-R-D, all capital letters says to my Lord, that's capital L , small letters. That's used In the translations to differentiate between some of the words. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. So the Lord's saying to the Lord, which are both superiors of David, that's the part that gives us the clue. that's so important for us. The Lord, and this is the big Lord, sends forth from Zion and your mighty scepter, that's the little Lord, rule in the midst of your enemies. I've read that this is the most quoted Old Testament verse in the New Testament because it's one of the clearest verses that shows that Jesus was God. It was used in Matthew 22, Acts 2, 1 Corinthians 15, Hebrews 1, and Hebrews 10. And these all describe the verse as an Old Testament passage proving that God is in at least two persons. Because both were greater than David. And it also describes the reign of Christ. In the Greek quoting of this verse, it uses the same word for Lord. So you have Big Lord and Little Lord are the same, the Kyrios. But in the Old Testament, two different words were used. Jehovah is the first word. Capital letters. And this is the Ancient of Days, God the Father. And the second is Adon, which is similar to Adonai, which is Christ, essentially. And it's clear in Hebrew that we're speaking of two persons of God. The picture is of God handing over the dominion of the nations and telling Christ to rule in it. Then Jesus goes on in verse 18, and I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. So it's on the truth of the revelation that the Son of Man in Daniel is truly God in the flesh. On that truth, Christ will build his church. That's the gospel message that we carry. That's how important this revelation in Daniel 7 is. Jesus used it as a constant point to affirm who he was to his people Then think about the reference to Christ building his church. Who is that church? Where do they come from? Daniel already spilled the beans on that one. Daniel 14, 714 it says, and to him, Christ, was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. Where's the church going to come from? Jesus can go back here to 14 and say, here's where it comes from People are going to follow me from all over the world. He's telling the disciples that the church is made of all peoples. He's letting the disciples know that Daniel was talking about the church. And then Daniel says, his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. So the Son of Man's kingdom is an eternal kingdom that stretches across the globe. People are going to be coming to Christ from lands that these twelve disciples didn't even know existed. I seriously doubt they knew about North America. They never heard of Maryland. But this kingdom is great. The disciples would have known the prophecy. It would have been one of those puzzlers for them growing up, like some of the passages we have, like uh The baptism for the dead passage. How'd that get in there? Things like that. This would have been one of those. So they knew the passage, they just didn't know what to make of it I don't think we can grasp the significance of what Jesus says next to them. When we read it, we don't read it with their eyes They knew of this amazing king and this amazing kingdom, but Jesus says this to them. Now keep in mind, they're thinking about Daniel. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven And whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. You guys are gonna be in charge of kingdom business. You're going to be doing important things in this eternal dominion. It was given from the ancient of days to the Son of Man, but these mere humans are going to play a significant part in it. Wow. I wonder if any of them got busy at this point. That would have been you can s you can almost picture all their jaws dropping. Now, next is the part that the Hebrew scholar brought to my attention, and I told him I was really embarrassed for missing it. You know, I felt like a novice. I felt like those people ought to fire me. Matthew 28, 18 through 20, it says, And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. When I'd study that, I wanted to get right to the heart of the thing, and I'd kind of skip over 18. But now after studying Daniel, it explodes with additional meaning. And again, the disciples would not have missed this reference. The Son of Man had been handed his authority in heaven and earth, just like Daniel said. I assume that this all happened once Jesus rose from the dead. This is prior to Jesus' ascension, and he's speaking past tense. So I assume what we see in Daniel has just happened Verse 14, and to him was given dominion and a glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should have served him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. But then in Ephesians 1:20 through 23, we get some more insight. Verse 20, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. So that tells us a little bit more. That after Christ's resurrection, he was seated at the right hand in heavenly places, far above rule and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named Not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him his head over all things to the church. which is the body, the fullness of him who fills all and all. So that's similar to what Daniel describes. And Ephesians tells us that it happened when God raised Christ from the dead. Could have it happened before that, and now it sort of rehappened. You know, the price took a hi hiatus when he came down here. I I don't know. I don't know exactly how all that works, but There might be a little clue here where it says, not only in this age, but also in the one to come, one is prior to the final judgment, the other is past the final judgment. So Daniel is describing something prior to the final judgment when he speaks of the Son of Man taking his seat on the throne. Or is he, is the question. Or is the Ancient of Days judging the nations prior to the final judgment, in verses nine and ten And then the Son of Man scene comes after that, that God has been judging for a while, then he comes, then Christ comes. And the more I look at it, I don't I don't think that the Ancient of Days is performing the final judgment in nine and ten. I don't think anything can make sense if the Ancient of Days sitting on his throne doing his judging is at the end of time. I think that that is going to come, but that's good. Christ is going to judge at the end of time. But that opinion could change tomorrow. So uh follow closely. Well, you didn't think we'd serve all uh w we would solve all the mysteries of Daniel this morning, I hope. We still have to leave a feel. But the big point here is just how significant our text is in the New Testament. That is the point that I'm really trying to drive home. Every time Jesus referred to himself as the Son of Man, he was referring to Daniel 7, and everybody knew it. When Jesus used that name, he was referring to his dual status: fully God, fully man. And he was claiming his right to be given his father's kingdom forever and ever Even when Jesus passed on the Great Commission to us, he was referring back to the heavenly scene that Daniel had already passed on to us. Now Jesus has all that authority over the kingdom of his church as prophesied in Daniel 7. Before Jesus was crucified, he said this to his disciples. John 16, 31. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. I have said all these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. Isn't that really our hope? The beasts are still beasting. The chaotic world winds are still blowing. Stuff keeps coming out of the sea of rebellion against God. But Christ has overcome the world. It's only a matter of time. It 's only a matter of time. Our victory is as certain as our existence if we are in Christ. In Christ, we may have peace. In the world, we will have tribulation. But we must take heart. Christ has overcome the world. It just doesn't look that way yet. He ain't done yet. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much again for your word. We thank you for that