Well, we begin where we left off last week. Christ is preparing his disciples for their preaching trip. And remember that we're looking at Matthew 10 and then 11, and it's a parallel text for our Mark text, but it goes into much greater detail, so by going over the Matthew text, We are covering it and the Mark text. So we're back at verse 17 at Matthew 10, 17. And Christ is continuing his discussion about what the disciples can very likely expect on their journey. Now what he was saying early on seemed to be specifically about this trip, but he begins to expand it, he broadens it out, and Christ talks about their ministries during their lifetimes now. Now it's not just what you can expect on this trip. But what you can expect when you do ministry for me. Verse 17, but beware of men, for they'll deliver you up to counsels and scourge you in their synagogues. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles But when they deliver you up, do not worry about how or what you should speak. For it will be given to you in that hour what you should speak. For it's not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you. Christ is warning these guys. And we gotta remember, they were guys just like us. I mean they were people just like us. They were humans, they lived in a in a day-in, day-out environment. And now they're being told to do something they had never done before, going out on this on this preaching trip. And Christ is warning them up front that the kingdom of God that is present Will not stop evil men from doing evil things. It's not going to work the way that they might have thought that it would work. During the disciples' ministry, wicked men will remain in power and spiritual leaders will remain heretical This is what will happen when you preach the gospel. It can't be avoided, no matter how you try. If you're representing Christ, this is what will happen. People are going to take you to their spiritual leaders, and those leaders will try to punish that truth out of you. They'll hate you and persecute you for doing what Christ says. And Christ is not going to immediately stop them from doing that. They needed to know that. So do we. Christ goes on. He tells them more. Not only will the spiritual Jewish leadership be corrupt, you'll also be dragged in front of the world's court. And they'll do the same thing to you. But Christ lets his disciples in on something here. He's doing this primarily because it allows the testimony of Christ into places that would not ordinarily receive it. That may be the salvation for some. It might be the damnation for others. But that's what's going to happen. So when it happens, realize this is a spiritual appointment set by God. When they give you that date, you're going to be drug in front of the governor. That is a spiritual appointment that God has set And realize that God will bring his resources to bay to handle that situation. In this particular setting, a believer does not have to concern himself with what he is going to say. The Holy Spirit will provide the speech. There are some who use this verse to say that a preacher doesn't have to study. He just needs to show up. And then the Holy Spirit will give him everything that he's supposed to say. That is a terrible misuse of this text, but loved by lazy preachers everywhere. I think this text is very much an exception to the rule of how we must prepare ourselves to speak for God And a studier of the Bible in Scripture is called a workman, implying work. So I don't think this verse can be used to get us out of that. Okay, so that's how outside authorities are going to deal with the truth being preached. But but how about our families? The place where we expect to be safe. How is that going to be? Verse 21. Now brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. Now remember when we read the word all, you've always got to take that in context. All does not mean everything, everyone, everywhere. Basically, in this context, you're going to have a representative of all areas hated, hating for my namesake. And what these disciples are seeing is there's no safety at home either. There's no safety on the road. There's no safety at home. This kingdom of God offers us no immediate protection from harm that the world can do us. That's what he's letting them know. Wherever there are people, there will be people who hate us as we declare the gospel. And why are we hated? Is it because we're so obnoxious? Hopefully not. That should not be the case. If we follow Christ's example, we'll remove the offense that comes from us. Our own selfishness. No, we're hated by Christ's namesake. Essentially, we'll be hated for representing Christ well. They're simply hating him through us. And it goes on, but he who endures to the end will be saved. When they persecute you in this city, flee to another. For assuredly I say to you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes. This has always been part of the Christian message. Christians are overcomers. I forget how many times in Revelation that's what a Christian is referred to as an overcomer. They keep on keeping on. And making it to the end is what's important. Whenever and however that end arrives, those who are truly Christ's children will persevere. They might not do it in a pretty fashion, but they'll make it to the end, even under great distress. As Christ continues, it becomes clear that Christ is talking about the future now. And he's describing exactly what will happen. This is exactly what happened in Acts. And it's still happening today. Believers in Iraq had that exact choice. That very choice, stay here and die, or get out of here It's in this passage that we learn that it's normally okay for a Christian to flee persecution. And that's a very good passage to have. We need that information. That is an available option. We can't fight back if we're being singled out for loving Christ, but we can leave. And as for the last line, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes? It seems to me that Christ is talking about the returning to the meeting place before the disciples have gotten to visit every city. It's like he jumps back into present time. That's the only way that it makes sense to me in in context And and it can still be true. That's how I understand it. Now Christ goes on. He's telling us about the cost of representing him. And he says in verse 24, A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It's enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher and a servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more will they call those of his household? Therefore, do not fear them For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed and hidden that will not be known. Remember that the disciples probably did not have a servant view of leadership. We've certainly seen that. Their arguments sh show their tendency to not understand that's what leadership is supposed to be Nor did they envision that a person's inclusion into the kingdom of God would be optional. It's like you can choose. They had visions of the kingdom being one of force, an iron hand So everything Jesus is saying would come very hard to them. Now Christ is telling them, this is what you can expect, guys. You've been around long enough to know. You've seen how I've been treated. You are going to be treated about like I am. Don't get the idea that you're going to be some kind of royalty. Don't think you're gonna walk into these places as a big shot and a head honcho. Nope. It'll be like I am, Christ is saying. And how do they treat me? They call me the devil in very demeaning terms. So if they treat me like this, you better get the point. They will surely do the same to you. We need to keep this in our minds. In our country, we have been protected from much persecution. But that can't last forever. The regard for Christians as a whole is being steadily eroded in our culture. So we find that we will receive more and more treatment that resembles the kind of treatment that Christ received. But look how we're to respond in the midst of that treatment. They treat us horribly. They accuse us of motives and actions that resemble nothing of the truth. Sound familiar? The issue at hand in our country right now is a very good example. Christians are being called haters of homosexuality. You can't almost separate those words Christian and hater in our world's vernacular. And while there certainly may be some Christians who actually do hate homosexuals, that does not describe most Christians. This is simply an issue where God defines some activity as being wrong, and many believers line up behind what they are convinced God has said. There may be no hatred at all for the people committing this particular sin. But since we stand against that lifestyle that's loved by so many, we must be motivated by hatred. the world around us concludes. Now they don't conclude that on a number of other things that they happen to stand against, but they do conclude that against Christians. So how are we to respond? This is as applicable to us today as it ever was. Christ said, do not fear them. Do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be made known. Might the parties that accuse us wrongly gain the power to harm us? Yeah. Might it cost us dearly, even our freedom? Yeah. Might it resemble sheep thrown into a wolf pack? Yeah, absolutely. Okay then. We ought to be afraid. No. Why? The play isn't over. This world is not the end. A God will stand in judgment one day and right all the wrongs and punish all the rebels who hate him. God knows what's going on. Just because he doesn't do anything yet doesn't mean that he will never do anything. We just need to wait patiently upon him. We talked about the rest of this text when we were talking about the difference between Jesus speaking in parables and how we're supposed to speak. Remember that where we were talking about uh nothing covered that will not be revealed. And Jesus is now working into how we are to present the gospel in such a clear fashion that he was kind of hiding in his parables. Verse twenty seven. Whatever I tell you in the dark, speak in the light, and what you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both bot soul and body in hell. This was spoken to the disciples before they went on their first preaching circuit. He was telling them this: fly your banner high. Fly your banner high. Don't back down. Don't be intimidated. Even though you know how it will be received by some. You know it's going to get you into trouble. Don't stop. And don't worry about those who can do you temporary harm. Consider only he who determines your eternal destiny. What a pep talk to ministers. Look how Jesus does not mince words. He does no sweet talking whatsoever. He tells no lies. He lays out the cost in perfect terms. Wally Weeks often uses a quote from Paul Washer that I like. He says that the message you save people with is what you save them to. The message you save people with is what you save them to. When we call people to Christ, we must call them to the gospel. It may cost everything. But it is worth everything. People must understand that you cannot add Christ to your existing life. If you understand the message properly, Christ is your life. Your life revolves around Christ as a Christian, and to die for him is an excellent use of your life. That's the essence that Christ was passing on to these twelve guys before he sent them out like sheep to wolves. Now Christ could have left it at that and said, just do it. I said so, like we do with our kids. Why should I do that? Well, I said so. And I'm bigger than you. But he didn't. He gave them more to think about. He gave them some comforting truths at this point. Stuff that he they can chew on later as they're facing this stuff Verse twenty nine, are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin? And not one of them falls to the ground apart from your father's will. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered Do not fear, therefore. You are of more value than many sparrows. When I lived in Elesburg, I worked for my dad. And my dad had a furniture and appliance store Now sometimes we would run wire and pipes to hook up customers' washing machines and dryers. And sometimes those wires would need to be run in a crawl space under a person's house. Well, that was b awful. That was awful work. There's no telling what was under there. And all that insulation that you're you know face to face with How many animals were up in there? You know, you ni you just didn't know. And spiders and it was awful. And if my brother or I were available, it was always us who would get those jobs. Why? Oddly enough, it's because we represented our father's interests more than any of the other employees. But we could have easily thought about that differently We could have thought that dad picks us for the ugly jobs because he cares about us least. But that wasn't true, at least I'm convinced of He actually cared about us most. And that's what made us fit to send. Our father was more committed to us, and we were more committed to him, and that that's what made us well suited to take on the worst jobs. Jesus is dealing with the disciples to convey the same sort of thing. The disciples may have thought Christ is sending us out to face these wolves because we don't matter We're expendable. He's sending us out like chess pieces he's willing to lose, like the pawns, you know. I don't know if you play chess, but uh you don't mind so much losing the pawns We really aren't that valuable to them, you might think. So the disciples may have overcome their fear of what would happen to them, but that led to another fear. The fear that they were not special to God The fear that they held no value to God. The fear that they were just expendable. And Christ overcomes that fear. In his mercy and his grace. He tells them that Christ cares about the valueless sparrows. And even their deaths are overseen and determined by God's will. But your value exceeds theirs a million fold. So don't fear that you are not valued by your father. You may come to an end much like theirs, but it'll never be meaningless or valueless. Christ always has you in his will and he values you. That is a true statement that we do well to embrace in our minds and to keep coming back to. It's the kind of truth that we know in our heads, don't we? I mean, would any of us get that wrong in a multiple choice question? But our hearts are often not convinced. It's easy for us to respond to God in a way that would portray that we really don't believe that God loves us. I mean, look at how we respond to God. Does it look like we're responding to Him like, boy, He really loves me? And those feelings and thoughts drive us to do things that don't make sense. Like rebellion or disobedience or apathy. When we trace it back, often what we really don't believe is that God really does love us just as we are. And he does. And he says he does. If you're his child. Verse 32. Therefore, whoever confesses me before men, I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. Christ is laying out before these departing disciples an important distinction between those he sends who will pay a great price and those who are not willing to pay a price. He's essentially saying that if you go out and do the job I've told you to do and don't back down, if you stick with the message, even when it costs you dearly. You can rest assured, I will be doing the same thing for you in front of my father. I will make sure you are safe. I will make sure you are rewarded. Just as you were true to me when presenting my message. If you'll represent me, trust me that I will represent you. That's what he's saying. How can you be in a better spot than to be represented by Jesus Christ Himself? But there's another alternative. There will be those who will not confess me The people who will try to kill you will not be confessing me. Neither will those who I send, but who cave into their fears. There will be some who prove themselves to have no faith. And just as they would not represent me, I will not represent them. Christ promises that. Not a promise we'd like to claim, but it's a truth. He who perseveres to the end is saved. You gotta stick with the whole process. And nice thing, I mean, we know there are examples where people failed and came back, like Peter, so it's not a perfect record or anything. But it it is a Christian will represent Christ and will die in that process. At this point, I'd like to read to you a story that that John MacArthur tells. In his book I Love Idi Amin, Festo Kavangere, a leading evangelical minister in Uganda, tells the history of persecution and martyrdom of Christians in that country. In 1885, three Christian boys ranging in age from 11 to 15 were forced to give up their lives for Christ because they would not renounce their faith in him. The king was adamantly opposed to Christianity and ordered the boys execution if they did not recant. At the place of execution, the boys asked that the following message be given to the king. Tell his majesty that he has put our bodies in the fire, but we won't be long in the fire. Soon we will be with Jesus, which is much better. But ask him to repent and change his mind, or he will land in a place of eternal fire. As they stood bound and awaiting death, they sang a song that soon became greatly loved by Christians in that country. As the martyr's song. One verse testifies, Oh, that I had wings like the angels, I would fly away and be with Jesus. The youngest of the boys, named Yusufhu, said, Please don't cut off my arms. I will not struggle in the fire that takes me to Jesus. Because of the boys' testimony that day, forty adults trusted in Jesus Christ for salvation. And indirectly, countless more converts were won to the Lord over a period of many years By 1887, a large number of other Christians were martyred, many of them inspired by the fearless loving testimony of those three boys. None of those martyrs knew much theology or much about the Bible, because most of them were illiterate and all of them were relatively new believers. But they had a deep love for Jesus that they refused to hide, no matter what the cost. As is nearly always the case, those who died were replaced several fold by new converts who came to Christ. Because of their testimony. That's just one example of what we may be called to. And it's what love for Christ looks like in the face of persecution. Christ will not deny these boys before his father. It's promised. Then Matthew goes on, do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be those of his own household. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Evidently, this is something that the disciples must have been tempted to think. And it would not be surprising. After all, didn't they expect to have the Messiah pull all the nation together as one? Wasn't the Messiah coming to improve community life in Israel? Wasn't it all about making things better? I mean, isn't that what they were looking forward to? Well, no. He was coming to rescue lost sinners for an eternal kingdom where peace would reign forever. That is his intent. So if they were thinking otherwise, they needed to stop thinking that right now. Did they? Probably not. They probably carried some of these assumptions with them until Christ was crucified. At that point, they had lots of reasons to rethink all of their assumptions. Think about how you would have felt if you were the disciples. Christ is telling you what you have to look forward to. Part of your ministry will be leaders of all kinds trying to shut you up and kill you. Now part of your ministry results will be to split families into open hostility against one another. And even more than that, if you're not willing to pay that cost as a family member, you will not enter into the kingdom of God. And it will fall to the disciples to tell people that. The potential followers will talk about the cost just being too great, and the disciples will have to say it is what it is. Christ is worth the cost. Follow Christ or don't follow Christ, that's your decision. The disciples were probably cringing when they thought about the implications. But Christ doesn't stop there. He goes on from talking about Christ costing you your family bliss, and he goes on to say this, and he doesn't take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. Now, when we hear this, when we as Christians hear this, we think of it symbolically. Take up a cross. We ask, what is my cross? And then we think of some silly things sometimes. What is the cross that I must bear for Christ? His audience didn't receive it that way. His audience would have heard, whoever is not willing to sit in an electric chair for me is not worthy of me. They understood what Christ was talking about was not figurative. It was a literal instrument of torture-filled and brutal death. So they got the point. To follow Christ meant to being willing to die for Christ. How about things going better with Christ? What about your best life now with Christ? What about all the positive thinking? What about the name it and claim it prosperity teaching? Yeah, what about it? That is not what Christ presented to his followers. He presented his worth. He presented a future city that would be worth it. He promised his love toward us. He promised to give the grace we need when we need it. But paying the price of death needs to be considered because Christ is worth it if we ever have the chance And if we aren't willing, he does not need or want followers like us. It's pretty straightforward. He said it. You don't find much of a picture of Christ with his hat in his hand begging sinners to follow him, like many evangelistic appeals today. Christ holds out his value and holds out our need. And it's the most wonderful opportunity in a lifetime when we have the opportunity to respond to his call on our lives, even knowing that it will cost us our lives. Verse 39, he who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. How much of our lives is spent trying to find our lives? How much of our lives is spent trying to find our lives? How much of our time is spent chasing after things or experiences that we think will fulfill us? That we think will make us happy? How much of our time do we live like the world around us? I look at the news on the internet, on uh Fox News, almost daily, and it's often that I see that someone in an obituary who has experienced things that most people chase in great in great degree, and these people are dead by taking their own life. Why? Intense unhappiness. They found their lives. But there was nothing there It's like peeling away all the skins of an onion and finding out there's nothing in the middle. That's what it is, what that that's what it is when we live for ourselves. That's what we're all like. Some keep people can actually describe that experience. But for many, they don't realize they're losing everything until they'll be resurrected for judgment and they'll see that they have lost everything. Everything that matters, no matter what they had in this lifetime. He who sinks everything into this life He who finds this life will ultimately lose his life and all life worth living. But the irony is that those who hold their lives loosely, those that are not all that bent out of shape about what happens to them, because they trust Christ. Those people who live for Christ and accept what comes out from Christ's hands, those people cash in in the end. They cash in. They'll find real life. And that real life isn't primarily the life we have right here and now. We're a part of it. We're in it. We're in that kingdom. Sometimes we have tastes of what it is to come when we have fellowship with one another and it's the sweet fellowship, the fellowship that you feel like, no, that was a piece of heaven. But this life is not the payload. Real life will be continually experienced without interruption. After the resurrection. Real life will be a sinless existence with perfect fellowship with Christ and his children. There's no telling what we might have to face here and now. But no matter what it is, it'll be worth every pain. We will find true life. Verse 40. He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. And he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water in the name of a disciple, I assuredly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward Remember that Jesus was talking to his disciples as he was sending them out. There are going to be lots of things that appear to be merely chance. There will be times when it appears that people just personally like the disciples, and their own personal skills have won them a place in their hearts. But it won't be that way. If the d disciples are representing Christ and people do things to help them, it's because of something supernatural going on. If the disciples are being truly received, and I guess this is a certain kind of being received, there is something supernatural going on. When a person supports a ministry because they believe in that ministry and want to honor Christ by helping, we see in this text that this person shares in the reward of the person actually doing the ministry. Do you realize what that means? You do not need to have the gifts of preaching or teaching You don't need to have the skills that you feel you weren't given. You can serve Christ just as you are. And there's a way that you can help a ministry to do the work they need to do. If there's a way, you will share in the reward of those doing the actual work. That's a promise. That's laid it straight for you. There's no no little, you know, fine print. Christ told us to store up treasure for heaven or in heaven. Christ said when we aid a ministry that's doing his work, we are doing just that. I guess the question comes down to, do we really believe that? Do we really want to store up treasures in heaven? Do we really want to forego some of the pleasure we could have here to put the money into something that lasts forever or the effort? We all have the opportunity. Whether it's money or service or time or whatever, how hard is it to find a ministry that we can serve, that we can help, that we can join in? I've often heard pastors complain about people not volunteering for programs that their church is doing. And then the pastor feels like he must guilt people into getting with the program. But with what Jesus is saying, that's kind of backwards. Supporting a ministry is a glorious opportunity. And being involved in a ministry is a glorious opportunity. It's an opportunity to turn time and money, which are limited, into something that is eternal. It's one of the best investments that we could possibly make. It's way better than than your IRA or your 401k We're fortunate to have the opportunity. That's the essence of what he's saying here. And we're wise to use it. And we're foolish to let it pass us by. It is our loss when we do not involve ourselves in those things I know I don't always look at it that way. I often don't look at it that way, but it's true nonetheless Yesterday Brad and I attended uh Kenny's meeting like we were talking about where we talked about some ministries at the fair this year. And there will be a Vesper service where Wally will present the gospel to a bunch of lost people There'll be a pancake dinner for the workers of the fair, uh another 75 people probably that will get to hear the gospel. And then there's the week-long ministry at the two fair booths. Do you want to turn some of your time into eternal reward? You can. Get involved in a way that you think God wants you involved. We as a church are supporting missionaries and Christian aid and to every tribe around the world. Do you want eternal reward? Invest. Maybe it's a ministry in another country. Maybe it's a ministry on our street. We have opportunity to serve in so many ways. How would our lives change if we really believed this one simple truth? How would our lives change if we really believe that we can truly store up treasure in eternity by what we choose now. We can do it with simple choices of how we spend our time and money. Look how down to earth Jesus puts this ministry in our text. It can be as simple as giving a little one, an insignificant believer, someone who you will gain nothing from. If you will provide that person with sustenance for Jesus' sake, that will be rewarded. God notices. And if done for him and him alone, it counts. Do you feel like your life doesn't count? It can. There are lots of ways to serve. I guarantee you that if you will ask God to lead you and be willing to step out in the direction he does lead you, he will give you a way to serve him. That is God's will for your life. There's no question about that. You pray for that will, you will see it, you will get it, you will get that guidance. Now let's look at the last thing said in Matthew, and we'll close. Matthew 11:1. Now it came to pass when Jesus finished commanding his twelve disciples that he departed from there to teach and to preach in their cities. Look at this. Jesus didn't just sit back at his office at his home center. He didn't hang out at the corporate center. He surely could have. He had every right. If anyone was ever entitled, Christ was entitled, but he didn't. He sent the disciples out. And he kept going out. And that's our example. We're never too big to minister. All right, let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for reaching us with your word and convicting our hearts and moving on us. We ask that you would inspire us with the glory of what you said. That we would allow it to grip us in ways that change day-to-day behavior for eternity and for the sake of eternity. believing by faith the decisions we make under your promise are going to be held true and that you will truly Reward your children for their faithfulness to you. Help us to get addicted to that thinking. That we might glorify Christ more and more every moment that we breathe. In Jesus name, Amen