I'm not real wild about being up there either. I wasn't very nervous in the place, but was it Hunter Hanging the noose over a rafting. A little bit concerning to me. And then last night we looked at the schedule and that said , they have your topic list that is on I thought John never told me I had a topic. Although he's the one that gave me some gift cards and never told me there wasn't any money in the gift cards. We might get back to that. But it it uh In the sovereignty of God, I read recently from a book written by, I think his name was Don Richardson. It was called Eternity in Their Hearts. And he begins that book with a story of an event that happened, I believe it was like five or six centuries before Christ. And it took place in the city of Athens. There was a plague in the city. They didn't know what to do. They offered they made offerings to their gods The council decided, send a tree and get this guy called, I think his name was up of the 90s or up to the 90s. I'll just call him F for sure. So they brought this guy over and said, what should we do He said, get me some stonemasons and get me two flocks of sheep, a flock of white sheep and a flock of black sheep. Don't feed them In the morning they let the sheep loose and the ones that lay down without eating, they built an altar by. They better God wanted sacrifice. They build altars sacrifice the sheep on those altars and the plug ended. So eventually the altars got out of shape. But they decided to say on an altar that they kept, they wrote, they inscribed on it to the unknown God. Now six centuries later, five six centuries later, Paul came into that town and said, Let me tell you about that God. Off the run. Yeah, so my act. Take that. And this isn't this isn't what I well, in a way it is. I mean If you want to talk about the unknown, I think Randy yesterday mentioned that God is infinite. We're finite. So we can never we'll never know the fullness of who God is That that's an unknown. And I'm confident that there's more of the unknown about God than what there is that is known than what there is that He has revealed to us. But while we can't know God exhaustively, we can know Him truly. And that's the important thing. I'm gonna read if I can get this thing to work. And again, the only reason I I use this, I feel happily looking that pages through a Bible But I can I can see this better than I can file. And if you want to follow along, you could you could turn to uh And this isn't the passage I'm going to go through, but we can tie that in It's funny there was a kid that bragged that he could he could find verses faster on his electronics than the pastor could in his Bible. So the pastor said, okay, look up, and he gave the verse. Pastor opened his Bible and said, I got it. He beat the kid. What the kid didn't know is the guy had a bookmark in that verse. Look, Act seventeen sixty. And this is where Paul gets gets kicked out of Festival by wrong verse. Oh 16. Paul ends up he he goes from Thessalonica to Berea. The Berea were no more noble than the Thessalonica. It's so he Started talking about the resurrection and stuff. Cecilon like this took kicked him out. It was like having a news hanging from the rafters. So he left, went to Korea. Korea listened to him. They checked things out. And after Mary went to Athens Uh verse 16 you can see now while Paul waited for them. He was waiting for for Silas and Timothy and Athens. His spirit was provoked within him when he saw that the city was given over to idols. And then if you turn to verses 22 and 23, it says, for all the Athenians and the foreigners who were there spent their time and nothing else. Uh but either to tell or to hear some new thing. And then Paul says, I said, Mr. Europicus Uh and said, Benavathan said, I perceive that in all things you are very religious, for I was passing through and considering the objects of your your worship. And I even found an altar with this inscription to the unknown God Now to try that in I listened to a clip from I don't know if you ever heard of The White Horse Inn. Uh it's a group of guys and it's like their publication is called Modern Reformation. And it's they they're not a church, but they they're coming along the church to help draw the church back to the basics of of what our belief And there was a survey a survey taken by one of the members named uh Shane Rosenthal More appropriate, it might have been like a series of interviews. He randomly asked 60 people, what is the gospel? What must I do to be saved? Now think about it, 60 people. How many do you think got the answer right? It was one person. One person out of 60 people got the answer right. Now, this might not be surprising if it was conducted on the streets of New York City, Philadelphia, at a professional football game. at a Leonard Skinner concert. But these interviews, these questions were asked at a Christian bookseller 's convention, and only one in 60 got it right. Now while it's not too shocking, you know, especially if you've watched the the content in the Christian bookstores over the years and you've seen the changes taking place. And how a lot of books are on self-improvement , how to improve whatever you can fill in the blank, how to improve your family, your marriage, your temperament, your self-esteem, your devotional life Uh those books are in abundance. They're totally shelves. So when you look for, and I remember going into a bookstore in Albuquerque looking for more uh I don't know if you would call them theologically based books. Books that had real content that helped you know who God was. Not books that were were the self-help thing or the little biddies or the little um basic no content type of more of a you can do it type of book. These books were relegated into a back corner A few shelves in the back corner. And thumb of the books if you want to you actually have a word on. Now granted we do live in a a narcissistic culture. We're very self-professed. It's it's a culture that urges us to love ourselves. to seek our own pleasure and by all means don't allow any God to interfere with that. But how did churches turn into narcissistic churches, self-focused, teaching your people to be self-focused? Turning out narcissistic Christians if there is such a thing. I think the response to the Shane Rosenthal 's question give us the answers. Those who should know the gospel And those who should be proclaiming the gospel have either forgotten the gospel or they just seemed it as not of uh ultimate importance. So pretty much we're living in a land of if you if I don't know how many churches you've visited, but I've been in quite a few churches over my years. And It seems like they're preaching all kinds of gods except the true God. So churches that are preaching Jesus as he is, who he is, and what he has done And preaching a God who is the God of the Bible. It seems that these are churches that are proclaiming the unknown God. So I I hope I I fulfilled my topic of the unknown. Yeah, well it came with a surprise. Kind of like when I can't hand its cashier a gift card And she said, do you you want to put money on this card? Carla told me I had to say something about John, because he uses her from the illustrator. So what is the gospel? Well it's used a lot in a lot of different ways. We have the Gospel of Matthew, the Gospel of Mark, the Gospel of Luke, the Gospel of John. And I think we're much better off when they used to be listed as the gospel according to Matthew, the Gospel according to Mark and Luke and John. They're all accounts of the same gospel. There's a record of the life and the death and the resurrection and the ascension of Jesus Christ. It's the same subject given from different viewpoints. Now the definition, like a dictionary definition of the gospel, it's simple. It's good news. That's just good news. It's a message. It's an announcement. Remember the saying, preach the gospel and if necessary, use words. Well, I want to inform you that it is necessary to use words. The same as we had the baptism yesterday, that had to be explained. There were words that explained what it meant. Think about it. Think about watching the news on TV, if you have TV. Turn off the sound. Cover all of the captions and what can you learn. You just have pictures flashing in front of you. And that's all you have with the gospel. There's no meaning, no content. So it's good words and it does require words to communicate that news. Good news. Here's a definition from Well see the complete expository diction of the Old and New Testament. Sounds like a long title. It's basically a dictionary, but it's biblical words. And it says it's good news about salvation, about the salvation God has provided through Jesus Christ. The gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. In addition, it has to do with the fulfillment of the Old Testament promise of the coming kingdom of God. And Franklin mentioned that yesterday. For this reason, Jesus announces, the time has come. The kingdom of God is near. Repent and believe the good news. Jesus' preaching is associated with healings, and they're the proof of the good news of the kingdom of God that it has arrived. hasn't been totally fulfilled, it has a writer. The New Testament speaks of the gospel in a way that describes its benefits. The Gospel of God's grace. The gospel of salvation. The gospel of peace The gospel that holds out hope. The gospel that is worth dying for. Okay, so we'll look at this good news, at this gospel. And the source the source of the news is important. And it is revival. And look with me if you will at Romans Romans you probably have right. Romans 1 verse 1. Where Paul says Paul writes, Paul, the bond servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated to the gospel of God. Now that word of In English it can be confusing. There's two different ways we can understand it. In this case we would have to decide if the phrase gospel of God means the gospel about which God The gospel about God or or God's gospel? Is it is it the gospel which is God's gospel? Evidently in the Greek this isn't a problem. Is it about God or is it from God? In the Greek the language is clear that it is the gospel which is God's possession. It's owned by God. It's God's property. So the question is, is God trustworthy? And can we believe Him? And hopefully we all here do. I mean, this is kind of like preaching to the fire. We're going back to the basics Now as you read through the scriptures, the record of what God has said and what he has done, you'd be hard-pressed to find one single reason why you would doubt his trustworthiness. And as as an aside, I mean when it comes to apologetic apologetics, I'm not one sharp enough to reason from creation to God, you know, to Say look at the world and they're reason for God. I'm more in the presupposition yeah, presuppositional camp where Unless the presuppositions of a person are changed, they're not going to believe in God. They're not going to believe the Bible. And I believe it's the supernatural work of God to change our presuppositions. Our mindset when we come to Scripture, our mindset when we come to the things of God, it takes the work of the Holy Spirit to change us so that we do believe So just as an aside, that's where I would stand in in the presuppositional uh apologetic camp So before we consider the content of God's message of good news, I think we should look at one of the implications of the fact that it is God's message. That God owns it. It's his. We have no right to change it. We have no right to edit it. Or to try to make it more appealing to man. I remember another saying that was out of the money back then when he said, make the gospel relevant. And I said to this guy, isn't it already relevant? I mean we're sinners headed for hell. We need help. Is not the gospel relevant to that So one of those one of those things that that's been awful, it's like bumper stickers that said I found Jesus. And it's like, I never knew he was lost. But the fact is I was lost. He was not lost. He found me. Okay, if you turn to Galatians, and this is this is where We really get nailed if we try to distort God's gospel, if we try to change his message, if we try to edit it. And Paul uses some of his harshest language there. I mean he put up with a lot. He called a lot of people brethren that I don't know that I I that's it it'd be a stretch for me to call his brethren And it says in Galatians 1, 6 to 10, I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel. Which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we are an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel to you than what you ha than what we have preached to you, let them be accursed. As uh as we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone preaches any other gospel to you And what you have received, let him be accursed. So it's a severe penalty. if we try to change what God has has spoken. And we have a warning through scripture back in the Old Testament, this is my word, you know. Do not add to it, don't take from it. Revelation, I think we have the same warning. Don't add to it, don't take from it. And then Paul goes on to say, for do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still please men, I will not be a violent servant of Christ. Like that is the option. Do we conform the gospel to what people want, to what people expect, or do we stick strictly with the message that God has presented? What God has resent is ultimately true. Well we any tampering we do with it turns it into a perversion. At least you kinda stop and train. What kind of gospels are being presented today? You ever hear of the health and wealth gospel, prosperity gospel, social gospel? That God loves everyone and would never send anyone to hell, gospel. If I try to do good, I get to heaven, gospel If I do better than my neighbor, I'll get to heaven. How about? God has a wonderful plan for your life. Can you say that to everyone you run across? God has a wonderful plan for your life. That's not a gospel. That's not the truth. The truth is they need a repentance. Or I live a moral life and that'll get me into heaven. And I'm sure you can come up with a number more. But we're told that I'll go back to John again. We're told that it's pointing on the man once you die and after that's a judgment. Well think about that chakra. If you go and stand before the holy judge. And you come before him with any other gospel or any other means where you think you should pass judgment, where you should be declared innocent, besides it what Jesus Christ has done for you, then it would be like handing a cashier a gift card with no money on it, and you have no money in your wallet. You don't get what you want. You don't get what you came for. You don't get what you thought you were going to get. Only it's a much severer thing to show up before God without being enclosed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ Okay, so what is this gospel? And this is like going back to square lines. This is where we begin and this is what we grow grow in. We never grow out of the gospel. We just grow deeper into the gospel and into the wondering of evolved. The gospel is something that is simple enough for a child to understand, but it's something that is deep enough that men spend their lifetime. exploring the depths of it. So what is the content of this gospel? Remember that of word, the gospel of God. It's God's message. It's the message of that is God's possession. The gospel of God is the gospel of Jesus. Only this time we're told that the word of carries the meaning of about. So the gospel of God, God's possession, it's the gospel about Jesus. It's the good news about Jesus. It's who Jesus is and what Jesus has done. And then this you can look up and follow along. The text of this You should call the sermon. It is First Corinthians fifteen, one to eleven. First Corinthians chapter fifteen That's what R. C. Spro calls Baptist air conditioning. And let's pray. Lord, we only do thank you for your word. We thank you that you have presented your good news to us. We thank you for what Jesus has done. And that we can bank on what He has done, what He has done for us, and that we can stake our lives We pray that we will inculcate that into us in our very being, that we would live our lives out with with that knowledge of the gospel and we would preserve it as as uh your church pillar and foundation of truth that that we would guard it and that we would speak it that totally take over our lives. That we would live in the the light of it, that we would we would find our hope in it, we would find our security in it. And Knowing as David did, that surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And the only reason is because Jesus saved us. I pray that you would use your word , use your spirit to speak your truth through to us, and that you would use it to speak your truth through me, and that you would be honored. In this meeting. And we will go out from here to glorify you. And it was we ought to do and point people to the only Savior, the only hope. And I pray this name in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, 1 Corinthians 15 uh verses 1 to 11. Now last time I was here, you guys all use the New King James version So I printed this out in the New King James Version. And if I'm not flipping pages, it's because it's easier for me to read Okay, 1 Corinthians 15, chapter 15, verses 1 to 11, another letter from Paul. Moreover, brother. Now remember, even yesterday Randy said searching for it, it was the best. We all know it was the best. If you don't know it's the best, read through 1 Corinthians. Which it was a mess. It had problems that uh some of the chids that I've been in there had problems with Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preach to you, which also you received, and in which you stand. By which also you are saved, if you hold fast the word that I preach to you, which I preach to you, unless you believe in vain For I delivered to you, first of all, that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to scriptures. And then he was seen as Sifas and by the twelve. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained to the present, but some have fallen asleep. It's a nice word saying big sense. After that he was seen by James, then by all the apostles, and last of all he was seen by me also, as by one born out of due time. For I'm at least of the apostles who are not worthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God, I am what I am And his grace toward me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me Therefore, whether it was what I or they, whether it was I or they, so we preach and so you believe. The the first first couple verses I'm gonna read in uh in the ESV because they there's a little bit of translation difference. And I think if we were comparing the two, they 're pretty much the same. We just say the same thing in different words. Uh verse one two and three. Paul writes, Now I would remind you, brothers of the gospel I preach to you, which you receive and in which you stand, by which you are being saved. Again, the salvation thing is a It's like a one-time deal, we are saved. It's an ongoing thing where we are being saved, and it's a future thing in which we will be saved And it's probably better it's probably easier for the Greeks to get that across with just the one word where we have to use a whole sentence. Okay, and which you stand by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believe in vain. In empty belief. For I deliver to you of first importance. That what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with Scripture. Now you notice that in the NI or in the ESP, he said, now I would remind you brothers of the gospel I preached to you. In the New King James, moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preach to you. Now, don't you find it interesting that Paul is preaching the gospel to a church that he has already preached the gospel to? He's declaring it, he's making it known to a people whom he's already made it known to. Not only did he make the gospel known to them, but these people received it. They had previously received it. Not only did he make the gospel known to them before, but they did receive it. They had been receptive to the gospel. not only receptive, but they were sticking to it. They were standing in it. They weren't moved away from the gospel. And yet Paul's preaching the same gospel over to them again. Now the the gospel, the means by which we were they were saved and by which we are saved. But th but there's a big if in that being said. It's it's uh uh we ought to underline it and capitalize it If the if is if you hold fast the word I preach to you. And that word being the gospel. Unless you believe in vain. It's kind of like the dead faith that James talks about in in his letter to It's a somewhat empty belief and I don't know if we'll get to it. I don't even know the time But it Paul uses that same vain thing when you get to the end of it, where he's talking about the resurrection. And if you don't believe in the resurrection, if you don't believe Christ raised from the dead, then your belief is in vain. Basically you have edited the gospel, you've taken a part out, and this was a very offensive part. Especially in Thessalonica. The Jews were offended by it. They pretty much chased Paul out of town. When he got to Athens, he was talking to these people. They went along with them until he mentioned the resurrection, and then that was the end of the communication there. Although there were some that it 's difficult, some message at all. Now, Paul delivers the contents of the gospel, and this is just one of many places that you can pick where he gives the basics of the gospel. The gospel in a simple form. Before he gets into expanding yet and its implications. So Paul delivers the gospel, the message he received directly from the Lord He says, firstly, most importantly, Christ died for our sins according to scriptures. He said Christ died. Think about it, the Son of God. He died. The Son who is God. He died. John tells us John uses the word word. I don't know if it was a philosophical term back then or or if it's like When we think of words, that's how we express our mind. Jesus was the Word of God. Jesus was Word is what John uses. He says the word was with God and the Word was God. Well, God incarnate things. How do you categorize it I don't know that we have the ability to categorize it. To categorize it or not, it's part of God's message and we're not allowed to have it with it. Some did Uh you go and uh I guess you gotta study first Allen. There was something that always bewildered me in that book. Uh In in the first epistle of John, he warns he warns of of being in the flesh. So he warns of those who deny that Jesus has come in the flesh. He also warns about being in the flesh. There was a teaching, evidently there was a teaching That that Jesus just appeared to be flesh. Now if this was the teaching that that John was talking about or not, I don't know. But John writes That's a denial of Jesus Christ coming in the flesh fills the spirit of the Antichrist. Now I don't know how many times I've read 1 John, but I always gonna remember coming to the last verse. And you probably know the one. The last verse of the last chapter of the first epistle of John , chapter five, he says, Little children, keep yourselves from my. Now I always thought this was like a PS. He goes through what he has to say and then at the end he says, oh, and by the way, keep yourself mild Well eventually it occurred to me, maybe after about 50 years, might have been more, Jesus or John is exposing idolatry. false concepts of who Jesus was. It was a man-made Jesus, an Antichrist-inspired Jesus Jesus of false prophet. That man made , or man made images that man tapped the label of Jesus on But they were nowhere close to the true Jesus. And the verse before kind of I think kind of helps explain what keep yourself to mind this is all about. And verse 20 says, then we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true, in his Son, Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. In other words, John 's saying, that's the truth. Anything that departs from that is falsehood. And you're building yourself an Isle. You're creating an I. Now Christ died, and he died for our sins, according to 1 Corinthians, and according to the gospel. And we think, well, what's the big deal about sins? I think it well, I don't think. If we could see our sin the way that God sees our sins, we would be terrified. Sin has become such a common thing with us that it no longer scares us. It no longer creates that feeling of terror within us. And however we classify our sins, it doesn't matter. God , the God of justice lets it be known that the penalty for sin is death. In Romans it says the wages of sin is death. That's the outcome. We are guilty. And God's justice, he can't just overlook our sin. He can't overlook our witness, our wickedness. There's a verse in Proverbs, in Proverbs chapter 17, verse 15. And it says, he who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the just, both of them are an abomination to the Lord. And you wonder, isn't that exactly what God did? Doesn't He justify us, the wicked? Doesn't He condemn the just, his sinless son? The fact of the matter is we are guilty, but God made a way in which we, the wicked, can be justified while God still maintains his justice, his righteousness. Instead of us dying for our sins, Christ dies for our sins. And I can say it no better than Isaiah 53. uh looking forward to Jesus and yet speaking in the past tense as this this event's already occurred, it's already done, as though it's already accomplished And you did have a summary on that not too long ago. I think we're here for it. Isaiah fifty-three verses five to eleven Speaking of looking forward to Jesus, we can read it looking back to what Jesus has done, but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastment for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep across the strays. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth He was like a lamb to the slaughter, and as the sheep before its shores was silent, so he opened not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment, and who can declare his generation For he was cut off from the land of the living. For the transgressions of my people he was stricken. And he made his grave with the wicked, but with the rich at his death Because he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put a degree. When you make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. He shall see the labor of the soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities Romans chapter 4, verse 5 is one of the many scriptures that describe the means by which we receive this not guilty birth. And this just justifications that is It's a declaration of righteousness from God. Verse 5 of Romans 4 says, But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly which is us, the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Just as David also described the blessedness of the man to whom God entreats righteousness apart and work. And he goes back one day in the song, Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. Christ died for our sins. He had none of his own. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 21 says, For he made him who knew no sin, that would be Jesus, to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Now some term this the double exchange, the great double exchange. He took our sin And the penalty which was due us. And in return, he gave us, he imputed to us his righteousness. Uh we are clothed in his righteousness and that's how we approach God. Otherwise we have no hope. And then in a kind of way of verifying his death, he said he was buried. And three days later he rose from the grave as a victor over death. He says he was seen after his resurrection by over 500 people. He said most of whom are alive and able to be interrogated You know, if you if you don't believe me, there's people out there, you can go talk to them. They saw the risen Lord. They saw him after his resurrection. It's like just don't believe me. If you have doubts, check it out. Investigate this. He rose from the dead. Now it's it's funny with this. Well no the kids. I mean this is the gospel, you know, the the Son of God comes. He takes our sin. He died. Paul emphasizes he died. When he talks about those who witnessed it, he says some fell asleep. In other words. Just to emphasize that he died, believers fall asleep because they're it's just they pass from death to life through Christ Now when I was a kid, I was pretty naive. I used to think that everybody that was nice and went to church on Sundays was a Christian. Uh kind of dumb. Here's a little clip I stumbled across a few years ago. It was in uh Michael Horton's book, Christeless Christianity. And he talks about, he quotes from uh Donald Gray Barnau. What would things look like if Satan really took control of the city? Over half a century ago it's wonderful than that now. Donald Gray Barnhouse offered his scenario in his weekly sermon that was also broadcast nationwide on CBS radio. Barnhouse speculated that if Satan took over Philadelphia, think of Philadelphia. All of the bars would be closed, pornography banished, and pristine streets would be filled with tidy pedestrians who smiled at each other. There would be no swearing, the children would say yes, sir, and no ma'am, and the churches would be full every Sunday where Christ is not preached. And it seems to me that we're on we're our culture has reached that state where we have like Paul walked through Athens and saw altar islands. It's like we can go through our country, see all these churches, and we wonder what what what is the message that they're presenting to the people there? They may be nice people They're probably nicer people than I am. Oh. Yeah. Wouldn't take much. But but what's the message that they're being told? You know, what are the lies? Are they being presented the true Jesus or are they being being presented idols? Are they worshiping idols in those places? And it took me a while to realize that not all nice people are Christians, but the flip side of that is also that not all Christians are nice. The only difference is in Jesus. Has Jesus grabbed a hold of you Now if you're not familiar with this book of 1 Corinthians, I would say read it. And if you are familiar with it, read it again. These people were a mess. But what what's fascinating is Paul refers to them as brethren. They have previously received the gospel. And Paul preached it to him again with his emphasis on the resurrection. Remember he said, unless you rebel in vain If you cut the resurrection out of the gospel, you're messing with God's gospel and you have no gospel at all. If Christ is not risen, your faith is empty. It's in vain. If Christ is not risen, your face is futile. And 1 19. If Christ isn't risen, then we of all men are the most pitiable. Interesting how he ends 1 Corinthians, well, it's before the end. Where is it the end? It'd be 1 Corinthians chapter 16 verses 22 to 24. And here's another harsh, harsh word from Paul. He starts out, if anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, that 'll be accursed. The Lord come. But then for those who do love Jesus, he says, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. There is something here that I would read. This this comes in the form of a prayer. And the topic being unknown At least I guess whatever was assigned to me was on. It's good to see that there are churches like yours that are preaching the reality of this God that has become unknown. Through Whatever means basically he has been forgotten. The gospel has been forgotten. It has been replaced by man's man's thinking And we can blame it on the enlightenment, we can blame it on anything we want. But what happens is man tries to stay take a stand over top of God And man judges God instead of believing God judge him. Man tells God what he should do instead of listening to what God says he will do And I'll read this, I think this came from the Gospel Coalition. And they start with, for by grace you have been saved through faith. And this not of your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works so that no one may boast. And that idea that you get your faith in the gifts of God is probably what Kind of keeps me that recent position more apologetic am. He says, Lord Jesus, how did it ever come to pass that there was even a need for the Reformation? What circumstances created the necessity for Martin Luther to nail his 95 thesis to the front door of the Castle Church at Wittenberg on October 31, 1517? How was it possible for the church to lose the gospel? These questions are rhetorical, for we are always in danger of forgetting the gospel. We know this to be true because we know our proud and foolish hearts. By nature, we're allergic to the thing we need the most, the unparalleled riches of the gospel of your grace. The gospel declares us to be much worse off than we want to admit, and so much more loved than we ever hoped or imagined. We need a substitute to trust, not a model to follow, the second atom, not the second chance, a new heart Not in the start. What we could never do ourselves, you've done perfectly. You've fulfilled every demand of God's law for us. Hallelujah. Thank you. And we needed you to take our place on upon the cross, receiving the judgment we deserve for all the ways we break, ignore, and fail to live God's perfect will for our lives. Thank you for taking our shame, exhausting our guilt, and freeing us forever. Hallelujah many times over. Today we gladly affirm that our hope is built on nothing less, nothing more, and nothing other than your blood and your righteousness. On you, Lord Jesus, the solid rock and saving rock we stand. All other ground is sinking sand. All other hopes are empty nothings. All other attempts at salvation are vain, worthless, and peaceless. Keep bringing us back to the gospel of grace, Jesus. Keep bringing us back to the gospel plus nothing for our salvation. Keep bringing us back to gospel sanity. So very amen. We pray. In your most holy and gracious name. And I don't believe you would have