Kitchen a lot and I was told by a couple people it looks like pink eye. So if if you would want to wipe the handles in the bathroom, just okay. And uh spray yourself with Lysol when you get home or something. Whatever. Sorry about that. When I was sixteen, I wrecked my mom's new Mustang 2 Gia car. She reminds me of that often. And ever after that the car would stall going around right-hand turns. So my dad determined that it must be a problem in the carburetor, and it was at this point in my life I received one of my most memorable musts. My dad said, I must rebuild that carburetor. Well, I got home on a Friday night from college and it had to be done before work on Saturday, and working on Saturday was another must. So I hated the word must. Anyone who knows me knows that I'm the wrong person to ask to build a carburetor. And especially this newer version with seven million tiny little parts. But a must is a must, and I did it. The end of the story is the problem persisted. Eventually I found out it was due to the only part in the carburetor that I did not replace But anyway, all this to say that a must is a powerful word. One of the things that determine what our lives will look like is what we determine are the musts in our lives. What are your musts? What will you not let a day go by without doing? Yeah, we must eat and drink and sleep, but what about the ones that we're free to choose? What are your musts? Well, John had three musts in chapter three. We need to pay attention to the musts that come from God. Those are the important ones. Do you remember the musts? Did they stick out to you at all? For salvation, here we find three musts. And here's the first must. John 3. 7. John 3. 7. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must. be born again. You must be born again. Here's the most significant must in all of life. So that's the first point. Salvation requires that you be born again. This is the must of the sinner. You must be born again. If you want to escape the punishment of hell and live in a blessed eternity with Christ and His people, you must be born again. Jesus was telling Nicodemus, there's absolutely no plan B. There is no other way. Every person must be born again if they hope to live with Christ. So what 14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. So the second point is salvation requires that Christ be sacrificed. This is the must of a savior. We have the must of the sinner and the must of a savior. The Son of Man must be lifted on a pole. A person cannot be born again apart from the work of Christ. There has to be a legal, righteous, just basis by which a person can be forgiven his sins. And that work was the work that Christ did on the cross. Salvation required that Christ be lifted up. The Son of Man must be lifted up. And the third we see in John 3:30, he must increase. But I must decrease. This is the must of a servant. The must of a servant Salvation requires a work that a natural man cannot do. He must increase. Christ had to increase. Why? Was it that John the Baptist wasn't doing significant work? No, he was doing a great job. He was doing the best job that had ever been done. It's the best ministry up to his time. He was the greatest man up to his time. But John could not do What Jesus had to do. John could not do what Jesus had to do. Now imagine if John would have increased and Christ would have decreased. That would have been a humankind catastrophe. Of course, that was not going to happen. But John had the right attitude. He recognized his place in the scheme of things. Jesus is the important one. I just need to play my part. So you must be born again. Christ must be lifted up on a pole. And Christ must increase. Next, we'll see why Christ must increase in our text this morning. And there are five reasons. These Here our our friend John MacArthur's words. I use my own as we go through, but Christ had a heavenly origin Christ knew the truth firsthand, and these are all very evident from the text. Christ's testimony always agreed with God. Christ experienced the power of the Holy Spirit without limits, and Christ received all authority from the Father. So we start with verse 31. He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all. What other human has ever come from heaven to bring us God's message? There there are none. All human messengers were of human origin except for Jesus, and that's the point. Those of us who have not come from heaven are speaking a secondhand message. You and I are speaking a secondhand message. Maybe we get it right, maybe we don't Even when we do our best, we're prone for failure. Even the prophets, when they were not speaking the message directly from God , They could not be dependent on to always be right. Now when they received a message from God and spoke it, they were right. They were absolutely right on. But that same prophet you could not depend on any day when they're out washing their socks or whatever. to be able to spell the truth to you. It's odd to me that there are some who skip over the words of Jesus and think that only Paul and Peter have words that apply to the church now. But here was Jesus. He was not only the messenger, he was the message. He was the author of the message And he was the message itself. He was the word, the message. He not only spoke truth, he was truth incarnate. John is talking of Christ's absolute authority here. Take all of the Old Testament prophets None of them are authorized like Christ is. No one is more qualified to speak for God as God Himself. That's the point. Second point, verse 32. He bears witness of what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony. You and I rejoice to come together to fellowship and worship on Sundays. At least I hope we do We're a fellowship of people who receive the testimony of Jesus. That's what we're here for. We believe what he says over what we perceive, over what the experts say, over what seems possible or likely Over anything. Because we trust that Jesus knows what he is talking about because of who Jesus is. We trust that he truly is God in the flesh. No one can tell us about God better than Jesus can. A million books can be written, but if they are not based on what Jesus said, they tell us very little that can be trusted. Even the New Testament epistles are based on what Jesus said. I'm getting to understand that better and better again. When you read an epistle, you're hearing Jesus' words put in their words. We should understand that way. When we look at an epistle, we should look at how does this relate to what Jesus says? How does this explain to us what Jesus said? If we want to understand the Old Testament, we should read what Jesus says about the Old Testament and get it through the proper lens. Jesus is the clearest communication about God on planet Earth. And what is the natural response of a human to this perfect testimony of God, about God? What's the response? Rejection, boredom , disinterest, hatred, apathy. John says, no one receives his testimony No one receives his testimony. Why? Well, Jesus already told us that. People hate the light because their deeds are evil. We got a lot of that in Sunday school this morning. We also see in 1 Corinthians 2. 14 that the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. It's not going to accept what Jesus is saying. For their folly to him. And he's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned and the person listening is spiritually dead. We already know this. It takes a miracle. It really helps to know this as we watch the news and as we watch the world around us, Christ Himself could speak the truth to this world, our current world, and the result would be the same. Our world's tendency is not to sort out truth from falsehood and gravitate toward truth. It's not in our instincts to love a message or a messenger that brings us bad news about ourselves. In our natural state, we want to silence that voice. We need not be shocked or surprised by how swiftly people gravitate toward lies. We ourselves have that same inclination if we won't humble ourselves and confess our sins and live in that, in our relationship with Christ, saying, You are right, I am wrong. The most common response to the message of Christ is a negative response. That's what John is telling us here. But praise God, it is not the only response. There's a different response that is a result of being born again. And it's this: verse 33: whoever receives Christ's testimony, Sets his seal to this that God is true Here's the born-again person. Here's the response of the born-again person. Here's what Christ says, and this person sets his seal to it Back then, a person would roll up, would have a ring on their finger, usually, or hidden carefully, with a distinct image that represented them. They would take a scroll, roll it up where the edge of the paper was, they would melt wax. So you got this scroll and they melt the wax. And then as it was hardening they would put that that ring in it. And then they would pull it off and it would leave a perfect seal. And that would be That was the authorization says, this is from me. I endorse this. This is mine. In our day it would be like signing off on something. We probably all have some experience of that, signing our name on a line somewhere. We authorize it with our whole person. We're saying, I I I authorize this. You can expect this of me We need to read this whole sentence. If we receive Christ's testimony, we are essentially signing off on everything he said. as being true and he himself being true. That's one way of describing a Christian. A Christian is a person who, with his whole fiber, believes that Jesus is true, that the Father's testimony about Jesus is true, that Jesus' words are true. You can't believe in Jesus and not believe Jesus. You can't believe in Jesus and not believe Jesus. You can't receive a testimony and think that he is wrong about something. Angie posted a clip of some wacky religious person who thought she was going to correct Jesus when she saw it. And I pity that person when the interaction finally takes place because there's going to be a great deal of surprise, I feel. on that uh and that woman's soul. A believer believes Jesus. They would sign off on it. They would stake everything on it. Verse 34. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure. Do you ever find yourself reading the Bible and thinking, I've read this a hundred times? They're just words on paper. Sometimes when I study, I lose the wonder of it all. But when we think about this verse It almost seems like science fiction. God has spoken words to mankind, and we get to read them. Sometimes we lose the awe of that. We lose the wonder of that. What Jesus says are the words From he who created every molecule in every solar system. And God had them spoken to us. That Bible is his words spoken to us, to his creation. And then on top of that, the majority of humans will not receive that testimony. It's all spiritual. It may not seem it sometimes. I mean, you and I read the Bible, and you know there are times when we'll space out, or we'll read them, and I've read this a thousand times before, I know what it means, and we just move on. But it's supernatural. And then he says, he gives the spirit without measure. Let's look at a couple of scriptures about this. John 1, 32 and 33 says, and John bore witness, I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove. Remember that? When we were going over John the Baptist's ministry And it remained on Christ. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain. This is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit remained upon Christ. Have you ever wondered why even the Son of God needed the Holy Spirit upon him? Well, evidently it was necessary. I don't claim to understand how all of that works together, but it was even prophesied. In Isaiah 11, 2 it says, And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, Christ. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. We're given insights into what the Holy Spirit does here. That's a worthy study all on its own. This spirit gives wisdom and understanding. This is a spirit of counsel and might. It's a spirit of knowledge and fear of the Lord. This is what he grants on those to which he falls. on who he abides in. That's what he's giving us. Look at this prayer that Paul prayed for the Ephesians in Ephesians 1 17 through 19 That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. So it's a spirit of wisdom and revelation in knowing God. So the Spirit is giving this ability to know God, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened You don't think of our hearts having eyes, but I think we know what is being said here. The ability for our hearts to grasp what it is. That you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his great might. Paul is praying according to the ideas in Isaiah 11:2. He is praying for Christians to have the Spirit's influence more and more fully upon them. The Spirit gives wisdom and revelation. The Spirit gives us insight into knowing God. And in knowing Christ, what do we begin to see with all our hearts more and more and more? What do our hearts key into more and more and more as a result of this prayer that Paul is praying? What becomes more visible to us? More keyed into by us? We become fixated on the hope we have, the inheritance we have, and the power we have. The awareness of our heart grows every day with the worthiness of Christ and the worth itness of Christ. The worthiness of Christ and the worth itness of Christ. You and I both, we need both of those things in our lives all of the time. For the Christian life to be lived the way it's supposed to be lived. Scripture appeals to us to focus on this from beginning to end. The worthiness of Christ and the worthness of Christ. And that's what the scripture shows us. In fact, the Spirit causes us to experience that truth by the truth that He draws us into. That's what happens when the eyes of your heart enlightened. It's one thing for your ears to hear something and your mind to understand it, but when the eyes of your heart get enlightened. That's where the fire starts. Now, did Christ have need of wisdom and revelation? Of counsel and might, of knowledge? Was the Spirit ministering these things to him? Well, I'm guessing so. Remember, he was in human form, and humanity had its limitations. We don't exactly know how to draw those lines. Uh, you know, theologians write books and make money doing that, but whatever they were, the Spirit always was always on Christ to provide anything that he would have blacked. Now keep in mind the Spirit was never hindered in Jesus' life. It was without measure. Without measure, the Holy Spirit was in Jesus' life He got the full dose all the time without exception. Jesus never quenched the spirit. He never had the hindrance in fellowship with God that our sin causes. Oh, that we could say the same. Oh, that we never choose paths without considering what God wants. Oh, that we never let our minds and our eyes and our feet go down sinful paths and our mouths as well. How often we've hindered the Spirit's work in our lives. We all know that. But Jesus, he never did that. That is, until he took upon himself all of our sin. It was never his sin that caused broken fellowship with his father. It was our sin that caused that. But anyway, we ought to be praying this prayer for each other. We should pray like Paul. Every person here would have more of the presence of the Holy Spirit. So that we too can have the wisdom and revelation that comes with his presence, so that we will know Christ better So that we too become fixated on the hope we have, the inheritance we have, and the power that we have in Christ. We also see this prophesied about the Holy Spirit and Christ. This was prophesied in the Old Testament. Isaiah 42:1 says, Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him, he will bring forth justice to the nations. And here's another one in Isaiah 61, 1, it says, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of prisons to those who are bound. So we see that Jesus was anointed with the Holy Spirit for tasks of bringing the good news to the poor, binding up those with broken hearts. proclaiming liberty to captives and opening prisons to those who are bound. I think this is all a result of the ministry of the gospel. The Spirit of God was to accompany the message of Christ and the ministry of Christ with the salvation of people's souls through that work. Now we continue in our text. Verse 35. The Father to his hand. The Father loves the Son. And has given all things into his hand. What does it mean that the Father has given all things into his hand? In most cases where this idea is used, it has to do with authority. God has given Christ ultimate authority. In Matthew 28, 18 and 19, we see that that authority was given to us in evangelism. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Now you go. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Christ is basically saying, I have authority to tell you this, you go in my authority. First Corinthians 15, 27 says, For God has put all things All things in subjection under his feet. But when it says all things are put into subjection, it's plain that he's accepted who put all things. It is Plain that he is ex accepted, who put all things in subjection under him. So basically, he didn't put himself under Christ. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son Himself will also be subjected to Him who put all things in subjection under Him, that God may be all in all. He didn't want His people confused. Um he wanted to make sure everything was put under Christ except God the Father. And then Ephesians 1 20 through 23, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him. at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him his head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. So what we see is that this Christ, who looks just like any normal human being, this Christ needs to increase. This Christ has a spirit without measure. This Christ is loved by his Father. This Christ came from heaven and is bringing to mankind the words of God. This Jesus was given all authority. All that was placed in his qualified hands By now I think those who were not too happy watching the crowds leaving John and going to Christ, I think maybe they're getting the point. John isn't decreasing simply because it's a noble gesture toward Christ. He is decreasing because his ministry is so vastly inferior. To Christ's ministry. John 's disciples seemed to have little idea of how great this Jesus really was. But John knew. Christ was the one to point to because of who he is. He was the one to bring glory to. He was worthy of all praise and glory. And all of this leads to the capstone verse, the verse that sums up this chapter. It's the essence of Christ's ministry. So we see the Father has authorized his son. God sent him. God gave him the word. God gave him the spirit. God gave him all things. That was the commissioning that God gave his son. And it's all to this end in verse 36. Whoever believes in the Son. Has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains upon him. This is the ministry that John and the Baptist didn't have the capacity to create, to offer. This only comes through Christ. This Jesus is the determining factor in every single human being's eternal destiny. It all goes through him. There is nothing or no one like Jesus. You can see why he must increase. He's the culmination of every true ministry. It must point to Christ. And notice how this is worded. If this is what the verse said, it would also be true. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not believe in the Son does not have eternal life. That is true. But that's not what it says. Instead of saying does not believe, it says does not obey. That's interesting. We need to understand this. For one thing, believing is directly connected with obeying. They are not synonyms, two words used to describe the same thing, but one is a cause and the other is an effect. In other words, if you believe in Jesus, you will obey Jesus. If you believe in Jesus, you will obey Jesus. If you will not obey Jesus, you did not believe As always, we add the caveat. We have to add the caveat because all of us would be excluded if not, not perfectly, but substantially. Will obey Jesus. We also need to understand that belief in Jesus is not offered as an option. Like, well, you can believe in Jesus if you like. Everyone is commanded to believe in Jesus. God demands that everyone believes in Jesus. That is his his command to them. They are required to believe in Jesus. Every human being is required to believe in Jesus. Rejecting Christ is the supreme rebellion against God. And what happens if a person does not believe in Christ, does not obey Christ? Notice that it does not say that the wrath of God is placed on him. No, it says the wrath of God remains on him. Remember the Windows 11 illustration. About default settings. Well, deserving the wrath of God is every human being's default setting. It was there to begin with. We were born In that. God loved us in this way by sending His Son so that we can have that wrath removed. A believer's greatest protection. Is Jesus Christ. A nonbeliever's greatest danger is Jesus Christ. Christian, this is who Jesus is. In all of the religions over the course of all the years and all of history of this earth. You alone have the name of the one God man through which eternal life can be gained. Let that sink in. We could have all been born in a place where we would not hear about Christ, but we weren't. God could have easily done nothing to call you to Himself. But he did. If we are in Christ, we have a relationship with this miraculous Son of God. What in your life is more important than this truth? This truth is meant to be the one central factor that we see everything else through. Christ becomes our lens. in the life of a Christian properly live. He must increase. Everything in our life it should be based on the increase of Christ In our life, in our world. And we must decrease. It's interesting that the passage is the last time that we see John the Baptist speaking in the Bible He sent a message by his disciples later on, but this is the last time that he spoke. Remember that John the Baptist was the last Old Testament prophet. The Jews had waited 400 years to see John the Baptist. He was the greatest man who ever lived prior to Christ. He had the Holy Spirit from birth. John was no spiritual slacker. And oh, what an example he is for us. Just what a wonderful example. John says, sends everyone he speaks to to follow Christ. When Christ shows up, John leaves his original dunking spot on prime real estate, and he goes to Samaria, where no one wants to go. John leaves his original territory for Christ. Since people are already going there, he's built up the clientele, he moves out, and all the customers go to Jesus. John goes from stardom to anonymity. And he does not seem to suffer any of the effects of jealousy or self-pity. Remarkable man. I think John the Baptist is probably one of the most humble people who have ever lived. He lived his slogan solidly, he must increase, and I must fade, and I must move into the background And John knows that any ministry success only comes from the hand of God by the grace of God. John the Baptist is probably dead within six months of this text. What a welcome he must have in store for him in eternity. What a wonderful example of a place that Christ should have in our lives. And O this Christ, may we spend time this week meditating on the worthiness and the worth itness. Of Christ. This truth will put everything in our lives in a proper perspective. He must increase. At each crossroad of obedience to Christ are choosing my fleshly interests. You know, we have this, you know how it goes. We're going through life and we think, man, I really want to do this, and I know that God wants me to do this. And what are we going to do? Well, that's our cross. That's where the cross comes in. What we choose shows what we think of Christ. At each crossroads, I must take up my cross and die to my fleshly will on it, so it is only Christ who has seen in me. That's the point. Christ must increase. That means I have to die to myself, to my fleshly, selfish, sinful interests. And allow him to have the supremacy in my life, in my thoughts, in my work, in my will, in my conversations, in my relationships, all of it. Let's close in prayer.