We're in the middle of a confrontation between Christ and religious big shots. They were sent from Judea to undermine Christ's ministry. The issues that the Pharisees are using is in fact that the disciples were eating without washing their hands. Now keep in mind these leaders had probably heard about all the people that Jesus had healed, miraculously, amazingly, something that had never been heard of before. They probably knew about the demon-possessed people who were set free from being demon-possessed. Radical changes in their lives, uh amazing miracles. They probably knew about the feeding of the 25,000. Yet look at what they focus on. Of all the things, look at what they focus on. They focus on how the disciples eat Isn't that amazing? But that's what our jealousy and envy and wickedness will always drive us to When you start wanting to hang someone for their faults instead of wanting to help them to overcome them, watch out. We all have a seed of this kind of wickedness, and it's often used to destroy the fellowship or the fellowships we have in Christ. Last week we saw Christ undermine the whole idea of legalisms. I mean, he was ruthless with them. These legalisms were adding rules to the Bible that are not there. We saw the damage that happens when people, even well-intentioned people, add rules to Scripture. We said last week that any man-made rule that pretends to have the same authority as a God-made rule will first by its very nature be used for evil. Second, will eventually supersede God's rule Third, will eventually be used to punish and exclude those who care most about God's rule. I don't know if that's fourth or fifth, but will be used in a process of rejecting the authority of God. And will soon be used to evaluate spiritual success or failure. That is what always happens when legalisms are included After Christ had undermined the authority of man-made rules and traditions added to Scripture, he begins his second line of reasoning. He begins to teach people what the problem really is. And why legalism will never fix it. He's telling these listeners why the Pharisees' preferred cure won't work on this sin disease. Mark 7, 14 through 23, verse 14, when he had called all the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear me, everyone, and understand. Now, the Pharisees had hoped to make Jesus cower. They had hoped to make him take a defensive position. They would not have brought up this topic had they known how it was going to work out for them. First, Christ takes the accusation against him and uses it as evidence for how the leadership had completely failed to stand up for the Word of God. He completely turns the tables on them. And now he's bringing them up. The evidence that they have brought to him, he's bringing it up and and explaining how they are lousy watchmen. These were the guys who would have described God's word in most glowing terms, but in the end, they didn't go by it. So now Christ is going to bring attention to the problem of religion, the man-made process of trying to please God. And when he says, Hear me, everyone, and understand, the listeners would have understood that what they're about to hear is going to be very, very important and profound. Christ was essentially saying, every one of you, listen up and get this. The word for understand means to put the perception with the thing perceived. to send that to set them together in your mind. Christ is saying, understand this point and get it solid in your head. Then he goes on. Verse 15. There's nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him. But the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. Get this. We've grown up in a day when secular society has a very, very different view of humankind. Humanism views man as having innately positive features, or at worst, neutral ones. The humanistic idea is that the environment a person is in is what determines his moral outlook. So essentially their belief would say that it is the things that enter a man from outside. It is his external stimulus which causes him to go bad. If he had good stimulus, he would be good. If he gets bad stimulus, he will be bad. We need to understand that what Jesus is saying here is exactly and 100% opposite of that idea. Which is not to be too surprising, given that it's the world that's saying it. Jesus is saying that the problem a man has is inside of him. The problem a man is born with is a spiritual problem, and all of his other problems stem from that. When we listen to what our society announces as solutions for the human condition, we must understand that they come from a belief that has already misdiagnosed the problem. So the solutions they offer can never be very effective. We need to be very discerning to separate the truths from the lies that we hear. And we can't accept their solutions as if they're solutions. We must be very careful what we think and believe and compare what we are told by human authorities with what God says. So Jesus says the problem with mankind is what is already in them. The problem with the world is me. Now, we've got to realize here that there's more to the story. In the law, there was such a thing as ceremonial defilement. Being in certain situations did make a person ceremonially unclean. And as such There were certain services to God that a person could not perform if they were ceremonially unclean. Those Jewish people would have brought this, they would have brought this understanding with them. And in fact, they probably could have quoted those scriptures to Christ. But what Christ is talking about is not ceremonial technicalities, but spiritual realities. He lays out this truth as follows. There is nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him. But the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile him. The Pharisees were spending the lion's share of their focus on those things that were external. They were trying to protect themselves from evil on the outside. And what did they end up with? A religion that seeks and plans to kill the son of God himself They're not too successful in their efforts to please God. This has got to be the best evidence that their focus was exactly backwards. They missed the real evil while focused on the external evils. And they thought of themselves as the crusaders against evil. But in the end, they were the chief purveyors of evil. They were the vendors of evil. They were the chief representatives of evil. When we get focused on evil in our society and become convinced that the external evil is that which is really our greatest problem, we are barking up the wrong tree. And we're in danger of falling into the same error as the Pharisees. Our Supreme Court has just announced the legal right of every citizen to a legitimized to legitimize a union under law that God has pronounced in his infinite wisdom to be a sin. I like what Franklin Graham said about this. He said the government did not define marriage in the first place, so they have no right to redefine it. It is God who gave us marriage between a man and a woman. He defined it. Now, has Christianity suffered a great blow? Are we placed in a greater spiritual peril based on what an immoral system of government has decided? Do we suddenly have a greater enemy? No. Nothing that matters to living our lives faithfully before God has changed. It may mean that eventually we do jail time for being faithful. That isn't new in history. It will surely have a negative effect on parents being able to do their jobs effectively without being uh trifled with with the government They are going to have more and more controls inside of our households. Persecution of Christians is highly likely to follow. But we can't lose perspective. The civil courts do not have the power to change the spiritual status Of a single human being. They can only decide what behavior they will reward or punish. The civil courts lay outside a man. Their actions of legitimizing homosexual relationships is outside of a man. Making the activity legal does nothing to make it moral. Nothing that matters has changed. It's only greater evidence that what Paul says in the book of Romans is true. God will give man over to the sins that they love, and it'll come back to punish them. Jesus in his context was talking about ceremonial hand washing, but I grew up believing there were other things that would do the same thing. They were the Christian equivalent of ceremonial uncleanness. I remember hearing it taught that I really needed to make sure that I protected myself against the evils of smoking, drinking, and playing cards And as I grew up, I remember wishing, just wishing, true spirituality was that easy. Avoiding those external things is a piece of cake. Compared to my tendency internally toward all kinds of evil. So, what was Christ talking about when he focused on the things that come out of a man? Christ explains later on. But first he'll clarify what does not defile a man. Verse 17. When he had entered a house away from the crowd, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. So he said to them Are you thus without uh understanding also? Do you guys not get it either? Come on. Do you not perceive that whatever enters a man from outside cannot defile him? Because it does not enter his heart, but his stomach, and it's eliminated, thus purifying all foods. As so often happens, the disciples ask for clarity in understanding Christ's teaching in private. Now you see the difference in how Christ answers. These guys are sincere and they have sincere questions. So he answers them sincerely. The disciples call what Christ just taught a parable. You notice that in the text? They call it a parable. I'm not so sure it was a parable. It looks more like an explanation they just didn't get. So now they might be calling things parable because it gets them off the hook. Because parables weren't supposed to be easy to explain. It looks more like an explanation they didn't understand. And the way Christ responds, this is one of those things they should have understood by now, but they didn't. Christ has now expanded the concept of unclean even wider. Now he's not just referring to ceremonial hand washing. Now he's talking about clean and unclean foods. He's talking about the whole principle of it. I think we must consider that Christ is talking about all of this. From a spiritual perspective, he's talking about what these foods will do to us spiritually Ceremonially, under the law, like we said, these foods did make a person ceremonially unclean Maybe the Jewish people became fixated on the ceremonial issues at the expense of the spiritual ones, the moral ones, the important ones. Christ says, don't you understand that the food coming into your body can't defile you? Essentially, food cannot hurt you spiritually. It won't have any spiritual effect at all. Why? It's physical, it's biological, it's chemical It will come into your body and it will be removed by the same system that it came in on. The body will get its nutrition from the food if everything's working right, and then the body will eliminate the excess. effectively purifying itself of what is left. And what can you see about this physical reality? Most of us learn this in in school. It does not affect the spiritual center at all. What you eat physically does not help or hurt your spiritual condition. While we know that certain foods can actually can help or hurt the physical organ of the heart, that's not what Christ is talking about here. He's referring to the heart as the spiritual center of a man. It's where the spiritual business is performed. And no food or lack of it is going to change anything there by eating or not eating it. Then verse twenty, and he said, What comes out of a man that defiles him. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness. An evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these things come from within and defile a man. Here Christ tells us what the defiling problem is and where its source is. He first tells us that all of this stuff that is defiled comes from the heart of a man. This is where the decision-making process goes on. This is where the will of a man is being exerted. This is where a man will determine what he will do and why he will do it in his heart. The Pharisees often made lists regarding specific legalisms. They got a kick out of that, you know, and they they go through their list, their little mantra, about all the right things that they were doing and all the wrong things you better not do and all that sort of thing. So Jesus responds in kind with his list, but in this short list, he covers a lot of territory regarding the evil in our hearts. In fact, you expand it wide enough nothing is missed. And what comes out of the heart? Oh, lots of wonderful things. Evil thoughts. This is referring to the internal reasoning that a man does that is Evil. It's because the heart is evil. It was Jeremiah who said that the heart is deceitful above all things Our hearts are tricky. Who of us who have ever done any inner introspection or any explanation of what we've done and why we've done it haven't found that we we have deceitful hearts We always want to think of ourselves as doing something for some some good reason, but when we get down to the heart of it, it's at least mixed, and much of the time it's bad. Our hearts are wicked. Desperately wicked it says. Who can know it? Who's going to fully understand their own heart? None of us do. It's not going to be until we're in in eternity with Christ that we're going to be able to see our hearts the way that they are. We do well to see what we can now and to deal with them, but none of us. That's why we have a body of Christ. It's so the things we can't see about ourselves can be shown to us by somebody else. Evil thoughts underlie everything evil that's going to come out of our thought out of our heart. It's heading for everything else. It's a heading in Christ's list for everything else to fall under. It's like evil thoughts. Now here's what I mean And then he goes through. It's the core of the problem that will display itself as follows. Adulteries. Adulteries is a violation of marriage. That's one of the Ten Commandments. Fornications. This is from the root pornea, which is where we get our word pornography from. It's sexual sin in thought and action, and expand it expands sexual sin. further than just the concept of a violation of marriage. You find in the Old Testament most of what is talked about is a violation of marriage. In the New Testament it moves into fornication, which which is basically expanding it To meet the need for all the wickedness that we can somehow find ourselves into. Murders This too is one of the Ten Commandments. Thefts. The word is klepto, from which we get the word klepto maniac, another of the Ten Commandments. Covetousness, desires and behaviors motivated by greed and avarice, another of the Ten Commandments. Wickedness. This is a catch-all word for all kinds of wickedness that covers anything that was left out in the last several. So Jesus isn't leaving. I mean he's not being real specific like the Pharisees used to be. He's laying out a net that's gonna catch everybody Now the rest of Jesus list are attitudes that lie behind those evil actions, which we were talking about in Sunday school, which are far more pesky to get rid of. Deceit, that's craftiness, lying, deception. Lewdness, the unbridled lust of a dirty mind. An evil eye. I was thought that was interesting. You know, how do you make an evil eye? These are eyes full of jealousy and hatred. Eyes full of jealousy and hatred. Blasphemy, abusive and injurious speech toward others. Pride, feelings of superiority, arrogance, and self-promotion Foolishness. This captures any kind of bad attitude and motive that were left out of the rest of the list. So he's got them all. He's covered all the ground. I guess an obvious application here is that when we see this stuff in us, we don't have to wonder much about it. It is evil, and it came from us. No one made us do it. We often want to blame other people, even how we describe things. She he made me really mad No, you didn't. You made you really mad. You're just responding to the evil that you might have encountered. Sometimes we catch these tendencies These tendencies of our own wickedness on the first thought. We've talked a lot about that in Sunday school too. Uh and I've used this before, but I think Martin Luther said, y you can't keep a crow from flying over your head, but you can keep him from making a nest in your hair. It's the same way with thoughts. You can't keep that first thought from coming out. You gotta recognize what it is, where it came from, and you are responsible. It came from you. The second thought is to grab that first thought and put it where it belongs. Sometimes we catch these tendencies on the first thought. And then with the second thought we do business with these evils and tendencies. I believe that will always be part of the Christian walk in our bodies. You do not need to get discouraged when your first thought may be an evil one. We just need to accept that life in this flesh is going to be a continual battle. And the battle comes from our hearts. The fact that it's a battle does not mean you are a pitiful Christian. It just means you're a real one. But if it gets past the first thought and you sort of enjoy the direction that it's taking you, realize what you're exhibiting is what Scripture calls a defilement, what Christ calls a defilement. Defile is to declare or count unclean, unhallowed, profane. What that means is you're exhibiting actions or attitudes that are a disgrace to God. You are taking that for which Christ died and making it dirty and ugly. Christ died in order for you to live victoriously. And when we choose to sin, we are profaning that. And that is a huge deal. Romans tells us we must take those thoughts captive. We can't let them think for us. We can't assume that because it came out of me, well, it must be good. It must be me. That's how I am. None of that. We must think And call those thoughts sinful. They're motivated by lies. Then we've got to track down those lies and replace them with truths That is the everyday work of every believer. God will not free you from that work. Don't pray for a God zap that's going to get you out of that work. It's not going to happen. You are not free from that work until you are resurrected. Alright, so God has laid Christ has laid all this out. Essentially, he was telling his listeners. The greatest issue is not the ceremonial defilement you experience when you happen into any of these ceremonial uncleannesses. The greater and more important issue is spiritual uncleanliness. And the source of spiritual uncleanliness is not in your environment or in what you eat or drink. The source of spiritual uncleanness starts in your thoughts and reasoning and is displayed by actions and attitudes. Now, wasn't this unfair to the Jews he was talking to? Really, their scripture told them that ceremonial uncleanness was a big deal. They were taught to think that it's a big deal. And Scripture said it. So wouldn't they be right to be offended by what Christ said? Well, let's take a look at what the Old Testament actually teaches about the priority of pure-heartedness. Over ceremonial uncleanness. First, we see the emphasis that God places on the condition of the heart in those who serve Him 1 Samuel 16, 7. But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have refused him. For the Lord does not see as a man sees. For man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. 1 King 8:39 Then hear in your in heaven your dwelling place, and forgive and act, and give to everyone according to all his ways, whose heart you know, for you alone know the hearts of all the sons of men. 1 Chronicles 28 9 As for you, my son Solomon, know the God of your father and serve him with a loyal heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searches all hearts and understands all the intents of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever. In Jeremiah 4:4 Circumcise yourselves to the Lord, and take away the foreskins of your hearts. You men of Judah, inhabitants of Jerusalem, lest my fury come forth like fire and burn so that no one can quench it. because of the evil of your doings. We can see in all of this that God looks at the heart. He's not primarily impressed by simply our external conformity. That conformity must be driven by a heart that is submitted to and loyal to God. The external conformity without the love for God does not impress God. It does not please God. Now, what about the proper external worship and ceremonial services? What does God think of that? How is that connected to the heart of the worshiper? Amos 5, 21 through 23. I hate, I despise your feast days, and I do not savor your sacred assemblies. Though you offer me burnt offerings and your grain offerings, the ceremonial stuff, they're doing it, I will not accept them Nor will I regard your fattened peace offerings. Take away from me the noise of your songs, for I will not hear the melody of your stringed instruments. Amos was prophesying about the people of Israel. These people had not obeyed God regarding the weightier matters of the law. They were guilty of abusing their own people. And God would have none of it. He would not put up with their ceremonial deception, which is what it amounts to. Who did they think they were fooling? Their hearts were far from God. And that was more important than their ceremonial precision. And we'll close with this with portions of this passage from Isaiah 1, verses 1 through 31. The vision of Isaiah the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. I have nourished and brought up children. And they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know, my people do not consider. Alas, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers, children who are corrupters, they have forsaken the Lord They have provoked to anger the Holy One of Israel. They have turned away backward. Why should you be stricken again? You'll revolt more and more The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faints. From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and putrefying sores. They have not been closed or bound up or soothed with ointment. Wow. Wow. It isn't at all hard to see what the condition of these people are in. They have morally and spiritually fallen. They don't have hearts or love for God. They have turned away backward. Their spiritual state is despicable. They're morally defiled. But what about ceremonially? How are they doing ceremonially? Verse 10, hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the law of God, you people of Gomorrah. He's comparing them to Sodom and Gomorrah. To what purpose is the multitudes of your sacrifices to me? They're sacrificing, but he's saying, what good is it? I've had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle. I did not delight in the blood of lambs or of bulls or of lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, who has required this from your hand to trample my courts? Bring no more future sacrifices Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, and the calling of assemblies, I can't endure iniquity and the sacred meeting. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They're a trouble to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I'll hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I'll not hear Your hands are full of blood. This is what the problem is. This is why God does not want to hear from them. Wash yourselves. Make yourselves clean. Put away the evil. Of your doings before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do good. Seek justice. Rebuke the oppressor. Defend the fatherless. Plead for the widow. And he goes on, come now and let us reason together, says the Lord. Come and listen to what I have to say, essentially. And then just try. To back yourself, and I'll I'll demolish that as well. Come and get some reason. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow He 's offering it to him. He's offering true relationship with Christ, true relationship with God, forgiveness, true forgiveness of sin. Not going through this ceremonial stuff. uh to t and thinking that it's accomplished when their lives has not changed at all. Though they are red like crimson they shall be as wool. If you are willing and obedient you shall eat the good of the land, but if you refuse and rebel you shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. The people that Jesus was talking to in Jesus' day would have understood that there is something far more important Than being ceremonially unclean. They should have understood the kinds of things that Isaiah speaks clearly of The spiritual status of the heart is by far the highest priority here. In fact, without spiritual purity, nothing else matters The profanity described by Isaiah is the spiritual defilement that comes from people's hearts. They may have been offering the sacrifice is 100% technically correct. But the people's hearts were the problem. The Old Testament was hard on people whose external actions were inconsistent with their internal evil hearts. Look at what Samuel told Saul. A very telling incident. Verse Samuel 15, 22 and 23 So Samuel said, has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king. Jesus was not saying anything new to these Jews. He was simply putting first things first, and they should have done the same thing, and they didn't. What God wants is worshippers who love him. He isn't impressed by those who think that going meticulously letter by letter by an external standard of ceremonies will cover over the fact that they don't even love this God that they claim to be serving. Jesus was telling the crowd and then his disciples that the defilement that was the priority, the defilement that was the problem. is spiritual defilement. It always was and it always will be until we're resurrected. That's the defilement God cares most about. Nothing of any value can be done until that defilement is dealt with. So the big problem is not what you put in your mouth, but that which is in you that finds its way out by words and actions. We were discussing this in in uh Sunday school, and we as a church, at least in my opinion, don't tend to be too legalistic. I think and I what I mean by that is artificial rules, rules that aren't in God's word. I think we've been weaned from much of that But that doesn't mean that our acts of worship are motivated by love for God as they should be. I think that sometimes our efforts are more motivated by avoiding guilt than in pleasing God. There's a subtle difference there. And that difference will often drive us to look better than what we really are, because our behavior on the outside is not as bad as it could be. We'll often do the right things, but we get no relational pleasure in it in our walk with Christ. It's not motivated by love that gets us satisfaction in serving the beloved. We all know how what that that attitude, I mean, maybe with our spouses or our friends, we do things that we just want to please them. And we want them to be pleased. And when they are pleased, it pleases us. Is that how we're is that why we're doing what we're doing for God? Because we love God and we want to please Him. And by pleasing Him it pleases us. We're so glad to have done it. It's worthy of consideration in our hearts. Our hearts are the core problem. And transforming our minds is how we change our hearts a little bit at a time. We call out to God, asking him to soften our hearts. He knows our hearts, to show us who we are, to reveal ourselves to ourselves through his word. And through life. And we do the work of finding the lies we believe and replacing them with God's truth. The mind is the gate to the heart. The heart is the solidification of those things we think. We start life with hearts that are inclined in all kinds of bad directions, and we're given a lifetime to bring them into the conformity to God's will. That is what our life is for. Don't allow the devil to discourage you because the process is hard. Don't be discouraged because there's always more to do. Don't be surprised when you open your mouth and evil comes out. Don't be shocked when a life event happens and you see bad things about you that you didn't even know existed. In fact, you wouldn't sometimes would have sworn that you would never do such a thing or think such a thing or be such a way. And whatever you do, don't pretend that this process isn't going on inside of you. We don't have to pretend God 's people know what this process is like, and God's people will love you in the struggle. Just let those incidents, those discoveries Remind you of where the problem with you really is. And get back to the work of taking your thoughts captive and renewing your mind. And we're all in this together. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you so much. You leave no mystery as to what the difficulty that we have living in our skin, living with other people, living in this world. Where the defilements are, where the problem is. Lord, you brought us together as a bunch of sinners. Sinners saved by your grace, but with the remnant of of who we were still in us. We thank you for the opportunity to love you By changing, by believing, by acting by faith, by trusting what you say over and above what we feel, what we perceive, what we wish. We thank you that peace is restored in our relationship with you, and that we can live in that peace. We ask that you would help us to not misdiagnose The problems we encounter by blaming on everyone around us. But that we would come to grips that the greatest evil that we see Is the evil that comes back through our minds that's contained in our hearts. And Lord help us to glorify you by doing that hard work of true spirituality. Of true sanctification. And help us to not quit, but to do it faithfully day in and day out. Because we love you. We ask these things in Jesus name, Amen.