So what was the difference between the disciples who stayed and the disciples who left? Remember what he said a few weeks ago? Jesus is teaching us this. When building a church, when building a church. First, preach the word, even when it might seem hard to understand or to hear, for an unbeliever. Preach the word. Don't appeal to or cater to or tolerate flushing motivations in ears. Completely rely upon the Holy Spirit to change the heart in some of the hearers. They are the church. Build on them. There are two ways of knowing if someone's a believer. There's from God's point of view and our point of view. From God's point of view, he knows because he draws them to himself. He chooses them. From our point of view, we hear a confession of faith that turns out to be congruent with that person's life. So, what do we see in our passage here? Jesus is declaring the word, like we talked about. And Peter responds with a confession. And Jesus says, Yeah, I chose you guys. It's interesting. He doesn't attribute their profession to their innate abilities or their wisdom or their insight. He goes right to the idea, I chose you Yeah, you're following me. You gave me good confession, I chose you. And while eleven of you I chose for salvation, one of you I chose for a different purpose. Now I want to revisit chapters 66 through 71 before we move on. And we'll just move into our new text a little bit this morning later on. You might feel like I'm beating it to death, but I think it holds the truth that the churches in 2025 Even some true evangelistic churches are subtly missing. And I think it reduces down to this question. Is the church's mission to make converts or to make disciples? Is the church's mission to make converts or to make disciples? Is the church's primary mission evangelism or discipleship? Matthew 28, 18, Jesus came to them and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Now, Jesus led in the way in how we are to minister. He was calling out his church in his earthly ministry. So we have a wonderful example of that. Jesus is showing us how to discern who is in and who is out. And that has little to do with who has a good opinion of Jesus and who has a bad opinion of Jesus. It has to do with who is confessing Christ's deity and his right to rule everything, including the hidden recesses of our own hearts As opposed to those who like the stuff that Christ might do for them. That's the difference. And God is so gracious, so very gracious in all of this. Some of us came to Christ with very little understanding of what following Christ was all about. We had the areas in our lives where we thought Christ belonged in those areas. And where we really um and then we had those areas that well we really didn't need to include him in those areas. You know, we're inviting Jesus 'cause we have specific feelings, sp specific needs. And we want him to take care of that because we feel that so desperately. And there's these other parts of our lives that uh we're pretty good with that. We we can handle those all by ourselves. And uh We were glad to give Christ the areas that we had no idea how to deal with, because we needed help. But the ones where we had opinions about what we wanted and how we wanted it Well, we were kind of slow in giving those up. We didn't think we needed Christ for those things. Well, it turns out when Christ authors salvation, he also perfects Salvation. I believe it's Hebrews tells us that. And if we're in him, he won't let that stuff slide. He's so very, very, very gracious to us. And so thorough. And praise God for that. But clearly, the church's primary mission is to make disciples. Evangelism is only the first step in that process. The mission Christ gave us is completed only as people are being taught to obey Christ. In every area of their lives. Any ministry that considers itself complete prior to reaching that state is not Christ's mission. Any church that sees that they are primarily in the business of getting people to sit in their seats at their meetings Without seeing their lives and their hearts fundamentally changed, has abandoned the mission of Christ. And to the degree that we don't prioritize discipleship and growth, to that same degree we are not carrying out Christ's mission. For the church. Now, how did Jesus deal with this? Verse 66. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So in our text, we're seeing Jesus watching people's backs as they walk away from him. And it's interesting to notice what Jesus did not do. He didn't negotiate with them. He didn't see what he could do to make them stay. That's what's comforting when you're sure that you're representing God accurately in your ministry. The word of God draws, the word of God repels. The word of God draws some. The Word of God repels some. We can't change that. And we don't need to, and we shouldn't. Now, naturally, we can't be as confident as Christ was. We need to analyze what we are doing to make sure we are really speaking the truth in love, that we're not going off on some tangent That we're not going off on a pet peeve of ours, or we're not voicing our opinion, but that we're actually speaking God's truth in love. The truth tells us what's able to be said. Like we run it through the the sieve of of truth. Is it true? Does it represent what God's Word says? Is it accurate about what He says? And then love determines if and when and how We should say it. Our motives and our wisdom, ours, are always suspect. Christ never was But ours ours is, and we we need to be careful. So we have to examine ourselves. But if we reduce it down to the fact that people are leaving because they don't like the real Christ They don't like the real gospel. They don't like what Christ is or what he says. If we reduce it down to that, we don't have to second guess at all. It happened to Christ, it'll happen to us. That's okay. So Jesus turned from those who are not true followers. He's watching them leave, watching their backs, and he addresses the twelve who are sitting there next to him. Or w whatever, maybe they were standing, I don't know. Um he says Do you want to go away as well? Do you want to go away as well? This sentence, actually, in the Greek, is spoken in a way that assumes a good response. It was like Jesus was saying, You're not wanting to go away, are you? They was assuming the positive. Now we can tell by what Christ says next that Christ is not wringing his hands in anguish, wondering what's going to happen next, and if these guys are going to leave them. Christ knows they're not going anywhere But Christ gives them the opportunity to profess their faith here, which is always good. And naturally, Simon Peter is the one who chimes up. We would expect that by now. Simon Peter is always the one who chimes up Whether for good or for bad. Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life Now, for those looking for a good political leader who's going to rescue Israel from the the Romans There might be a better leader than Christ that meets their desires. If they were looking for a person to provide bread more easily or readily Maybe they could have found a better candidate for that. If they were looking for a better life on earth, maybe they could find someone better to help them with that. But if they're looking for eternal life, there's nowhere else to look. That's what he's saying. Christ is it. He's the only one with the words of eternal life. He's it. There's no other. When your heart is gripped, when you are obsessed with the need to be forgiven of your sin. When you have got to know that you are okay with God, when what matters most to you is peace with God, there's only one place to go. Christ said, I'm the way, I'm the truth, I'm the life. Nobody comes to the Father except through me. The way is narrow. It's exclusive. There aren't any other options. Peter got that right. The problem with the crowd is not primarily that they didn't understand what Christ said. Their problem was primarily that their hearts did not want what Christ was offering. And the truth is, any person going to church without the hearts that these false are with the With the hearts that these false disciples had or going to church for all the wrong reasons. You and I should be coming to worship together because we know that Christ is the only way to be right with God. That is why church is so important. It's that mentality that leads to unity and peace in the church. When you are desperate, and there is only one way to have that desperation met. That brings unity. Churches lose their unity as they lose the common reason that they're coming together for. As Christ becomes less central in our lives, unity is harder to maintain in our fellowship. That's how it works. That's why there's a lot of fighting in churches. They've lost the importance, the centrality of who Jesus Christ is and how important He is in everything that they do. So Peter confesses that it's only Christ who has what their hearts most want. They want eternal life, and only Christ can tell them how to have it. Now, what did that lead to in the disciples? Verse 69, Peter goes on. We've believed and we've come to know that you're the Holy One of God. Now it's one thing to trust Christ as a true teacher, but that's never enough. It's necessary. But Christ holds out his teaching so we can exercise our minds and become convinced as the Holy Spirit accompanies his teaching. We need that But it's not enough. We need more than a teaching about a savior. We need a savior. We need someone who will tell us how to be saved, but we also need someone who can save us. And that's where the faith of the disciples took them. That's the beauty of what Peter is saying. Here we see how we can know the difference between fleshly belief. The belief that humans can do in their natural state with their natural minds think in their natural thoughts, and the belief that the Holy Spirit produces in a person's life that they cannot accomplish. With all of their means. True faith moves from understanding and agreeing with a teaching to submitting one's life to their Lord Peter describes his experience in ours if we're in Christ. At some point, we were convinced of a fact. We might even be able to remember that moment. Or that that transition or that period of time. We conceptually understood at some point that Christ is the Messiah in a bigger sense than we ever thought. But it didn't stay at that initial conclusion. It grew greater and greater as a conviction in our lives and in our hearts and the way we live, we have come to know Like Peter is saying, we have come to know, we've experienced this. We are fully convinced. In fact, nothing will convince us otherwise. Now, Peter thought he was speaking for the twelve. And no doubt he thought that they were all in this together. And that's probably a good thing. At least Peter wasn't saying, well, Jesus. I believe in you, and probably in a superior way than the rest of these guys. Now he might have thought that, but but he he said it right here. And he saw them as as being firmly convinced that Christ was the Messiah and that they were equally committed to him. And that's good. Turns out, though, there's more to the story that he doesn't know. And Jesus answered He said, Did I not choose you the twelve, and yet want to use the devil? He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Scariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. Now I emphasized last week how Jesus processed all human professions. If they they are true There always there's always more to the story. I called you, he says. I I I chose you When my kids show up at my house, they're generally very polite, for which I'm thankful. They say please and thank you. And odds are they do it because they think it's the right thing to do, and it's just part of them. Now. But what they probably don't remember all the times that mom and dad or relatives or teachers demanded that they display good manners. And while it's very true that the kids are still choosing to be polite, they choose that thing, they didn't create the polite in them. There was more happening underneath the surface that they may not still be aware of, but being aware unaware of the cause doesn't remove its effect. Peter says, We won't leave you. Because we learned who you are and became convinced who you are. We see you as our Messiah, our Savior. And Jesus gives them the internal scoop. He gives them the rest of the story. Said, yeah, that's true. That's true, you. I chose you. I chose you. That's what really happened. So of course you're going to believe. But Jesus is also letting Peter know you aren't exactly right, one of you is not what you think he is. You give a group profession of faith, Peter. But ultimately, a profession of faith has to be personal. It must be made by every individual. People come to Christ individually, even when they may come to Christ at the same time. You cannot decide for Christ as a group. You have to decide for Christ for yourself. Where Jesus said of Judas, he is a devil, it might be better translated to say he is the devil. I find it interesting all the efforts that are made today to make Judas what Judas did so humanly understandable. Have you noticed much of that focus? It's almost like it's to be seen as a spiritual trait to have sympathy for Judas. I think we should what we should learn is very different than that lesson. When any of us are acting according to our flesh. Even when it is our best-intentioned flesh, we are only a razor's edge away from sacrificing Christ for that which we love most. I think that's the lesson to get from Judas. When any of us are acting according to our flesh. Even when it's our best-intentioned flesh, we're only a razor's edge away from sacrificing Christ for that which we love most. Judas probably had reasons that he could justify in his mind for what he did. Don't we all? Think of a sin that you committed that you didn't have a good reason for. But at the end of the day, his fleshly impulses were inspired by the devil. Was Judas trying to force Jesus' hand to take over as the Messiah? Was he surprised when that didn't happen and Christ allowed himself to be killed instead of rescuing himself? Did he feel bad that his plan didn't work out the way he hoped? Was he dismayed that he helped kill Jesus? At the end of the day, the spirit gives life and the flesh is no help at all in anything having to do with giving life. All Judas had to do to play into the plot to kill Jesus. was to do what his flesh told him to do. Flesh is really, really, really that bad. Okay, let's take a quick look at our next text. We'll go into greater depth next week, but we have enough time to get started. This is the situation now. The Jews around Jerusalem not only desired to kill Jesus, but they were coming up with actual plans on how they were going to accomplish the plan that they had. So Jesus stayed out of the area for a while. He was traveling around in Galilee. Now John doesn't cover a whole lot of that activity, but the other gospels do. And John's pretty good about this. He doesn't repeat a whole lot of stuff that the other gospels go over because it's been years that these other gospels have been circulated and he knows everybody knows this stuff. They've already read that. I'm going to tell parts of the story that that weren't known. So from the end of chapter 6 to chapter 7, verse 2, there was a six-month gap covered in Matthew 15 through 18. Jesus continued to teach, to heal, and defeat crowds. Peter had made another great profession during this time, and then just a little bit later, Jesus told Peter to get behind him and address Peter as Satan. That's this is all happening in this six month period. And again, there's a little difference between the harm that flesh does and the harm that the devil does. It reminds me of the slogan for an ancient hair product, a little dabble do you. Like there's six people in here who might know what that is. Flesh is like that. Just a little dabble do ya. It's enough to do a a great deal of harm. And then going on in the in the story that we're not told, the transfigure figuration happened, which was a huge event. And then Jesus cast out demons from a boy. We got that story. And Christ told Peter to go fish and used a coin and a fish to pay the temple tax, which I think is one of the coolest stories in Scripture. It's like an inspiration to go fishing because you never know. And uh Jesus taught his disciples about the need for reconciliation and how to go about it. All this was taken care of uh in this Silent period in John. John MacArthur points out that during these six months, most of the scenes were teaching scenes. Where Christ spent lots of time teaching his disciples. That's important. It shows us that even though Jesus could have done continuous miracles that would have drawn the crowds and mesmerized them and got them all hyped up. That is not how he used the lion's share of his time. Here's the Son of God on the planet with this time. He's only got three years to use. And how does he use it? The majority of it, he's pouring his life into these twelve guys. He used it to disciple his disciples. And that's where the most significant ministry often happens. Jesus is our model in that. We need to pour our lives into the lives of others if we hope to have an eternal impact in the lives of others. It's a good good uh example to follow. Now all of this happened between chapter seven, verse one, and verse two. Verse 1, after this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Now the Jews' feast of Booths was at hand. John Calvin pointed out that although Jesus avoided dangers, he didn't go there and needlessly bring on this danger to himself He never turned aside from the course of his duty. When it was time to go, he didn't hesitate to go, even though it was the same circumstance. The Feast of Booths, also called the Feast of Tabernacles or the Ingathering, was a feast that lasted seven days during the month of Tishri, which is in our September or October. Might even be about now. And then there was a special meeting on the eighth day. And you can find all of this in Leviticus 23, 33 through 36. This was a big party time for the Jewish people. They did a lot of celebrating. And I mean read it. It surprises you. It's like, oh, God must like parties. Because that's what they were supposed to do This was an event that all Jewish males were required to attend. So Jesus half-brothers, brothers by mother, but not by father. They simply assume that Christ would attend, because that's what guys, Jewish guys, do. Matthew 13, 55 gives us the brothers' names, James, Joseph, Simon. And Jude or Judas. They were his brothers. Eventually, Christ's brothers came to faith in Christ, which is a lovely thing. James and Jude were probably both written by Christ's brothers, the books of James and Jude. But for now, they didn't believe. Now they didn't believe. Jesus' brothers And they didn't believe. Think about that for a moment. The brothers of Christ were the most dramatic proof that flesh does not give life. Flesh does nothing to give life. These men came out of the same mother's body as Judas or as Jesus did. They came out of the same body. They grew up in the same household that Jesus did. They had all the time in the world to get to know the Son of God in his most natural state. If flesh could get you to Christ, they should have been Christ's most ardent followers. But obviously, what Christ said was true. It takes the Holy Spirit So, what we have next is the advice the world gives the church for how to succeed in the world. That's what's coming from the brothers. It's Jesus' unbelieving brothers telling Jesus how he can succeed politically. And that's how the world often sees the church. The world often sees it as a fleshly natural organization, just like any other normal organization, and it has to go by the same rules to accomplish its ends. They have to put the church into a framework they can understand and relate to. The general idea is if something's going to happen, you need to make it happen. Like we talked about practical atheism, it's that sort of thing. They're like there is no God, you go by the world's rules, you make it happen So this is what they say. His brother said to him, Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly If you do these things, show yourself to the world. Here is the world's advice on how to have a successful ministry as given by Jesus' unbelieving brothers. Do your ministry in a way that is most visible to the most amount of people. What you do in secret, what you do in private, what you do in small Yes, zealot, revolutionary leader, this is how you do it. We'll help ya. You can't do it your way. And if Jesus wanted what they thought he wanted, their advice might have been useful. But that's not what Jesus wanted at all. So every word that they said was irrelevant. When the world writes a book using the same principles that build businesses to build churches, beware. Jesus' brothers were writing that book. And Jesus would have nothing to do with it Again, flesh and spirit. Which are we dependent on? Flesh or spirit. It's also interesting how the brothers use the word if, if you do these things. The next verse explains this thing. For not even his brothers believed in him. These brothers were probably skeptical that Jesus was actually even performing these miracles. We don't know. We don't see that Jesus did his miracles in front of his family that often. Maybe they hadn't seen him. Maybe they heard about him second hand and they had ideas about How they really weren't miracles, maybe, or they weren't impressed by them, but we don't know. We've all met people like that. You know, it's always tragic when we have family members that don't understand our walk with Christ at all. They read into our lives all kinds of motives we don't have. They regard our lives as misguided at best and a complete waste at worst. They may even hate us for the stands that we take. And often the best we can do is simply ignore those voices and keep going. We hear their words as irrelevant advice from people who we have nothing in common with except biology. That's the state that Jesus is in with his family. Give him advice, then they have no idea what they're talking about, and it is not at all helpful to Jesus So Jesus decides here to respond to them. And he doesn't argue their strategy. He doesn't say, no, I prefer to use a different. No. They have nothing to offer Christ in terms of strategy. And again, it's the difference between flesh and spirit. But Christ does try to make a point here. Jesus talks to them about orientation. When a person is at the center of their own world , that person can do anything they want to do, whenever they want to do it, and it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Because in the scheme of things, everything they're doing is irrelevant to life. It doesn't matter. It's useless It's irrelevant spiritually. It can't accomplish anything of value. It's just sad. Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always here. We're going to close here on this verse with this point. The brothers of Christ actually think they have the wisdom and the authority to improve on Christ's plan. That's pretty Egotistical. They could have seen it in perspective. But anyway, they're telling they're telling him, Go now, go here, do this And Jesus is saying, no. He's straightening them out. He said, my my time is different than yours, guys. My time is different. My life is being carried out for an eternal end. That was planned before the beginning of time. My timing has to be perfect. My timing is important. What I'm doing is so important that I don't have the freedom to adjust my timeline or even determine my timeline. I have to go by the timeline my father has given me. It's that important. And my time has not yet come. You guys do what you want. It doesn't matter what you do, it matters what I do. So that determines what I'll do, and I do not yet have the okay by my father to take this next step. But as for you brothers, do what you want. Why? It doesn't matter. There are a million paths to hell. As long as you're on that path, the timing of what you do does not matter because what you do does not matter. It's all a flesh. None of it leads to life. None of it has any eternal consequence for the good. Is your time important to you? It should be. There's a sense that no one can give their lives to Christ. We can only give the time of our lives to Christ. And to the degree that your time is given to Christ, your life is given to Christ. To the degree your time is not given to Christ, your life is not given to Christ. Our intentions can be so deceptive Our calendar? Not so much. I think we would do well to pray to the Lord this week, asking him, Lord, where am I not living by your timetable? By the timetable that you have given me. Where am I choosing to live like Jesus brothers, where my time is being wasted on my lordship of my life? And Lord, how would you like me to change how I'm spending your minutes in your timetable? Help me to see how, if my life is truly yours, Your timetable is my timetable now. My life is to be lived in step with your plan, in step with the Holy Spirit. You have given me freedom now, but it's not freedom to do my own will. My freedom is to do your will in your time with this body that you have bought with the price. Help me, Lord, live by the Spirit and abandon the life of living for the flesh. Let's pray. Lord your spirit gives life your