We've spent a lot of time looking at the Gospels. We've had some fun at the expense of the humanity of the disciples. We've gone through the dark times as we've seen what our sin costs Jesus. We've seen the wonderful miracles that Christ performed. Miracles that give us hope that what we need in our lives is never greater than what the power of Christ can provide for us. We've listened as Christ taught his disciples, the fickle crowds, and even Christ's enemies. We have a very good feel, I believe, for who Jesus was, what he taught, and what he wanted. Now we have a question for this morning. What is it that he wanted? What is it that he wanted? What is it that Christ intended for all of his followers? When Christ was preparing to lead this earthly existence, what is it that all of his work and teaching and sacrifice was supposed to accomplish? What were those who claimed to follow Christ? What is it that he wanted them to be and to do? Think about this. You're here at Ferndale Church this morning. And you chose to come here for some reasons. Jack came because he broke down in the parking lot. But uh every everyone else seems to have more chosen sort of reasons. You chose to fellowship with this unlikely group of believers For reasons. We've associated ourselves with some reasons. What are they? There are a lot of people who act like Christ did what he did so that we can now have a place where we can go where we're loved. So they evaluate each church they attend based on how loved they feel, how well they think their needs are being met, and they come and go accordingly. There are others who think that what Christ did was to provide us a place where we can worship God. That worship and praise done together is the purpose of church. So they evaluate each church they go to based on the quality of their experience of worship toward God. And they come and go accordingly. Others think that the church is primarily a place where we hear from God. So we look for the church where we can hear the best doctrine, or maybe where we experience the sermons most powerfully, and people come and go accordingly. Isn't it odd that when you're reading Scripture, most of the references about the church and our participation in it focuses more on what we are to provide than what we are to receive? Scripture describes the church as a bunch of people seeking to do what Christ wants done and to be what Christ wants them to be. It prescribes our part in it accordingly. Now, if that is the case, isn't it vitally important that we understand what it is that Christ wants the church to do? What is its mission? What is its mission statement? This morning we're going to look at that. Matthew 28, 16 through 20. Then the eleven disciples went into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them, and when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. Now remember that the seven fishing disciples had gone fishing already, and Christ had given them a coarse adjustment and a nice meal by the sea. At that point, he restored Peter to leadership, and Matthew skips that story completely and jumps right into the fact that the disciples went from Jerusalem to Galilee to the mountain that Jesus had told them to go to. We learn in 1 Corinthians that there was a group of, at one point, of 500 disciples who saw Jesus at the same time. It could be that the ones who doubted were in this group, because by now it seems that the eleven were convinced that Christ had risen from the dead. So when the eleven and possibly more saw Christ, they worshiped Christ. Again, notice that Christ did not reject any of their worship. This is a very, very important point. Christ did not reject their worship. This is an affirmation of the deity of Christ. Christ would have been obligated to reject their worship if he was not God. At this point, just to have the proper perspective, let's take a look at what Paul told us of this same event in 1 Corinthians 15, 3 through 8. He says this, for I delivered to you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. and that he was seen by Cephas and then by the twelve. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained to the present, but some have fallen asleep. After that, he was also seen by James, then by all the apostles. Then last of all, he was seen by me also as one born out of due time. Paul is telling us that at some point, probably the point in our text, there were 500 people watching on. So that was a very big deal. And then it says in verse 18, and Jesus came and spoke to them. The doubters probably needed some assurance. So Jesus came closer to them and began speaking This probably removed all of the doubt that they were experiencing because they knew the authority of Jesus' preaching when they heard it, and maybe they recognized him in his person. We see that Christ and angels both had the ability to turn on and off recognition of who they were. Now, what did Christ say? This is so vitally important. What did Christ want the church to hear prior to his ascension? Now, next week we're going to go into some of the teaching that he gave them. But this is the first statement that he gives. All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. All authority has been given to me on heaven and on earth. If we were sitting there and hearing Christ say that, we're going to get the idea that what's coming next. is going to be pretty important. Jesus is saying that he had absolute authority to say what he is saying The authority he has is unlimited. He has all authority. He can say and do whatever he wills, and it will carry the authority of his father. God will stand behind him. This would have been a huge statement to those who are listening. Christ was essentially saying that he had as much authority over his followers' lives as as all the scriptures that have been previously given and all the scriptures that would ever come in the future. He was s essentially saying what I say, God backs completely. He's saying, I am speaking to you what God once done. These followers would have understood this. It would have gotten their attention. They would have understood the need to say, yes, Lord and Master. While this truth can be very assuring if we're submitting to the Lordship of Christ, it should be extremely frightening if we're resisting it in any way. We need to understand that if we're committing sin against what we know Scripture says, against what we know Christ says, we're standing against the authority. The authority of Jesus Christ. We are resisting it. We may even be rebelling against it, and that is a huge deal. So given that Christ has all the authority of God behind what he's going to say next, what he is going to say next better be gripped by our souls in a death grip. We had better understand just how important the next thing Christ is going to say to us is. And he says in verse 19, go therefore and make disciples of all the nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Now, it's very helpful to understand the sentence here. Make disciples is the main verb and the central command in the passage. Make disciples. Going and baptizing and teaching are supporting activities of making disciples. But they are not the main command. The word used for make disciples is essentially making people who will place their trust in Christ and follow him continually in learning and obedience. There are a lot of organizations that want to justify their existence by counting the number of people who pray a prescribed prayer. But that is not what this is talking about. What this is describing is a person who has been gripped by Christ in such a way that their lives are now directed in a completely different direction than they had been before. I like a quote from John MacArthur. I'm going to use several of his this morning. He says, Scripture knows nothing of receiving Christ as Savior, but not as Lord, as if a person could take God piecemeal as it suits him. Every convert to Christ is a disciple of Christ, and no one who is not a disciple of Christ, no matter what his profession of faith might be, is a convert of Christ. Sometimes this understanding and submitting to the Lordship of Christ is a process. It's not an event. A person may pray a prayer to receive Christ, but it may take years before they understand what it truly is. to be Christian. But if God is at work in that person, they will come to that point of submission to Christ's Lordship. They will become a disciple. Every single one of them will In our evangelism, we cannot be satisfied with a person's salvation until we see that the person will submit willingly to Christ's demands upon their lives. They'll not do it perfectly, but that person must submit the handling of their feelings, their fears, their loves, their sexuality, their money, their time over to the clearly revealed will of Christ. Until that happens, we have no assurance of that person's salvation, and we shouldn't offer assurance of salvation to that person. A believer is a person who is in that struggle daily, not always winning, but always fighting. So this does not mean that a disciple won't fail at many points. But at those points, when they realize they've failed, they'll be repentant and not rebellious. They'll confess their sin and not excuse it. And they'll not be able to live without God's forgiveness of that sin, so that their fellowship is restored with him. Because that fellowship with God is the lifeblood of a disciple of Christ. So making disciples is what the church is to be about. Making disciples is what a church is to be about. That's the focus of the command that Christ gave We here at Ferndale Church are to make it our primary mission to be a to be a disciple and to make disciples. To be a disciple and to make disciples. That's why we exist. Think about what you know of the Bible. What is the whole Bible really about? If you were to sum it up in a few words, what is the whole Bible really about? It's the record of mankind rebelling against God. And God pursuing mankind to reconcile them to himself. That's what the Bible is about. That is the core of what God does on this planet. That is the core of why God is allowing this planet to continue to exist. I want to borrow again from MacArthur. The great mission of the church is to so love, learn, and live as to call men and women to Jesus Christ. As sinners are forgiven and are transformed from death to life and from darkness to light, God is glorified through that gracious miracle. The glory of God is manifest in his loving provision to redeem lost men. He himself paid the ultimate price to fulfill his glory. Therefore, the believer who desires to glorify God, who wants to honor God's supreme will and purpose must share God's love for the lost world and share in his mission to redeem the lost to himself. Christ came into the world that he loved and sought to win sinners to himself For the Father's glory. As Christ's representatives, we are likewise sent into the world that He loves to bring the lost to him and thereby bring glory and honor to God. Our mission is the same mission as that of the Father and of the Son. It's the same mission that was given to the Church. And then another passage, if God's and this, think about the reasoning. On what he's about to say next. If God's primary purpose for the saved were loving fellowship, he would take believers immediately to heaven where spiritual fellowship is perfect. It's unhindered by sin, disharmony, or loneliness. If God's primary purpose for the saved were the learning of his word, he would also take believers immediately to heaven. where his word is perfectly known and understood. And if God's primary purpose for the saved were to give him praise, he would again take believers immediately to heaven where praise is perfect and unending. There's only one reason the Lord allows his church to remain on earth, to seek and to save the lost. Just as Christ's only reason for coming to earth was to seek and to save the lost. As the Father has sent me, he declared, I also send you. Therefore, a believer who is not committed to winning the loss for Jesus Christ should re-examine his relationship to the Lord and certainly his divine reason for existence. I'd add a caveat to what Mr. MacArthur says here. Part of discipleship, part of making disciples is to train and encourage that which is godly behavior. and to discourage and rebuke sinful behavior. This is often done inside the body of Christ and it has its place in the proper mission of the church Evangelism and discipleship are covered in Christ's command in our text, not just evangelism. We're to make disciples of ourselves, of each other, and of those who respond to the gospel of Christ. in the world. All of that is part of the mission that he's giving us here. So back to our text. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always even to the end of the age. The go, therefore, in our text is not the primary emphasis of the text. And this has been messed up for a long time. In fact, it really isn't an imperative, a command. It could be easily translated having gone, or some understand it as as you are going. I'm in the world every weekday. I don't need to go. I'm going. Many of you are too. And while we are there, we're absorbed with lots of things. Our greatest problem in that arena, at least my greatest problem, is that I lose my perspective and become focused on everything but the most important reason that I'm there. I want to be seen as someone who's funny, someone who's competent, someone who is valuable, any list of things. But I forget that the most important thing I can be is someone who is useful in helping people get to God. Do you find yourself in the same spot? Many of us are already going Maybe for some of you who are more secluded, it takes intentional effort to find yourself surrounded by those who don't know Christ, and that's an honorable thing. But most of us are already going. Now, who is our target group here? Well, it would seem by Christ saying of all nations. We don't need to discriminate at all who we present the gospel to, because everybody fits into that of all nations. If they're breathing, they are a candidate to hear the gospel I would think that this would be enough to end any ideas of one race being more important than any other. There is great equity in God's approach toward humanity. Everyone is explicitly a target for the gospel of Christ. None are more important than any other. All nations pretty well puts everything in perspective. Those in the past who have tried to make distinctions about how God regards races, needs to look at the mission of the church laid out by Jesus Christ Himself. We're to reach all nations. Now for us, this is probably much easier than the people in Christ's audience on this day. They were primarily Jewish followers. When Christ said that this mission is to be carried out on all nations, they would immediately come up with a thousand butts. But Christ was clear. All nations. And Peter would soon have to lead the pack in doing business with this. And that wasn't going to be an easy lesson for him to learn either. Then it goes on to say, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. To baptize means literally to immerse in water And that's why we fully immerse a person when we baptize him or her. That's where we get our name, Baptist Church, from. We believe in dunking. We see here that the first thing mentioned about what must be done with the disciple is to baptize them. This act does not save a person, but it's an outward action that displays an internal change, an internal change that does save the person. In many countries, this single act will bring upon oneself a death sentence if it's discovered. Baptism declares one's identity to be tied directly to Jesus Christ. Romans 6, 3 and 4 says, Or do you not know that as many of us as we're baptized into Christ Jesus, were baptized into his death? Therefore, we were buried with him through baptism into death, but just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. When a believer is immersed in water, that symbolizes their death to themselves and to their sin. When we come out of the water, that symbolizes our raising from the death of our previous condition. We now have a new life in new power. We 're no longer held captive under the power of sin, but we have been risen under the power of Jesus Christ. We have power over sin, power over death. So when we baptize a person, what we are saying is that that person wants to go through the external ceremony that represents an internal reality. We're saying that this person is truly a born-again follower of Jesus Christ, and that is a huge deal. Then he goes on, teaching them to observe all things that I've commanded you. This is so very, very vitally important. There are a lot of people who think that they really couldn't disciple somebody. But there's something very beautiful about what Christ says here. There are really only two things you need to know in order to be a discipler. First, you've got to understand what Christ commands truly is the guide to all of living. We've got to understand that what Christ says goes in the Christian life. That is how the Christian life is lived. by what Christ says. Our marching orders do not come from the Christian community or the impulses of our hearts or our vigid vivid imaginations or the mores of our society. They come from the words of Christ and by extension the rest of Scripture. The second thing that's needed to be a discipler is that you are obeying the things that Christ commands. You know what they are, you understand their importance, and you go by them. At this point, we need to get both applications here. We'll focus on the negative side to begin with First, if you don't understand or accept that what Scripture clearly says is the guide for all of life, you're not fit to be in any form of leadership in the body of Christ. You need to be discipled at this point. You should not be trying to decipher people A discipler must accept that life is to be lived according to the clear revelation of Scripture. Far too many people are trusted with positions of leadership because they have characteristics that will draw people's attention. or accomplish things inside the church as a church function or community, but they have no idea what Christ commands them to do. And even if they know what God says, they don't see how important it is to submit to the commands of Christ. The churches and ministries appoint these people at the peril of the mission of the church. And at the risk of the salvation of the appointees. Any leader in any kind of mission must understand the authority of Christ to command all of life They need to understand what Scripture commands. They need to be able to convey that in a clear and compelling fashion. And they need to display obedience to Christ in their lives, particularly in the areas their flesh strongly wants something else. The second problem in those who are discipling is hypocrisy. If a person is the disciple, another believer, they've got to be a disciple themselves. They've got to be acting like a disciple themselves. If I tell you how to deal with an issue where your strong impulses and desires conflict with the clear word of God, but I deal with my strong impulses and desires in a completely different fashion. I am not fit to disciple you. I need disciple myself. If we ever wonder why those closest to us don't seem to heed our words, we would do well to see how well we heed them ourselves. Hypocrisy rarely inspires people to follow our words. It usually inspires people to follow our example. If we respond to strong impulses and desires by giving into them, we're teaching those around us that we have a powerless Christianity. And the worst thing they can do is emulate us. Yet that's normally what they will do, no matter how well our speeches are crafted. This isn't difficult to figure. What do we do in the face of strong emotions, strong compulsions? What do we do? That's the kind of Christianity that we are portraying to others, no matter what we say. And don't ever think people don't notice, because they do. Now, the positive side, those people who are fit to disciple , Who are fit for the ministry of the church really only need to know two things. First, what did Christ in the rest of Scriptures say? And second, how am I obeying it? The beauty, I mean it's so simple. Because in reality, discipleship is ultimately teaching other people other believers to obey the same way I'm obeying. There's nothing more powerful than the ministry of a believer who obeys God when everything in him or her wants to do otherwise These people are the best disciplers. They've often had the hardest struggles with sin, but they're the best disciplers because they understand obedience. They know what it is to obey, they understand the cost, they understand the difficulty, they understand the opposition. And they can convey that the power of God truly does provide everything needed for life and godliness. People who live in failure, who live in disobedience, who don't really consider what it is that God has commanded, who have accepted that way of life, will not have very fruitful ministries But when they surrender to the lordship of Christ, when they say yes to Christ instead of flesh, they will soon begin to understand what the Christian life is all about. They'll soon begin to see their points of failure turn into obvious obediences. They'll no longer give in to the temptations they used to succumb to, or at least not to the same degree. And they'll soon begin to have an effective ministry in discipling others. Discipling others is not complicated. We're simply telling people how to say yes to God the same way we say yes to God. We only have to know what Christ says and how it is that we're obeying what Christ says. It isn't complicated. A person doesn't need a PhD in theology. We only need an HIS in obedience. Christ said this. If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. He's the one who said this. If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. And my father will love him and will And we will come to him and make our abode with him. He who does not love me does not keep my words. And the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. Back to our text. And lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Lo is usually a word to call attention to something of special importance. It's almost like Christ is saying, and by the way, it is essential that you remember this one point. While you are doing what I told you to do, While you are obeying and submitting to me, I myself am with you I wish we all believed that this morning. I mean we get the theory, we get the idea, we understand the doctrine, we get it right on a multiple choice question. But do we realize the significance of this? How would we live if we really believed that Christ was with us? We started 2017 with this challenge to act as if Christ is always with us. I hope by now we've seen how we really have difficulty living this way, at least I have. We so often behave in a manner that displays that we really don't think that Christ is with us. But his word here tells us that if we are going about his mission, He is accompanying us for certain, without a shadow of a doubt. He promised it, he never lies And why is Christ with us? To empower us, to carry out his will, to accomplish the salvation of all people groups. To fully accomplish his salvation in our own souls, to see to it that those who are his hear the gospel and respond in a way that they are taught to obey Christ like other fellow believers obey Christ. If you're here this morning and you are understanding this for the first time, it's important that you don't let this insight pass. Move on it. Receive what Christ did on the cross to count for you. Receive the forgiveness of your sins through the death of Christ. Receive new power to live life through his resurrection. And surrender your life to Lord and Master Jesus Christ this morning. That's where spiritual life starts. As for those of us who know Christ and obey Christ How would our workplaces and offices and homes be different if Christ were there instead of us? How would our workplaces and offices and homes be different if Christ were there instead of us? What would He be focusing on? He was pretty clear about what's important to him. He wants people to be formed into true disciples. Us and anyone else who's interested. He wants that for every believer here inside this church. That is what the ministry of the body is to accomplish. And he wants us to present his message to those we meet in the world so that they too have this wonderful opportunity. A good application for this week would be what changes can we make? Clear plans, not just intentions. What changes can we make that would make us more effective in carrying out Christ's mission? Both inside and outside the church. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you again for your kindness. We thank you for your word. We thank you that What you're calling us to do is fairly simple and straightforward. And that you have equipped us, you have equipped every believer To be a discipler by simply teaching another person how to walk like we walk How to obey like we bel obey. How to believe like we ob like we believe. We thank you, Lord, that that's what you're calling us to. We thank you that you empower it through your Spirit, that you lead us into all truth through your Spirit. That you are constantly directing our paths even when we have no idea that's what you're doing. We ask that you would help us to live our lives in a powerful way, absorbed by the mission of eternity. The only thing that's going to last after this life. Help us to buy into what you have commanded us to do. And to live and decide what we were going to do based on what you have commanded. Change our hearts, break our hearts, break our hearts with our resistance to your will, our our our Indulgence in sin. Break our hearts with those ways that we dishonor you. And change us and help us to submit heartily and readily to your lordship over every iota of our lives. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.