Our brother Munir in Pakistan speaks often about a difficulty that he has. When Munir began his ministry to the Brickland workers, he used to deliver food to the poor people. And I believe he did it in the name of Jesus, but it didn't take long for the people to associate him with his handout. So now he is burdened with people requesting things of him that he now has the wisdom to say no to, most of the times, unless he sees fit. for uh a speci specific inst instance of uh benevolence. But he explains to me that the Catholic Church experiences growth in Pakistan Because they always offer an earthly benefit with a person's attendance at Mass there. Basically the attendees will get free food if they'll go through their religious duty and show up at the Mass. So Munir is constantly battling that expectation to tell the gospel as he tells the gospel to these poor people that he ministers to. And it takes a while for him to be sure that these people really want to hear about Christ, or if they want the food they might get if they act like they're interested. So nothing is new. This morning we're going to look at Jesus knowingly entering a crowd that are glad to see him for all the wrong reasons. They don't want him, they want a piece of him. Since chapter 2, John has been filling in the information that the other three Gospels don't include. This morning his story inter intersects with tidbits of information given in Mark and Luke Now this study of John has been really helpful to me. I sort of hope it's been helpful to you as well. I understand better what motivated John to write his gospel the way that he did. Most conservative scholars believe that Mark's gospel was the first one written. His appears to be written for the benefit of people who can't render attention for very long. The story moves along really quickly. The word immediately is, I forget how many times it's mentioned, a bunch, and it covers a lot of territory, and it's equally beneficial to a Jew or a Greek. Think of it as an all-purpose reader's digest kind of gospel. Then Matthew and Luke were probably written in response to the questions that Mark's gospel did not answer. Or material that Mark did not cover. The Jews would read Mark and they'd have more questions about how Jesus fulfilled all the Jewish legal requirements in order to be the Messiah. So Matthew responds to that influence, to those questions, to meet that need. And then the Gentiles would ask, what proof is there that Jesus was who he said he was, and that he did what he said he did? So Luke responds to that influence, to those questions. And then John comes along. His is probably the last gospel written by several years. Quite a few years, actually, some people believe. So by this time, John has seen the vault the false teaching That's creeping into the church now. And he feels confident that the other three Gospels cover the ground they covered in a way that doesn't need much clarification. So John hones in on the areas of Christ's life that the other gospels don't spend much time on. His goal is to aid true belief. in Christ. We've already covered that. Brad did a good job of bringing that out in the introduction. So John spends a massive amount of ink later on in the final hours of Christ's ministry Which had been a tremendous aid to Christians over the years, but it wasn't very well covered in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. But this morning we're hearing a story just touched on in the two other Gospels. And here's what the other Gospels have to say at the same period of time. Mark 1, 14 and 15 says, now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee. So that's what we're talking about. That's the frame of reference here. Jesus' ministry when he came back to Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. And then in Luke 4, 14 and 15, through the same period of time, Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee. And a report about him went out through all the surrounding country, and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all. Now, this is our text in John 4. 43. After two days he departed for Galilee, and Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his hometown. Now, remember where we're coming from in this context. Jesus had a wonderful ministry in Samaria, of all places, least likely Samaria. Reaping the results where others had sown. And he was doing harvesting without doing any planting. And there was an excited reception of Christ, not just because he offered a better source of physical water. But because he offered an eternal source of spiritual water. These people believed in Jesus and wanted that which only Jesus could give them: salvation. That's true ministry. Now Jesus leaves them. Does he leave them for a more fruitful ministry? Not at all. The word for hometown could mean home country or home region. It means homeland, basically. So Jesus is going from Samaritan land to Jewish land. And it's likely here that what Jesus is saying is that while I have great honor in Samaria, I'll have no honor in the Judean lands. And that's not to say there weren't some s exceptions, but in general he's talking. And this is no surprise at all to Jesus. He didn't go go to this uh Galilee thinking, oh boy, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna do really well here. Uh the crusade's gonna go great. Have you ever been discouraged in your ministry to others? Like you find a spot and it seems like all of your guidance or your advice or teaching like it's eaten up and it's appreciated and everyone just thinks, you know, this is great And then soon after that, you minister elsewhere and you feel like you're speaking to cement. You know, nothing takes. There's no response. Maybe even hostility. Do you ever think if I could only crawl into the minds of these people and show them how wonderful Jesus is? Well, I grant that sometimes we might fail to present Jesus well, but sometimes it has nothing to do with what we are doing or how we are doing it. It has everything to do with who we're talking to. It has nothing to do with the seed. It has everything to do with the soil. Here we see the same Jesus, the Son of God. Remember, this is the Word of God speaking the Word of God. It doesn't get any better than that. He's speaking the same word that he spoke in Samaria. And in one environment he is loved and worshipped and cherished, and in the other, they just want to get stuff from it. Keep this in mind when you're pouring out your heart in ministry to someone and you're just not getting through. If it happened to Jesus, don't think it won't happen to you. The problem sometimes isn't the seed. The problem is the soil. So Jesus is expecting that he's not going to receive honor in Galilee. We see in the other Gospels that Jesus came preaching to these people and speaking in the synagogues. John doesn't mention that because that's not the point he wanted to make. John wanted us to see the bad attitude that the Jews had regarding believing in Christ. Verse 45: So when he came to Galilee, The Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast, so they were there when he was there. So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. Now look at this closely. When we see that the Galileans welcomed him, we might think, well, that's a surprise. He's being honored in his homeland. I didn't think he would be that. But keep reading and we get the clues. These Galileans saw that he kicked out the money changers. In John 2. 23, it also says that they saw the signs that Christ was doing in Jerusalem So Christ was doing signs that they were impressed by. I had missed that some earlier when we went through that passage. Then Cana is mentioned. It must be by this time the word got out that Jesus made wine out of water. He was a handy guy to have a at a wedding, or at any time for that matter He was a handy guy to make the religious big shops. Pay attention. Yeah, this Jesus might be truly useful. As we read, we realize, oh, that's why the Galileans welcomed him. They must have thought that maybe they too could gain a fleshly advantage through him. And what's the next thing we see? And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. Now, the word for official usually means someone in service to a king. Now there was not really a king in that area, but sometimes Herod Antipas, who was the Tetrarch of Galilee, might be loosely considered as one. I'm sure he liked the title and probably claimed it wherever he could get it. So this is a government agent who has some clout with the top dog in that area politically. He was essentially a big shot with a very sick child. Verse 47. When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son. For he was at the point of death. Here's a man who heard stories about Jesus. He heard what Jesus could do, and he had a need that he wanted to met. So he came to Jesus to fix something in his life that needed fixed. So evaluate the problem properly. His son was dying, and it was something that only a miracle worker could fix So he went to the right source. That's it that's a great thing. He went to Jesus, the only one who could do miracles The man was also willing to sacrifice for getting this need met. Capernaum is about 23 miles from Cana. Twenty-three miles. So the man had to walk a full day to get there. And a twenty-three mile walk is a pretty hefty one. They were more used to it than we are. So this man clearly gloved his son. He asked Jesus to come to where his son was to heal him And the verb tense doesn't mean he just made one request and he'd see how it would go. He was on Jesus. He kept asking and asking. That's what the word means. And he was not going to accept no for an answer if he couldn't help it So so far so good. But Jesus' response to him isn't exactly encouraging, is it? It's much unlike his response to the centurion that we read about in Matthew 8, 5 through 13. Let's take a look, real quick look at this. The centurion in Matthew 8, 5. When he had entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him. Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly. And Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion replied, Lord, I'm not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, go, and he goes, and another come and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, Truly I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith. So look at the difference in a response by Jesus, and look at the difference in the approach by the soldier. The centurion is also from Capernaum, same place as this officer's from. But Jesus was actually in Capernaum at the time, for the you know, at this instance. The distance to this centurion's house would have been a short walk compared to the 23 miles the man in our story requested. But I think the telltale difference in attitude is this. Lord, I'm not worthy to have you come under my roof. The centurion recognized the greatness of the one he was approaching. This official does not appear to. The centurion came humbly. The official did not seem to. The centurion had some idea of Christ's authority and power The official only knew that Christ could do miracles. And the most important thing is that Jesus recognized that the centurion already had faith in Christ. Great faith, in fact. The official in our text must have been in the process of deciding what he was going to believe. based on whether Jesus gave him what he wanted or not. And I I conclude this because of what Christ says next. What he said to this official and all those around him in verse 48, Jesus responds by saying, Unless you see signs and wonders, you guys won't believe. You won't believe without the sign or wonder. It's clear from Jesus' response that he is revealing not only this man's heart, but also the hearts of those who were surrounding him in Cana. He's saying you guys aren't going to believe if you don't see some miracle. Now think about this for a minute. If these people would truly believe in Christ , Why did Jesus not do the miracles so that they would believe? If we could call up miracles on a whim and we had a group of people who would truly believe in Christ if we did Would not any of us call up that miracle? I think the key to this puzzle is the word believe. We'll see as we go through the book of John that belief is not always saving belief Judas believed that Christ was the Messiah. The demons believed that Jesus was the Son of God. And Jesus knew that is often, not always, the kind of belief he would get out of many of these people if he started doing miracles. It's the kind of belief that will cause more harm than good at some places. There's a principle here, I think. It takes a miracle inside of someone. Before the miracle outside of them will do the proper effect, will have the proper effect. It takes a miracle inside of someone Before a miracle outside of that person will have the proper effect. It's easy to think that if Jesus would just do a few miracles through us, people would flock to Christ. Because then the skeptics could see that Christ is who he says he is. But this story tells us a different truth, a blatant truth. If God does not first change a person's heart, no miracle is going to have the proper effect on that person's heart. The Samaritans believed in Christ in the proper way, with if anything, just a small miracle That could have easily been staged by a huckster. It wasn't, but you know, it's the kind of thing that Jesus told this woman everything that she had ever done. That's all they saw. And granted that was miraculous, but that's not, you know, terribly uh y you could fake that if you had the right In Christ's case, it was supernatural before, but it was small. But lots of other displays of Christ's power were far more dramatic and far more impossible and no way to fake it. For those in Cana and this officer from Capernaum, they were demanding a big miracle. Maybe many of them thought they could expect it. from Christ. They could demand it from Christ, as if Christ needed to prove Himself. That's a bold arrogance that's very different from the centurion's humility Many might think, if you want me to believe in you, well then you need to do this miracle. The centurion realized that Christ didn't own anything, he was appealing to grace. Christ carried no burden of proof. The man already believed in Christ. Now he's appealing to him for mercy. Can you see the difference? One is saying, I'll believe in you if you perform, and the other says, I believe in you, and would you please perform? That's why Christ didn't think much of the crowd in Cana, because the crowd in Cana, in reality, didn't think much of Christ. Unless you see signs and wonders, you won't believe. I think in the context, we could paraphrase this to say something like this. You think I owe you a miracle because you think it's important that I have your approval and your backing You look at me in the flesh, and you're not going to join my campaign, which you think I think is important to me, unless I impress you like you are expecting me to. It's no wonder Christ wasn't enthusiastic about the official from Capernaum's request But the man was enthusiastic. You gotta hand him that. Not so much because of his belief in Christ, but because of the drastic need he had for help. Verse forty nine The official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. This official really didn't care what Christ thought of his motives. He just wanted his son to live. Jesus often tested people by making it difficult for people, and this man was not going to be dissuaded. At the same time here, we see him making two mistakes. First, he thought that Jesus had to go to his son in order for him to do the miracle. The uh the other gentleman didn't think that, but this one did. And second, he thought if his son died, it would be too late for Jesus to do anything. Again, a mistake. But we can't be too hard on him for that. He's actually doing pretty well to approach Jesus as he has. Verse 50, Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. Jesus decided here to do this miracle. It was handy that it was 23 miles away, so Jesus won't have to deal with the hysteria it would have created if it were local. Well, here's the positive surprise. This official believed what Jesus said. He didn't wait. To see the sign, which is what we would have expected. The man took what Jesus said by faith. The man didn't wait for the miracle in order to believe He didn't need to see to first see the sign before he would believe. If the man did not believe Jesus, as desperate as this man was, it is easy to imagine this man begging Jesus until he would come. But the fact that he he relented and he said, Okay, you say you'll heal him, that's good for me. It looks like the miracle on the inside happened to this man. He believed in Jesus He believed what little he knew. That's where we all start. We believe what little we know Verse 51, as he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So he asked them the hour when he had begun to get better, and they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him. This is interesting. This official wanted to confirm that it was actually Christ who healed his son. I'll bet he expected that it would be the same hour as he talked to Christ. I'll bet that was his expectation. But he wanted to be sure. If it was a miracle, he wanted to know it for sure. Verse 53, the Father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your Son will live. This man was leaving nothing to chance. He paid careful attention to when he talked to Christ. He knew what time it was. He noted it. He evidently was either very time conscious or he planned on checking it out with To see if his son was actually healed at the same time that Christ pronounced the healing. There are a couple of things to note here. Jesus actually produces miracles when those miracles will lead a person to truly believe in him. Now this isn't true across the board. Sometimes he produces miracles that don't accomplish that. But he rarely withholds one that we know of that will accomplish this. He will not perform them because we think he owes them to us or because we think that he's required to perform them just because we have some kind of bad theology. Like a theology that says that Christ promises to heal every disease we have in this life. Brother Ebi if Brother Eby from India says that when a pastor's first enter a village, you know, and we were Hearing about this this w wonderful ministry where these pastors are going to villages who had never heard the gospel before It's not uncommon at all for God to perform a miracle right off the bat. But then later, when they call on God for something similar, he doesn't do another miracle. The difference is that the first miracle was what was needed for people in the town to come to faith. The requests later do not seem like they would have had the same effect So the Christians have to learn to live with some of those same infirmities that their fellow villagers also suffer. In our text, even though Jesus did not think much of the villager 's general attitude, he would still do miracles when it would lead to a person's salvation. Second, it's easy to read this and lose the magnitude of what happened. We've probably all been in situations where we feared for the life of a loved one. I don't know that you can get through parenthood without without that happening. And when that happens, there's little else in life that's as important as that thing at that moment. Our whole lives will shift around to do anything we can to rescue this this human being. And if this father was willing to walk twenty-three miles for a chance At rescuing his son, we can pretty well guess that he deeply loved his son. To find out that his son was healed Isn't just a fact anymore. It would come with tremendous relief and joy and lightheartedness. It was party time in eck in that man's mind. This was the best news that this man could possibly hear And it goes on to say, and he himself believed and all his household. He himself believed in all his household. Can you imagine a more effective evangelist to his household than this man would have been when he stepped through the door of his home? He wasn't about to allow this event to be attributed to chance, or that you know his son just got better. No, this was not chance. Jesus did this. Jesus did this. He'd tell his son, he'd tell his wife, he'd tell all his children, he'd tell all his neighbors, with an enthusiasm that would be hard to rival. Jesus Christ was their healer. Jesus Christ was their Messiah. Jesus Christ was their Savior. There were multiple miracles on this day. One had Visible, physical results in the touch and feel world that we live in. But the more important miracle was the miracle of rebirth. The m miracle of rebirth that happened when these people heard the word of God and believed. And granted, it was limited knowledge. This was their starting place. They wouldn't need to hear much more in order to have a mature faith in Christ. But the new birth had happened. It's also interesting to note that the whole household believed it once But this isn't highly unusual. Acts ten , two, Acts eleven , fourteen, Acts sixteen, fifteen, Acts sixteen, thirty-one And Acts 18. 8 all have instances of whole families believing, and some mention being baptized. It's interesting to me that at least in this instance it says they all believed. They all believed. The family was not saved because the father was saved. The family was saved because the whole family believed. Verse 54. This is now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. So these weren't Jesus' only signs. They're his signs when he was in Galilee. There's two so far. Then in verse 23, now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing. So he'd already done a bunch of signs. This was the second sign in Galilee. Warren Wirsby made an interesting observation here, and this is nothing I would have ever thought of. Jesus' first miracle at the wedding revealed his power over time. The Father's always making water into wine, but he takes a season or two to finish the work. Jesus made the wine instantly. In this sense, our Lord's miracles were only instantaneous copies of what the Father is always doing. My Father worketh hitherto and I work. John 5. 17 The Father is constantly multiplying bread, season after season, but the Son multiplied it instantly. In the second recorded miracle, Jesus showed his power over space. He was not limited simply because he was in Cana and the sick boy was in Capernaum. The fact that the father believed the word and did not know the results until the next day is evidence that he had confident faith He trusted the word that Jesus spoke, and so should we. Isn't it wonderful how Christ dealt with this official The man came to Christ because he loved his son. He primarily wanted to save him. That was the primary motive. But God had arranged this man's life so that his desperate need drove him to Jesus Christ. In the process of bringing his need to Christ, Christ changed the official's heart. Upon meeting Christ, he came to the understanding that what his family needed more than physical healing Was a proper relationship with Christ. God is so gracious to deal with us exactly where we are We don't need to pretend anything when we come to Christ. We don't need to hide anything when we come to Christ. Just come. Come to him with the messes of your life. He's the right person to go to. And make your request, believing every word he said to us about himself and what he will do for us. Jesus did this miracle not to honor the man's faith, but to bring him to faith. We don't need to impress God to win stuff from him. But we need to come to him in honesty and lay our lives at his feet, trusting him with our lives. Let's pray. Lord, we we praise you