The text the whole text is for today is Isaiah twenty-eight, one through twenty-nine. So you'll want to read that. Um Just so you have the the full idea of what we're talking about, uh read that this week. Look at human history. What is it? We read of the same things happening over and over again. People gather, they begin to have some degree of success in organizing themselves, then a kingdom begins. It's slow at first, but it eventually expands and then it reaches a pinnacle of success. And what happens then? People become focused on what their success has brought them, and they lose focus on the process that provided it for them. They feel entitled to whatever it is that they've gained, the pleasure, the success, whatever it is that they've gained. They become absorbed with it, and their successes eventually become their undoing. Let me ask you, is that purpose big enough for your life? Is that purpose big enough for your for your life. Do you want to spend your life with the purpose of just being another cog in that wheel? Is that worth your existence to just be one more earth dweller caught in the ebb and the flow of human civilizations? Here's a quote by Malcolm Muggerich. He says this, Can this really be what life is about, as the media insist? This interminable soap opera going on from century to century, from era to era, whose old discarded sets and props litter the earth. Surely not. Was it to provide a location for so repetitive and revolved a performance that the universe was created and man came into existence? I can't believe it. If this were all, then the cynics and the hedonists and the suicides would be right. The most we can hope for from life is some passing amusement. Some gratification of our senses and death. But it's not all. As Christians, we know that here we have no continuing city. The crowns roll in the dust, and every earthly kingdom must sometime flounder. Whereas we acknowledge a king men did not crown and cannot dethrone As we are citizens of a city of God they did not build and cannot destroy. Our text starts by looking north from Jerusalem. To the city of Samaria and the land of Ephraim of Israel. We have a simple outline for our text, and I I borrow it from Mr. Ortland. The outline is the two contrasting crowns. What we are proud of, and that's Isaiah 28, 1 through 6. The two contrasting crowns, what we are proud of. Then the two contrasting words, what we are hearing, that's twenty-eight seven through twenty-two. The two contrasting words, what we are hearing, and the two contrasting outcomes. Can we trust God's ways with us? The two trap contrasting outcomes. Can we trust God's way with us? 28, 23, 3, 29. We start with the crowns. Israel had Samaria as their capital. It was situated at the head of a fruitful valley. And it was the pride of Israel. It was their crown. The crown is the pinnacle of man's pride. Think about it. What does a person crown? The crown is the source of a person's identity. They say, I'm under that crown. I've placed myself as part of this bigger thing that I am proud of. The Israelites would have said, I'm under Samaria. And Samaria is the pride of who I am. It's our main city. It's special, and because it is special, I now am special What do we look to for identity? If you were asked the question, what are you? Suppose someone were to walk up to you and ask you the question, what are you? How would you answer? From the core of who you are, what would you answer? Your crown represents the core of who you are. Am I a fisherman or an IT person or a preacher? Or do I really Get what I am. I you know when if I were asked that question, how would I answer? The truth is I am a miracle, just like every follower of Christ, whose darkness has been intruded by Christ and who has been born into a completely different existence. That's what we are. That's the true identity of every believer, whether we believe it or not. A crown, so then, is uh the source of our identity. A crown is also the source of a person's provision. These Israelites evidently have plenty to drink. That's the one thing you can gather from this passage. Where does all that wine come from? The burden valleys. And why have these people been so fortunate to have this luxury? Because they're Israelites with the crown of Samaria. We do the same thing. Our crown provides for us. If someone were to ask you, what is the secret of your success, how would you answer that? What is the secret of your success? You might say, well, my success. But what is the secret of your success? That's your crown. Would you say, well, I have this virtuous streak that would have never done such and such a thing. Guess what? Your imagined virtue is your triumph. If you would say that you've always done a right thing, same thing. If you point to something about you as the reason that you've done so well, same thing. What are you most proud of in your past? Be careful. It's likely that that thing is a temptation to be a crown of yours. A crown is also the source of a person's worth, their identity. Um Short memory. Um our identity, our provision, and our worth. It's what he thinks makes him something. It's something where he can beat his chest and say, look at this. This is what makes me special. This is what makes me more worthy than someone else. This is what gives me superiority. The Israelites would have said, Look how special I am. Look at Samaria. What's your crown? When you look at others, what makes you feel superior? And there's no sense pretending that we don't have some of that in us. We all know about that the right answer is that we are not superior to anybody Yet we all know by our reactions to be belittled or overlooked by others that we feel that we should be honored. We all feel superior to others at points What is it that we look to that feeds that that idea, that feeling? Is it that we're so smart or so logical or so moral or so loving or so spiritual or so attractive? are so responsible. What causes us to look down our noses on others? That thing is probably our crown. The source of our false sense of worth, that which, if lost, would make us feel like we have no worth. Israel had the wrong crown, and because of that, they were facing the judgment of God. Verse 2 is less than a pleasant result of having the wrong crown. And we have to realize that this has never changed. The wrong crown leads to the wrong trust and ultimately the wrong destination. You'll always face the same destination as your crown. But look what verses five and six say. In that day, the Lord of hosts will be for a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty to the remnant of his people. In that day, the Lord of hosts will be the crown for these people. For a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment, and for strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate. Here is the contrasting crown to the one created by humans. Here is the crown of the city of God as opposed to the crown of the city of man. The Lord of hosts will be that crown. He will be the diadem of beauty. Here's what our souls long for. Here's what our souls were created for. Here's the crown that fits and satisfies the deepest part of who we are. Here is the only proper source of identity, provision, and worth for the human soul. Jesus is the crown of glory. But think about the implications. Consider this. If it's Christ that is the only proper source of identity, provision, and worth for the human soul, guess what? All of the false sources are seen to be bogus. When we ask ourselves the question, what are you? How have you provided your resources? And what makes you important? All the answers come back only to Christ. And so those things we want to look back on, you know, that we feel tempted to look back on as some kind of crown for us. We find Paul's words ring in our ears as we give this some consideration. Philippians 3, 7 through 11 says, But what these things were gained to me, these I have counted loss for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered and the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ. And be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. When Christ is our crown, we can never feel superior to anybody else. There are some things in my history I'm proud of. There are places where I did the right thing even when it was very difficult to do the right thing. And the truth is, I want to take credit for them. But the longer I lived, the more I realized that even those things were likely direct answers to prayers that I prayed or prayers that other people prayed for me They were not as much an accomplishment as a gift. I'm glad for them, but they're an unsuitable crown. Jesus was the source for even those things. He is the only suitable crown in the life of a Christian. In the end It will be found that everything we have, everything we are, and any value we have all trace their way directly back to Christ and Christ alone. And the other side of that is that we deserve no credit. That is hard to bear. I won a little bit. I suspect we all do. I did, after all, make those decisions, didn't I? But we learn from Scripture that anything that is good about us has Jesus fingerprints all over it. Think about it. If you're a believer in Christ, why are you? What does Scripture say about that? Listen to this passage to ask to ask the question, what did we contribute to our salvation? Just answer that question with this text. What did I contribute to to my salvation? Ephesians two one through ten And you, he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, now there. He contributed that, trespasses and sins in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the Prince of the Power of the Air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath just as the others. There's what we contributed. Not very uh high endorsement. Verse 4, but God, but God, who is rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved, and raised us up together, and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus Jesus said in the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship Created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Who gets the credit? Who gets the credit for our salvation? Who gets crowned? It sure isn't us. Remember what grace means. It means getting something good that you sure didn't and couldn't deserve. That's what grace means We deserve punishment from God because of our sin. Yet Christ died for us before we had expressed a single positive sentiment toward him. Think about that. We hadn't done a thing to even show Christ that we cared about him at all, and he died for us before that even happened. We didn't even like him. But he died in our place. He suffered the wrath of God on himself that our sins deserved. And then, miracle of miracles, he woke an awareness in us that we need him. For the first time we saw what all this meant, what all life means. And it was our most lucky, most fortunate, most blessed day in our life. We had won the spiritual lottery and we hadn't even purchased a ticket. So after all that, how in the world can we think that we have any crown of our own making? The crown does not belong to humanity. Nothing of ultimate value has ever come from humanity. The only proper place to put a crown is on God. Where is our crown? Where can we look to for our crown? There's one more point I'd like to add here. We usually only drop our wrongful crowns when they let us down. Ah, don't we love the illusion of our self-based provision and value and identity? Isn't it a sweet feeling to think that there is something about ourselves that is just wonderful? And then we watch what our wonderful self does. God in his mercy will see to it that our wonderful selves fail in ways that even we wouldn't have guessed we'd fail at. We've done things in our past that even we have trouble believing. And the older we get, the more we realize just how bad they were Improper crowns die hard, but they must die. That illusion has to fail in our lives It's only then that we find the proper crown. It's only then that we orient to the proper crown. It's only then that our God will become our treasure. And somehow we'll take on the values of eternity. We will then be good with the last being first and the first being last, the weak being strong. We lose our lives to save them. All of that stuff starts being good to us then. It's only when the citizenship of this world loses its value that we find the strength to let it go and seek the kingdom that matters. Have you done something you're ashamed of? Have you let yourself down? Is it hard to believe what you've done? Maybe you've just gained a fresh awareness of it. Well, crowns die hard. But it is a mercy if God is in the process of killing your crowns. Let it drive you to King Jesus If you're a believer, one day you will cast the crown that he will give you based on faithful acts that he created for you, and you will cast it back where it belongs. At Christ's feet. Next. That was the the two crowns. Now we have the two contrasting words. What are we hearing? Verses 7 and 8. But they also have erred through wine and through intoxicating drink are out of the way. The priest and prophet have erred through intoxicating drink. They are swallowed up by wine. They are out of the way through intoxicating drink. They err in vision. They stumble in judgment. For all the tables are full of vomit and filth, and the place is clean. Um Isaiah can be pretty graphic at times. I had a Sunday school teacher back in Eulysburg Alliance Church, and somehow, I can't tell you how He would find a way to make every passage of the Bible have a single application. And that application is that a Christian should not drink, smoke, chew, or go with the girls that do. I love that man. I learned a lot about love and faithfulness from him, but I didn't learn anything about Bible study. Anyway, he would have loved this text. As soon as I read it, I thought this has his name all over it. We know that Scripture prohibits drunkenness, and it's just as much an evil today as it was back then. But what we see here is much worse than just drunkenness. Here we have people responsible for spiritual leadership getting caught up in the pursuit of thoughtless pleasure. This is probably both literal and figurative. They are senseless physically and spiritually. They have no clear perception of spiritual reality. We see the even greater problem in verses Isaiah 28, 9 through 13 The thing that really helps us understand what's going on is to realize that the key in verse 9 that I'm going to read is Isaiah. It's most likely Isaiah. They are talking about Isaiah and they are criticizing his ministry. And it says, whom will he teach knowledge? This is whom will Isaiah teach knowledge? This is what they are saying about him. And whom will he make to understand the message? Those just weaned from milk? Those just drawn from the breast? For precepts must be upon precept, pre-step upon precep, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little. For with stammering lips and another tongue he will speak to this people To whom he said, This is the rest with which you may cause the weary to rest, and this is the refreshing, yet they would not hear. But the word of the Lord was to them precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little, that they might go and fall backward and be broken and snared and caught I don't know about you, but I always wondered what this was about. Even in the New Testament. I always wondered, what is he talking about? In verse 9, these are the so-called spiritual leaders who are criticizing Isaiah's message. They're saying it's not deep enough. It doesn't appeal to the modern man. It's too simple. This message of trust and obey, that has no appeal for us. The message of the gospel by faith alone, by grace alone, no, that will not do. That's for children. That does not satisfy the pride of us intellectuals. Some things never change. Humans will always want a perception of God that appeals to their flesh. That appeals to their human pride. But the true God never does. The true message of the gospel is always a humiliation to the pride of man and a trumpet to call attention to To the glory of God. the man. The message is for children and adults alike, but it's only for those who have been able to tell the truth about themselves. There's something very interesting about verse 10 that is not evident in the English translation, and hence why I've missed it over the years. Precept upon precept, line upon line, is very different in Hebrew. It would sound like this. Sob, solve, solve, solve, cob, cob, cob, cob. What's that sound like to you? Blah blah blah blah yadda yadda yadda yada. That's what it is. They're probably passing off Isaiah's word like the words of a broken record. He keeps saying the same thing thing over and over again. They're talking about Isaiah and they say blah blah blah blah. Isaiah speaks and it's blah blah blah blah. Think about that. I sometimes feel bad that I say the same things over and over again to you. We keep coming back to the gospel that you already know. I keep saying that we've got to remember these things. We must bring them to our minds. And sometimes I think you're paying me to come up with better stuff. But you and I both know there is no better stuff. The stuff God wants us to know and apply is not complicated. It's not usually hard to understand. The problem is that our wills are naturally adverse to it Our flesh doesn't like what God has to say. Our flesh does blah blah blah when God speaks. So it takes remarkable repetition to get it into our heads and our hearts and our lives. We must always evaluate a minister or ministry by the question, is this what God really says? We must never evaluate by the question, how do I feel about it? What are you hearing when you hear Scripture being preached? That's the real question. Are you delighted by what God says or are you annoyed? In our text, we see that the problem with true proclamation of the word is only experienced positively by true believers. The heart of the hearer has got to be in a proper state. And our text is scary. This is a scary text Because it tells us that if a person's heart is not right, the words of the gospel will not reach them. They'll be blah, blah, blah, blah. It'll never be good enough. It'll never be appealing enough. No matter how true or how rich, the heart problem will always create the hearing problem. What do you think of the Bible? That is the direct indication of where your heart is. And God is perfectly content to allow you to continue in your dissatisfaction if dissatisfaction is what you want. That's nothing to him. Unless you want something different. And even that is caused by him. Will you humble yourself to hear the words of God? That's really the question. This is a quote from Mr. Ortland that I felt I had to pass on. He says, Isaiah is communicating the tragedy of unreality with God. Any shelter other than God is a refuge of lies. Isaiah 28:15. What is the point at which your faith is being tested? How is God calling you to surrender control and accept his answers and keep pace with his timing? There's a lot more to God's salvation than deliverance from long-gone powers of the ancient Near East. Our real enemy is sin, and it can enslave us forever. God is saying, take refuge in me, not in denial, not in pleasant falsehoods You can face the reality of your guilt, and I will show you how I can forgive a sinner. This is the next part I had never read before. It says one of Nietzsche's aphorisms Shows how we take refuge in soothing lies. And this is his quote. I did this, says the memory. I cannot have done this, says my pride remaining inexorable. Eventually my memory yields. Let me read that again. I did this, says my memory. I cannot have done this, says my pride. Eventually my memory yields. Isn't that the way we are? This is still uh the quote from the commentary. Isn't that the way we are? But God loves dishonest sinners. He is willing to be our ally through Christ if we will only trust him. Isaiah continues. Verse 16. sixteen Therefore thus says the Lord God, Behold I lay in Zion a cornerstone, or a stone for a foundation, a tried stone, a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not act hastily. Here we see something to hear that is directly opposite to the way that the Israelites were hearing Isaiah. Here is a message that will change us. Jesus was placed as the solid foundation stone to the city of God. The church's one foundation is Jesus Christ your Lord. I thought it w it was interesting you picked that uh song today because You know this was prepared two weeks ago. Romans nine thirty-three, Roman Romans ten, eleven, and first Peter two four through six tell us that this cornerstone was Christ. This was a prophecy about Christ, and it says in the New Testament that whoever trusts in Christ will not be ashamed. Here it says, whoever believes will not act hastily. So what does it mean, whoever believes will not act hastily? What this means is the believers who are really believers will settle into this truth. They won't get flipped out by the next wind of false doctrine. They'll get to the point that they are confident and their confidence cannot be shaken. They can't be knocked off their stride. Faith in Christ can stand up to anything. Now, should we be surprised to see Scripture point to Christ hundreds of years before he arrived? Should we be surprised that he is God's solution to the problems the Israelites were having? No, we aren't surprised at all. Once you learn about what Christ was sent here to do, you understand that he was God's plan for humankind from the beginning of times of evil. All human history would orient toward this foundation stone, this single act in human history. Everything that is lasting will be built upon him Everything that matters will be laid on that stone. Anyone who lives forever will do so because they trusted in the one who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. How blessed we are that God intruded into our lives with the life-saving truth of Jesus Christ. Now look how the second passage ends, verses 21 through 22. For the Lord will rise up as at Mount Herazim. He will be angry as in the valley of Gibeon. That he may do his work, his awesome work, and bring to pass his act, his unusual act. Now therefore, do not be mockers, lest your bonds be made strong, For I have heard from the Lord of Lord God of hosts, a destruction determined even upon the whole earth. This is a warning from Isaiah. He is pointing out the fact that God has not acted dramatically often in human history. You know, I I don't know if you've ever thought about it, but uh I I often read the Bible and I thought, man, if If God is truly at work, He's going to be doing these amazing things that we read about all through the Bible. Well, what we're reading about is over the course of thousands of years. It really isn't that many times that he does those dramatic things like, you know, taking a bunch of people through the middle of a of a sea and those sorts of things. It th there aren't that many of them. So it's a bit unusual. But when he has done something, when he has intervened in human history, what's happened? The enemies of God were always routed, and the friends of God were always blessed. And that's what will happen now. An end is coming, and this will be the result. God will punish his enemies and reward his friends. Now there are two choices in front of us. Trust and obey that God. Believe that simple message of the gospel. Submit to Him. Submit to it. Or mock that God. What are the results? What are the results to those decisions that are placed in front of us that every human being has to uh has to respond to? Well, there's two. One, have God intervene in your life in unusually good ways. Or two, face the bondage of sin and the destruction of the wicked. That doesn't seem to be a real complicated decision But it's a costly one, and it requires trust. And that's why I think Isaiah 26, 3 and 4 said, You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for in Yah the Lord is everlasting strength. Lord, we thank you. Thank you again for your word. Lord, help us not to be the people. People who hear what you say and we think blah blah blah. God help us to respond to your word. Help us to respond When we read your word, when we hear your word, when we know it's coming from you. Help us to be people who long to hear from you and who are obedient and carrying it out and who are trusting. In you. We ask that you would drive this message into our hearts, that we would be good hearers, and we would have the proper crown. And that we would look to you as the source of everything good. We ask these things in Jesus' name.