I uh immediately find it very very interesting that three of our single young people aren't here this morning and I'm gonna be talking about marriage. So evidently this is intended for you. Okay, Jesus is now back in Antipas ' territory. And remember that John the Baptist was murdered due to his preaching against Herod's marriage. or more likely, his his wife's divorce from her previous husband. So divorce was a big issue. If you were the Pharisees And you wanted to get Christ in as much trouble as quick as you could, what issue would you choose to question Christ about in Herod's territory? And the answer is pretty clear. Divorce would be a really good choice if you were wanting to test him. If you were wanting to get him in hot water, talk about divorce. So we start in verse 1, and then he arose from there and came to the region of Judea by the other side of the Jordan, and multitudes gathered to him again, and as he was accustomed, he taught them again The Pharisees came and asked him, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? Testing him. So Jesus is teaching the masses again. This is not his primary mission now. He's primarily working on his disciples, but he still does teaching to the masses from time to time. And like always, the snakes were in the grass The Pharisees were there, and they were hoping to do Christ harm. The verb tense for the Pharisees asked him really means the Pharisees kept asking him. We can imagine the setting. We can imagine them asking a question over and over again that Jesus says nothing to. They would ask the question, he would ignore them. They'd ask it again, he would ignore them. He'd act as if he hadn't even heard the question until finally Christ answers them And what's the question? Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? Now it says here that they were testing Christ. Normally, when that happens, they have a way to make Christ look bad, no matter which answer he gives. And they they always expect him to answer his question. And by the time he's done, he's devastated them. They they 're slow learners. They must think, boy, I've I've got this one licked. I know we can trick them on this one. But there are usually two parties, opposing views, and this question was intended to alienate one of the parties To understand what's going on here, there are some things we need to understand about the Jewish views on marriage and divorce at that time. There were two widely widely held opinions about divorce among the Jews, and they both stemmed from an interpretation differences. on a passage in Deuteronomy. The passage in Deuteronomy is a pretty important one. Deuteronomy 24, verses 1 through 4. That's Deuteronomy 24. 1 through 4. It says this: When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes, because he has found some uncleanness in her. And he writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of the out of his house. When she has departed from his house and goes and becomes another man's wife If the latter husband detests her and writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand and sends her out of the house, or if the latter husband dies who took her has a as his wife. Then her former husband, who divorced her, must not take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin on the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. Now, the disagreement that the rabbis had was on the interpretation of the words some uncleanness. Where it says, because he has found some uncleanness in her, he then writes her this divorce paper. The followers of Rabbi Hillel, and I'm quoting here, The followers of Rabbi Hillel were quite lenient in their interpretation and permitted a man to divorce his wife for any reason, even the burning of his food. But the school of Rabbi Shemai was much more strict and taught that the critical words some uncleanness referred only to premarital sin. If a newly married husband discovered that his wife was not a virgin, then he could put her away. So you can see the huge difference in application that they're they're coming at it with. Now, a natural question to ask here would be, well, couldn't the uncleanness referred to be that the woman was found to be committing adultery? Well, there are many scholars who say that yes, that's it. That could that could be what it's referring to. Adultery surely is a violation of marriage itself that would have devastating effects. And Jesus addresses that in the New Testament. But technically in the Old Testament law, adultery was dealt with by both parties being stoned to death. So it's not something you had to worry about in terms of applying this particular scripture. So a man in Israel under the Old Testament law would not be asking the question, should I divorce this woman if she has an affair? She'd be killed for that. The question during that time would be something else. Some uncleanness must be referring to something else during that period of time. There are a few other things to take note of. First, this is referring to a man divorcing his wife. In Jewish law, there was no option for a wife divorcing her husband That's not true under Roman law, but it was true under Jewish law. In Roman law, a a woman could divorce her husband, in in the Jewish law, she could not. The second, the question is not, may a divorced woman marry again. We need to understand a little more about how divorce worked to understand what's happening here. If a man determined that he had found uncleanness in his wife, whatever that might be, he would write her a bill of divorcement. The woman would keep that document. That became a very precious document to her because it would prove to future suitors that she truly was no longer anyone else's property. That set the future husband's mind at ease, knowing he's not gonna be killed, uh, which would be very important, one would think. He knew that he was legally free to marry this person if this person had a paper of divorce. It meant that the prior husband no longer had any claim over this woman. If it were not for this divorce paper, this woman would be out of options. And in that culture, she would be unprotected So the Bill of Divorcement's primary purpose, its primary purpose was to allow remarriage. So as I've said, the question is not, is it okay for a divorced woman to get remarried? Not in this text. That's not the question. That was assumed. She's divorced so that she can be legally married again. This option is a kindness in the law, and that's how Jesus presented it. It's a kindness in the law to cover two problems. The first is that the man in this relationship might be a jerk. He may suspect his wife of something that she did not do, and he'll continue to be cruel to her. By giving him the option of divorcing the wife he finds so displeasing, she can be free of his cruelty. She's given a second chance. The other kindness is to the man. If he finds out after the fact that he was lied to, if he was paying for one situation and he was receiving a different one Rather than be victimized by that deceit the rest of his life, he is free to end that commitment that was entered through fraud. We have an example of this in Scripture. Remember that Joseph was going to divorce Mary for the apparent uncleanness found in her. We know the inside story that was it was apparent, but it was not at all the truth, it was the Holy Spirit. who uh who had conceived there. But anyway, what's interesting is they were only pledged to be married. They weren't even married yet. And the divorce was still the process that was being referred to in the consideration of ending that marriage. Joseph was going to privately put her away. So in both cases, the process of divorce was intended to cover wickedness in humans. I think it's worthy of noting that this letter of divorce was not necessary for a man to marry someone else. The Jewish law permitted a man to marry more than one wife at a time, but it did not permit a woman to marry more than one man at a time. It was the exception to the rule, however, during the time of Christ, for a man to have more than one wife. Most seem to have only kept one wife at a time during that period of time. The history about polygamy is pretty interesting. Jewish leaders at the time of Christ seemed mostly to prohibit it. So even in the Jewish realm, it was pretty much, they were saying, don't do it. The Roman government definitely prohibited it. It was illegal by law, but the Romans didn't enforce that law very forcefully. It would be difficult for them to, with all the all the uh adultery and everything else they had going on, but anyway. There were some Jewish men during the time of Christ, though, who did have multiple wives. There's some historical record of that The context needs to be understood. We've got to understand this context so that we can understand that men frequently use the divorce rules to clear out one wife in order to fill the spot with a newer model. While the Jewish law would allow a second wife, most would not consider adding a second wife. They would more typically divorce the first and marry the second. Now, Jesus has been pestered with this question long enough. So he answers. And he answers them and said to them, What did Moses command you? What did Moses command you? It's interesting the use of the words that Jesus has. Naturally, the first thing Jesus does is he goes to the Old Testament. He goes to his father's words, and he refers to the Word of God. I think Jesus is using some sarcasm here in the way that he goes about it. The way he words it, it's as if to say, I know how obedient you guys really are to Moses And that you would only do the thing that Moses specifically commanded you to do. So uh and since surely all you care about doing is the thing that God says you must do. So what did tell what did Moses tell you that you must do, because surely that's the thing you guys would do? And now look how they're forced to respond. Immediately. They have to back down on the word command. They've got to wiggle out of the word command. They gotta silence that word as quick as they can. Well, Moses did not actually command all of us to divorce our wives It isn't like us divorcing our wives or actually showing an act of obedience toward God and Moses. Moses didn't actually command that we get rid of our wives, but he did permit it. They said Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her. These guys are looking at the Word of God, and they're correctly reading the sentences But what they refuse to do is to see the passage from the context of the whole Bible. I don't know how many times you've run into people, I certainly have, that make light of any interpretation of Scripture because they say you can make the Bible say anything you want it to say. And they're basically right, unless you do this one thing. You have to see each passage as a small piece of a unified whole. When you add that kind of context, it puts everything into some kind of clarity. If the only passage you ever saw in marriage was the divorce passage, you'd be very confused about marriage. These guys got fixated on this passage because it appealed to their flesh. And Jesus is about to put the whole thing into a bigger perspective. In verse 5, Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this precept. Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this precept. So, why is there a provision for divorce in the law of God? Is this a law that one can read to learn God's highest goal for marriage? Can you read this to learn how to carry out a marriage the way God wants you to? No. The only reason you would ever apply this scripture is if there is wickedness in you or wickedness in your spouse or both. The only reason this law exists is because people will fail to carry out their marriages the way they were designed. There'll be selfishnesses that create misery. And divorce allows the innocent party to have some relief. So if you need to apply this provision, one or both parties have violated a proper view of marriage. Now, Jesus goes on to display what God had in mind for marriage. Verse 6. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become flesh, so then they are no longer two, but one flesh Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. This is the big picture. This is how God intended it. This is marriage as God created it God made us male and female. I suppose by now we've noticed that. That was a very intentional part of his plan. And it's really a wonderful design. The devil's always trying to rip God off for credit for his design. The devil repackages human sexuality in a way that tries to say that he's the one who can grant the most pleasure, the most satisfaction. But he's always selling somebody else's product. He's just putting a different label on it, but he never gave us anything and he never will except misery. He never created anything He just takes the wonderful thing that God has made and tries to dupe us into thinking that God's holding out on us somehow. He's never changed. That's always been his tactic God created male and female with all of the emotions and passions and fireworks that happen when two two male a male and a female come together relationally and physically It was his idea. And there's a wonder about that whole process. Really, how many love songs have been written and they have not yet captured everything about what God has made? All the intricacies, everything about it. But we can't miss the point that because God made it, he has a right to regulate it First, we see this relationship is only between males and females. This immediately excludes homosexual marriage The world can call that arrangement whatever they want. They've never been real good at defining things correctly. But a homosexual union is not a marriage that's recognized by God. There's only really one marriage that's recognized by God, and it's the union of a man and a woman before God. Verse 7. For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife. The two shall become one flesh, so they're no longer two but one flesh. For this reason, for this reason, for what reason? The reason is the sexual reality of being male and female. For that reason. The reason is that males and females normally have a very natural attraction to each other. God built that in. He wanted it. We're unwise to curse our natural attraction as God has built it in because it's inconvenient for us or difficult for us to deal with those passions. Those desires are good desires, just like wanting to breathe or wanting to eat. But they have to be controlled. They must be prioritized. They must be properly channeled When God says for this reason, he's talking about a joying that is something that carries significance and obligation. This becoming one flesh is something that happens physically and is spiritually recognized. I've studied the topic of sexuality and marriage pretty thoroughly in Scripture At one point I started in Genesis and went all the way through the Bible recording every passage that referred to marriage and sexuality. It's a lot of pages. Then I went through those verses trying to make sense of it all. As a result of that study, I came away with a few things that I'm convinced of. One of those is that sexual intimacy changes a relationship. Just read through the Old Testament law. If a man had sex with an unmarried woman, it changed the relationship. He was now to honor that marriage with his life If a man even had sex with a slave, it changed the terms of that relationship. About the only relationship that it didn't change in the Old Testament was encounters with prostitutes. Then in the New Testament, it looks like a new concept was added. It was called fornication. Fornication seems to be sexual encounters that fell outside of the norm of what happened in the Old Testament. I think I could best describe it as opposed to being relational sex, it's recreational sex. While in relational sex, God prescribes that the sexual union be covered with a marriage commitment. It's binding It's something that that there's a commitment to. Recreational sex is something that should be fli fled. It should be run away from. It should be resisted. I think the church in America has done a terrible job in discerning the difference between those two sins. We lump them together, we call everything fornication. And as a result, we fostered irresponsibility in our men and promiscuity in our women. We've lost the importance of God's words for this reason. Sex changes the relationship. It's supposed to. Ultimately, God's design and intention is that the only sexual union that should happen between humans includes four things. First, it's between a man and a woman. Second, that physical union and a commitment by both parties to honor that union with the pledge of marriage. are always intended to go hand in hand. The union and a pledge of marriage are always intended to go hand in hand I've said in the past that this physical union, when done in the context of relationship, is marriage. I think that's technically wrong. I think it would be more accurate to say that the act of physical union both obligates the parties to a marriage commitment And it consummates that marriage relationship. Third, that union is a union that God recognizes as being for life. It is a binding commitment in his eyes, whether that's what we intended or not. And fourth, That union creates an obligation upon a man to then be the one who provides for the wife and family rather than being the one provided for. These Pharisees were seeing marriage more like a legal contract that one can get out of if you can just find the right loopholes. They saw it as no big deal. Not really. So what if they destroyed a woman's life? So what if they made a commitment that they didn't intend to honor? It was the woman's job to make them happy after all, wasn't it? They can't help it if she doesn't do that well enough. These are a lot of the same reasons the people who call themselves Christians get divorced today. Nothing's changed. Not really. But Jesus is pointing out what marriage actually is from God's perspective. And it's a binding relationship in his eyes Verse 9. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. What God has joined together, let not man separate. Anyone who is married or who is thinking about getting married needs to consider this. We come at this from a flesh and blood perspective, don't we? Like so many things, even our salvation. We think I have chosen this this man or woman to marry. That's my choice. I've chosen this. I'll say my vows. I will commit myself. Myself. I'm doing this. We think about it from the terms of what we are doing. But you see what this says? It says what God has joined together, don't let any man separate. What God has joined together. Frankly, I'm not sure this applies to relationships that are not believer to believer. And we'll talk about that next week. I think that's why Paul can write what he writes about divorce between unbelievers in 1 Corinthians, and it still makes sense. But again, we'll talk about that next week. Maybe when non-believers unite, or when a believer unites with a non-believer, that is not a union that God has joined together. He still has rules. But that's a possibility. But we know for sure that when it's believer to believer, and I believe that's what Christ was addressing here. God has done something different with that relationship than with any other relationship that that person will have. There is something spiritually binding about it. We can't allow ourselves to stray from the fact that it is God who is joined together. Wives, have you threatened to run from your marriage relationship with your husband? Husbands, have you ever threatened to run from your marriage relationships with your wife? How can we do that? How can we as believers ever do that? We're violating something not that we did, but that God did God has joined together these relationships. How can we even consider violating them? How can we threaten them at their core? To even threaten our marriages, we display a hard-heartedness. I have a couple of quotes I ran across while studying that. They're kind of a little not in the flow of thought, but I thought it helped hammer down a few points. The first was, if marriage was instituted as a permanent one-flesh union of man and woman, then it must always be against the will of God for it to be broken. The legal provision of Moses in Deuteronomy 24 was not intended as a statement of God's purpose for marriage, but as a regrettable but necessary means of limiting the damage when that purpose has already been abandoned. And then uh another quote, God's design for unbroken, lifelong marriage is not an ideal. in that sense, but the realistic standard to which we are expected to conform and on which the health of human society depends. Mark's Jesus allows us no lower aim There's something in this in this passage that we're studying this morning. It's just awe-inspiring. We see the hand of God active in human marriage. That relationship that we consummated a year ago or 50 years ago was more than just a human interaction At that point, God stamped that relationship in a different way than any other relationship we'll have We learn from other places in Scripture that God uses it as a symbol of Christ's love for the church. Marriage is to display something of the heart of God. That's how he intended. That's the highest goal of marriage. If you want to know what God really wants from your marriage, this is the highest goal. Look what Paul wrote. Ephesians 5, 22-33. It says, wives, submit to your own your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as also Christ is the head of the church, and he is the savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands and everything Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave herself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church. not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church For we are members of his body, of his flesh, of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ in the church. Nevertheless, let each one of you, in particular, so love his own wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. Isn't it so easy to lose perspective Isn't it so terribly easy to only see our marriages through the eyes of what's in it for me? Often when Carl asks me to do something, I'll respond with that question. What's in it for me? Most of the time I'm joking. But I'm always aware of that tendency inside of me that I was always wondering what's in it for me. I've often found myself in a state of self-created misery because I've lost focus. I'm talking now about tendencies that I've seen in myself, but from the evidence I'm I've seen, I'm not the only one. I suspect this may have to do with all of us. I easily forget that my job in my marriage is to reflect the position of Jesus Christ. I forget that my job is to lay down my life for my spouse. I forget that the greatest good that I can do is play a part in improving my wife's holiness. In fact, if she were perfectly holy, she wouldn't need me. I take my eyes off of the purpose of our marriage and the author of our marriage, and I start to look at the imperfections of my wife. I imagine a new and improved existence where I'm the center of the universe. In it, I live with someone who is perfect and is always there to meet my needs and to focus her worship on me. And pretty soon I've lost all thankfulness toward God for what I have. I have lost all zeal to fulfill my purpose in this relationship. And I create a miserable environment. Where a person would do well to stay away. In that world, I have far more in common with the Pharisees Than I have with Christ. And why does this happen? Ultimately it happens because instead of wanting to follow God, I want to be God. Oh, maybe some of the imperfections I see might be true. But I've lost focus. I'm like a selfish brat, only wanting what I want. I sometimes forget that God Put Carla and I together. Just like God put your marriages together. I forget that it's Christ who defines what marriage is. And it's this same Christ who died so I could live, who didn't claim his rights, his rights to live in heaven, but he gave them up to live in our miserable existence. I forget what life is for and what marriage is for. I seriously doubt that I'm alone in that this morning. If you are married this morning, look at your marriage. What do you bring to it? Are you a source of mercy and grace, of love and healing? Of forgiveness and long suffering? Is your primary motivation in your relationship to serve Christ in this marriage? Or do you bring chaos and fits of rage, anger and bitterness? Are you impossible to please? Do you ever take the blame for the consequences of your actions? Are you able to be approached with criticism or suggestions? If we will think what God wants us to think, we will be like God wants us to be. God has given us a school for love, and He's called it marriage. He wants us to learn in it everything that we can about being a Christ-like leader or a Christ-like follower. We can't be like the Pharisees. We cannot allow ourselves to evaluate our marriages from our fleshly perspective, or soon we'll be guilty of their sin, even if we never carry it out. Jesus said, from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. For this reason A man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together. Let not man separate. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for this gift. We thank you that it comes from your hand, it's your design, everything about it. It was something that you have prepared. Lord, we see that we have this gift in in a sinful existence We all bring our sin into our marriages. And then we have the opportunity. To learn more about how to better please you, how to better love you, by our relationships with our believing spouses. We thank you that that's how you intended it. And that's how it works when we're obedient to you. We ask that you would show us our failures. And to show us paths to be more like you in those relationships. We ask that you would help us to make wise decisions, godly decisions, loving decisions, and to focus first on you and then second on those that you have. given us the responsibility for and put us in relationship into. Help us to take seriously That you have bound us together and to live accordingly. And Lord, if there are other circumstances Difficult marriage decisions brought about by sin. We ask that you would give us wisdom and discerning. what the way is that is most loving toward you and to take that and to honor you and obey you in everything that we do. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.