This is the final sermon on the prologue of the book of John. Verses 1 through 18 are giving us the view of Christ from the heavenly perspective. After this morning, we'll jump back to what it looked like on our side of this spiritual window. The prologue tells us who Christ really is. It tells us where he comes from. It tells us of his deity. of his humanity, of his glory. And the emphasis of who he is and why he came is emphasized in a drum roll leading up to these words in verse 14, leading up to verse 16. We have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. We've seen God's glory in Christ with a superabundance of grace and truth. But the final focus was on grace upon grace. You know what's interesting here? This is the last mention of the word grace in the book of John, nor is it seen in the epistles of John. But deviations of the word truth, those are seen fifty-five times in his books. Does this mean that John's book is no longer focused on the grace of God? Well, hardly. If you have someone who loves you and and I write a fifty page book describing in detail what this person has done for you in your life and what they were thinking about when they did it Would you say that book is not about love if it doesn't use that word love? Of course not. You would say it was a book full of love. But the focus was not on the concept of love, but on that which exemplified the concept. What he did that displayed That concept. And that's true with John and John's writings. We can't get through the book of John without more fully understanding God's unmerited favor towards undeserving humans. But after John 1, we see it more in action than in concept. This morning I have four points, and that that sort of is itself unusual. Four points. What is the wonder of creation? W -O -N-D-E-R. What is the wonder of the incarnation? And the answer is God comes as man. What is the wonder of incarnation? God comes as man. What is the method of the incarnation? God resides with man. What is the method of incarnation? God resides with man. What is the result of the incarnation? God reveals himself to man. What is the purpose of the reincarnation for man to see God's glory? So let's start with the first point. It's interesting to me that we hit this passage at this time of year. Like I said, it's not very often we have a Christmas sermon on Christmas or near it. But Think of the coming of Christ being a play. The other three Gospels are the plays seen from the audience. They see the performance The Gospel of John is the play seen from behind the curtain. And behind the curtain are God the Father and God the Son discussing the play. Verse 1 of John, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God Okay, the Father and the Son are in close communion. They share the same spirit in a way that we don't completely understand. I'm not sure we will ever completely understand. They're perfectly satisfied in themselves. They don't yearn for something else. Like the father didn't look at the son and say, you know, something's missing. It's not that kind of thing They're not driven to have something else out of a sense of dissatisfaction. We all know what that's like. You know, we all know, oh man, I wish there's something I'm missing, or man, I wish I had this That's not where they were coming from. They feel no need. What they discuss is what they are next going to do. They discuss this action that's completely unexpected by mankind, their creation. They're going to send Christ to earth to become a man. And what is the wonder of incarnation? God comes as a man. Verse 14 and the word became flesh. I can't remember ever being in a false church, a church that overtly questions the deity of Christ. Maybe you've had that experience. I I never have. But I've often read that they exist and that they're plentiful. Especially in our country. Now I've often talked to people who talk about Christ, and they're talking about a very different Christ than John was talking about. I have had experiences with individuals. And the problem is that believing a false Christ is just as damning as believing no Christ at all. In fact, those who preach a false Christ are more dangerous than those who say they don't believe in the true Christ. True teaching about Christ begins with the teaching that Jesus Christ was was God prior to and while he became flesh. The word did not become Christ. Christ became flesh. John fixated on this idea He never swerved from it for an inch. Let's look first at 1 John this morning to see how important this doctrine was to John. It might be a reminder of some things that we went over earlier. Now keep in mind, Christianity was not even 60 years old yet. And the devil was already sliding this lie into the church. So it has to be a lie that's central to his strategies. To begin our look into 1 John, though, let's look at John's prologue. 1 John's prologue. It's very similar. Verse 1, that which was from the beginning, which we've heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we've looked upon, and we've touched it with our hands. Concerning the word of life. The life was made manifest. And we've seen it, and we testify to it, and we proclaim to you. the eternal life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us. That which we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship, it was with the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. So you can have fellowship with us. You can have fellowship with God. And we're writing these things. Why? So that our joy may be complete. Look at this. John cannot talk about Christ. He can't write a letter without talking about this particular thing. That which was from the beginning. In the beginning, the word of life, the word, the word was made manifest, the word became flesh, that your joy may be full, that you may believe in Christ. John was a changed man by this truth. John was a man that wanted to tell us about Christ. It's hard to imagine meeting this man John in the street and him not chafing it a bit in every conversation, wanting to talk to you about Christ. And saying, I really saw him. I saw God. I hung out with God. His name was Jesus. You want the heart of an evangelist? You want to have that heart Let the truth of the incarnation grip you like it gripped John How can we not tell the person we know at work or a family member or a neighbor? I know God. I met him in Jesus Christ. But we look further. 1 John 2, 22 and 23, it says, Who is the liar? But he who denies that Jesus is the Christ. This is the Antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the son has the father. Whoever confesses the son has the father also. Okay, by the time that John reaches this point in 1 John, he's already made it clear what he means. That the Christ is the God man Jesus. So this becomes the first litmus test of a true teacher. At the foundation level, they've got to believe and declare that Jesus was God in the flesh, the promised Messiah. We see just how foundational this is. It is impossible to know God and reject Christ. It can't be done. This test, this litmus test, is true 100% of the time. If a person rejects the deity of Christ, they are not of God. They do not know God. They do not know what they are talking about when they talk about God. Now, in this particular test, the person may pass this test and fail at another. They could still be a false teacher, even if they get the deity part right. They may be wrong at some other point. But if they're wrong at this point, you don't have to go any further in examination. The person is a false teacher. But John isn't done yet. 1 John 4, 1 through 3 says, Beloved, don't believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they're from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world, but by this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. is from God, and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you heard was coming, and now is in the world already. So it is impossible to overstate the importance of the virgin birth and the deity of Christ. We can see here that this doctrine is always going to be under attack. It was at the beginning, and that's not going to stop. The spirits in A. D. 90 were attacking this doctrine. We can rest assured they still are and they still will be until Christ returns. In 2 John, John addresses it again, and he says in 2 John 1, verse 7, for many deceivers have gone out into the world. Those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch yourself so that you may not lose what you've worked for, but may win a full reward. Do you believe that God the Son took on flesh in Jesus? You've got to believe that if you want to be saved by Christ. John wrote the Gospel of John so we would believe in Jesus Christ. The deity of Christ is the foundation of what our belief in Christ is formed on. John wrote John, 1 John, so that our joy may be full. Remember that? That was the purpose of 1 John, that our joy may be full. And the purpose of John was that we may believe in Christ. The deity of Christ is the foundation of our joy in Christ. We have to have the foundation if we hope to have anything else in Christ. So, what is the wonder of the incarnation? First point, what is the wonder of incarnation? God comes as a man. God comes as a man. Now, what is the method of the incarnation? The second point. God resides with man. Verse 14 in John 1 continues, and dwelt among us. And dwelt among us. John was driven by this concept. Look again what John said in 1 John, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we've looked upon, we've touched with our hands concerning the word of light. The life was made manifest, and we have seen it. And we testify to it and we proclaim to you the eternal life, which was the Father. And was made manifest to us. That which we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you. So again, John is saying, I was there. I'm one of the people Jesus loved. I actually heard God speak. I saw God. I actually touched God with my hands. The Son became flesh. He was made manifest, and I was tenderly cared for this God man. For by this Godman. John is trying to communicate. This was astounding. And I had the opportunity to be there. God was with us. Jesus pitched his tent with me. And John could say it literally. The Greeks believed the logos, the word, was a force out there somewhere. Like the force in Star Wars, best example I can think of. And John is screaming, no. No, you don't get it. The creative force of the universe walked down the road with me. He ate with me. We camped together. We built fires together. We listened as he spoke to us and and to the masses. We saw the healings. He pitched his tent with someone like me. Like me. This Jesus pitches his tent with flawed people. It's as if John is saying, if he can pitch his tent with someone like me, you have nothing to worry about. If you will come to him, he will pitch his tent with you too. He's that kind of God. He is a tent-pitching God. He is a with us kind of God. Isn't that what our souls need to hear this morning? Do you not need to be loved just as you are because you can't get better on your own? You can't earn your your approval from Christ. Do you not need the hope that someone can reach to you where you are because you will never reach where they are? Do we not all yearn for the tender touch of God that says, it will be okay? It will be okay. I love you. I know how you failed yesterday. Specifically. I know how you will fail tomorrow. Specifically. I know that. But I swear to you that I love you and I will never forsake you. You can make your journey more difficult by clinging to sin, but I will draw you out of it. I will discipline you. I will cause the sin to become hideous to you. So that you're weaned from it and grow in deeper fellowship with me. That's what your soul craves. It's as if Jesus is saying, I am what you are looking for. You won't find it anywhere else, no matter how much your seamer tells you that you will, and tells you you need to keep barking up that tree to get the thing you want. The greatest problems in our lives arise from looking somewhere else for all the important things that mean so much to us. Nothing is capable of giving us what only Christ can give us. Christ will wean us from those expectations that continually cause us frustration until we find our joy in Him. Maybe he's doing that right now in your life. Maybe you're seeing that happening in your life. What has you most most stirred up? Could this be the real Or could could this be the real I will pinch pitch my tent with you? Um There it is. Could this be the real problem? I wondered about that. Could it be the real problem at the source of our dissatisfaction, our frustration, our irritation, our anger, our hurt? I will pitch my tent with you. I will dwell inside you by the Holy Spirit. 2 Corinthians 6. 16 says, What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God. As God said, I will make my dwelling among them, and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. He was talking about His Holy Spirit coming into our lives. That's a pretty close pitched tent This is the New Testament place that God dwells. It is in us. It is in his church. He is no longer distant. He is no longer far off. He is no longer limited in our access to him. He is with us. He is in us 1 Corinthians 3:16, do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? Our tent dwelling God. Is present in our lives because Christ came and made that possible. Jesus became flesh and dwelt among us so that God's Spirit could dwell in us. This all displays God's character. It's who God is. God loves his children and wants relationship with them. You know it He'll go to great lengths to have it. It's so easy for us to understand the doctrine. But the doctrine doesn't take us to its full expression in our lives. It's like It it disconnects from our emotions. This doctrine is incredible. This is the kind of God we serve. He loves us. Our 10-pitching God is faithful. He will not quit even when we do. This is gloriously true for every believer. Our 10-pitching God is faithful. Okay, next point. What is the result of the incarnation? God reveals himself to man. First John said, we saw and heard and touched this life. It says it was made manifest to us. The expositor's commentary said, the life to which he bears witness, the life that was with the Father, is precisely the life manifested in the historical person of Jesus. That is why John can say he has seen, can bear personal wit personal witness to it. And can make an a apostolic declaration concerning it. Those are the three words that are used in that in that passage. The three verbs give us in due sequence the ideas of personal experience, responsible affirmation, authoritative announcement, which are combined in the apostolic message. It was made manifest to us. Hebrews talks about Jesus this way. Hebrews 1 through 4 says Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days, he has spoken to us by his son. John would say God spoke to us by the word, by the logos. Same thing. Hebrews continues, whom he appointed the heir of all things. through whom also he created the world. And John would say all things were made through him. And Hebrews continues, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint, the exact imprint of his nature. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. Wow. Jesus was the exact imprint of God's nature. It is not an exaggeration for the apostles to say, I walked with God. If you're searching for God this morning, if you want to know what God is like, if you want to know God's plan for humankind, if you want to know where we came from. If you want to know what God requires for you to be right with Him, this is where you go. The exact imprint. The manifestation of God. You go to the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and you fix your attention upon Jesus. It's there that we learn everything we need to know about God. It's there that all of our questions get answered. But that comes with a warning. We have to do business with Jesus. Jesus is never under our scrutiny. We're under his. And sometimes when we do apologetics, we're kind of dealing with that sort of thing. But ultimately we've got to help people realize It doesn't matter so much what Jesus what you think about Jesus. What matters most is what he thinks about you. We may think we sit in a place where we can judge Jesus, but we're wrong. It's he who judges us. According to Hebrews, you exist because God allows you to. He upholds the universe you live in and all that's in it by the word of his power. He spoke the existence into existence. And he can speak it out. That's Jesus. That's the biblical New Testament Jesus. He may have been born in a manger, but looks can be deceiving. Wrapped in those swaddling clothes was the creator of the universe. Isn't that enough to blow your mind? No one has ever masked his true identity more fully The angels looking on had to be mystified. Who is this God who we thought we knew? What's he doing? We know what God is like. We're able to enter His presence. The angels would be saying that they could enter God's presence any time of the day. Well, I don't know that that's true, but they could enter His presence And they could say, we know his majesty, we know his power, and he has chosen to take on human flesh. Astounding. You see that Jesus came for a purpose. Hebrews continues, after making purification for sins. He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. That baby happened so that a sacrifice could be made for you and me. Jesus' death on the cross provided for our purification of sins. If you read about God in the life of Jesus in the Gospels, you'll be forced to respond to what Christ did on the cross. There's no other way to know God. You've got to come to the place where you you receive Him as Lord and Savior of your life. Your life has to be hidden in His for you to stand in His presence when He is judging. That's who the risen Christ will be seen as when he comes to judge the earth. And I I hope and believe that I'm speaking to a room full mostly of Christians. I I believe that. But if you're not, you would do well to fear this babe in a manger. He is a babe no more. Revelations tells us this, Revelation 6, 15 through 17. Then the kings of the earth and the great ones, and the generals, and the rich, and the powerful, and everyone slave and free. hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the mountains and the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of Him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath Of the Lamb for the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand it? We have been given a wonderful, gracious window of opportunity. If you are not in Christ, you can be. Our text in John tells us this but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Who are born not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. This is the call to anyone Who is outside of Christ. Repent of your sin. You're running from God. You're disinterested. Your disinterested, your desire to run your own life, you want to run it And believe in Christ. Receive what he did on the cross is counting for you. Receive Christ as the king of your life, and you'll be given a right that you could have never earned. That can't be obtained any other way, you will have the right to become God's adopted child in his family forever and ever and ever. Okay, so we've covered what is the wonder, what is the method, what is the result. Now, what is the purpose of the incarnation? It's for man to see God's glory. John 1. 14, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. You and I wake up every morning to pretty much the same thing. Maybe with kids there could be some huge variety from day to day, but mostly it's the same thing. There's there's a sunrise with or without clouds. And many of us have set times if we have to get out of bed for whatever reason. And we've got pretty much the same things to do. Take a shower, brush our teeth, eat breakfast, make coffee, get ready for a day, whatever it is that your day happens to be. And in that day, most of us have things that have to be done. And they're largely things we've done before and we have to do them again. You know, in all of this, it's easy to lose sight of glory. In the midst of our mundane existence, it's easy to lose sight of glory And yeah, we know our Christian doctrine, and we call out to God, especially when we're in great need. But how often do we read God's word with an eye for God's glory? With an eye for the greatness of the God that we serve. We're different from the animals in this way. It's just one more way that we're different from the animals. We have the capacity to appreciate and to uh experience the glory of God. Our hearts are designed to worship God. Our hearts are designed with a desire to see glory. We're designed to delight in discovering and appreciating the glory of God. We're made for this stuff. In this mundane existence we live in, we are made to see this glory. We won't function as we're designed if we are not taking this in. We're made for more than this. We have to do the mundane. We're made for it as well, but we're made for more than it. As you and I see the glory of God and we focus our attention upon it, we'll begin to see our lives fall into the place that they're designed for. We'll say, Jesus is wonderful. This Jesus is good. This Jesus loves me. This Jesus is worthy of my life. This Jesus promises me good things. This Jesus loves my brothers and sisters. How fortunate I am. How blessed I am to have this Jesus. How good it is that I can serve him today by making my better, making my supper. How good it is that he orders my life and he makes no mistakes. How good it is that I can know that my pain has a purpose and my pain has an expiration date. How good it is that he provides his brothers and sisters for me to travel this lifetime with. Do you see what I mean? We needed to see God's glory. We must see God's glory. We are designed to see God's glory. And John clearly showed it to us. And as we go through the rest of the book of John, it'll be a weekly display of the glory of God. Now, not everyone who sees Jesus sees God's glory. We've talked about that. That's one of the many differences between a follower of Christ and one who is not following him. One who believes in Christ and one who doesn't believe in him. They can look at the at Christ and see a novelty. Or they can look at Christ and see a historical figure. Or they can look at Christ and think they see a myth. It's only those who God has called to Himself that He opened His eyes to and rose them from the dead and allowed them to see what is so utterly unmistakable to all the heavenly beings, the glory of God. If you don't see the beauty of Christ this morning, if he's not the most compelling thing in your life this morning, call out to him. Beg him to show you his glory. Read with an eye to seeing God's glory. God never rejects those who call out to him in sincerity and humility. In fact, the truth of the matter is he inspired you calling out to him before you ever did. And this glory, what does this glory reveal? Truth and grace. Truth and grace. What good is grace if you don't know about it? And what good is truth if it's only bad news? Our hearts need good things About good things. Our hearts need to hear good news about good things. Our hearts need to hear good news about good things. The glory comes to us in the truth about Christ, and the truth about Christ reveals to us the grace of God. If you come to Christ, if you are in Christ The more truth you hear about him, the more reasons you have to run to him. Even about your sin. In fact, especially about your sin. Because the more we know about Jesus, the more we know about God's gracious intentions for us. Do you find yourself at this time of the year tuning out all the world's babble about Christmas? The world has come to worship the Greek logos, some force out there that wants all people happy and to come together in the unity of their humanity with an idealism based on wishful thinking. They imagine having the benefits of the incarnation without the rule of the one who became flesh. They imagine we can have some mystical Christmas spirit without the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Oh, they so need the real logos. They need the real Jesus. They need a relationship with the maker of the universe who became a baby in poverty-stricken conditions. We need to see the glory of God in the person of Jesus Christ. May you and I pray that we will grow in fixing our eyes. On the true Jesus. May He transform our lives as we fixate on His glory. And when those around us see the changes, May we give them a clear reason for the hope that lies in us and the changes that have happened to us. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen the glory of God. Let's pray.