Well, I think you women are going to enjoy the sermon this morning, and I hope you find it very encouraging. And I think for us menor will emphasize some important things as well. We start off with verse 38. Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. I'm going to read a few historical documents and some modern writers referring to historical documents to get an idea about the uh curtain. Josephus said that before these doors there was a veil of equal largeness with the doors. It was a Babylonian curtain, embroidered with blue and fine linen and scarlet and purple, and of a contexture that was truly wonderful. Nor was this mixture of colors without its mystical interpretation, but was a kind of image of the universe. For by the scarlet there seemed to be enigmatically signified fire. By the fine flax, the earth, by the blue, the air, and by the purple, the sea. Two of them having their colors the foundation of this resemblance But the fine flax and the purple have their own origin for that foundation, the earth producing the one and the sea the other This curtain also had embroidered upon it all that was mystical in the heavens, except that of the twelve signs representing living creatures. Then a guy named Maurice Harris , who translated some things from the Talmud and some other Jewish writings, said this. Three hundred priests were designated to draw the veil of the temple aside, for it is taught that Rabbi Shimon ben Gemliel declared in the name of Rabbi Shimon the Sagan, or the high priest's substitute, that the thickness of the veil was a hand breadth. It was woven of seventy-two cords, and each cord consisted of twenty-four strands. It was forty cubits long and twenty wide. Eighty-two myriads of damsels worked at it. That's an interesting way of putting it. And two such veils were made every year When it became soiled, it took 300 priests to immerse and clean it. And then Herbert Danby 's translation of the Mishnah. Uh Rabin Simeon B. Gamliel says in the name of R. Simeon, son of the prefect, the veil was one hand breadth thick and was woven on a loom having seventy-two rods. And over each rod were 24 threads. Its length was 40 cubits and its breadth 20 cubits. It was made by 82 young girls and they used to make it two used to make two in every year and three hundred priests immersed it. From what I read, the writings that much of this information was taken from often used a form of speech that exaggerated a little bit to make a point. And when it says 300 people to do something, that isn't actually based on a count of 300 exactly people. It just means it's a really, really big job. The same is true for the thickness of the curtain. But whatever the case, it was huge. It was sixty feet long and thirty feet wide, and if it was through four inches thick, which appears to be the general consensus it would have been extremely heavy and strong. The other thing I didn't understand from the text is that we really aren't told which curtain tore It could be the one that separates the Gentile court from the Jewish court, or it could be the curtain that blocked the Holy of Holies. One would have signified that now there was nothing keeping the Gentiles from worshiping with the Jews. The other would have signified that there was nothing blocking our direct access to the Father. The only people who would have seen that the curtain to the Holy of Holies was torn would have been the priests. The normal people would not have seen that. But everyone could have seen the other curtain if that happened to be torn. So if it was the curtain to the Holy of Holies, it may have taken a while to find out about it. It would have t had to leak from some of the insiders, maybe after they came to Christ. We don't know. I prefer the idea that it was the curtain of the Holy of Holies, and I think Hebrews might give us an additional clue to that fact. It says in verse 19, Hebrews 10, 19 through 22, it says, Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the holies by the blood of Jesus by a new and living way which he consecrated for us through the veil that is his flesh. And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. having our hearts sprinkled with from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. We see here that the curtain into the Holy of Holies is no longer a curtain. It is now Christ's flesh So I think that it's likely that this is the curtain that God tore from top to bottom. And he replaced that curtain with figuratively Christ's flesh. No matter which curtain was torn, it is still true that we can enter the holy holy of holies through Christ. Also, it's very clear that this task was accomplished in a supernatural way. The curtain was torn from the top to the bottom. That couldn't happen naturally. There would be nothing that would describe how that could happen naturally. And it probably couldn't even happen with human effort, even if someone had wanted to do this. No, it was a sign of God that things will never be like they were. Christ completed what this temple was a symbol of. The restrictions that kept us from access to God, from his direct presence, were lifted in the sacrifice of Christ for our sin. Sin would no longer keep us from a relationship with God because of what Christ had done. So that's the curtain. Verse 39. So when the centurion who stood opposite him said saw that, he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. Now this translation is a bit of an interpretation. It's difficult to know what the soldier saw that caused him to cry out. Some say he saw the curtain rip, but he couldn't really see that from where he stood. So the translators assumed that it must mean that the centurion was moved by what he saw Christ doing. The Young's literal version says, and the centurion who was standing over against him, having seen that Having so cried, he yielded the Spirit, said, truly, this man was the Son of God So it isn't clear if the that which he saw was the temple curtain rending or the crying out of Christ. I believe that our text translates it properly. The centurion is another Anyway, I think that the the translation that this about the centurion and what he saw and him responding to what he saw of Christ is really what this was all about Now, the Centurion himself is a very unlikely candidate for some salvation in an unlikely place. We see a bit more in Luke where it says in Luke 23, 47, so when the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying, certainly this was a righteous man. Somehow when I was growing up, I picked up that the job of a Christian is to present Christ in the most appealing light to non believers. And it's almost like uh the job of a Christian is to be a public relations person for God, portraying a certain kind of image. We should smile and be pleasant and put on a positive front. That sort of thing. It's odd that God Himself does not do that. It's hard to imagine a less positive light for Christ to be in here. He's in trouble with the law. He's nearly naked while being given the death sentence. He looks horrible. His public relations has got to be at an all-time low. Everyone who is anyone is mocking him publicly, and Christ certainly isn't here naming it and claiming it There's no idea of prosperity theology being bantered about. And even the idea of spiritual power to use for our own benefit must have been at an all-time low. Yet look at this. God got hold of this most unlikely candidate. He's a Roman soldier. In fact This is a Roman soldier who has probably been a longtime soldier. He's probably a career guy. He is probably as hardened and skeptical a person as you would run across. He is not an emotional type. He's probably done his share of killing and seen his share of death. He hasn't hasn't exactly seen the best side of people. And yet this man comes into contact with Jesus Christ, and he cannot escape this truth, that Jesus is the Son of God. We can never reduce evangelism to marketing strategies. We don't need to adapt it to the latest polls on what people would like or what keeps them coming back. We only need to tell the truth about Jesus and about ourselves. There are people that will not be able to escape the power of the gospel when we present it to them. Even war-hardened mil military people. And there are plenty who won't be affected at all by our testimony. This Roman soldier was affected. He knew from watching this crucifixion, as opposed to all the other crucifixions that he had watched, that there was something different in this man. Christ did nothing wrong. And he was still ministering as he hung on the cross. That just didn't happen in crucifixions. What did the soldiers see? Well, he had to see that Christ was in control. Crucifixion did not steal Christ's life from Christ. He still had plenty of oomph even at the last breath that he breathed. He didn't have his life taken. He gave it. And it was powerful. Christ was not a victim. He was a savior. People simply did not die this quickly in a crucifixion when they were able to speak so loudly and so clearly. That's not how crucifixion killed people. And no one ministered to people in the grips of that kind of suffering. The centurion knew somehow that this was the real thing. God will use the real-life examples of his people to draw people to himself, often in the most grueling of circumstances. We should never forget that. Evangelism isn't done by putting on a pleasant demeanor for God It is done by a real person allowing the real power of God to display the real changes that only God can make in their lives. And then explaining that change based on the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Then verse 40. There were also women looking on from afar, among whom were Mary Magdalene. Mary the mother of James, the left, and Joseph, and of Joseph and and Solomon Solome, who also followed him and ministered to him when he was in Galilee, and many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem. At the end, Christ had a number of women who stuck with him. There were probably no longer any of the disciples here. Just the women were left. John had probably taken Mary, the mother of Jesus, to to his home as Christ had instruct instructed him by now. So he more than likely wasn't in the audience. Now, of all these brave men who argued about who was the greatest They have all left Christ to hang there alone. All the greatest gods. But the women who these same men would have likely berated and belittled were the ones still there at the end of this event. Let's look at who was there. Mary Magdalene was a woman who Jesus had cast out seven demons in Luke 8. 2. She was from the town of Magdala near Capernaum on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee. Uh she is often regarded as being uh a harlot of some sort, but there really isn't any evidence in Scripture that that is the case. She did have seven demons though, and no telling what that would do to a person. Mary, the mother of James, the less, and Joseph was actually the mother of James, the son of Alphaeus, one of the disciples. Salome was the wife of Zebedee and the mother of James and John. Salome was also the sister of Mary, the mother of Jesus. So Salome was Christ's aunt. Then there were also many more who had come up from Jerusalem with Christ. It's interesting that in the book of Mark, only two groups of people are ever having Only two groups of people were ever said to have ministered to Christ. Okay? Only two groups of people ever said to have ministered to Christ. The angels and these women. If you're a woman, don't underestimate your capacity to do ministry to please Christ. The world would say that the church is outdated. It's behind the times because a woman cannot hold a position as an elder. And they would say, that's not fair. That's not right. Everything should be equal. If it's not equal, then that's belittling to women. But look at the facts in our story. All of the leaders, all of the big shots, all of the men, as far as we can tell, had fled They may have left for a hundred reasons. But the truth is, at the end of the day, they weren't there with Christ. But who were? The women. And that's often how it is. We men often receive more credit for what we do than what women do. But at the end of the day, the women are often the ones carrying the weight that needs to be carried They're doing the very necessary tasks that people cannot live without. How many of us men have cooked meals for someone that needed one for somebody outside of our family? Yeah, that might be a mercy. But anyway, how many of us have done someone else's laundry? How many have watched a mother's small children so she can do something important, like maybe have a small break Yes, we men have other jobs to do at times. We do need to chart the course. We do need to take responsibility for others. Like Brad's Facebook page posts, we we need to provide protection. But it's easy for us to think that we're doing all the important stuff when in reality often we are just doing the more visible stuff. Our women are providing the behind-the-scenes ministries that keep people going day by day. I'm not trying to say that what men do is not important. It's our job to provide the platform for our families to live on. It's our job to provide spiritual leadership for our families and our church. And at the end of the day, if something doesn't get done that needs to get done, it's our fault. But my point is that if you look at the ministry that needs done, much of it is being taken care of by women behind the scenes. It's a fool that belittles the place of women in the Church of Christ. The Holy Spirit singles them out in this passage. And it's very commendable what these women were doing. These women looking on at Christ's crucifixion really couldn't do much. So you might say, well, why bother? But they hung in there, just in case. We're going to do something that we don't usually do. We're going to jump ahead a bit, and we're going to stick with our theme of the importance of the ministry of women. Mark 15, 47, it jumps ahead and it says, in Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph, observed where Christ was laid. It's very good that these women stuck around. Otherwise, no one would have known where they put Christ. This is a very practical service that they performed And they were actually quite clear-headed, while maybe the disciples were not. While these women didn't grasp any more than any other follower that Christ would not need prepared for a long-term stay in the grave These women were proved to provide that service because they assumed it would be needed They didn't bail out when Christ died because there was still a service they thought that they would need to perform. And good for them. What a wonderful example to follow And because of them, we know a part of the story that we wouldn't have known otherwise. Mark 16 then, 1 through 4, which is uh What we'll be going over soon. And when the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome brought spices that they might come and anoint him Very early in the morning on the first day of the week they came to the tomb when the sun had risen, and they said among themselves, Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us? For when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, for it was very large. First off, this passage helps us a lot in understanding the timing of Christ's resurrection, as we've spoken of before. When the Sabbath was passed, these ladies bought spices. Now they could not have bought spices before dawn before they went to the tomb. Nothing would have been open. And they couldn't have bought spices on Saturday evening as the market was not open. So this must have been a different Sabbath as we studied before. This would have been the high Sabbath on Thursday. After the buying of the spices was done, they are after the the um Sabbath was done, they bought spices. The following day, Friday, during the day. Then another Sabbath came, and after the next Sabbath, they arrived at the grave of Christ on Sunday morning. Now, look at what these ladies were doing. It's probably what they were often doing. They were serving Christ. Even in his death, they were serving him. They probably didn't think that there would be any reward provided for this. They just love Christ and so they were going to treat his body with the greatest respect. Now you'd look at that and you'd think, well, what good is that? But that's how they were going to express their love. That's the only way the only thing they could think of. I tell you what, we do pretty good if we express our love for Christ in the only way we can think of and we keep thinking. And as we fill our heads with Scripture, we begin understanding what it is that Christ wants, and if we just keep doing it, that's a good example. That's a good thing to do. These ladies clearly did not believe that he would raise from the dead. The only people who took that promise seriously were the religious leaders. No one disbelieved Christ more than they did, but they did at least remember what he said. His followers didn't appear to. Now, ladies, if this is the kind of thing you are doing, keep it up. This is a wonderful ministry. Even when it's a bit misdirected, it ends up very well Now these ladies bought spices. This is a something. This is not a nothing. Someone always pays for everything Don't ever get the idea that anything is free. It's not. Someone always pays for everything. There's nothing of value that is truly free. Everything is paid for. So these ladies took up their own resources and paid for what they perceived would best serve price. Another wonderful example to follow. Use what you got to serve God. That's essentially all they were doing. Have you ever considered that these women never got to use these spices on Christ? They didn't. You know, but I doubt it broke their hearts. Um and more than likely, if they're like our women, they would have saved the spices and used them on the next candidate And the next one probably had the decency to remain dead. So, verse 2, very early in the morning on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen. So, do we think that these women didn't like to sleep in? I don't know what the culture was like then. Maybe they every woman got up before the break of day. I don't know, but they certainly did. All we know is that these women were industrious. And uh if there's a tip here, any guy that's looking for a bride, make sure she's industrious. So at the first opportunity they had, they hustled to get to the grave to provide a service they had more than likely provided before. These women probably knew how to do this job. They didn't waste any time. We get the idea they got there as soon as there was enough light to make the journey. And again, this is Sunday morning. Then verse 3. And they said among themselves, Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us? But when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, for it was very large. There are things that women are very good at, and there are things they must rely upon men for. Rolling heavy stones is more of a man thing. I was like the shirt that said, I'm a man and I lift heavy things. So they're they're grappling with this issue as they're getting very close to the tomb. Maybe it's something they failed to think of earlier. It's good to know that the world of men and women hasn't completely changed since then. We all make mistakes and we all forget to consider important things. These women had failed to think about how they were going to finish their ministry, but they got loosely using the word lucky When they got to the tomb, the stone had already been rolled away. It's so very nice when the obstacles that we failed to consider become no obstacles at all. And that's what happened here We'll look at the finish of this story when we get to the text, but my intention this morning was to look at this wonderful ministry of these women. There are lots of applications from what we've gone over this morning. The first, man, we need to appreciate and prioritize the ministry of women. When we can, we should support those activities they feel inclined to do to meet the needs of those around them. Do you realize that while Christ was the Son of God Christ was still a man, a male. It may be that the husbands of some of these women would have liked to have been along during this time. It's possible they just couldn't I think it's an unusual ministry, but sometimes even married women can support the ministry of another man. There's a great deal of discernment and caution needed here, but it's possible. Second, women, do the ministry God has given you to do. Don't concern yourself that God has not given you the same ministry that God has given men to do. That isn't a problem. God never regards it as being a problem, so don't let it be a problem to you. Just keep meeting those needs that you can meet. On this day in history in our text, it is the ministry of women that is most honored. Third, we need to understand that the ministry of the mundane is the ministry of necessity. The women most honored in this text were doing nothing but planning to dump good-smelling stuff on a dead corpse. Many of you know from changing countless diapers that this ministry of women is not often very glamorous or noticed. If you're in the house, it 's kind of noticed. But that doesn't mean that that ministry is not necessary. The hand that rocks the cradle truly is the hand that shapes the world. And fourth, it would be good to spend some time this week considering what that torn curtain really means. And what the cost was spent to tear it. Our access directly to God through the fac the sacrifice of Christ needs to be more than understood. It's more than theology. The truth of it has to find its way into our hearts. When we look in the mirror, we should see a person for whom God ripped the curtain for. Here is a person who has access to God because of Christ. Our identity is in Christ. That is our identity. We aren't just normal human beings with normal resources anymore. We are people for whom heaven has been opened for We can boldly come before the throne of God to make our requests and cares known. Rarely has so much been paid. For something that we have made so little use of. Since we have this access We need to use it. We're required to use it. Scripture tells us to pray. It commands us to pray. But the amazing thing is, we can. We can go to God. To request of him those things that we should That access is the most expensive access ever gained anywhere We need to use it. We need to take advantage of that. Okay, let's uh close and by singing in Christ alone