Many of you remember our youth for price days. I I think we were all learning a lot at that time. And at the time, I was trying to figure out what the best way was to get the gospel to kids who were not hearing. And I also wanted to see kids come to Christ Youth for Christ as an organization was heavily dependent upon programs. So during this whole time I was trying to sort out what part programs should play in ministry. And uh one day as I was reading through songs, I stumbled upon these verses, and they became a guide to me to help keep the proper perspective. Psalms 20 verses 6 through 9. Psalm 20 verses 6 through 9. Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed, and he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. They have bowed down and fallen, but we have risen and stand upright. Save, Lord, may the king answer us when we call. As I studied this, I equated horses and chariots as the best of man's methods It's the ultimate of man's best effort, the horses and chariots. That's how it's used in Scripture. It was actually the most devastating military technology of the day. When you saw an attack force of horses and chariots in David's day, it would have been easy to be terrified. It'd be like a bunch of tanks cresting the hill, you know, maybe right here. You know, it would be frightening to see them come. Horses and chariots were man's best attempts at providing safety and security for themselves They are man's attempt at controlling his environment, of having power over those things that can harm him. They are man's solutions for providing some of those things he feels he must have. It's something that people could easily trust in and depend upon for those things we should only depend upon God for. Verse 7 in Psalms 20 lays out the contrast. Trust in horses and chariots, or trust in God? You can't do both. You can think to trust in the horses and use God, or you can trust in God and use horses, but you can't trust in both. You'll always prioritize your trust in one over the other. That's really what our text is about this morning Who will we trust? Pardon me a surprise in the book of Isaiah. Who will we trust? Will we trust man's method of attaining what we want and need, or will we trust God to provide what we want and need? That is the million-dollar question. Now look, let's look at verse 1 in our text. Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help and rely on horses, who trust in chariots because they are many. And in horsemen, because they are very strong, but who do not look to the Holy One of Israel, nor seek the Lord. How easy it is for us to lose perspective. Have you ever looked at world events and thought that our opposition was insurmountable? Think about the movie we watched about our persecuted brothers and sisters. Would it not appear that the governments in those places or the rebels in those places had all the might and power. Doesn't it seem like they could put Christians to death at will? If they felt like it, they could go out and kill them or butcher them or whatever they wanted to do. Is it not appealing to us to have some worldly power that would put them in their place, to control them, to uh protect ourselves? The problem with us is that we believe what we see and experience too easily, too readily. We think of God as a concept. But not an active reality in our world. And we're not alone. The leaders in our text, these Jewish leaders, they revered the idea of God. They just didn't expect that he was powerful in the material world that they lived in. It was fine to worship God, but when push comes to shove, we need to take care of ourselves. See that attitude in you at all? I certainly see it in me. How much do we like that? Oh yeah, God can save our souls, but it's us who have to keep a job and keep that gas flowing. It's us who needs to provide protection for ourselves in this world. It's us who must chase after and catch the things that we think will make us happy. We think we must worry and fear because only our soul is staked in God. The rest of our needs we place upon ourselves. That is our temptation. It's the way that we naturally gravitate toward. It's fleshly thinking. And before we get to thinking that we really would not run the ether for help, think about this. Which would you rather? In the face of this lunatic in North Korea with his missiles pointing at the US, which would you rather? A first-class military machine like the U. S. currently has? Or a whole nation of people who fear God and depend upon God but have no military whatsoever. That's what we're talking about this morning. That's the difference between trusting God and trusting horses and chariots. That puts us more in the position of the people in this text. I think it would be good to look at something here. Let's look at what God has to say about the greatest military threat that Israel would face. Horses and chariots. These are the atom bombs of their day. Look at the process God uses to gather people to face the threat. And we'll find this back in Deuteronomy 20. Where he gives instructions about what Israel should do when they're going out to battle, and I think you'll find this humor. An insightful Verse 1, when you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses and chariots and people more numerous than you Make sure that you recruit every single person you can for the battle because obviously they are far more powerful than you. Be smart because only you can defeat those enemies using your resources that you have at hand Trust in how clever and resourceful you are, but above all, gather every single truth that you can. You must have that to win. Obviously, I am lying to you. I only took that chance because I figured that every single one of you would know that I lost. That's how we would answer that. That isn't how we would enter that scripture. But that's not how God tells us to think. Let's start again at verse 1. When you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses and chariots and people more numerous than you, do not be afraid of them. For the Lord your God is with you, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. There's no wiggle room here. This is a command. You look up, you see the opposing fleshly force that stands against you, that threatens to undo you. And what does God say? I mean, you can count. You can see my numbers, their numbers. Our weapons, their weapons. You can see all that. What does God say? Do not be afraid. Why? Because the same God that delivered in the past is still with you. And he hasn't grown weaker or dumber. He has clearly displayed in the past that he has the will and the ability to deliver. So it's dumb to be afraid. That's the essence of it. In fact, it's insulting to God for us to give into fear. We alone have reason to hope Verse 2, so it shall be when you're on the verge of battle, that the priest shall approach and speak to the people. And he shall say to them, Hear, O Israel, today you are on the verge of battle with your enemies. Do not let your heart faint, do not be afraid, and do not tremble or be terrified because of them. For the Lord your God is he who goes with you to fight before you against your enemies to save you. Okay, so the principle is laid out to the people here. They're given a pep talk about God, but the interesting thing here is that it does not end here. There is such confidence in the ability of God to deliver, and that the deliverance does not depend upon man's resources. It does not depend upon human effort. at all, that the logic moves to the next sentence. And this is a huge jump. It's an amazing thing. He says, verse 5, then the officers shall speak to the people, saying, What man is there who has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go. Let him go. Don't count him in the group. You know. We don't need him. Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in battle, and another man dedicated. That's kind. Verse 6. Also, what man is there who has planted a vineyard and have not eaten of it? Let him go. Let him go and return to his house. Lest he die in the battle and another man eat of it. Verse 1, what man is there who is betrothed to a woman and has not married her? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man marry her. The officers shall speak further to the people and say, what man is there who is fearful and say, no hard man? Let him go and return to his house, let the heart of the brother faint like his heart. See, you know what that could faint disease about. Verse 9. And so it shall be when the officers have finished speaking to the people that they shall make captains of the armies to lead the people. And that's basically whoever 's left. I hope we're getting this. If you heard from the readers, if you heard this, you know, if you were listening to the priests come out and give this spiel , And you were in that crowd, and you knew who your enemies, and you could see all the horses and chariots in the distance. What is the one impression that you would get from what was just said? God doesn't need me to accomplish this. God doesn't need me to get this done. God doesn't need any of us. He doesn't need our resources, he doesn't need our talents, he doesn't need our technology, he doesn't need our wisdom, nothing God does not need anything to overcome the fleshly obstacles. In fact, to God, they aren't even obstacles. It's almost like they're props that He intends to use to show off. None of us reach this perspective by sight. You will never get here by looking at your world and looking at yourself. You will only get here by looking at God. We only get it by faith. If a person is not chosen by God for salvation, they are a prop which God will use for his purposes. And his purposes are always good for the people of God, even when we cannot see it. God is using these props to prepare for Himself a people fit to be with Him for eternity. They will be prepared to worship God forever. That is what God is doing in the life of every one of His believers. That is God's perspective of the horses and chariots. They are only an apparent threat. They are not a real threat. They are props in his play to work out something wonderful in eternity. And there is no force on earth that is going to impede the progress of God's plan. We can be certain of that Back to our text. Verse 2. Yet he is also wise and will bring disaster, and will not call back his words, but will arise against the house of evildoers and against the help of those who work iniquity. Now the Egyptians, they're men and not God, and their horses, they're flesh, and not spirit. When the Lord stretches out his hand, both he who helps will fall, and he who is helped will fall down. They will all perish together. For us to de to buy into dependent upon fleshly resources for that which we think we need We have to logically think that this course that we are taking of self-sufficiency, of of self-effort, of of trying to take care of ourselves, evil God, isn't Doing so, at least not to our liking. For us to do that, we have to think that our way of thinking is more smart than God's. We have to think that this course that we are taking makes more sense than following God and trusting God. Well, we won't say that and not Sunday school especially. But that is what is going on in our head. You have to logically you have to think, my way is better In our text, Jews thought that trusting in horses and chariots was what? Their most effective leaders were obviously making an argument that that is what the country has to do in their little circles, in their in their little meetings and back rooms. That's what they're saying. We have to do this, or we're going to be destroyed. Now God comes back with a little sarcasm. According to verse 2, Yet God is also wise. Yet God is also wise. The truth is that there is no wisdom at all in trying to depend upon flesh to get what we need. When we say that, and we probably all agree with it, but why do we so often do it? So when God says God also is wise, it would be like Wyatt trying to lift an anvil saying, I am strong. And he says, I am strong. And he goes to lift the anvil and it doesn't move. But you know, he's not even close to moving. And then Mark walks over and picks it up easily and says, I also am strong. That's the idea we're getting here in this text. The real point would be, I am strong enough to do this thing and you aren't. You aren't. It makes no sense what you were doing. It is stupid. That's essentially what he's trying to get through. The Jews were not wise at all, but they thought they were. But God, God is truly wise Mr. Mottier says this, the royal advisors in Jerusalem thought they were so smart dealing with things as they are. Isn't that often what we think, anyway? There's a Bible in this things as they are. And we want to deal with things as they are. We want to forget God's wisdom in that all that. But anyway, he says uh As things as they are. They thought they were wise enough to avert disaster. But listen to this. But God is wise enough to use their brilliant plans to bring disaster They thought to be wise and avert disaster in human wisdom. God is so wise he uses what they think to bring about the very disasters that they're trying to get away from. And if God is in our troubles, Mr. Meyer says, all the Egypts in the world cannot save us. The only way out is God's way. God's words are the one fixed point in the confusion of life that we can absolutely come on. Wonderful quote. It's interesting that Isaiah said that God was going to cause disaster, and he had no intention of calling back a single word. He was not going to change his mind. Our world thinks that they are the center of their own universe, but their opinion has no effect on God. They might be used to thinking that if if they have an opinion, it should be honored. That seems to be what you read about in in the news and college campuses, it's like you know kids have an opinion. It's like some kind of sacred thing now that you can't infringe upon that opinion or you'll hurt their precious feelings. That might even be how our world functions much of the time, but that is not how God works. He really has no concern at all regarding how the wicked regard him And that's why so many can say, I can curse God and he will not strike me. You're insignificant. I'm not going to worst waste my effort on use. That's God's perspective He's going to destroy his enemies and he will have no second thoughts about it. And in our text situation, both those called upon to bring help, the Egyptians, and both and those who are calling to help. The Judeans will both face disaster. They chose their faith when they refused to call upon their God, when they insulted God by calling on an alternative source. Verse 3, now the Egyptians are men and not God, and their horses are flesh and not spirit. We can think of Egypt as representing anything I think I need outside of the will of God or the promises of God. That's what Egypt is here in our text. Well, we use it that way, we get a little more application. And here we see the problem with it. The problem, simply put, is the Egyptians are not God. And their resources are not spiritual. Our deepest needs can never be met by the creation. Our deepest needs are never met by the creation. They can only be met by our creator. And that's the problem when we chase material solutions. They never deliver because they are incapable of delivering. They don't possess the ability to provide what our souls need. Fleshly resources can only provide rest. Fleshly solutions. Fleshly resources can only provide fleshly solutions. Our spiritual resources can provide spiritual solutions. Egypt will never deliver it for us. Oh, how many times we have run to Egypt looking for solutions, looking for that which we long for, which we think will make us happy Which we think will satisfy us. All of us have done it. We thought we could be delivered by chasing after a human relationship. We thought we could gain human security through a job or money We ran after something that the world runs after to make us happy, and Egypt just disappointed us. We were left more needy than when we started the process. That is the nature of Egypt chasing Verse 4, For thus the Lord has spoken to me, as a lion wears and a young line over his prey, when a multitude of shepherds is summoned against him, he will not be afraid of their voice, nor be disturbed by their noise. So the Lord of hosts will come down to fight for Mount Zion and forth hill. Like birds flying about, so will the Lord of hosts defend Jerusalem. Defending it, he will also deliver it. Passing over, he will preserve it. Here Isaiah uses a word picture of a lion on prey that the shepherds are trying to chase away. So you see, you get this picture probably at night of a lion on a sheep or whatever. And uh and you've got all the shepherds around with their sticks which I think I'd prefer a high caliber rifle myself, but with their sticks. Trying to trying to chase away this lion and the lion's sitting there, you know, chewing on his prey and looking up. Well, in any image you have to stick to the single point of what of what it God is trying to say in the word. Otherwise we'll be left with a God that feeds on his people and he depends on that that he that they defend the same um or that he depends the same Anyway, you get the picture. The point here is that God will not be distracted by anything, no matter what it is, and no matter how many of them there are. He's intent on his purpose and he will not be dissuaded. That is the point in this imagery. Just like a lion when it's over its prairie, it has something it cherishes and it's not going to let go. It doesn't matter how many shepherds it makes That's how God will fight for Zion. And that's what Judea could have had if it had not called upon Egypt. It could have had that God fighting for it for them. It's kind of like in our lives, you know, what we give up to get what we get. We've got to be idiots. We give up God's resources, God's protection, God's love, and we chase after the Egyptian solutions In our lives, and they never deliver, and God always delivers, and by us doing that we anger God. It makes no sense. They could have had God fighting for them Instead of God fighting against them. The same is true for us. If we will simply make God our single point of confidence If we will simply trust and obey him, if we'll look for his hands to provide us the things our souls most crave, then we can have that fierce Purposefulness of God working on our behalf to provide for us and to protect us. The second imagery is interesting. It's like birds flying about. One thing's sure, if there's a bunch of birds flying about, you're not going to escape their notice. They're paying attention. It's as if they're everywhere, and that's what God is like. He's ever-present. That is what these Judeans gave up to run to Egypt. That's what we give up when we run to Egypt. When we chase earthly solutions to meet our heavenly need. As I was thinking about this promise of God, I was thinking about something Mike had told me about. I remember Mike telling me about the supernatural events that happened in Israel's Six-Day War in the 60s. So I looked it up online. On uh God 's secret. wordpress. com were a bunch of amazing stories about what God did in that war and others. Now this isn't vital, so you know we may just take it with a little bit of grain of salt, but there's a lot of stories like this that came up in that time. Too many to tell. I love these stories because they're stories that happen in some of our lifetimes. And they're active demonstrations of how God, how human wisdom fails when you're dealing with a living and active God. Here are just a few of the stories. According to all military analysts and pundits, the attack by Israel's enemies on June 5, 1967 was to be a lop -sided match The Israeli Defense Forces consisted of 275,000 troops compared to the 456,000 soldiers of the combined Iraqi, Syrian, Jordanian, and Egyptian. Reports of supernatural and angelic interventions on Israel's behalf came from both the Israelis and the Arabs. The Israelis and their enemies both told the same story. The prophet Zechariah had foretold that in the end times God will defend Israel and send his angels to fight for and with his people. Zechariah 12. In that day shall the Lord defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and he that is feeble among them at that day shall be as David, and the house of David shall be as God, as the angel of the Lord before them A story is told of a small Jewish community of Pekin under the siege of Arabs who were determined to wipe them out. However, they encountered a huge strange Huge strange beings with flaming swords, and they ran away in great fear, as the village rabbi watched them. Gershan Solomon joined the IDF. He led a company in the Golan Heights. In 1958, in a battle with the Syrian army, Mr. Solomon was injured accidentally when in the heat and confusion of the battle he was run over by a tank. Now that's an accident. Uh Syrian soldiers are trained to shoot again any wounded. I like how that's worded. They're to shoot again any wounded. Israeli soldiers. When they were told when they were about to shoot again Mr. Solomon, they all suddenly ran away. Later, these Syrian reporters reported to the, or soldiers reported to the UN officers that they had seen a thousand of angels, thousands of angels around this IDF officer and had therefore fled. This one is from the Yom Kippur War in 1973. An Israeli military historian reported that during the 1973 Yom Kippur War An Israeli soldier in the Sinai took captive an Egyptian column. A single soldier took captive an Egyptian column and led them to where the Israeli troops were. The Egyptian commander was asked why he and his men gave themselves up to this lone Israeli soldier. He responded with surprise, one soldier? There were thousands of them, he said And he said as they neared the Israeli lines, the soldiers began disappearing. The Israeli soldier reported that he was by himself when the Egyptian commander and his men surrendered to him. He was totally unaware of the thousands of soldiers the Egyptian soldiers saw with him, since he himself did not see them. Psalms 91, 10 and 11 promises that no evil shall befall you, nor shall any plague come near your dwelling, for he shall give his angels charge over you to keep you in all your ways. This is just an example, a recent example, of the God that we serve And he has not changed. He does what he wants when he wants the way he wants. Mary was bringing that out this morning in Sunday school. He does what he wants when he wants the way he wants. His presence is more powerful than the presence of any army. His resources are greater than any bank. His love is greater than any lover. Everything about him is the ultimate of what we truly need. Why would we ever run to Egypt? Why would we ever think that is a smart thing to do? And what is the answer that's held out to these people? The same one that is continually held out to us. Verse 6: return to him. Return to him. Against whom the children of Israel have deeply revolted. For in that day every man shall throw away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, sin which your hands have made for yourselves Then Asterius shall fall by a sword, not a man, and a sword not of mankind shall devour against. But he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall become forced labor. He shall cross over to his stronghold for fear, and the princes shall be afraid of his man, says the Lord, whose fire is in Zion, and whose furnace is in Jerusalem. What we see at the end of the day for those who trust God is the ultimate deliverance by God of those who trust in him. And since God is the strongest, there is never any question about the outcome. When we truly turn to God, we give up on all other options. We recognize that the only resource we can really depend upon is the person and character of God. Everything else gets tossed into a junk heap That's what we're seeing here. They're throwing away their idols like they want to get as far away from them as quick as they can. Even in our best relationships, we realize that we're all afraid Our loyalty does not go deep enough. Our love sometimes misses the obvious need or we're too selfish to meet it. So even in all of that, even within the church, we do not depend upon the perfection of our Christian family here. We can't make an idolatry based on relational expectations. We are frail. But we can depend that God will give us what we need. When we need it, even through the frail people that we are and that surround us, our God is able to deliver. Our God will deliver. He will always do it at the right time. He will always do it the right way. What is your Egypt this morning? What horses and chariots are you trusting in your life to do for you what only God can do? The answer is simple. Return to Christ against whom our whole world has so beatly revolted. Return to Christ and we have promise after promise after promise that if we will return to Him, if we will turn to Him, He will respond kindly in His love to us. Closing prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your delivery upon all of your promises. We thank you that you take care of us. We thank you that you have our best interest in mind. Help us, Lord, to wean ourselves from every idol. To wean ourselves from every alternative, to wean ourselves from every other course, to to see everything in light of eternity and everything in light of the glory of Christ Help us to get it. Help us to really get the fact that we are going to stand before you one day. And we will be so glad for every faithfulness. And we will be so sorry for every lost opportunity. Help us, Lord, change us so that we are more and more prepared for that day and we have more and more delay in here. feet based on the grace that you have provided to us. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.