If Christ showed up this morning and stepped to our up to our podium What would be the right thing for all of us to do? I think every one of us would answer that question correctly. Oh, we might have some variations, but we would we would generally get it right. We should sit down and shut up and take in every single word that Christ says with the intent to believe it and to do it. That would be the right response to Christ's presence. That'd be perfectly appropriate. It would be the right thing to do. It would be the smartest thing that we could do. And in fact, other than wanting to talk to him personally or to directly worship him, this would be the only faithful response. Sit down, shut up, listen, and receive is pretty much what we would do. Well, Jesus showed up midway through the Feast of the Tabernacles. And this was a time when people had all day to dedicate to listening to the Word of God proclaimed. Because that the Feast of the Tabernacles, if you read about it in the Old Testament, it's kind of like a weeklong party where they live in tents of sorts, uh hastily made buildings like kids would make almost huts. And uh and they had saved up money and they'd saved up goods for this event, so um they were all ready for the vacation. And we might think of it as camping for a week. It was customary for rabbis to take advantage of the people's free time that they had during this time, and they would preach. So Jesus follows suit. Now, we don't know why Christ timed his arrival this way. Remember his brother said, go now, and he said, I'm not going. They left and then he goes midweek. It might be that the Jewish leadership were set up for him for a few days. Like they're waiting for him to come. They can capture him before he gets into the city. They can haul him off, put him in their jail or whatever. And uh nobody would it wouldn't make a big scene. Uh so maybe Jesus knew by this point they'd give up, he could walk in, no problem. We don't know. Uh that's just one of many possibilities All we know is this. About the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. Okay, so Christ is teaching. And what's the response, the proper response in any human being? Quiet your soul and listen to your maker. That would be the right thing to do. Now, what is the response of the leadership? Keep in mind now that unless we have clues otherwise, when John says Jews, from this point on, he is normally talking about the corrupt Jewish leadership who wants to put Christ to death. That's usually the context. Verse 15. The Jews therefore marveled, saying, How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? Well, instead of listening to obey, what were the Jewish leaders doing? They were evaluating Christ. They were evaluating him. They were diagnosing him. Finding out what's wrong with him. They were sizing up their competition. They were holding him up to some kind of standard to see how he stood up. Think about that for a second Who would be qualified on this earth to evaluate the preaching of Jesus Christ? We know the answer to that. No one. At all. Ever. Yet here they were, the experts. They were marveling, they were amazed, but rather than allowing themselves to be stricken by the truth of what Jesus is saying, they get fixated on how it's being said and how it could be said. And rather than submitting to the words of God, the words of God, they evaluate the preaching of the eternal Son of God. What a huge mistake. And their question is not what must I do after hearing this uh a clearly authoritative word of God, which is the reasonable thing to be thinking That's the real issue, but no, they respond as the experts. And they ask a question that doesn't really matter at all. Have you ever found yourself dodging a clear application from a sermon or from scripture by raising an academic question about it in your mind? I'm not trying to say that all academic questions are bad questions. I certainly don't think they are, but I'm saying that they're a poor substitute to applying a convicting truth. from God's word when application is what's most appropriate. This is the academic question that the Jews pose. How can this guy be such a good preacher when he never went to our seminary? That's really what they're saying. The leaders' institutions were probably the only Bible schools available. Even Bibles would have been hard to come by. So if someone wanted to know how to understand Scripture, they were ready to go. They must have assumed that if Jesus didn't study with them, he must not have studied at all. And that would be true of most of the people, probably, in uh in their world. Now keep in mind that when the Pharisees taught, in order to declare authority They would quote the people who are quoting other people who are quoting the Bible. That's how they propped up what they were saying. Well, we might use a quote from another author because that that author makes the point more clearly than I could possibly do, and I don't want to pretend that they're my ideas when they're clearly that person's ideas. That's not how the Pharisees were doing it. Like, we never quote John MacArthur or John Piper to say this is authority from God. It's usually to say, this guy understands this better than I do, and I think he'd he'd do better to tell you than I would. But with the Pharisees They used quotes to declare what they were saying has authority. They relied on tradition more than they relied upon scripture when they preached. And worse, they assumed that if Jesus didn't come from their school, then whatever Jesus was teaching was surely his opinion. He's making stuff up as he goes. He doesn't have a long line of people agreeing with him, so he must be wrong. So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. So while a Pharisee might say, My teaching is not mine, but it's from another respected teacher, Jesus is saying my teaching comes directly from my Father who sent me. I didn't make this up. This isn't from my imagination. The one who sent me taught me. I didn't go to the Jerusalem seminary. I was going to say seminary. Seminary. I went to the seminary of heaven and was taught the scripture by the source. of scripture, which makes me a little more authoritative than you. So you might want to think twice before you say I never studied. I just didn't study with you I went to the source. But then Christ jumps to the real issue with good biblical teaching. It doesn't matter what school you went to or what credentials you have. If what a preacher or teacher is sharing is true, what matters most is how you receive it. How you receive it. Verse 17 if anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God. Or whether I'm speaking on my own authority. If anyone's will is to do God's will He will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I'm speaking on my own authority. There's a boatload of inf of truth here. This is interesting. Jesus is telling the Jewish leaders that they cannot evaluate the teaching of Jesus the way that they're trying to evaluate it. You can't sit outside of it. And think you can objectively evaluate it. There's only one way to know this is God's will. You have to be willing to do God's will first. Only those who are willing to do God's will will know, will have verification, will have confidence that this preaching is God 's will. In other words, you cannot sit as the authority over the authority. You must first submit to the authority of God before you'll be able to know if something is from God or not. I think part of what Jesus is saying here is that unless the Lord first opens your eyes, you can't see. Remember that the flesh counts for nothing. And that's how these guys were approaching things. Flesh. They were using what God gave them in terms of their intellect and evaluating. The flesh can't look at a teaching and discern, yes, this is from God, so I'll make myself submit to it. He can't do that. It doesn't work that way. First, you must be put in a place where you are truly submitted to God with a new heart. And it's then, once you're ready to do whatever God says, that you'll be able to discern what's true and what's not true. The willingness to obey has to precede the discernment. I think to borrow from something Christ said earlier, if you want to know if Christ if what Christ is saying is true You must be born again. True believers gravitate toward biblical truth True believers gravitate toward biblical truth. Oh, we may have to take some circuitous roots to get there. But I'm not saying it's going to be instantaneous and that that it doesn't take work at times and there's not a path, but truth will eventually ring true in a believer's life. Um I think of some of my friends and and even myself who have gone through churches and you pick up a lot of information and you're reading the Bible and all of that, but they're slants And you you go through those slants and as time goes on and you keep reading scripture you think that slant that wasn't right. This is the right way to see that scripture and that kind of thing. It rings true, it comes through in a believer's life. An unbeliever can't depend upon it ever ringing true, even though it is true. Truth may appear as an outright lie to an unbeliever. That's not unusual. There's another truth evident here. Do you want to know God's truth? Do you want to make sure that what you're believing is true? First deal with the issue. Will you submit to it whatever it is, no matter what you find out? Will you submit to the truth, whatever it is , when you find out? When you pass that hurdle, the Lord will see to it that you get the truth that you need. Are there periods in your life that you regret where you made bad choices because of ignorance of God's word? Well it's appropriate to ask this question. Does the evidence of my life show that I would have obeyed God at this time in my life, in this area of my life, if I was fully aware of what he said? If not, ignorance was probably not the real problem. Complacency was. Proverbs 132 says, For the simple are killed by their turning away. And the complacency of fools destroys them. It's interesting. The dictionary definition of complacency is this A feeling of contentment or self-satisfaction, especially when coupled with an unawareness of danger, trouble, or controversy. It's living unaware of the bigger issues around you and in you. Satisfied with your life at present. Complacency places us in great danger. The love of truth and the pursuit of truth will rescue us From that danger, the danger of complacency, the danger of not caring If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will only he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I'm speaking on my own authority. Hearts that have been made willing to obey God's truth will over time learn to discern what is God's truth and what is not God's truth. That's the point. Scripture gives the following promises to God's people. Not all of them apply directly for us like they would for the ones given the promise, but we see the theme. Deuteronomy 4, 29 says, but for But from there you will seek the Lord your God and you will find him if you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul. You see that this is much the same as what Jesus is saying. When your heart issue is correct, the truth falls into place. When your heart issue is correct, everything else falls into place. 1 Chronicles 28:9. And you, Solomon, my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a whole heart. And with a willing mind, for the Lord searches all hearts and understands every plan and thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever. And again, we see the heart willing to pursue and obey God's truth is going to get it. He's going to get the stuff that he needs in order to follow God. Psalm 119 2 says, Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart. Again, we see the importance of our heart in the whole matter of truth. The blessing comes in the combination of truth and the willingness to obey it. That's where the blessing is. The blessing isn't just knowing the truth. The blessingness is knowing the truth and the willingness to obey the truth. Jeremiah 29, 13, you will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. Have you ever listened to skeptics who are familiar with scripture, but the scripture doesn't have any effect on them? They sit back and tell you what they think is wrong with God based on God's own revelation of Himself, especially the Old Testament. And you think, how can they think that? How can they think that? How can they not see the beauty of Jesus? How can't they see that? This is due exactly to what Jesus is talking about. If these people were ever to bow their hearts to Jesus, And bow their hearts to real truth, which in itself requires a miracle, but if they were to do it, suddenly the truth would open up to them. They would see it as it really is The way of salvation would open right up. They would be drawn. They would see it clear as day. This is the step that the Jewish leaders would not take They were determined to remain the experts, to remain the evaluators, to remain the people in power. And being such, they could never see the truth because they were not willing to submit. There's one thing I should add here. Are you hungry for God to reveal his truth to you? Are you hungry for God to reveal his truth to you? Do you want to be able to discern those things that are from him and those things that are not from him? Then check your heart first. Will you do it if God shows it? Will you do it if God shows it? Will your heart submit to the truth of God and the will of God in every area? Especially the first area that comes to mind. You start thinking about it. Am I willing to obey God in everything? And often the first thing that comes to mind is the biggest resistance that we have in our hearts. The hardest thing that there is to submit to. Will we submit there? Get that wrestling out of the way first, and the Lord will surely reveal to you then whatever you need to know. That may be the only thing that's standing in your way. Oh, you'll need to read his word, and there'll be work involved, but it'll be fruitful work. Verse 18 The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true. And in him there is no falsehood. Alright, this truth first is about Christ. He's talking about himself. But there's much to apply to those who speak for God as well, and that would be all of us at some points. We see here that what the primary goal should be for someone who speaks for God. The speaker from God seeks the glory of God. The speaker from God speaks for the glory of God. The speaker that is not speaking for God seeks his own glory. After preaching a powerful sermon, a congregant approached Spurgeon and said, That was a wonderful sermon. Spurgeon replied, Yes, the devil told me that as a as I was coming down off the pulpit. Many of you have preached or taught in front of people, and there are several things that are difficult. The first is knowing what Scripture truly says. The second is sticking to that which Scripture truly says, and not using the pulpit to voice personal gripes or trying to give hints to people without specifically addressing them in private. And a third would be trying to impress people with how well you speak. All of those can be major obstacles. The speaker for God reigns in self. The speaker for self reigns in God. The speaker for God reigns in self. The speaker for self reigns in God. Now Jesus in this verse is speaking of himself when he speaks of one seeking and speaking. The glory of God. He is the only person who ever kept flesh out of 100% of his preaching all of the time. In him there truly was never any falsehood. In anything that Jesus said. He's making it clear to the Jewish leadership that while they might accuse Christ of not speaking with authority, that is a false claim. Everything that Christ said, he said for the glory of his father. Even though he didn't have the authority given by the false leadership, he had the absolute authority of his father. But in saying what Christ said, he was making it clear that the Jewish leaders had wrong motives. It was actually they who had no authority. Now you wouldn't have known that. Your seamer wouldn't have picked that up. You'd have looked and said, who has authority here? Well it must be them. Because everybody looks to them, and they're the ones with the Bibles, and they're the ones that are given the positions and all that. But they had no authority. They were speaking to make themselves look good. Flesh fed when they spoke. They were getting something earthly from their speaking. It was fleshly motivated preaching and teaching. Now, speaking of earthly motives, Jesus moves on, and it's a transition to the next topic while he's still maintaining. This talk about motives. Okay, Jesus is talking about motives, and he goes to verse 19. Has not Moses given you the law, yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you seek to kill me? Why do you seek to kill me? What commandment did Moses give that Jesus addresses here? It's pretty clear. It's the sixth commandment. Thou shalt not murder. Moses said it clearly. That's the law. Murder was in the leadership's hearts And it began when Jesus did a miracle on the Sabbath. Think about that That inspired their desire to kill Jesus. He did a miracle. So Jesus brings up that which the leaders should have been most knowledgeable about and most submitted to. But Christ is showing they they ain't. They should have been declaring truth and obeying truth to the glory of God, but they're not They're not and it it isn't like this is complicated. It was Moses. It's a simple command. Don't murder. There's no one there that didn't understand what that meant. But no one keeps the law. Oh, not everyone there was guilty of wanting Jesus dead But it's still true that no one keeps the law. And in this case, the Jewish leaders definitely weren't keeping it, and they knew that they weren't keeping it. I wonder if they gulped when they heard Jesus say this. Jesus found them out. He gives them a chance to repent. Now, obviously, there are more in the crowd than just the wicked leadership. There are also the people in the crowds, the man on the street, and this is what the man on the street says. The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you? You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you? I couldn't help thinking of so many of the responses to those things in our political world. that have been viewed as conspiracy theories that turned out to be true. And you can almost hear those who believed what they were told saying to those who suspected that they were hearing lies, you have a demon. You're evil. Things like you don't think masks are good? You have a demon. You don't think the vaccines are good? You think there's a plot to undermine Mr Trump? You are evil. You are stupid. You're driven by an evil, insane idea And then we find out so many of the conspiracy theories happen to the fact happen to be facts. But this is just an illustration to show That's the kind of mindset we're talking about. That's our situation in the text. Jesus just insulted the morality of the whole crowd And it looks like the crowd gets indignant at the insult, and they react by assigning Jesus a demonic motivation. Would you want to be one of the people in the crowd who told Jesus, the God man who came to earth to take upon himself the sins of many, you have a demon? No, I I I've had some bad quotes that I'd like to take back, but I'm glad I don't have to answer for that particular one. They should have asked, Jesus, why do you say that? What do you know that we don't know? How have we broken the law? What is the evidence that people want to kill you? Every single word Jesus spoke was true, of course But nope, none of that. You have a demon. That's a way to great that's that's a great way to start a conversation, don't you think? It works every time. I can see me walking in the door to the house and Carla points out something that I may have done that was wrong, and I respond to her by saying, you have a demon. You know? Yeah, that conversation isn't going anywhere good, I can guarantee you. Now, Jesus is talking to the Jewish leadership, but the rank and the file in the crowd may not know about this. Jesus answered them, I did one work and you all marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision. Not that it's from Moses, but from the fathers, and you circumcised a man on the Sabbath. If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? Jesus is talking about the miracle he did at the pool of Siloam on the Sabbath. Remember, he told the guy to take up his mat and walk, and the guy did, and he got in trouble from the Sabbath police. He healed a man born lame. And uh they just can't let that go. The claim that Jesus broke a Sabbath law, and uh they claim that and they want uh they want to murder him. And they think Jesus is guilty and they are justified. It's no wonder that Jesus brings this up to them It is absolutely the height of hypocrisy. Jesus does this great work nobody else can do to heal this man, happens to be on the Sabbath and they want to kill him. And they don't see any problem with that So Jesus is about to scroll them on the proper use of Scripture and reason, and it will be wasted on them. But it's not wasted on us, I hope. Okay, so circumcision predated the law, and the law is the first mention of a requirement to keep the Sabbath We talked in our Sabbath study about how there are various views on that, but it is first mentioned as a command in uh in Moses. So the whole argument is based on those two facts. God through Abraham gave the requirement to circumcise, and it was passed down into the law. So it started with Abraham, then it made it to Moses. God, through Moses, gave the requirement to keep the Sabbath. Circumcision is to happen on the eighth day. So what do you do when the two conflict? You've got two clear words from God that you can't make go away because the eighth day is the eighth day. You know, there's nothing you can do about that. What happens when a circumcision has to happen on the Sabbath? And why do you make the decision that you make And Jesus says that when the two laws conflict, you choose circumcision over keeping the Sabbath, even though the law of Moses doesn't address this conflict or what to do about it. And you'd think that he would have. You know, you'd you'd think that God would have included that in the in in the law, but he didn't. So you do circumcis circumcision so that the law of the God the law of God will not be broken. Why prioritize circumcision as the higher law to obey? Well, I don't know why the early Jewish leaders decided this. It may have been one of precedence. Since circumcision was earlier passed on by Abraham as a sign of being God's people, maybe it takes precedence over the later law given by Moses. But what we know this proves is that there is a principle of hierarchy in God's laws. He doesn't say you are sinning if you do a circumcision on the Sabbath. It's not that. You have to choose the right thing to do, and this is the right thing to do. There's a hierarchy. Some laws are more important than others. The date of the circumcision was more important than keeping the weekly Sabbath. But since Jesus is creating an argument, I think we can get the clues from him as to why as well. He says, Are you angry with me? Because on the Sabbath I made a man's hole. body well. A man's whole body well. I think he's given a clue there as to what he's talking about. The scholars that I read said that the Jews regarded circumcision as a perfecting rite. A perfecting rite. This rite had to be performed on the eighth day, and this made a person an Israelite. who was obedient to the law. It was, in a sense, joining that person to the people of Israel by doing that that act on that day. It was in one way symbolic of being part of the covenant people, a precursor to salvation. Circumcision allowed a man to worship in the temple. He could not worship in the temple if he was not circumcised. Jesus argues: if the precursor to salvation is such a big deal, Making a man's whole body well, purifying his whole body so that he can now join the corporate worship is a bigger deal. He is reuniting this man to God's people in worship. He is healing that. He is fixing that in this man. Jesus is making the argument that what is done in circumcision is a smaller thing than what it is to heal a man's whole body. Evidently, this logic would have rung true with the leaders there. Even though they refused to grant Jesus Point, they would have seen Jesus Point. Then Jesus closes with this: Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. The leaders saw what Jesus did Okay? They already had a pattern of thinking. What Jesus did violated their normal pattern of thinking. When he healed this man. And the Pharisees are watching, the Jewish leaders are watching. Everything in them rang out. He is guilty. Everything that they have been trained, every thought that ran through their mind. Would have been Sabbath, guilty. Their seemers said that Jesus was sinning, that Jesus was violating the law. This law is absolute They didn't even consider that there might be a hierarchy of laws, even though they knew it was true because they knew it from circumcision. They didn't consider any other biblical precedents. Their seemer told them something, and their seamur had more authority than anything else in their world. I know Christians who, if they saw someone smoking, they would immediately think that that person while they are smoking is sinning And they've been taught that smoking is a sin. And they believe that smoking is a sin. So they don't even need to think about it. They don't need to study it. Their seamers say it's a sin, so it's a sin. You don't have to worry about it Well, the fact that both Spurgeon and R. C. Sproul smoked would not be a consideration to them. The Seamer has spoken. The authority of our Seamer has spoken. That's an example of judging by appearances. That is letting the seamer decide what is right and wrong. That is essentially, I think, what he's talking about here. But it's not right judgment Right judgment takes issues to the Word of God and lets the Word tell our seemers what's right and wrong until our seemers get adjusted. It's a lot like our consciences. Our consciences are wonderful things, and we must go by them. But they're trainable. We can't depend on them always being right Sometimes they're out of kilter and they need brought in the kilter. We all need to do this. Judging by appearances is the easiest way of doing judgment. And it's the laziest. It's quick. It fits with what we already think. We don't need to work. We don't need to study, but it's dangerous. In this case, it would have caused very informed people to condemn the Son of God. Right judgment requires a mentality that says the Word of God is always right and I am not always right. The only way I can know for sure what's right or wrong is to take it to the Word of God and check out what the Bible says about it. We need to go into this process with humility. We all have to judge. We have to judge and discern right and wrong. There's just no doubt about that. But we have to approach it with humility. And we need to learn to be glad to learn the truth, even when it means changing our minds about something, or going back and saying, I was wrong about that And sorry, I I was hard on you and I shouldn't have been, or that kind of thing. Even when it means admitting we were wrong, right judgment is costly. But right judgment is right. Judgment. Let's pray. Lord, help us to see our hearts the way you see