I get out of practice really quick. If I were to tell you I hit a fly What would you think of? How about I found a bat? How about if I told you I stole something? Would you think that was bad? How about if I told you I stole a base? I don't know if you immediately thought I was talking about baseball, but once you did understand that. Everything I said took on a different meaning than what it could have meant in another context. In our text this morning, Jesus says these things. He says, I can do nothing on my own. If I alone bear witness to myself, my testimony is not true, I do not receive glory from people. Does that mean if Jesus says that he ate some fish and no one saw him eat the fish, that he really didn't eat the fish? And of course not. I mean that's silly. But that's how cults get started. They take a few things that Scripture says out of context and then they jump up and down on those verses to prove how wrong the rest of the Christian world is. and how right they are. And in fact, in this case, in just a couple of chapters in John, we read this, which Again, if if you're not paying attention to the context, you don't get it. John 8, 13 and 14 says, So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself, your testimony is not true. And Jesus answers, and this time he doesn't say, Yeah, I gave it myself, so it wasn't true. This time he says, even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. For I know where I'm coming from and where I'm going, but you don't know where I come from or where I'm going. So in our text We need to be very careful to limit our understanding of what Christ is saying to the context that he's saying it in. That's how we avoid making interpretive mistakes. We need to study the context in which something is said. What we need to know is why is Jesus saying what he is saying in this context? What is Jesus talking about in this context? How should we limit our understanding of what Jesus is saying Because context is what tells us the proper limit for what someone says. We use that all the time in common language as we're talking to somebody else. We keep things in that that that frame. So, well, in this text, this is the starting point for understanding Christ's words in our text. Jesus is proving the legitimacy of his ministry. Jesus is proving the legitimacy of his ministry. That's the context, and we have to read everything that's said here in that context. And if you read it any other way, you're going to read it wrong. Now, this morning's text is very important because in it Jesus appeals to people's minds to prove his legitimacy. He is laying out a method with which people can use to determine if these enormous claims of Jesus that he's making about himself are they true or not? Are they true or not? That's extremely important. First, John the Baptist and here are the Here's the outline. First, John the Baptist bore witness of Jesus' legitimacy in verses 31 through 35. John the Baptist bore witness. Second, Christ's works bore witness of Jesus' legitimacy. Verse 36. Third, the scripture bears witness of Jesus' legitimacy, verses thirty-seven through forty. For if Moses bears witness of Jesus' legitimacy, verses forty-five through forty-seven. And lastly, and tragically, the Jewish leaders would not bear witness of Christ's legitimacy in verses 41 through 44. So let's look at the first point. First, John the Baptist bore witness of Jesus' legitimacy. Verse 31: if I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not true. Well, I already showed that we've got to take this in context. Jesus only ever spoke the truth, so i it can't mean what it might appear to mean on the face of it. This can't mean if no one agrees with him he's lying. No, not at all. In the law, there always needed to be at least two witnesses to verify a truth legally. So it's not verified as being true without two witnesses. One witness wasn't enough. So if Jesus is trying to legally prove his legitimacy He's saying that he doesn't expect anyone to believe what he says just because he says it. There has to be more validation to his claims. He needs more witnesses. And he has them. He has plenty of them. Verse 32, there's another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true. He gets it right. You sent to John, and he has borne witness of the truth. Now remember, he's talking to the religious leaders here. So Jesus starts with John the Baptist as proof of legitimacy. It's almost like this is a legal case, and Jesus is saying John the Baptist is exhibit A. He's the first evidence. John boldly declared that Jesus was the Christ. But Jesus is not content to just make this statement. He's going to drive home the firsthand knowledge that the leaders had. about this statement. He's saying, remember when you sent your group of investigators to John? We remember we went over that in in John in the storyline? We read about it earlier. And those investigators heard John declare that there was one coming of which John was not fit to take his take off his shoes. Odds are that this was not their last conversation with John the Baptist. Odds are that they had heard more from him. He evidently made it clear on future visits who the Messiah was. So Jesus is saying, you leaders, you knew. You knew exactly what the testimony of John the Baptist was. So that's one down. And we continue. Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you will be saved. He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. This is interesting. I think Jesus is saying this. John the Baptist was just a man. And if what he was saying was just a man's opinion, it really wouldn't matter that much. A testimony from a man's mouth is not completely reliable. We all know that. But what John was saying didn't just come from a man's opinion. John the Baptist was a man from God. He was a man of God. He was sent by God. And God had revealed to John the identity of Jesus firsthand, very clearly. And that's why John's testimony was so significant. And John, he was a burning and shining guy. He was he was ministering to you guys. He was laying the truth out there in a way you couldn't miss it. And you were intrigued with him and his message. It made you think. It may have affected you. It may have convicted you. The way that John says you were willing to rejoice gives us some insight, I think. Jesus was telling the leaders that for a while you put up with John the Baptist. You'd listen to him. You'd actually back him some. You were for him. You were cheering him on. You were saying, preach it, John. They were willing for a while to do that, but not for very long. It was only for a while. And then that light started revealing things about these men that they didn't want exposed I've always thought that John the Baptist's statement to the religious leaders was one of the most veiled and thoughtful accusations given in Scripture We see it in Matthew 3. 7, where John the Baptist said this to the leaders. He said, But when when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come into his baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Who warned you John 's clearly telling them that they lack the spiritual insight to know even that they're supposed to repent. They don't have that as inside information. Somebody would have had to tell them because They're completely ignorant of their own wickedness and the progression of God's plan. They're so bad off That the only way that they would know about their need for repentance is if some outside source told them They would have never figured out such an obvious spiritual truth themselves. No, these leaders had limits. They could only rejoice in John's life for a time. Then they reached a time when they were no longer willing. One of the best ways of determining how much you love truth is how much of it you will take before you start shutting down the messenger. In our lives, we don't kill the messenger, like the Jewish leaders may have tried to do, literally No, we're we're trickier than that, at least we tend to be. We're more likely to do things like use red herrings in an argument. And that's when we distract the point of the conversation into side paths so that it never reaches the intended target. It gets someone off our trail. It is a murder of truth. It's just a tricky way of doing it. Or we break down into tears, or we use anger to make it too painful to continue the conversation. Sometimes we attack the person who is telling us the truth, trying to put them on the on uh on the defense and get ourselves out of the hot seat. Sometimes we respond with theories about ourselves instead of taking the pains to know what's really true about our thoughts and our motives and our feelings. We do well to watch our thoughts very carefully when someone is telling us truth that we don't want to hear. Our hearts will by default avoid truth. Our fleshly hearts, our default position If we're not following the Spirit, if we're not walking in the Spirit, our hearts will by default avoid truth. Only a truly humble person will patiently listen to correction. And respond by analyzing the message primarily by is this true or not? Is this true or not? Humility will not attack a person for their style in presenting the facts, at least at first. We might have to correct people and help them and how they're telling us the truth. We're to love truth as believers. The Jewish leaders were willing to enjoy John the Baptist's ministry for a while. But after a while they rejected him and it, and it was too much for truth for their taste. Jesus had been appealing to John the Baptist's ministry, mostly I think, because Christ thought it would have had the greatest effect on him. If there was anything that was going to get through to the Pharisees and Sadducees, it would be John the Baptist. And he said, But I say these things so that you may be saved. I use John the Baptist as an example so that you you might get it. You might hear it. If any witness of Jesus' legitimacy would get to the leaders, Jesus thinks John's witness might have the best chance. They might think, yeah, we really did love John's ministry for a while. But he made us feel horrible. But what if he's right? What if that conviction was from God? And Jesus truly is the Messiah? Of all the witnesses, it seems John the Baptist's witness would have be would be the most powerful to them. Alright, to our second point. Second, Christ's works bore witness of Jesus' legitimacy. Christ's works bore witness of Jesus' legitimacy. Verse 36. But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. Okay? Jesus saying, I got it I got a testimony even greater than that. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. Okay, a human being like John the Baptist could say anything. We know from our own histories that the testimony of a human being can't always be counted on. But here's a greater witness, a greater testimony, one you can't fake, a greater bystander telling us like it is. Jesus says it's the witness of what he does. Remember in Matthew 9, Jesus is dealing with the paralytic and he tells them that his sins are forgiven? Remember that story? Well, only God could do such a spiritual thing. So, how does Jesus show that his ministry was legitimate? He does the physical thing that only God can do. He heals the man. The forgiveness of sins was invisible, but the healing of the man was visible. It was visible proof that Christ could perform the invisible miracle as easily as the visible miracle. Jesus often appealed to people to allow the evidence of his miracles to cause them to have faith in him. Believe what you see is basically what he's saying. In John 10, 24 through 26, so the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you're the Christ, tell us plainly. And Jesus answered and said, I told you, and you don't believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you don't believe because you're not among my sheep. The miracles that Jesus did in the sight of the Jewish leaders should have convinced them that Jesus was sent from God. That witness is impossible to avoid. And yeah, those miracles must be accompanied with truth from Scripture. It can't be couched in false teaching. We know that from, I think, Deuteronomy. There's a test. But Jesus would pass all those tests. He's got works that stand every test that you can give it. And you can see them, and you know you can't do that stuff. You know it has to be supernatural So Jesus is telling them outright they have no excuse. His miracles are evidence of his Godhead. His ministry is legitimate. Third point. Third, the Scripture bears witness of Jesus' legitimacy. The Scripture bears witness of Jesus' legitimacy. Verse thirty-seven And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you don't have his word abiding in you, for you don't believe the one whom he has sent. Now, how did the Father bear witness about Christ? Well, the Father definitely made sure to point to Christ in the Old Testament. And I think that's the emphasis here in this passage. But even more than that, God the Father made a direct witness about Jesus being the Son of God at Jesus' baptism. Remember in Matthew 3, 16 and 17, and when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold the heavens were open to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him. And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. The Jewish leaders had probably heard all about this, but evidently they didn't hear it themselves. But the father clearly said it nonetheless. So it was verified that God had said it. Now, maybe this included is included in what Jesus meant in this passage, but Jesus goes on to talk about the real problem. The problem is that even when they do hear God, even when they do read and understand God's word, they don't hear it in the way that this Greek word means to hear. This word for here is a specific one. The Greek word used here often implies obedience and trust. It's like, I don't know, maybe you've heard your mom say, Did you hear me? Well, she's not usually meaning, did the sound reach your ears? It's did it get through your thick skull is generally what we're shooting for. Did did you hear me? Things like that. That's the kind of obedience we're talking about, hearing. Obedience and trust. So how do we know? Well, look what they did with Jesus. It is impossible to love God, love God's word, to love truth and reject Christ. Can't be done. The rejection of Christ is the litmus test of whether a person has really heard. God's word, or whether they really believed God. Verse 39: You search the scripture because you think that in them you have eternal life And it's they that bear witness about me. Yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. Our Bibles are interesting things. To most folks who are not in Christ, the Bible means very little to them And for most, it's boring to them. That's a little scary if you claim to be a believer and your Bible is boring to you. You should think about that. To a lot of people, it's irrelevant Sermons that explain the Bible are things to be endured. But for some that are not in Christ, they take great interest in the Bible. There are some who actually read the Bible a lot, maybe more than we do. But it's for different purposes. It's for selfish purposes. Maybe they're trying to show how well read they are, or how wise they are. They may read it to refute it, or they want to show that they understand it better than you do. The Jewish leaders read it a lot. You think about that. The Jewish leaders read the Bible a lot, more than most everyone else in their culture. And they were clearly not in Christ. They did not love God. Their purposes were selfish and self-serving. Their motives were not good. We should never be overly impressed with how much Bible someone knows until we know why they are driven to know it. We should never be overly impressed with how much Bible someone knows until we see why they are driven to know it. The devil himself is an excellent scholar of the Bible. He knows it well. That doesn't prove his love for God. The devil hates God, but he knows his word. Jesus is pointing out this problem to the Jewish leaders. They have the wrong motive in studying the Scripture. They're going about it all wrong. He says, you diligently look at the scrolls and you pour yourself into that process because you think they're important. And you think the secrets of eternal life are in them. And by pursuing that truth, you think you can somehow obtain, you can get that eternal life. And that much they're right about. But they're wrong about how They're wrong about how, how they'll get eternal life. The goal of Scripture is to ask this question first. What does this passage show us about how God saves people? What does this passage show us about how God saves people? How does this point to a savior? And not every passage does, but a lot of them do. The leaders got caught up in all the wrong focuses They got caught up in how to best carry out the external trappings of the law. Yet obedience to the law was never God's method of salvation. No one was ever going to be saved by obeying all of the law. They were asking all the wrong questions, they were getting all the wrong answers. Remember when Jesus was with a few disciples on the road to Emmaus? And it says in Luke 24, 27, and beginning with Moses and all the prophets. He interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. How God saves us. He went through the whole Bible and looking at how God saves us. That should have been what the uh what the Pharisees and Sadducees were doing. If we're to best understand the Old Testament, we have to look for Jesus in every page. And again, that's not to say that you will see him in every passage, but. There are a lot. And when we're seeing Jesus, we're seeing the most important stuff in the Old Testament. These Jewish leaders weren't looking for Jesus. In fact, Jesus would ruin their monopoly. Jesus would ruin their cash flow. Jesus would ruin their power. Jesus would ruin their prestige. He'd destroy their racket. And that is not how they wanted to obtain eternal life. Christ said, You refuse to come to me. That you may have life. You won't come to me. You'll read the scriptures, but you won't come to me. Do you want to know how to read the scripture? Look for Jesus. Look for life. Look for salvation from your sin. Look for a way of living that's congruent with our new life. How is new life in Christ found and how is it maintained? How do we live in it? How is Christ pointed to in all the various aspects of the law? That's a better way to read Scripture. We read scripture to better come to Christ to have life and to help others have life. And we see here too that while it's important that we read Scripture often, and you can't make too little of that That we will fill our minds with truth regularly and systematically. That's important. But how we read Scripture is more important than how often we read Scripture. If we read it for the wrong purpose, it could do us more harm than good. Okay, fourth, Moses bears witness of Jesus' legitimacy. So forth Moses Bears witness of Jesus' legitimacy. Okay, we're jumping over a few verses and then we'll come back and catch the rest. Don't think that I'll accuse you to the Father. There's one who accuses you, Moses. On whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you don't believe his writings, how are you going to believe my words? Moses was the Jewish superstar. Moses was to them like Jesus is to us. If you wanted to quote an authority, you quoted Moses. And they were big on emphasizing, do everything that Moses says, and he'll help you. Now, they were more than willing to help by giving limits and measurements and specifics of what you should do every day to obey Moses They'd expand the rules that Moses made and give you particulars that God never intended. That's what they were doing. And Jesus is telling them, you missed what Moses was for completely. The Jewish leaders thought that they were condemning Jesus by the words of Moses. Get this. The leaders thought that they were condemning Jesus by the words of Moses. They were saying Jesus is blaspheming according to the law of Moses. Jesus is breaking the Sabbath according to the law of Moses. And Jesus tells them, boys, you've got it backwards. Moses is not condemning me. Moses will condemn you. You set your hope of salvation by obeying what Moses said. You set your hope of salvation on human efforts of keeping the law, and you missed what the law was supposed to do in your hearts. It was designed To make you scream in frustration, God, I cannot do it God, I am a sinner. God, I deserve your wrath. O mighty eternal God. I need a savior. I need grace. I need mercy. And I can only throw myself at your feet and beg. That's what they needed to see. It's at this point that we see the clues in the law about what kind of savior God would provide. This is Moses had some really helpful stuff there if a person got to that point. Then you start reading the law and you begin seeing, oh man, here it is. It's at that point that we see Includes in the law like a scapegoat that carries our sin outside of the city. Or we see an unblemished sacrificial lamb who's innocent of our our sin but pays with his life for our sin. Or even an eternal rest that we can enter into that has to do with this Sabbath idea. We could go on and on, but that's what the leaders should have gotten from the law But they got it all wrong because their hearts were cold and hard and arrogant, and they thought they could earn their own way. Jesus tells them, verse 47, but if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? These men would have said, No, Jesus, it's you who doesn't believe Moses ' writings. It's you that's breaking the Sabbath, but they were wrong. They were wrong because they would not hear from God in the words of Moses. They were not really the right attitude, with the right heart. So if they don't believe Moses, they won't believe Christ. Their problem is how they see themselves and how they see the Heart problem. If reading Moses doesn't appeal to their heart problem, hearing Jesus isn't going to help them either. Need a miracle. They have eyes but they can't hear. They have they have ears, oh they have ears but they can't hear. They have eyes but they can't see. And that takes us to the last point. Here we jump back to 41 through 44. Lastly and tragically, the Jewish leaders would not bear witness of Christ's legitimacy. They had four things that gave clear legitimacy. But they wouldn't hear it. Verse 41, I don't receive glory from people, but I know that you do not have the love of God within you. I've come in my Father's name, and you don't receive me. If another comes in his own name, you'll receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another? That's the glory you want, and don't seek the glory that comes only from God. Again, in context, Jesus is saying my That doesn't mean no one ever glorifies him, but that's not where his glory originates. It would mean nothing if the whole world agreed that I'm the Savior, if the Father didn't actually send me. That's what he's kind of saying there So my source of glory is not people. They give me glory, but that's not my the source. My source of glory is from who I am and from my father That's why he says, I don't receive glory from people. Nonetheless, you ought to glorify me. You ought to give me glory, but you won't. Now this is important. Look at this. Why won't they give Christ glory? Verse 42, but I know that you do not have the love of God within you. Jesus strikes at the heart of the problem with Christ. You don't love God. You don't love God. That's the number one command by Moses. The most important commandment. Everything starts right there, and they're disobedient at that point. They can read scripture until the cows come come home. They can tithe the tiniest herb. They can keep the Sabbath better than God Himself intended them to. But it means nothing if they're not doing it because they love God. Without faith, everything's a sin. And they're without faith. These men need a miracle. God has to give them a new heart if they're to receive Christ. But at this point, that's not what they want. And the truth is, neither did you or I. Neither did we. If we're in Christ, it's because Christ opened our eyes It's because Christ raised us from our spiritual deadness. It's because Christ gave us a new heart before we even asked. That's what these leaders need. Now, if they don't love God, what do they love Verse 43, I've come in my Father's name and you don't receive me. If another comes in his own name, you'll receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another And don't seek the glory that comes from the only God. These leaders love the glory that God deserves. Get that? They love the glory that God deserves. They're stealing God's glory for themselves. But they can only get the payoff from other human beings. So they'll accept any package that delivers the goods that they want. If a person shows up calling himself a messiah and that man will cater to the egos of these leaders, not like Jesus who says truly truly and uh you know the conversations are suddenly overwhelmed. But this kind of person will come in and cater to the egos of the leaders and the leaders will that kind of messiah If he'll make them feel good about themselves, if he'll flatter and compliment them, if he'll give them positions of prestige and power, if he'll consider them allies in his in his attempt to take over the government. That's the Messiah for them, because they can get glory out of that man. And what don't they seek? God's approval, God's endorsement, God's leading They don't seek the glory that comes from a death to self and a life in Christ. They don't live for the well-done, good, and faithful servant that a believer lives for. That's not what they're ultimately interested in. They like talking about it, but that's not what drives them. They'll gladly trade that which glorifies God for that which glorifies themselves. Okay, so five points. John the Baptist bore a witness. Christ works bore a witness. The scripture bore witness, Moses bore witness, the Jewish leaders would not. Due to their fleshly motives, nothing would convince them to follow Christ. As I close out this morning, I think we should look at our lives for any seeds of being like those who thought they were the greatest lovers of God. And yet the evidence of their lives said they hated him. They couldn't ask themselves this question because they had no stomach for the answer. What does the evidence of our lives prove that we love? What does the evidence of our lives Prove that we'd love. I saw a chart the week I was studying for this sermon that showed the results of a study done on how people use their time. It was concerning how little time is spent on anything spiritual. It was something like one percent of people's lives. How do we compare? We say we love God, but in reality, how do we love God? That's not to say that we can't We can't redeem all the tasks that we do and live live it all for the glory of God. I'm not saying that. But what kind of passion do we display toward pursuing our relationship with Christ and our service to others? If our spouse showed us that much passion, would we be satisfied or would we feel neglected? If our spouse showed us the kind of zeal, the kind of drive, the kind of uh intention That we show God to grow in our relationship with Him, what would we think about that? And in all of this, there's a need to love truth, no matter what truth does to us. Oh, that God would open up his word to us in ways that would greater display his wonder. And our need. We need the encouraging truths that inspire growth and obedience and perseverance Those things like we were learning about in our series, about how we change. And we need the convicting truths that tell us where we fall and where we fail to glorify Christ. We need to listen for truth better in our relationships with fellow human beings. The question what is true must be more important to us than why did they say it or what do I have to lose if I don't defend myself. Jesus laid the truth on these religious leaders, and for most of them it did them no good. May we regularly pray, Lord, show me the truth about you. And show me the truth about me, and give me the grace to benefit from both of those truths. Let's pray. Jesus, we we thank you for