Well, I want to start with two apologies. Are you used to the preachers who apologize before they preach? Yeah. First is by next week I'll clarify in my head what it is that I was some thought I was reacting to in Sunday school at the end. uh I still am not clear as to what it was, so I I uh I apologize for for that. And The other is I may have covered this some of this same material from a different text about forgiveness, and if I have, hopefully somebody here needs to hear it. But uh Uh I don't have a good memory of stuff I've covered. It all seems fresh to me. So so I again if if I have I I apologize for that. I'm not going to go verse by verse as much as usual this morning. This text has some difficulties that scholars don't agree on, but there are some things that are clear no matter what, no matter how you take them These are the truths we'll focus on this morning. The layout of the text goes like this, as I understand it. The whole passage is talking about two things. There's a theme that runs through it. The first is talking about the limited destruction of Babylon by its attackers. And this is going to happen because of how ruthless the Babylonians were to God's people. But then it doesn't stay limited to the punishment of the Babylonians. It spreads to God's wrath on the whole world That's the second point. The difficulty is knowing which verse is talking about which, and that's where the scholars really go back and forth. Now, we're helped in knowing that the word Babylon is used as an actual place, and it is also used as a symbol for all the collective efforts of human pride. To defy and ultimately replace God. It's the collective, the collective efforts of human pride to divide God and ultimately replace Him It starts with Babel, the root word for Babylon, in Genesis 11, 1 through 9. This is the first attempt we see of men trying to take over God's realm. Verse 1: Now the whole earth had one language and one speech, and it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there. Then they said to one another, Come, let us bake bricks, or let make bricks and bake them thoroughly. They had brick for stone, and they had asphalt for mortar. And they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top is in the heavens. Let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the sons of men had built. And the Lord said, Indeed, the people are one, and they all have one language, and this is what they begin to do. Now nothing that they propose to do will be withheld from them. Come, let us go down and there confuse their language that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth and ceased building the city. Therefore its name is called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth. And from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth. Humanism is nothing new. And evidently, human potential, unchecked by God, has a greater capacity than we might think for evil. I think it's a bit ironic that the church has bought the lie that the secret to mental health is self-esteem. That's like a mantra anymore. You see it everywhere. You can't get away from it. It's like an assumption that you can't begin to challenge. It's the core of uh of how we think now as a society. Well, these people in Babel probably had great self-esteem. Look at how well they were doing at earning the wrath of God. They were experts. What humans need is the correct God esteem. Liking ourselves is not the beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. These people saw what they could do, but they did not concern themselves with what God could do. And look what the Lord did to all their technological attempts. He threw a wrench in their works. He caused their advancements to come to a halt. Why'd he do that? My guess is that the technological advancements that they were making would have sped up the timetable regarding when God would have had to end the earth. He delayed it to have more people with him for eternity. That seems to be what history is for, and I have no reason to think that this was an exception to that. Keep in mind, as he delays this coming for his last child, he is also prolonging suffering. The two go hand in hand. So, our first Babylon is the Tower of Babel. Now let's look at more references. 1 Peter 5 13 says, She who is in Babylon Elect together with you greets you, and so does Mark my son. Now we know for certain that this is not a reference to the actual location of Babylon. It was a reference to Rome because that's where Paul happened or Peter happened to be when he wrote this passage. So here, Rome is Babylon. It's the icons of the pride of man attempting to take over the world itself for itself. Then in Revelation 14, 8, we see another reference. And another angel followed, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. MacArthur says that it may be a restored city of Babylon will be Antichrist's capital city. But Babylon in this passage refers not just to the city, but to the Antichrist's worldwide political economic and religious empire. That's a very common view. It may also be Rome. It may be Rome restored. It may be the actual city of Babylon or it may be something else. David Wilkerson thought it was the city of New York. But it will be the center of man's pride and arrogance against God So while our text begins by talking about the literal fall of the physical place, it's a natural extension to move beyond the literal place to the very spirit of Babylon. This larger Babylon will suffer the same fate as the literal Babylon, annihilation, and it will be just as deserved. This insight is given to us, or the insight that is given to us by the rest of Scripture helps us better understand our text and why the Holy Spirit may have presented it the way that He did. We should understand that what will soon happen to Babylon, the city, in Isaiah's day, is a picture of what would happen globally. I've picked out a passage in the middle of our text that appears to be about global punishment to make a point. Verse 9. Behold, the day of the Lord comes, cruel with both wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate And he will destroy its sinners from it. For the stars of heaven and their constellations will not give their light, the sun will be darkened in its going forth, and the moon will not cause its light to shine. I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. I will halt the arrogance of the proud and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible I will make a mortal more rare than fine gold, a man more than the golden wedge of Ophir. Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth will move out of her place In the wrath of the Lord of hosts and the day of his fierce anger. An artist that I tend to like wrote this song. He's probably a Christian, but listen to what he says. Here comes the helicopter, second time today. Everybody scatters and hopes it goes away. How many kids they've murdered, only God can say. Hey, if I had a lot rocket launcher, I'd make somebody pay. On Rio Lacatun, 100,000 wait, to fall down from starvation or some less humane fate Cry for Guatemala with a corpse in every gate. If I had a rocket launcher, I would not hesitate. Now, there's a part of that a as I was listening to that song, I thought, boy, that that seems called for. Isn't wanting justice a good thing? Doesn't evil need to pay for what it has done? Yeah, there's something in us that resonates a retaliation to evildoers. When guys watch movies, it's often for the satisfaction when the good guy overpowers the bad guy. We know that ultimately that's right. You know, that that should be the end. When you see evil, it ought to be wiped out. But look at what Mr. Coburn is saying. He wants to take it into his own hands. He wants it done now. They need to pay now. If I had the chance, I'd do it now, is what he's saying. But what does God say? What does Scripture say? Romans 12, 17 through 21 says, repay no one evil for evil. Have regard for good things in the sight of all men. If it's possible, as much as it depends on you, live peaceably with all men. Beloved, do not avenge yourselves But rather give place to wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord Therefore, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap coals of fire on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Hebrews 10, 30 and 31 says, For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And again, the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And Matthew 5, when Jesus was talking on the Sermon on the Mount, verses 43 through 48 says this: You've heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you That you may be sons of your Father in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet your brethren only, what do you do more than others Do not even the tax collectors do so? Therefore, you shall be perfect just as your Father in heaven is perfect. All right. What are we to make of this? How can we accept this? How can we get ourselves to do such things in the light of our desire for justice and even the understanding that justice is a good thing? Is justice no longer important? Does it not matter? Is it really just no big deal anymore? Now that Christ has died, is God's righteousness somehow muted or turned down? No, that's not the point. The point is not that there will be no vengeance. That no vengeance is called for. In fact, the point is just the opposite. We're to leave vengeance to the only expert. The only one who is really good at it. When God says, I will repay, those are not just words like we might say to our kids to distract them from the thought that they had at that very moment. No, Isaiah describes what it's like when God gets to repaying. That's the passage we're in in Isaiah, God repaying. I'll read it again in a minute and ask yourself the question, is this not adequate repayment for the evil that we experience and the evil that our brothers and sisters have experienced? Is this not adequate? Does this not meet the terms of the souls under the altar who were calling out for justice in Revelation 6, 9 through 11? I'll read that. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who have been slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, until you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? Then a white robe was given to each of them, and it was said to them that they should rest a little while longer, until both the number of their fellow servants and their brethren, who would be killed as they were, was completed Now, notice what God told them. He didn't rebuke them for wanting vengeance, for wanting justice. He didn't say, you shouldn't think that. Or what an awful thing to think. He didn't say that. Vengeance is called for. He just tells them they might have to wait a little longer for it. Now listen again to the vengeance of God in our text. Verse 9. Behold, the day of the Lord comes, cruel with both wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate, and he will destroy its sinners from it. For the stars of the heaven and their constellations will not give their light, the sun will be darkened in its going forth, and the moon will not cause its light to shine. I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. I will halt the arrogance of the proud and will lay down the haughtiness of the terrible. I will make a mortal more rare than fine gold. A man more than the golden wedge of Ophir. Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth will move out of her place, and in the wrath of the Lord of hosts, and in that day of his fierce anger. What we see here is a picture of the world coming apart. It's as if sin has reaped its final result. It's reached its very conclusion. It has shaken everything up. All creation is falling apart under the weight of sin and the wrath of God. Evil is being destroyed. Everyone who sides with evil is being destroyed The suffering will be immense for the rebels of God in that day. Our God does not hold a view toward people that none of them should ever suffer for the harm that they've done to others Especially to his own people. But God makes it very clear that this is not the job of a Christian now. We are to leave that in the hands of the expert. Justice will be satisfied in the end. We can count on that because God is just. It's part of who He is. He's not going to let that out. He's not going to blow it over. Now, I've been dealing with the question about forgiveness lately, and again, I 'm sorry if I've gone over this recently, but I think our topic today has a direct bearing. Have you ever noticed that Christians are never told to forgive their enemies in Scripture? They're never told to forgive their enemies. We're told to love them. But we're not told to forgive them. Why is that? I think that's a million-dollar question. Why is that? Christians, I mean, we as Christians, we need to be big into forgiveness. We see that in Matthew among other places, in Matthew 15, 18, 15 through 22, where it says, Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and a tax collector. Assuredly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Again, I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, It will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, I am there in the midst of them. And this is talking about um the ministry of reconciliation. This is talking about this specific instance of trying to win a back a person back to Christ. And then Peter came to him and said, Lord, how often? How many times do I have to do this? And up to seven times? And he's actually being pretty gracious. In their society, but Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. Maybe knowing he would never count that high. Notice some things here. First, this passage is talking about a brother. A non-believer is never addressed in scripture in this fashion. We are never told to pursue a non-believer in order to forgive them. Second, it requires a true hearing on the part of the offender. We know by other contexts that this isn't saying that if the person actually is physically able to hear what you said, that then it it counts. So it would count for someone who can hear, but it wouldn't count for a deaf person. That's not what it means. It means the hearer buys into it. They agree with you. They understand it and they get it. They confess and they repent. Now, if they don't, what is to happen? What is to happen here in this simple condition? A break in fellowship. And action is to be taken as a dramatic and drastic measure to win that person back. And Jesus goes on to stress just how important this business of forgiveness is A Christian is not free to withhold this transaction from a believer asking for it. It is actually business we are doing on God's part. It is a transaction that is actually accomplishing something in a spiritual reality. What's being done on earth represents accurately what is being done in heaven. That's what forgiveness is. Now, what do we do with those people who have wronged us in our past and they will never repent? They will never ask us to forgive them for the wrong that they have done to us. And even if they did, they have not repented of their sin before God. While they might come to us and say, I'm really sorry, we know that they do not have a relationship with Christ. What do we do about that? Now, our psychologists and psychiatrists tell us that bitterness over what has been done to us can kill us. As we dwell on it, it will punish us. And it does. We pay a price for that. But then what they say The next thing they say is the problem. And what what is the next thing they say? They say we must forgive that person. In order to get it into the past, in order for us it to stop harming us, to stop hurting us. We have to forgive that person. And the church has bought that nonsense, hook, line, and sinker. The world used our vocabulary and we have allowed them to change our dictionary. And that's a problem. We have allowed them to change the meaning of the word forgiveness, the biblical meaning of that word. Now, forgiveness means that we're releasing a person from our own bitterness, and we call that forgiveness. That is not how Scripture uses that word, and I'm convinced that is not how Christians should be thinking of that word. This view sets up a false idea to all concerned about what forgiveness is. If forgiveness is just something that we do psychologically to get a person off the hook , God doesn't do it that way. He never does it that way. If he did, there was no reason whatsoever that Christ had to come and die for our sins. God could have just chosen to ignore our sin. He could have brushed it out of his mind. He could have psychologically forgiven us. But God did not forgive our sin psychologically. He did it legally. He transacted a legal business that had to be carried out to get us off the hook once and for all. When a Christian pronounces forgiveness, it has to mean that forgiveness of sin has been received in such a way that this sin will no longer distance a believer from fellow believers in fellowship. It has to mean what it says. Fellowship is restored. Such a thing is impossible with a non-believer And psychological forgiveness is just playing pretend if a believer has not confessed their sin. In Scripture, all forgiveness is a transaction whereby the sin is no longer held against a person by God. And fellowship is restored among believers. So what do we do with the advice that the world gives us We need to re-educate ourselves and the word and the world around us, if they give us opportunity, with the word of God. We need to use the proper vocabulary instead of changing our dictionary meaning for the word forgiveness. Now, is it true that we need to get rid of bitterness? Is bitterness a bad thing? Yeah, yeah, bitterness is a real bad thing. Acts 8, 22, and 23 is referring to Simon the sorcerer, and it says, Repent therefore of this your wickedness, and pray God if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are poisoned by bitterness and bound by iniquity. Ephesians 4. 31 says, Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And Hebrews 12, 14 and 15 says, pursue peace with all people and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. Looking carefully lest any one fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. So we see, this bitterness that we may feel, that we may carry due to having been wronged, has to be dealt with. But really, what is the heart of bitterness? What causes it? What thinking causes bitterness? What really drives it? Is it not our desire for justice for ourselves? Sometimes it's our evil imaginations that are so disappointed that we've not been treated like the center of the universe that we end up miffed and bitter, and really what's called for Ben is our own repentance. To confess our sin and our own self-centeredness. But what about when wrongs have really been done against you by people who are never going to confess that wrong to you? Or may even be sorry for it. In many cases, the wrongdoers actually may have been pleased with the wrong that they did to you. What do we as Christians do then? Do we live in bitterness? No. I believe we are called to orient to reality. We might want vengeance. Our steamers are likely to tell up tell us that we must have vengeance in order for us to be happy. Our seemers get us in so much trouble. But King Jesus says no. He says, leave it to me. Leave it to me. And that is exactly what we do to have that bitterness released. We trust Christ to repay any wrong that has been done to us. We know that in the end Christ will make it right. And only He can make it right. We release bitterness by trusting that God will administer justice that is due to the wrong that has been done to us. We trust that over to his hands. And we lay that burden there on him, trusting him to deal with it. But we don't call it forgiveness. It's not forgiveness. No one's sin is being covered in that No one no transaction in heaven has taken place. We can now love because we can afford to love We see this person's dismal state as it truly is. When we recognize that I am giving this person over to the punishment of God, it begins to change our perspective. We see this person's dismal state as it is, and they are now bringing upon themselves the wrath of God, if God is truthful at all. And now whatever harm they've done to us will never be as great as the harm God's going to do to them unless they repent. And if God causes repentance in them, sometimes this is hard for us to imagine. Think about some people who have wronged you maybe over and over and over again. They seem to not care at all. And you think I could never forgive them. I mean if they came up to me and asked for forgiveness We would have difficulty forgiving them. I have you know things that I imagine that way. But if we knew, if we knew that it was true of their repentance, that they had Called upon God and confessed their sin and come and come to themselves and re- realize the terrible reality about their own soul. And they poured that out to God and God forgave them And then they came to us to confess what they did to us. And we really believed it. I don't think we would have so much of a problem to forgive them as we might think. If God causes repentance in them, wouldn't it be sweet to have that person come and confess to you the sin that they have committed? If we knew it was real and could be trusted, wouldn't that be the best of all outcomes? So there's no sense hunting down people who have wronged you to tell them you forgive them. I used to read that. And I remember reading it the first time thinking, something's wrong with this. I mean it was the big raise of the day. It must have been the seventies. There were a lot of big rages back then that were stupid. But that was one of them. And uh and a lot of people were doing it, talking about how great it was for them And I'm thinking, yeah, what you just did is convince a whole lot of people that they might be forgiven of a sin that God still holds them guilty for. How smart is that? But it's that's nonsense and it's danger to that person's soul. You'd be acting like you're better than God, the God that you claim to serve. Because our God certainly has not forgiven them unless they have asked him for it Our rest, our relief, our answer to the vexing bitterness of being wronged is not to initiate a false psychological so-called forgiveness. Our answer comes by an absolute trust in the character of God to make everything right in the end. And those who cling to their evil will face this end described in our text, and it's awful. I will punish the world for its evil and the wicked for their iniquity. I will halt the arrogance of the proud. Isn't that what we're so tired of? The arrogance of the proud. We want that to go away. It's gonna go away. And we'll lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. With this in mind, wouldn't the most loving thing we could do for our enemies be to tell them how to get right with God? Without it, they're facing a dismal end. Now let's look at verse seventeen Verse 17, Behold, I will stir up the means against them who will not regard silver, and as for gold, they will not delight in it. I think the reference to gold and silver makes the point that these people won't be bought off. But there is something amazing here. No person living in that day would have thought that the Medes would take down Babylon That would be uh it it'd be like Kitsmer Kitsmer 's gonna take over the United States. In fact The Medes joined with the Persians and the Babylonians to take down Assyria. Assyria was the major power of the day that he's writing this. This statement of Isaiah's would have been difficult to believe. They wouldn't even conceive it. They'd laugh maybe. No one could have predicted it, given the evidence of the day. And then let's end with the look at the prophecy about Babylon. Clear at the end. Verse 19. I think it's at the end. And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldeans' pride, will be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. It will never be inhabited it nor nor will it be settled from generation to generation. In fact, a bunch of animals are gonna live there. Now, no one living in that day could have predicted that either. It would have been unthinkable that one of the power centers of the world one day, rather soon, would lay desolate. No one but God would have or could have predicted such a thing. First to predict how big Babylon was going to be, and then to have it leveled. Well, not actually leveled, emptied, to be more accurate. Several attempts since then have been made to bring back the city of Babylon. In fact, Saddam Hussein was trying to do that. Every one of them has been interfered with by God. All of them have failed up to this point His prophecy still stands. The inhabitants of Babylon were eventually forced to move to Seleucia, a city built across the river, and Babylon truly became a haunt for wild animals. If you're ever tempted to doubt the truth of the Bible, look at the prophecies. That's one of the things when when I was like from age twelve to age fifteen, I just had doubt after doubt after doubt. And I had to kind of hammer each each step of the way until until things were solid in my mind. But one of the things that helped me the most was the prophecies of the Bible. There are no prophecies in the Bible that have given that have been given that either haven't been fulfilled or cannot still be fulfilled. And that's amazing. There's no other book like it. Nothing explains that except that the writers were either infinitely lucky over all believable odds, or their source actually knew the future like it is the past. It's also good to consider that this is the same God that determines our present. I think we have a good we have good evidence to trust that the God who sees the future like he does the past has the ability to handle our present just fine. And given just how fierce his anger will be against his enemies, I think we can also trust him fully to handle any of the issues requiring vengeance in our lives. We can be released from any bitterness by wholly and fully trusting in the promises in the person of God. Let's close a prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you that We thank you for your justice. We thank you that it is a big deal what people have done to us, but it is a far bigger deal what they have done to you. And that you will take care of it. And you are absolutely perfect at taking care of it. And you will create the world that we all long for one day. And you will do it by whatever means necessary. We thank you that we can trust you, that you do care for your people, that you look out for us, and that you take the the things that are done to us as things that are done to you. So Lord, we ask that you would help us to do business. With areas where we need to get rid of bitterness or whatever it is that that lingers as a result of the wrongs done. And that we would lay that in your hands. And that you would give us your heart for people, and that we would long for them to repent, and that we would hold out your message of repentance every chance that we have. We thank you for the truths. We thank you for your true forgiveness that has been paid for and accomplished and legally done and that you will never hold against us that sin. We just thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.