We sometimes hear that all religious roads lead to God. And from what I can tell, this idea grows from looking at all world religions with a sympathetic eye. Some similarities arise. Among religions, and rather than be harsh and confrontive, the onlooker assumes a commonness about all other religions. What we need in order to straighten out that kind of thinking is King Nebuchadnezzar. Instead of looking at religions as some kind of philosophy that can be granted credibility based on how reasonable it sounds He looks at it backwards. Which religion has the power to deliver upon its promises Which religion has the power to deliver the supernatural? Which religion can produce spiritual results? Which one can actually produce verifiable miracles? When some say that all roads lead to God, it may be best evaluated by going to the destination first, by going to God first, to see if the road ever makes it there. Nebuchadnezzar, at this point in time, needed to know which road really went to God. So he demanded evidence that only the God at the end of the road could provide. He was tired about all the babble about religion. He wanted proof that only God could provide. And he got it I think at the end of the day, that's that what we are challenged with, you and I, is do we really believe in this God? Do we live like our God is in absolute and total control of not only our daily situations, but the global situations that we find ourselves in? Do we believe that he has both the wisdom and the power to control our worlds? Do we refuse to worry not because worry is harmful to our psyche? But because it is colossally stupid if we believe God is who he says he is I would guess that all of us who are adults have told the stories of Daniel to children who were in our care. But who of us will handle the same kind of situation that Daniel was in The way Daniel did, because we believed the same things. Because we believe in the same God That's the challenge before us as we read this wonderful story. Verse 17. Then Daniel went to his house and made the matter known to Hananiah, Meshiel, and Azariah, his companions. And told them to seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery, so that Daniel and his companions might not be destroyed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. And then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night, and then Daniel blessed the God of heaven. Okay, Daniel had just been told that he had the death sentence by King Nebuchadnezzar. And remember, he responded wisely and he bought himself some time. So he tells his Hebrew buddies, we need to pray about this. And they were all in that together. They were all going to be killed. Now look at the focus. They were going to seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mysterious dream so that they won't be killed by the king. These guys needed God to move, and they needed it pronto. Notice that they did not waste any time. They didn't waste time trying to set up some kind of argument with the king like uh their co-workers did. They didn't sit around trying to come up with a man-made strategy There are times for thinking about strategies. There certainly are, but this was not one of them. What they need right now is something that only God Himself can do. And notice how they pray. They don't tell God what God needs to do for them. They don't spend time trying to drum up some state of perfect faith so that their prayers will be answered No, they approach a God who does not owe them anything. And they ask God to give them something that they do not deserve, but they desperately need. Isn't that much of how our prayers, our structure, at least should be. The focus here is not on how Daniel and his friends prayed. The focus is on who they pray to. And what they believe about this God that they pray to. They trust that their God is a merciful God. They have that in their mind. That's firmly implanted. When they think about God, they think about a merciful God and they cry out to Him to show mercy. And they are very specific about exactly what they need. They need to know the king's dream. These men were praying like their laments depended upon it because well, they did We're not told how long it took. All we know is what it says in verse 19. Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night. The one and only God came through on what the one and only God could do. Now we might have felt if we were those guys that this whole event was something that we needed God to react to It's like, oh, we're in a pinch. Let's run to God. Let's fill him in on what's really going on here and let him know so he does something. And we would have been exactly wrong. God had arranged this whole dramatic backdrop to show off his wisdom and power. He was showing himself superior to all the false gods. We saw earlier that God gave this dream to the king. The dream didn't just happen to the king, and then God responded by telling him what it was. God gave him the dream. And then God gave the interpretation of the dream to Daniel. God arranged for the failures of all the wise men so God could show himself to be the one true God. We don't always interpret our life situations in the reality of what they are. God is never surprised. He he knows what he's doing in our lives. I'm sure that Daniel and his friends felt like their lives were in danger. From an earthly perspective, this king had the power to put these people to death, but in a greater reality, from a heavenly perspective, they weren't in any danger at all. From where God sits. The apparent danger was only part of the backdrop for the work that God was going to do, which is often true in the calamities that we face in our lives. The point is, we don't need to figure out what God's intent is for us in difficult circumstances. We only need to know that He is loving and He is strong and He is wise. And he promised that he will use it for our good if we are children. If we have surrendered our lives to Christ, we can run to him. Then we need to trust. It's never a mistake for a child of God to trust his father. Daniel and his friends could have easily spent this time freaking out and worrying. Easily. I would venture to guess that we have never faced as great a threat to our lives as they were facing here. But they did, they proved to be an excellent example of how to pro how to meet that kind of a situation in their lives. They run to God and they trust God. That makes all the difference in how they handle this threat. God pulled through for Daniel and his friends. So Daniel immediately ran over to the king to give him his answer. No, that is not what he did. Daniel had something more important to do. Now think about that. He had something more important to do than to save his life and his friend's life. Daniel had to thank God. Daniel blessed the God of heaven I think it's stated like this because Daniel wanted it clear which God it was that could deliver this secret. He did not want any confusion about who is the one true God. And here's Daniel's prayer. Verse 20. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. He changes times and seasons. He removes kings and sets up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have an understanding. He reveals deep and hidden things. He knows what's in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. To you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise For you have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what was asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's matter It's always wise to begin prayer with praise. Thanking God for who God is. That's what praise is. immediately puts everything we're going to pray about into its proper perspective. If you are going to make a request of a governor It might be good to look at what legal authority that governor has, that position holds. And then when you appeal to them, you appeal to them in the truth. of the authority that the position holds, the truth of the power that the position holds. Praising God at the beginning of prayer is a little like that. It emphasizes the credentials and qualities of the God that you are praying to. Daniel came to God needing wisdom, and he needed someone that had the power to deliver that wisdom to him. Here, Daniel thanks God for owning those two exact qualities, those attributes. Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. Daniel acknowledges that only God has the attributes that Daniel needs God did not just have wisdom and might. They belong to God. They're his stuff. They're divvied out by God as his possession. He is the source of. The Hebrew God is alone, that one true God that has existed forever. Then he says he changes times and seasons. He removes kings and sets up kings. He gives Wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. Where it says he changes the times and the seasons. This is a quote from the expositor's Bible commentary. God determines when in history events are to take place, and how long each process or phase in history is to endure. Thus Yahweh not only decreed the fall and destruction of Jerusalem in 587 B. C. which was an event future for Daniel. in six oh two BC, but also the exact number of years the captivity would last. The rulers of earth may imagine they have attained power by their own might, but it is only by God's choice that they are permitted their transient authority. At any time he may remove them from their thrones and set up others in their place. You and I often experience life in a cause and effect kind of fashion. If I work hard, I advance If I train for a competition, I have a better chance of winning it. Things like that. But here, Daniel takes us behind the veil. Everything is coming from the hand of God. Are you smart? I think we have a lot of smart people here. One thing is for sure. You did not give yourself that mental capacity. You may determine how you use it, but you did not give it to yourself. God did. You didn't determine the period of history that you were going to live in and what information would be available to you. God did. So there's no sense in us trying to take any credit for that which only God could give us The war between Ukraine and Russia did not start a moment sooner or later than God had ordained. Trump's election and defeat happened on God's timetable. Biden's elections and political success. We're all in God's plan. His health situation is determined by God. He will live as long as God wants him to, and he will die on the day that God has ordained. Does it look to us like the world is out of control? It is not. We just aren't looking at our God the way we should. We aren't looking at the world through God's perspective, which He has revealed to us as we should. Verse 22, he reveals deep and hidden things. He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with it. Do the things we do not know often trouble us. Things like, who are the human beings behind globalization of world government and world banking? Why do they have the agenda that they have? What's the next thing they're going to do? Why are they doing what they're doing? God knows the answer to every single one of those questions. And if he knows, we don't need to know. Have you ever dealt with a child that worried about how things were being handled in your household? After a while, you just need to comfort them, sometimes confront them, with this information. You tell them, this is not your concern. Mom and dad have this handled. If we need your help, we'll let you know what we need you to do. Isn't that often how it is with God and us? God knows the deep things. God knows the hidden things. Even when we can't tell each other why we did a certain thing. When we don't even know our motives for why we do things, God knows the hidden thing. He knows the intricacies. He knows the baseline. He knows what is in the darkness. There is no darkness great enough to limit God's vision into it. There is no darkness great enough to limit God's vision into it. With God dwells the ability to see into any situation, just like it's being illuminated by the noonday sun. God's vision suffers no limitations. Revelation of truth dwells in God's character. There is no darkness in him. His spiritual night vision goggles work perfectly. In Daniel's particular case, he was probably exceedingly thankful that nothing was hidden from God. Because that characteristic saved Daniel's life Verse 23, To you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise, for you have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we ask of you, for you have made known to us the king's matter. So Daniel is closing up his prayer, and he shows where the rubber meets the road for his life. He prays to the same God that all of his Jewish predecessors had worshipped He gives thanks. Thanks is what is for what God has done. Praise is thanks to God for who he is. And he says, why? It's because God did not hold on to all this information, but he revealed it. He knew it. He knew the darkness. He knew what was in it. And he revealed that to Daniel. In his mercy. God has wisdom and might, and he gave some to Daniel. He provided to Daniel what was God's own Ultimately, Daniel's thanks is for very specific prayer requests answered. And it was answered in a very specific way, and he's giving specific thanks for that. You revealed the king's dream and its interpretation. Here again is an example in Daniel's life that we do well to copy. Daniel gave praise God Daniel gave praising and thanking God a higher priority Than all the other important things in his life, like running to the king to save his life. This reflects a very loving relationship toward his God. And a the proper priority, like where Jesus said one thing is important. Daniel has that right thing pegged, that one thing. How quick are we to take time out of our most stressful days to give thanks and praise to God? And I doubt any of us are living under the stress of a death sentence, at least not particularly like it is. Daniel was a great example for us here. Then verse 24, therefore Daniel went into Ariok, whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon, and he went in thus to him and said , Don't destroy the wise men of Babylon. Bring me in before the king, and I'll show the king the interpretation. So now, once the prayer is done, Daniel makes his way to Ariok 's office. Now, can you imagine how pleased Daniel would have been in delivering this news? It's like uh going to your boss and telling him you have just figured out something that's going to save your business a million dollars. Or, you know, something something similar to that. He had to know this was going to get him all kind of kudos. Plus, it'll save his life and the life of his friends and co-workers. He said, don't destroy the wise men of Babylon. I don't that one I can't figure out. I wonder why Daniel put it that way. This may have been a golden opportunity to get rid of all his competition. All of the promoters of false religions. He could have got rid of the Chaldeans and the magicians and the sorcerers and just had the Hebrew department. One thing is for sure, his enemies would have never shown him that same courtesy. But whatever the case, Daniel's faithfulness saved a lot of idol worshippers and false prophets. So Daniel says, give me a meeting with the king and I'll tell him the dream and the interpretation. Now, in a corporation, what is the next thing you would expect to happen here? How is Arioch going to deliver this news? I I just love this. Here's a guy hoping to please his boss. I mean there's just no doubt about it. Ariak brought in Daniel before the king in haste and said thus to him. I have found among the exiles from Judah a man who will make known the king the interpretation. I have found him. I went out and I worked hard and I have found the right guy. This would imply that Ariok was actually searching for someone who could interpret the dream because he just loves the king so much. Some things never change. There may have been much more revealing ways of saying this, but nonetheless, it seems like anyone Daniel touches, Daniel blesses. Isn't that interesting? Often when when God blesses Christians, he blesses the people around us as well. So the king says, Are you able to make known to me the dream that I have seen and its interpretation? Knowing what we see of Nebuchadnezzar, I doubt that this was an overly idealistic question of the king That you know that the qu King asked with stars in his eyes. My guess would be that he was suspicious of Daniel being able to do it It may have been more like, so Daniel, what's your angle to save your skin? Because he's probably figuring there just like all the rest of the guys. But look at Daniel's answer. I love Daniel's answer. Daniel answered the king and said, No wise men, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers can show to the king the mystery that the king has asked. But there is a God in heaven But there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and he has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the latter days The king asks, are you able to do this, Daniel? And Daniel's answer is in turn, no. Can you do this? No. No man is able to do this. I think, among other things, Daniel is clarifying that the false prophets and the king's employee are not worshiping the right God. That would have been instantly clear. And it truly is a God that will need to reveal this mystery. They were right about that. Only a God. Can reveal this mystery. They were wrong that there are no gods that dwell with humans. But the punchline is really, no man can, but God can. No man can, but God can. That's another good refrigerator quote. And not only can he, but he has Again, we find an excellent example in Daniel. He knows what his purpose is for his life. He exists to glorify God. So, in this circumstance, when Daniel could have spoken about all of his talents and abilities He could have handled it like we need to handle, say, speaking in a job interview, where you put your best foot forward and try and tell everybody how great you are. , Daniel takes a completely different tack. He refuses to speak about himself. He talks about how great God is. And we do real good to follow that example. Now it's interesting that Daniel does not start by drawing attention to what God revealed to Daniel. He starts with what God revealed to Nebuchadnezzar. The dream that the king had was given by God. The dream God gave to the king was to reveal what was to come in the future. God wanted King Nebuchadnezzar to know what was going to happen in the future. Your dream and the visions of your head as you lay in bed are these. To you, O king, as you lay in bed came thoughts of what would be after this, and he who reveals mysteries made known to you what it is to be. It's difficult to know exactly how these visions were provided to the king. It looks like he may have been thinking about the future of the world, and then God gave him a glimpse into it. With a dream or a vision or both. So the God who Daniel serves is the same God who provided the information. This God is not particularly a Jewish God. This God is the God of Nebuchadnezzar as well That is huge. If you had been Nebuchadnezzar, you would have gotten an impact that you might not read into this text. That had to be a A bit hard to take, seeing that the king had been doing his best to brainwash Daniel into serving his gods. Remember that the names that the Hebrews were given were names that glorified Bell The Babylonian god. Now Daniel has told the king what the king's part was in it. Now he tells the king about Daniel's part in it. Verse 30, but as for me, this mystery has been revealed to me, not because of any wisdom that I have more than all the living. But in order that the interpretation might be made known to the king and that you may know the thoughts of your mind. We're told why God arranged the whole thing. Daniel is displaying the mindset that every Christian should have when God chooses to use them. Even when God is using them for something miraculous. Daniel came to the king telling the king he was able to tell the dream and the interpretation. But he didn't want the king getting the wrong idea about Daniel. So Daniel gives him the proper perspective. Yes, the God of heaven and earth did reveal the dream to me. It was revealed to me That part's true, but before you start thinking that I'm something special and that's why God used me, let me explain to you something. This isn't about me. This whole thing is not about the Daniel show. Granted, I am in the right place at the right time with the right God. And granted, that I am one of God's children Those things are true, but I am not special. There is nothing about me as a human being that's different than any other human being. I don't have superpowers. I don't have an innate talent for knowing dreams. That is not a human feature. No, I am being used for a higher purpose by a higher power That's how Daniel presented it. God had wanted some things done, and I was in the place to do it, and God did it. And Cain, do you want do you know what God really wanted? He wanted you to know something That you do not know. And he wanted you to know this information was given to you, not by all the false gods, not by all the alternatives, not by mystical people. It was given to you by the one true God. And I represent that one true God. So it makes sense he would send the information through me. But ultimately, I was just a messenger boy. It is you that God wanted to communicate this to Why humility? That's true humility. It's almost so sweet when we encounter real humility. It's the kind that comes from a person who knows him or herself And tells the truth about him or herself. It's from a person that doesn't let his flesh convince him of his own specialness or superiority or entitlement Flash is always saying that kind of stuff. It's always the background message, the default thing that will come out of us if we're not careful. But a humble person knows not to believe that nonsense A humble person doesn't believe his theories about himself, his theories about his past. He believes the truth he sees, the evidence that he sees And the truth he sees always reveals a fallen human being who is blessed beyond measure to have a God who loves him. That's how Daniel saw it. That's one of the beautiful things about the Christian message. No human would have come up with it because it robs us of all the credit. All other religions are man's attempt at reaching God. And their attempts that they can slap themselves on the back for their accomplishment. But our good news is different. It is God reaching us through Christ. So that was Daniel's story. Now, next week, Lord willing, we'll see the dream that the Lord had given to the king and revealed to Daniel. And it is ultimately about the reign of God over all creation. Forever. Some applications for this week could be to examine our lives to see how our reactions to life differ from Daniel's and why Do we really trust that our God loves us and will use our misfortune for our good in our lives? Is that how we react? Is that how we respond? Another might be, do we make time to give God the praise and thanks he deserves for all the wonderful things he is to us and does for us? Let's closing prayer. Lord, again, we thank you for Daniel, and we thank you for the excellent example