We see the contrast between what we think is the most important and what Christ thinks. is the most important. Here we see Christ on what looks like a normal day. He 's east of the Jordan where John the Baptist used to baptize. He received a message saying that Lazarus is ill. The verb tense in the Greek means that Lazarus has been ill for a while now. Maybe the sisters waited until he took a turn for the worst to send the message. We don't know. Jesus is a day's journey away from Bethany where Lazarus is. Isn't that a lot like our days? It's not abnormal for us to find out that someone we love has cancer or someone we love has had a heart attack, maybe they're in the hospital, it doesn't look good. We all know what that's like, unfortunately. So let's follow in the text. Now, a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. Now we've we've read about Mary and Martha before when we went through the book of Mark. And Martha didn't fare real well in that story. But we see a contrast immediately this morning. When in Luke 10 38 we read this about Martha. And it says, Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. So, this is Martha's house. So in Luke, we learn that the house was Martha's. But in John, we find out the village was Mary's. It's wonderful how God fills his church. From what we've seen of Martha, she was a person with stuff to do. Alright, she probably had an eye for details. She could plan things out. She thought ahead. She knew what would be needed. And Mary, on the other hand, was probably more empathetic. She valued withness. She may have been irresponsible even in her way of dealing with day-to-day tasks. But the village was hers. She may have been that kind of person that we find ourselves pleased to be around. You know how that is? We feel cared for and listened to by these kinds of persons. Now John clarifies to his readers who he's talking about because this is the first time these characters come up in the book of John. Not in all the other gospels, but in his book. So he says this in verse 2, it was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with his her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. Now this is an odd occurrence in Scripture. John is talking about a story that he's not yet given The story comes in chapter 12 of Mary doing this. And in it, Mary pours perfume that's worth about a year's worth of labor For us it might be, say, fifty thousand dollars. And when John describes Mary as being this person, it must be that his readers were already familiar with the story. So he could mention this even though he hasn't told 'em yet, and they would know. Well, they had a pretty good idea who it was. They'd know which Mary this was. And this also shows us a little bit about Mary. We'll go into this later, but uh I have a feeling that Martha was not likely to do such an extravagant thing. She was probably weighing out the practicality of all this, but Mary wasn't going to allow such concepts to limit her She wanted to express her love and it the sky was the limit. It was no wonder that these two women might have had some difficulty getting along. Verse 3, so the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. Now we see by this that the sisters knew where Jesus was. That wasn't public knowledge. So this family cared enough about Christ to keep track of him. They also didn't tell Jesus what to do, which is good. That's a step up from last time. It didn't work out real well for Martha last time she tried that, so she has the good sense not to try it again. So they opt to simply tell Jesus the situation. They didn't know the will of Jesus. So they decided to trust the love of Jesus. Always a wonderful choice. And third, notice they didn't say Lazarus, who you love. is sick, or who loves you is sick. They didn't say Lazarus who loves you is sick. They said Lazarus whom you love is sick. They'll make an appeal to Christ's love. Our best prayers are the prayers that appeal to God's character for a response. These prayers are countless in Scripture. Lord, do this for your name's sake. Lord, do this for your own glory. Lord, do this because you said you would do this. You're do this for the your love of these people. Those are prayers that God answers. It's definitely in Jesus' name. We don't always know what God has planned, but we often know what He loves. We can always count on God to be moved by his love. His love brought Jesus to us. His love brought us to Jesus. We can rely upon God to do the loving thing. Fourth, they went to Jesus with their problem. They went to Jesus with their problem. How often we miss this step? And what time and effort is wasted because of it. There's never a better place to go with your problem Mary and Martha laid the burden upon the Lord, knowing that the Lord would know what to do about it. Again, always the right thing to do. So anything we see so far is spectacular. They're running to Jesus with their problem, and they're not showing signs that they know better than Christ knows how Christ ought to deal with it. How much of our distress is based on the assumption that we know what God would do if God really loved us? If you ever want to put yourself in the pit of despair, just go to God telling him what he would do if he really loved you Just determine in your mind what God would or wouldn't do if He loved you. That's a sure recipe for unbelief and lack of peace. You'll rob yourself of the peace that comes from trusting God in the awful situations He may choose to place you in. Because he has in mind a better good for you than the good that you are imagining. What a waste of time. Trust Christ soon. He is always worthy of your trust. Now I can assure you what happens next would test anyone's faith It would have been hard to trust Christ this day, this next day. In verse 4 we see when Jesus heard this, heard the message, or you know, the message that was given to him by a messenger That he said this. This illness does not lead to death. It's for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. This is the message that Christ sent back through the message. You know, he's talking to the messenger who just given him the message. Odds are this person turning around and going right back. This illness does not lead to death, it's for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now let me paint the picture here. Mary and Martha send a message. They send that message through a messenger. And then the next day, before the messenger returns, Lazarus is dead. So they already have begun all the things needed to do to prepare Lazarus for the grave. The mourning has begun. Okay, so Lazarus is dead, they're dealing with it, and a messenger comes back. And the messenger comes back from Jesus with this message: This illness does not lead to death. It's for the glory of God so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Mary and Martha are faced with a choice. What are they going to believe? Or maybe how are they going to believe what Jesus said? How would you do? You have a dead body and an incongruent message from God. Which do you believe? How would you believe? We're going to see that Mary and Martha did well. Not perfect, but well. They figured Jesus was talking about the resurrection on the last day, so they placed their expectation there. And that's good. That's good. But there was still a lot they didn't understand. They trusted and believed, and that's a great example to follow. They could have said, what good is it to love Jesus? He could have saved Lazarus, but he didn't. Maybe he doesn't really love us. Maybe he isn't really omnipotent. Maybe he isn't really omniscient. Maybe he couldn't have done this. But that's not what they concluded. They trusted Christ still. Again , wonderful example. But there's a very important point to ponder here. I know that some of you are wrestling with very difficult things in your lives, and odds are if you're not now you will be. And if you are now You know, things things change. They ebb and flow. That's how our lives are. There are probably others that are are dealing with stuff that I don't know about. But it doesn't matter. These words of Jesus apply to your situation no matter what it is. Whatever you're struggling with. That this thing does not lead to death for a believer. Whatever you're struggling with, this thing does not lead to death for a believer. It's for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Maybe what you're facing is as hard is looking down at your dead brother's body. A body that Jesus could have kept from dying but didn't. Maybe it's your own illness or your own suffering that Christ could easily remove. But he doesn't. Maybe it's watching loved ones make tragic decisions. What you're going through will not result in the death of a believer. The process may be hard, but the end is not dismal. You will rise You will rise, and because you will rise, it makes all of the suffering temporary. God will be glorified through it He will show himself to be true to all of his people all of the time. He will bring them to himself in time. If you feel hopeless, it's not a result of believing the deepest truths. It's not the result of believing what God has revealed. It's not the result of believing Christ. It's a result of refusing to believe what he says. It's a result of allowing our circumstances to speak to us. Of allowing them to tell us what is true. It's believing what we see instead of what God says. Verse 5. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. Now the sisters told Jesus the one he loved was sick, and they used the word Philao love, brotherly love. But in this sentence, it is the agape love word that Jesus uses. Jesus loved Martha and Mary and Lazarus with a love that only comes from God. It's the kind of love that will only be satisfied with that which is the highest good for a person. And the lover will spend any price to meet that need. That's agape. It's interesting too that John mentions Mark I here. We see that Jesus didn't allow Martha's pr prior failure to sour him on her He loves her too and knows that she'll continue to grow. And that is so sweet to see in light of how many times we fail Christ. He still calls us by name. He never gives up on us. It's very clear that Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were very special to Christ. And we all have people like that in our lives. People who are just dear to us. These three were some of those. And now the next verse makes no sense at all at the first glance. Verse 6. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill , He stayed two days longer in the place he was. He loved Mary, Martha, and Lazarus And Lazarus would be dead before Christ got to him, so we would expect that Jesus drops everything and rushes off to be with Mary and Martha. But that's not at all what Christ does. Jesus loved Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, so when Christ heard of this potential catastrophe, he didn't move a muscle to help them. We need to be careful when we start figuring what God oughta do we can get it wrong most of the time. There's a truth here we have to recognize. God has his priorities in what he wants and for those he loves. God has his priorities. It's great for us to have good health, good food, warm homes, intact families, and we can go on and on. All these things are good things. But none of those things Are God's top priority. And they're all open to being spent by God in order to give us the highest priority. We have to see life that way. We have to see life in a way that we believe God knows what He's doing. There are things that we cannot learn in good health that we can only learn in sickness. Sometimes there are people who can only be reached as they see us go through calamities in this life Sometimes we end up in horrible spots so God can show off what only He can do to this on-looking world. We can always know that if there is a cost God is giving us something that is more important than what he is taking away. If there is a cost in our life, God is always giving us something more important than what he is taking away. And we will one day see how wise and loving our God really is We'll we'll finally say, Yeah, if I knew what it would produce in God's kingdom, I would have chosen that hardship I would have volunteered for that hardship. If I knew the surpassing value of what God chose for me, I would have chosen it for myself if I had it to choose. That truly is going to be our perspective when we see the tapestry that God has woven. We look at it now and we think it's too much, it's too hard, I can't do it. But if we saw it Based on what God's Word already tells us about our trials, we would say, Yeah, bring it on. I'm not going to like it, but bring it on because I can see what it will do Christ could have healed Lazarus the moment Christ heard the news. Then in fact Lazarus appears to have been dead by the time he got the news. He could have kept Lazarus from getting sick. He could have beamed himself to Lazarus if he wanted to. But Jesus chose a hard path for his friends. And he did it for a higher reason than they could have ever guessed. When you look at your circumstances, you are always wise to give God the benefit of the doubt. Trusting God is always the wisest choice. Verse 7. Then after this he said to the disciples, Let's go to Judea again. And the disciple said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? This is Christ's last trip into Judea. Christ is going to die in a very short time, like a week and a half, something like that. So the disciples aren't wrong about what they're saying. The Jews want to kill Christ. They have it on their agenda, and yeah, that's all true. But this is what you never see. Jesus never looks at his disciples and says, Oh yeah, what was I thinking? I never thought of that. Thanks for putting that out, boys. I really need your advice here. Yeah, it might be dangerous. I don't want to do that. It's like the disciples keep thinking that they're going to tell Jesus something he doesn't know or hasn't thought of yet. But they never do. You'd think they'd learn, but we're all slow to learn. These plans, Christ's plans, are well thought through. Now you would think the disciples would learn, but if they're much like us, we can sympathize with them. We too are slow to learn when we keep questioning God's plan for our lives instead of receiving it and trust Christ's response to their concern is interesting here. Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he doesn't stumble, but because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night and he stumbles because the light is not in him, well for us there aren't always twelve hours in the day But if you live on the equator, the days are pretty much broken into 12 hours light, 12 hours dark Jesus is not talking about physical light here, but he's using it as an illustration. What he's talking about is light walking in the day or walking in the night. To walk in Christ's guidance is to walk in the light. It's always safe for our spiritual welfare. If we do what Christ wants, when Christ wants it, we won't chip up. Nothing unexpected by Christ will happen to us. We're safe. And that doesn't mean we won't experience crisis. Christ was walking in the light on the day that he prayed in the garden, and he was walking in the light on the day that he went to the cross. But those were all part of God's plan. I think what Jesus is saying is that it is only when we go outside of God's guardrails that we bring upon ourselves unnecessary trouble. Trouble we could have avoided. Trouble that can come to us because of our waywardness. So I think he was telling the disciples, don't worry about us having some Some expected calamity to fall upon us to ruin the plan when we're walking in God's light. No, everything will work out as it should if we stick to the obedient plan. I believe that's what he's saying. In verse 11, after saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. And the disciples said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, that's good. He's going to get better. He's going to recover. Now, by this time, Jesus had used the word sleep to refer to death a bunch of times. So this wasn't something new. And maybe they should have guessed that this was not literal sleep. You know, maybe they should have. But they didn't They took them literally. They seem to always take 'em literally when they ought to take 'em figuratively and vice versa, but so so be it. So their thinking was, hey, if Lazarus is asleep, and that's probably a good thing. He's probably healing. We don't even need to go. We don't wanna don't want to wake him up. But naturally they have it wrong. Verse 13, now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he meant taking rest in sleep, and then Jesus told them plainly, it's like, okay guys, this is what it really is. Lazarus is dead. Now that would have been a bummer. Lazarus was their friend too. They cared about this guy. It was sad to hear that Lazarus was dead. He was one of their allies. And by that point the disciples must have thought Well then, why didn't we go sooner? If if Lazarus is dead, wouldn't it have been your will to keep him from dying? Why why were we waiting? And they might have been confused about Waking Lazarus up, or maybe by that point in the conversation they forgot about it. I don't know. But we we don't see any excitement about this. None of them are saying, hey, this is going to be great. Jesus is going to raise his third person from the dead. Let's go. I can't wait to see this. They could have been like that, but they weren't. Verse 15: And for your sake, I'm glad that I was not there. Why? So that you may believe. So that you may believe. Do you ever get frustrated with the slow growth of those who you're trying to help spiritually? Do you ever feel like you have to tell them the same thing over and over again and they have the same problems over and over again? Do you know how to treat those people? I think we can go to Jesus. How many miracles have the disciples seen by now? How many times did Jesus tell them something and the something happened just as he said How many teachings have they received regarding the kingdom of God? And where are they at? They need help believing again. They still don't believe as they should, as they have every reason to. We need to follow Jesus' example and be patient with his difficult followers, as Jesus is patient with us. Now, should the disciples have been further along? Sure they should have. Should they have had more faith in Christ? Of course they should have. But well, they didn't. And that's just like all of us to some degree. So we look to Jesus for example and how to deal with him. We should find ourselves glad for any opportunity we can take to strengthen the faith And to goad a person on who is weak in their faith. For your sake, I'm glad that I was not there so that you may believe. The next miracle is going to be the most spectacular, irrefutable miracle that Jesus ever does. At least physically, spiritually, raising a spiritually dead person to life That's a greater miracle. But that one's a little harder to see. One of the people Christ rose from the dead had just died when he raised that person. The other person was being carried to the grave, I believe. But Lazarus Lazarus was dead dead. Four days dead. There'll be no doubt when Lazarus comes out of the tomb that it's a miracle and not a medical mistake. This should really strengthen the disciples' faith and resolve. So we might have expected a little enthusiasm, enthusiasm in them, but that's not what Christ gets But Jesus says, But let us go to him. And then Thomas, always the cheerful person that Thomas is, approaches it in his normal fashion. He says, Let's also go. That we may die with him. I love that. We don't know if Thomas is saying, let's die with Lazarus or Jesus. But it's always it strikes me funny. It reminds me of Eeyore and Winnie the Pooh. Let 's also go, that we may die with him. You know, oh okay, if if Jesus is gonna die, I guess we should go die too. That's that's their attitude. But you can't make too much of it. They go. They go and they're fully aware that they may be headed to their graves. It truly was dangerous They went. There's one more point I want to touch on before we stop this morning. What is sleep like? What is sleep like? I mean you think about it. I mean we do it every day. I I hope so. Uh one moment you're conscious And the next moment you're not. It's interesting how often the Bible compares death to sleep. When we go to sleep, we may not really think about it But we go to sleep with the full expectation that we're going to wake up the next morning. I think most of us are that. I mean maybe if your health is really bad you might not have that expectation. But I think most of us take it for granted. Yeah, I go to sleep, I'm gonna wake up. And we'll spend time in that state that we don't control. And we know we're going into a state that we don't control. But then we wake up anyway. And we're not surprised when we wake up. We might be surprised what time we wake up, but we're not surprised that we do wake up. It's almost like every night we die. And when the morning comes, we're raised to life. That's the idea here. Maybe if we considered that more, we would be more prepared for our debts. Every night we're practicing for debt. Every night we're practicing for our deaths. Death is just like that. We breathe our last And we sleep. And then Christ brings us out of that state, and we arise. For a believer, we have no more to fear from death as we do to go into sleep. Isn't that a wonderful truth? We can take it just as for granted as we can when we go to sleep expecting we're going to wake up the next morning. When we die, it's like going to sleep. We're gonna wake up. We're gonna look next week at just how easy Christ makes waking a person up from the dead look. This whole story is teaching us the wisdom of simply trusting Christ. The disciples needed to trust Christ that he knows what he's doing. He's not going to lead them astray. They don't need to worry about his plan. And Mary and Martha need to trust that Jesus has something good in mind, even better than keeping Lazarus alive. We'll see that the Jewish leaders need to trust Christ too, but there's not much chance of that. And you and I We need to trust Christ too. We need to trust what Christ is doing in our lives. Even when he does not protect us from the things that we know he has the power to protect us from, even when he does not deliver us from the things that we know he has the power to deliver us from. We must trust that whatever He is allowing in our lives is because He has a higher priority than the one that we have in mind. Will you trust him this week? Let's pray. Oh Lord, you know our hearts. You know how hard it is to trust you and believe your promises when our circumstances are so painful. Lord, it's hard when we can't understand why you're doing what you're doing. And we thank you, Lord, that you have promised us wonderful