I'm sort of relieved that this is the last week we're going to be on the Olivet Discourse. This is my third week of wrestling with this passage. And I'm still very tensive. I find that I'm believing both sides of an argument, which is not a good idea The argument is, what time is this talking about? What time was Jesus talking about? Is it past or is it future or could it be both? If the passage is talking about the future, then very little of it would have applied to the disciples who were actually asking the question. Yet that does not seem to be true because Jesus says nothing to them to make them think that they aren't being addressed. But if it's talking about a historical event, then we have nothing to apply from it other than the example that it provides. And it appears to be that there are some things that don't fit historically for that to have been the case. So it's it's difficult to know. I keep coming back to this prophecy of Christ Being much like the Old Testament prophecies of the coming Messiah. In that prophecy, there would be references to Christ's coming as a servant. And his coming as a king. It was referring to two periods of time, but mixed together as if it were one And no scholar appears to have any certainty of how it would play out until it finally did. And then in retrospect they could look back and say, yeah, that's what Scripture said all along. We just never thought to take it that way. I keep coming back to the view that this is what our passage is doing this morning. To the disciples, it would have been referring to two future events. And that would not have been clear to them. To us, it's referring to a past event and a future event. And please understand, I am not certain about this. I would not be dogmatic about it. In fact, I would be suspicious of anyone who is dogmatic about it, because there are so many good scholars on both sides of this fence It's it's a little i it's not a a thing you would split fellowship over for sure. And I hope that all of you are studying the text as well so that you can see where any of the things that I'm teaching don't hold up Or any additional things that would would help guide us in this process of understanding this passage. And as usual, every adult Sunday school uh provides a uh perfect opportunity to do that. Now, to review, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked Christ this question in Mark 13, 4. Tell us when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things will be fulfilled Now Christ covers a whole lot of territory in his answer. And again, this is reviewed from the passage so far. First, there will be false messiahs. And there were from 8030 to 8070. Lots of false messiahs, that's historically provable. And all futurist views of Revelation say that there's going to be more at the end. Second, increased wars. Third, increased earthquakes. Fourth, famines and troubles. This is all the beginning of the end. These things will gradually escalate, and the closer to the end, the more rapidly they will escalate. Then the fifth, the disciples for sure, and probably believers most everywhere, will be persecuted first by the Jewish religion and then by the civil governments. It's interesting to me that Jesus is specific in his talking about synagogues. That would be an indication of a historic event. Since the Jews were not prophesied about having world rule until the saints rule the earth after Christ returns. But when when looking at the Greek word synagogue, I found that this word is also used as an analogy of the church, kind of as a synonym of the church. So if this is true, the persecution would not be limited to coming only from Jewish sources. The false church could also be the source of future persecution. And that's easy to imagine in our environment. We've even seen some of this. In order for false churches to disassociate themselves with the unpopular message of true churches of preaching The false churches are going to be quick to turn against the true with a rabid kind of hatred. Biblical teaching about homosexuality is one of the most evident places where we're seeing that happening today. We're seeing a pretty big chasm created between those who cling to what the Bible says and those who like the Bible as an idea. So we're seeing the dynamics for that. So Jesus gave specific instructions about persecution to his disciples as the fifth point. In the middle of that fifth point, we get a sixth point. The gospel message is going to spread across the world to every people group. The word for nation in this text is the word ethnos, where we get the word ethnic. It really means people groups. rather than nationalistic border boundaries like countries. It's really not so much talking about countries as it is people groups spread across all the countries. Then the seventh sign is kind of part of the fifth. Families will be the source of persecution. Family members will deliver up other family members. And the gospel is going to create enmity within families, which is exactly what Jesus said would happen earlier. The eighth is the abomination of desolation. And then Jesus gives specific instructions about what to do. And he says, flee Judea. Now when he says flee Judea, that's a specific geograp geographic region, and I don't know what else to do about it. I mean it's referring, if this is referring to the future. That will require that the temple be rebuilt, as far as I can tell. If that's accurate, Christ can't return to judge the earth until that temple is completed. That poses some problems, but that's what it appears to say. Then Jesus talks about how bad things will be during that time. In fact, it's so bad that if that time hadn't been shortened , the elect could have been given more than they could handle. Now that's not going to happen because that never happens But that's how bad the persecution is and how bad the times are. And again, there'll be more deceptions and false spiritual leaders, but Christ basically says Take heed to what I've said, remember it, and go by it. And that brings us to our text this morning. Verse 24 But in those days, after that tr that tribulation, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light. Matthew 24, 29 says, immediately after the stress of those days. That makes it a bit harder on us. It doesn't allow a long time between the last verse and this verse. So we can't break it into huge huge periods of time. If it did, we might be able to separate the destruction of the temple and the events of Christ's final return in a nice handy package. It could still mean that it's applicable twice, but it is not in a nice handy package where we can separate it. And that's what I'm currently thinking. We're talking about two things happening once in the past and once in the future. Now, critics of the Bible have a blast with things like verse twenty-four. They'll say, Oh yeah, the sun will be darkened. Ha ha Scientifically, that would result in the destruction of all life on the planet. You know, you people are idiots to believe this book Yet they'll listen to all manner of songs using figurative language and and speak of their truth. They'll tell someone, wasn't the sunrise beautiful this morning? while fully believing that the sun doesn't rise, the earth spins. The imagery that we're looking at here, and it's just to go on to say, You've we've got to be careful how we take the scripture and where it's literal it's literal and where it's figurative it's figurative and you know when we hear people twisting that kind of stuff. There is sometimes there's just no helping it. The imagery that we're seeing here comes from Old Testament passages. Isaiah 13, 9 through 11 says this. Behold, the day of the Lord comes, cruel, with both wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate, and he will destroy its sinners from it. For the stars of heaven and their constellations will not give their light. The sun will be darkened in its going forth, and the moon will not cause its light to shine. I will punish the world for its evil and the wicked for their iniquity. I will halt the arrogance of the proud, and I will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. I don't believe these references that are being given to, you know, the stars and and and and the like are intended to be scientific references. They're statements of what people on our planet are going to experience when this happens. They're figuratively true, and that the light that we expect from the sun won't reach us. Neither will the moonlight. So, uh, and there's some more. We see in Ezekiel 32, verses 3 through 8. Thus says the Lord God, I will therefore spread my net over you with a company of many people, and they will draw you up in my net. Then I will leave you on the land, I will cast you out on the open fields, and cause to settle on you all the birds of the heavens, and with you I will fill the beasts of the whole earth I will lay your flesh on the mountains and fill the valleys with your carcass. I will also water the land with the flow of your blood, even to the mountains, and the riverbeds will be full. Full of you. Don't ever get the idea that just because God is loving, that he is not just, he will punish the wicked. He will punish those who have rejected his son. That is going to happen and it will be fierce and there will be no escaping it. But anyway, we go on to to the point. Verse 7, when I put out your light and I will cover the heavens and make its stars dark. I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light. And the bright lights of the heavens I will make dark over you, and bring darkness upon your land, says the Lord God. That's essentially saying in other language what has just been said. in the in the verse before. And then again in Amos 8. 9 it says, And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord God, that I will make the sun go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in a broad in broad daylight. And so we get the idea that there's going to be some stuff happening in our atmosphere, things that affect our normal day-to-day life that are going to be very dramatic and not very pleasant Then let's go on in our text, Mark 13, verses 24 through 37. Verse 25 says that the stars of heaven will fall and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. Now, scientifically, if a star were to hit our planet, there would be no planet to hit. Because as the star got close, like the sun is a star, if it got close, it would incinerate the planet before it ever got to us. I've often thought that it's far more likely that meteorites will hit us, that there'll be a whole lot of cosmic activity like that. It'll look like stars falling. And in fact, we call them falling stars. And there will be events happening in space that will be different than anything that we're accustomed to. I came across this interpretation in the New International Greek Testament commentary, and This is the kind of stuff that I'm dealing with as I'm studying this thing, so I just want to inflict some of my mental pain on you as well. It appears to me that this must be somehow at least partially figurative language. And then you get the question, how figurative is it? Well, this guy goes to the extreme. He believes the, I think the historicist view, which says that this stuff is in the past. So he says this. In the original prophetic context Such cosmic language conveys a powerful symbolism of political changes within world history and is not naturally to be understood of a literal collapse of the universe at the end of the world. It is in the words of Wright Typical Jewish imagery for events within the present order that are felt and perceived as cosmic, or as we should say, earth shattering. That's the kind of stuff that we're we're looking at. Is it that literal or figurative, I mean? I don't know. A lot of intelligent people think so. But whatever the case, these passages are always referring to God pouring out his wrath upon the people of the earth. They're expressions of a final judgment, and there will be visible manifestations of what is going on, and they will be truly, truly awful Verse 26. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. And then he will send his angels and gather together his elect from the four winds. From the farthest part of the earth to the farthest part of heaven. The four winds. That's basically referring to all the winds that there are. You know, it's it's kind of as far as you can go in the four corners of heaven. It's it's all the expanse that there is. Okay, we have some, we've seen some truly cataclysmic events, the Earth's shattering events. They would have everyone's attention Everyone will know that something ominous is going on. So when we're getting this close to the end of history, as I understand it, it's going to be ominous. It's going to be something that no one is missing. Everyone is going to have a spooky feeling, at least, that there is some weird stuff going on here. And then they'll see the Son of Man coming in the clouds. This is where I have trouble believing that this is still talking about a past event. The first question is, who are the they? They will see him. The they in context would be all the inhabitants of the earth. Now, those who say this was accomplished back in AD 70 will say that it's all figurative language. They say that the seeing took place when either the temple was destroyed. Or people came into the church from all over the globe. Both of those things did happen, but I have a tendency to read this literally, and I don't see any reason not to. It makes sense to me that it will be literally fulfilled in the future. And immediately following the visible return of Christ will be the judgment of the sheep and the goats. We're going to deal with that next week, I believe. There are times that I think that what we believe Is stranger than the strangest science fiction. You ever kind of get that feeling? Like you kind of, wow, you know, I believe some crazy stuff. We believe in a God. that exists and holds his creation together by the power of his will. That's not what the world around us believes. But that's what we believe. He created it by speaking it into existence. It's God so powerful that he speaks stuff and it happens He communed with man, created man and communed with man, the person of Adam. So here's God, this God that speaks stuff into existence, hanging out with Adam. And that fellowship was broken by Eve Sin. But God always had a plan to prepare people to live with Him for eternity. In fact, the whole project of what God was doing was about that one thing. Christ in the fullness of time came to this planet. Here's God. Becomes flesh, enters flesh, to buy back for the Father all of the children that God has chosen. He came, he paid the penalty for what our sins deserved, and now he offers salvation to anyone who will believe in Christ in the truest of ways. He offers salvation to anyone who will receive for themselves what Christ did for him or her and turn from the sins that cost Christ his life. And live for the glory of God. He's offering this out in this whole project. That's what history is for. He's prepared an eternal dwelling, even for each and every one of them that was prepared before they were created. And so at some date in the future, the new Jerusalem that Christ has prepared for us will be transported down to our planet. And it'll be big enough for all the children of God. Imagine how big of a crane that's going to take. I mean, and this is a spectacular story. Yet it's all true. One day Christ will return to this planet in a visibly extreme fashion. And everyone will know on that day what had been true all of these years. Christ is real. And God has given him all authority. They will no longer believe the mambi-pamby stories they've been told of an impotent or non-existent Savior. They will see with their own eyes the power and glory of God. And it will be one day too late for them to do anything about it. Now there is an amazing story. This it's completely true. We believe amazing things. The future is going to make Star Wars movies look mild. The forces of good and evil will be clearly defined and evil will be absolutely eliminated. Notice that it will be the angels who gather all together God's people. Isn't that cool? We must have all have AFDs. Angel frequency devices. You know, that's how they track stuff in stores or RFDs, I think, radio frequency devices. God knows where we are and who we are all the time. And he will send his angels to fetch us. This is an amazing truth. It's an earth-shattering truth. There's nobody in a third category at this point. Either you have received Christ by faith as the Lord and Savior of your life, or you have not. Either you have prayed to Christ, receiving him as Lord and committing your life to him, or you have not. There is no middle ground. Everyone will be gathered and there are only two options, sheep for rewards and goats for destruction. That's it. And God knows where every single one of his children are right now. And we are important to him. Why? Because God's like that. He loves his children, even though even the ones that are difficult to love. Now, up till now it's been difficult to be certain that we understand the time frames It's difficult to know what meanings are figurative or literal. It's difficult to be sure we're getting it all right. But I think the rest of our text this morning helps us to apply what it is we are surely supposed to get from this passage. We're moving into application that's fairly certain. Verse 28. Now learn this from learn this parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth leaves, you know that summer is near. So also, when you see these things happen, know that it is near at the doors. Jesus is talking, is taking what he just said and is telling the disciples and I believe us what to do with it. He's given us the key to understanding and applying it. He refers to the fig tree, forced to learn one thing. A fig tree shows a visible change right before a certain event. We could use thousands of illustrations of that. But it it's a visible change before a certain event. When we see the change, we know the event is imminent. Now Christ says, when you see the things I have told you happening, when you see the visible changes, you will know that the event is imminent. It's going to happen. It's right at your doors, in fact. In other words, when you see these things, it's like the messenger has shown up at your house to announce this thing and is standing at your door with his hand back. Ready to knock. That's how close it is, and that's how true it is. Verse 30. Assuredly I say to you, this generation will by no means pass away till all these things take place. Now Verses like this put us put us in a spot. I mean we've got to figure out what to do with them. There are three ways of understanding this, at least that I'm aware of. And this is why it's so hard to dismiss those. Who say that the whole event has already happened. You can't just blow them off because it's easy to understand this as saying, you guys, I'm talking to you and it's gonna happen in your generation. First, the this generation is the one that Jesus was physically speaking to. This is the first way of viewing it. He spoke in about 33 A. D. So AD 70 would be loosely speaking in the same generation within 40 years. So if Christ were referring to the destruction of the temple and using a lot of figurative language to describe what surrounded that event, then the generation he was speaking of was the generation he was talking to. That's one way of seeing it. He says this generation, he means you guys are listening to me. It's going to happen in your generation. Second, if Christ is talking about a future event, this generation must be the generation that is alive when all of these signs begin to escalate. That's what most futurists believe. And there's no reason that that couldn't be true. Or a third, Christ is talking about both. That gets us out of a lot of binds. I I think I'm beginning to like the theology just because it's easier to deal with, but but I I think it it's more than likely true. He is saying that there is a generation that will experience it now, you guys, and it's going to happen in your generation There's going to be another generation in the future, and these things are going to happen. It's going to be different a little bit, but more worldwide. But you'll experience a replay of this later. That's what I think. But again, I'm not certain about it. Whatever the case, Christ is not talking about some vague periods of time, like eons. He is talking about something that will come to fruition less than 40 years from the beginning of the signs of it being fulfilled. Now, I don't know about you, but I tend to view 40 years as being a pretty long time. But the way that God is describing it, he's saying, these are the time periods I'm talking about I'm talking about some trends that you will see that are ultra visible. And they are going to escalate and escalate until it hit the point and it's going to fly. And you're going to look around and think the world is falling apart. So anyway, and it's going to take the course of a generation, maybe up to 40 years. Everything is lining up. It's not hard to see that. Even in our world, it is not hard to see. We've already gone over and talked about how everything that Christ predicted is escalating. One of the easiest to prove we went over was the earthquakes. You can count them. And they are escalating very, very rapidly. Okay, verse 31. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means ever, ever, ever pass away. There have been many human so-called prophets that have painted pictures of the mankind's future vastly different than Christ has painted it. I've read some things from people who are to who just have a humanistic mindset that say this world is going to get better. You know, as we get more and more informed and as we get learn more about medicine and we learn more about psychology and we learn more about all these things, it's just we're just going to get better and better and better. Oddly enough, everything that Christ has said has shown itself to be true, and everything that they have said has shown itself to be absolutely nonsense. It's like what's said about college textbooks. The Bible was written once and it's never needed a revision. Textbooks have to be written every year. Why is that? God's word is authoritative. It is true. It will not change. And the author knew everything to begin with. We can't count on the upcoming election to save us. If we were more Baptists, I think you'd all probably say amen to that. We we cannot count on the medical industry to save us. We can't count on the discoveries of psychology to save us. That which we most need is learned when we read what God has already revealed. His word is the truth that we need and it never changes. It will never, ever, ever pass away. You know, we talk about this over and over again. We know all the pad answers, at least we know most of them. We all know the right thing to say if we were with Christians. But in our heart of hearts and soul of souls we often have a problem. We simply do not believe what God says. We believe we believe what God says, we say we believe what God says But we think that what the devil whispers in our ear is more true than what God has clearly stated. He tells us we're going to find our happiness by going against God's plan. Our flesh tells us that this thing I see in front of me I absolutely need. I don't care what God says. We'll find our happiness, we think, by disobeying God and following our heart. Following our heart We believe the devil's reward to be more satisfying than God's reward. We can tell that's what we believe because of what we do. When no one is watching. How do we act inside our families? How do we act on the computer? How about in conversations that no one else sees? In the thoughts we foster in our minds about even our daydreams and what we think will make us happy. What do we think? When are we going to get it? When will our sinful resistance to God's will meet the conviction that it so richly deserves? God's words are true. True. They're trustworthy. They're always true. And they will never be proven at any time by any source to be untrue. What ideas are we banking our lives on? What do we really think will satisfy us? Where do we resist the rules that God has put in place in our lives? What ideas steal our hearts? If they aren't from God, they aren't trustworthy. Only God's truth is worth banking our lives on. Only He will lead us to the place that we ultimately want to go if we're His. Every departure we make from his path will only lead to regrets and sorrow. God 's word will never, ever, ever pass away. Verse 32. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Take heed, watch, and pray, for you do not know when the time is. Again, we're told that nobody knows the when. No one knows the date. That's what the disciples were asking for, actually. They were looking for a date, but they didn't get it. Nobody knows it. The final generation will know it's getting close. The final generation will know they're close to the end. The signs will be hard to miss if they know God's word. But even then, the day that Christ showed up is not marked on anyone's calendar. Only God knows that day. And what's the application for that truth as he gives it? Jesus says, take heed, watch, and pray. Take heed, watch, and pray. Stay alert. Stay watchful. Keep your eyes open. And don't forget to look out. Keep talking to God. Keep in communion with him. Keep your relationship fresh with God. Why? Because this is not something you can put on your daytime or on your calendar You can't put a pop-up on your phone that says Christ returns in 24 days. We need to keep our eyes on world events and trends. We don't need to be absorbed with it, but it's a good good to keep a thumb on the pulse. We don't want to be surprised. Then Jesus makes an analogy to help us apply this. He says He says it's like this. It's like a man going to a far country who left his house and gave authority to his servants and to each his work and commanded the doorkeeper to keep watch. Watch therefore, for you don't know when the master of the house is coming. In the evening, at midday, at the crowing of the rooster, or in the morning. There were four watches, and this happens to be the end of each of the watches. in in the Jewish mindset, how they broke a day into four pieces. He says, lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say to you I say to all. Watch. And we gain a little more application guidance in Luke, where Luke says in 21, 34 through 36, the same context. But take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness, and cares of this life, and that day come on you unexpectedly. For it will come as a snare on all those who dwell in the face of the whole earth. Watch therefore and pray always that you may be counted worthy to escape all these things that will come to pass, and to stand before the Son of Man. So we're like the people left to serve the master's interest of his house when he leaves the town. We're given assignments by our master. We're given the work of evangelism and discipleship. We're to love God and love people. We're to serve our fellow body members. We're to grow in our relationship with God. And this stuff needs done. It requires work. It requires effort and energy. It's work that we are to give our attention to. We are to watch. In Christ's story, the people are to live by watching. That's the point. They're to live by watching. for the return of the master. They're to live in anticipation of the return of the master. They are to live with the orientation of that event being the important event. When that master comes back, that is what all of their time is absorbed in looking forward to. They're to live carrying out his will since they know he is coming back. And that attention should never be slackened, no matter how long it takes. We're to live in the belief of our master's return. What are the alternatives? Life as usual. Life like everybody else. The word for carousing presents an image much like our word for hangover. The alternative of living by watching is to live absorbed on what the world can offer us in terms of pleasure and satisfaction. It's one thing to enjoy those things that God has given to us. And we can't confuse these things. It's easy to go ultra far in the other direction. where you think of pleasure as being evil. God created all kinds of pleasure for his people to enjoy, and that's a wonderful thing. We find in Ecclesiastes that it's a good thing. But to live our lives for pleasure, to love pleasure, to expect pleasure to grant us what only God can grant us, that's the height of idolatry and foolishness. It's hard to draw these lines sometimes. But we aren't to give ourselves over to pleasure in this life. We aren't to live for pleasure. And as well, we're not to be absorbed by the cares of this life. We aren't to be absorbed by the same things that the world around us is absorbed by. We're to carry with us in everything we do. The awareness and expectation of eternity. We're to live like people who are serving a master. We have a future destination and it isn't this world, at least it isn't this world the way that it is now. Our lives will have certain restrictions that the worldings around us don't have. Believers will have a focus on what can't be seen that those around us not only can't understand it, they think it's stupid. We'll be more concerned with eternal security than temporal security. And we're to live with an understanding of the times we live in. We don't expect, Christians who understand the Bible don't expect the world to offer us a wonderful life. We don't expect the economy to stay strong so we can best enjoy our lives. We don't expect civil authorities to always deal out justice. We know what this world is destined for and we live accordingly. To the world around us, Christ's return is gonna fall like a trap. It'll catch them unawares as they're just about going about their lives. It's gonna fall on them and they'll have no idea it's coming. And it will be to their peril. But we should pray that we are not such people. We should pray that God has his way in our lives and that we live for him and he keeps our attention. We should pray that Christ's return will not catch us in faithless living, but that it will catch us wildly looking forward to our Savior's return. And only God can accomplish that in our lives You know, we need to do what we can do, but we know it's a miracle from beginning to end when when we see a life that is drawn to God. It's him that's doing it. So we're praying, God, keep it up. Keep it up. Because everything that is worth living for is only found in Christ. That's the gist of the passage as I understand it. What we are waiting for is what we are living for. What we are waiting for is what we are living for. Can what we do each day be best described as living to get what we want here and now? Do we disobey God in our responses to those who have authority over us, to those who surround us, to those we answer to? Do those we answer for. Do we do what we feel like doing? Like what we feel compelled to do? Or are we waiting? Are we doing what our master says and waiting for him to make it worthwhile? It will not be worthwhile much of the time to do what God says here and now. It's gonna look stupid to people around us. But God promises to make it worthwhile. Talk to any of the people who are saying, I love Christ in Syria right now. That is not making their life good. But Christ is returning and they are living by waiting. They know that it's worth waiting for. They know the risks that they're taking are worth waiting for. Do we trust our own wisdom and reasoning, or do we trust God? Do we see it smart to look out for our own interests or smart to look out for His? What master do we serve as we live in this period of history? We need to pray that God leads us in living for him and for him alone. We can't afford to be found asleep to God when Christ returns. We must live attentive to God's will as long as we breathe. Well let's close with this passage. I I think while while the passage we're in has a little bit of ambiguity, a little bit difficult to understand. This one doesn't have any trouble. 2 Peter 3, 10 through 18. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, again, like a trap, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. Keep that in mind as you're working on stuff. All those Mercedes. Everything that we're working on. Poof. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? Looking for and hastening the coming day of God. Because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, According to God's word, according to that word that is always true and never a lie, we look for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Finally. Finally, utopia, a place where righteousness dwells, a place where there is no wickedness. Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things Being obsessed with the future of what is going to happen, be diligent to be found by him in peace, without spot and blameless. That's how we're to be living. We're living, looking forward to them, to then when our master will say, well done. We're looking for that well done. As we live. And that changes how we live and how we think about our lives. And consider that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. While you're going through this period, while you're suffering, while you're dealing with this stuff, Remember, the only reason it keeps going on is for salvation. The only reason this suffering planet is allowed to exist is for salvation of every person that he's going to bring to himself. You therefore, beloved, since you know this beforehand, you guys have been given the inside track. We have been revealed by God all this stuff about what's going to happen. The world doesn't know, but we do, because of that. Since you know this beforehand, beware lest you fall from your own steadfastness, being led away with the error of the wicked. Basically, stop remembering what God says. That's what he's warning us against. That we wouldn't do that. But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that's how you stay awake. That's how you stay awake for his coming. Grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To know him is to love him. To him be the glory, both now and forever. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you so much. We thank you so much for giving us the inside scoop. Lord, I pray that uh that you would use the truth from your word to change our lives. And Lord, if we have uh messed up your your word in any way in this in in my attempts at interpretation or whatever that you would remove that from our memories and that the things that would stick with us would be those things that are true. Lord, we We look forward to your return return, sort of. And we want to look forward to your return without reservation Lord, we ask that you would help us to view our lives from the perspective of eternity. And that we would make our decisions of what we think about, of what we do, of what lines we pursue, of how we use our time, how we use our energy, how we use our money. That we would use it all with an eternal perspective, looking forward wildly to seeing you someday. And having you put your arm around our shoulder and say, Well done. Help us to live for that. Because without a doubt, you are worthy. In Jesus name, Amen