Getting in a new routine here. Well, isn't it amazing how quiet it is in here? Without the cars going by and uh We can hear each other. I think in Sunday school we could hear each other a good bit better than we could in the other facilities. So it's uh it's all pretty amazingly exciting, I think. Alright, the subject for today's text is simple. It's unacceptable worship. Unacceptable worship We're going to approach it a little backwards. One of the biggest dangers to a Christian is for him to think of himself as being one thing, yet he is really something else. We think of our actions one way, but they are really something else. We think of God's reaction to what we do as one thing when it is really something else. Self-deception is one of the greatest dangers that we as Christians face. Especially because the better we are at it, the less we know we're doing it. What we'll see this morning are people who have deceived themselves and they think that they are deceiving God. But Isaiah delivers to them a message that tells these worshipers that their worship is not fooling God at all. It isn't working. All of their effort isn't fooling God. As we look at our text this morning, we really need to be asking the question: is this me? Is this me? Am I deceiving myself in my worship to God? God's never fooled, but am I fooling myself? Often our greatest points of growth begin at the points of our greatest discoveries of wickedness Sometimes God has to bring us bring the truth to our attention in a way that it burns right through all of our illusions about ourselves. Sometimes we have to see our similarity to Sodom and Gomorrah until we begin being fit for the kingdom of heaven. Let's look at what activities these people are doing to convince themselves and God that they're sincere. First, in verse 11, it says they had a multitude of sacrifices to God. What does this mean? The text goes on to tell us that those sacrifices consist of offerings of rams, cattle, or lambs, or goats. It involves incense and meetings and prayer. Now wait a minute, we might say, like we were talking about in Sunday school, this is the same stuff that God commanded them to do. We could spend the rest of our time here this morning proving that this is exactly what God said to do in the Jewish worship of God Look at this. These people were taking of their herd or of their hard-earned wealth and sacrificing it to God. Sheep and goats and cattle were pretty much currency to these folks It would be like us offering one of our cars. This wasn't a small thing. They would be able to look at their contributions to God and say, hey, look. That's not too shabby. I gave that at great cost to myself. That must mean I really love God. And look too at their circumstance. These people were doing all this at the right place. It isn't like the Samaritans who had come up with a replacement location for the temple to offer these sacrifices. No, these people were offering these sacrifices in the prescribed location. They were going by the book. So these people were offering the right sacrifices in the right way at the right place at a great cost to themselves. These people were even praying to the right God. They were meeting together, not to worship Buddha or some Hindu god. No, they were coming together to worship Jehovah. They had some solid doctrine. They got many of their technical points right. Well, what does this look like in our world? What would our modern-day equivalent look like? Well, we could picture this audience of Isaiahs as a solid church member, maybe. This person might teach Sunday school and fight for good doctrine They might abhor some forms of wickedness. They might tithe and give sacrificially the gifts that they give for good causes. Their hearts may go out for certain causes. They may have great concern that their lives conform to certain technicalities demanded in Scripture Maybe they only listen to Christian music and watch Christian shows. In other words, on the outside that people observe about them, they seem to have everything correct. That's likely how these worshippers looked. But look what God says about them. First, God says this in verse 11: To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to me? To what purpose? We can picture the audience here responding by saying, what do you mean? This is what you told us to do. What do you mean to what purpose? To please you, that's the purpose. But clearly, these sacrifices are not fulfilling that purpose. In fact, the sacrifices fulfill no purpose except to stir up God's anger. How cutting this remark is. It would be similar to God saying to us, what do you hope to gain by this? What do you hope to gain by this? Why do you bother to read my word or pray or even attend worship? What do you hope to accomplish by this? Clearly, what's implied here is that these people have something seriously wrong with them. It isn't that God is hard to please for the person who is sincere and honest in their worship of Him. When a person comes before God in the reality of who they really are, calling upon God for his mercy, they are greeted with grace. So the problem here is not that God is hard to please. The problem is with the worshipers. They are duplicitous. They are pretending. They think that God is blind to the havoc that they have created the whole rest of the week. They think somehow that an act of worship will fool God. It will buy him off. Could God be saying this to us this morning? John, to what purpose are you preaching? People, to what purpose are you gathering and giving your tithe and fellowshipping together? We've got to be sure that we know why we are doing what we are doing. We need to be sure that we're not doing it in a double-minded state where we're trying to take We're we're trying to gain the advantage of two different kingdoms at the same time. We need to know that our worship of God is sincere, not duplicitous. And God says more. He says, I've had enough. I uh I think every kid has heard that uh out of their parenthood sometimes. I have had enough I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle. I don't delight in the blood of bulls or of lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, who's required this from your hand to trample my courts? Bring no more feudal sacrifices. Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, and the calling of assemblies. I can't endure iniquity and the sacred meeting Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They're a trouble to me. I'm wear weary of bearing them When you spread out your hands, I'll hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. The gist of what God is saying is, I've had enough of your so-called worship of me. Verse 12 gives us the idea that these worshipers are actually giving more than God actually requires of them. God says, who has required this from your hand? He either doesn't want this because of how it's being offered. Or God's telling them that He didn't even ask them for some of this stuff that they're given. And it won't work. It won't buy God off. There's something to note here. You can never commit an act of worship that will undo a sin. You can never commit an act of worship that will undo a sin. You never do good to get rid of evil. The Catholic Church made a lot of money with that concept, but the idea does not come from God. Basically, when we start going down that path, God's going to ask, who asked for that garbage? Who required that from you? Because it wasn't me. How does God regard this false, insincere, duplicitous, so-called worship? He says to them, You're trampling my courts. You're trampling my courts. Your presence is not only not welcome, it has a defiling and profaning influence. What you bring to give me is an abomination. It disgusts me. This is that God's attitude to war toward the whole thing. I can't even endure them They sicken me to the point I can't put up with them. I hate your meetings. The stuff you do in my honor is just trouble to me. It doesn't give me anything good. There's not even a shred of something I enjoy or appreciate about it. In fact, just watching the charade wears me out. It makes me tired. That's how Isaiah describes God's attitude toward this worship. Then God goes on through the prophet and he starts to talk about their prayers. He said, when you spread out your hands, I'll hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I won't hear. Your hands are full of blood. Look at this. We cannot assure a person that if they pray to God, God will hear them. And that that probably sounds like a pretty uh uh contradictory statement. We can't assure a person that if they pray to God, God will hear them. There is no formula that says if a person prays, it will gain an audience with God. Sometimes people's prayers to God are nothing but deception, and God is never fooled by our deception. But we can be assured that if we will submit ourselves to God's terms, he will hear us. Every time. Psalms 145, 18 through 20 says, the Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He also will hear their cry and save them. The Lord preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. So we see that there's there's terms here to God hearing our prayers. It has to come from truth of who we really are. We can never think that the amount of our prayer or the volume of our prayer or even the fervency of our prayer will fool God into thinking that we're something that we're not. We must come before God, recognizing the truth of who he is and the truth of who we are. God will hear us when we call upon him in that truth. He'll hear us when we recognize our place before him, when we have the proper fearful respect of who he is. We don't have to be good people to be cu to come before God and be heard, and it's really a good thing, or we would never be heard. But we do have to be real people. We need to be true, and we do have to be submissive to him as Lord when we come to him. Then we will be heard. And the opposite is true as well. In Micah 3. 4, it says, then they will cry to the Lord, but he will not hear them. He will even hide his face from them at that time, because they have been evil in their deeds. When we pray to God while committed to keeping our wickedness, But hoping to fool God, God will not hear us. That's what Scripture tells us. So we need to be pretty careful about this thing of thinking that we can pull one over on God in any way. Or that we can uh rely on some formula that will make God react for us in our favor No amount of praying in a state of rebellion will ever move God to act in our favor. At that point, the only prayer that He will hear is a prayer of repentance, a prayer of confession. Then he goes on, notice at the end of verse 15, he says, Your hands are full of blood. Here is the problem. God is about to point out what the real sin is that the people are committing, at least one of the major sins. Remember in verse 10 where Isaiah says, Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the law of God, you people of Gomorrah. Why did God compare Israel to Sodom and Gomorrah? Normally, when most of us think of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, we associate it with homosexuality. And without a doubt, that sin was part of their undoing. But that is not the sin that is emphasized in the book of Isaiah regarding the people of Judah. No doubt this sin existed, since it seems to have existed in every major population sample throughout time. But I don't think that's the point. I think to get to the point, we need to look at Ezekiel, where he reveals to us a little bit more about Sodom and Gomorrah. Ezekiel 16, 1 and 2, verse uh starts with, Again the word of the Lord came to me saying, Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations. So Here we see that a prophet is addressing the same people that Isaiah was addressing, the people of Jerusalem. The prophet goes into great detail about how Jerusalem acted as an unfaithful wife, even to the point of paying her lovers. Yet what Ezekiel was mostly talking about was idolatry more than adultery I find it very interesting that when God wants to make the point about how he feels about the sin of idolatry , He puts it in terms of a different sin. We talked about this in Sunday school. I I sometimes I feel bad for you folks who come to Sunday school because I don't have a whole lot of thoughts, so I have to I have to share them over and over again. This is pretty much what we were saying. God puts idolatry in terms of a different sin. Most people don't have a very strong repulsion factor for idolatry. We see it as sin, and if we're biblically astute, we know that it's a bad thing and that God hates it, but we don't feel much about it. So God converts it into something that affects us very differently. He describes it as something similar to sexual infidelity. Suddenly we get what it is that God's saying. Now we can get into it. Now we can feel what it is that he must feel. We're able to suddenly understand how God takes it when his people commit idolatry. Sexual infidelity is always a big deal in Scripture. There's nowhere in Scripture where God rebukes a man for seeing it as a big deal. He's never rebuked for feeling strongly about it. I suspect the same is true for women, although the culture back then may have been a little bit different in those terms. God uses marital infidelity as one of the few tools that He can use to get us to understand just how big a deal idolatry is to Him. He describes it in a way that we can more than just understand it. We can actually feel it. We can know a tiny portion of the degree that God actually feels sinned against by those who bow to another God. Whether material or ideal. For you married people, how would you feel if your spouse was to sneak off with somebody else? It's not hard for us to imagine that feeling. You need to apply that awareness every time that we are tempted to look to the world to give us what only God can give. That's the punchline here We need to understand that God feels something akin to that whenever his people become enthralled with another thing that they think will give them joy or peace or contentment or love or hope apart from him. We 're all guilty of evoking that in God, in our own sense and sources of idolatry. But then Ezekiel talks about the sin of Sodom. Ezekiel 16, 46 through 50, it says, Your elder sister is Samaria, who dwells with her daughters to the north of you, and your younger sister who dwells to the south of you. is Sodom and her daughters. You did not walk in their ways, nor act according to their abominations. Now at first you might think that's a good thing, but he says, but is that as if that were too little, you became more corrupt than they in all your ways. He basically saying you didn't do that. You did something worse. As I live, says the Lord, neither your sister Sodom nor her daughters have done as you and your daughters have done. This has got to be scary. Look, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom. So this is telling us what the sin of Sodom was. She and her daughter had pride. Fullness of food and abundance of idleness. Neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy And they were haughty and committed abomination before me, therefore I took them away as I saw fit. Notice that Jerusalem didn't do exactly what Sodom did, but they did worse. Now what did Sodom do? Verse 49, look, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom. She and her daughter had pride, fullness of food, and abundance of idleness, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy Now, this does not mean that they were not also judged for other sins, like the sin of homosexuality, the sin of idolatry. But this gives us another insight into the problem at Sodom. The people had pride, fullness of food, and abundance of idleness. Essentially, these people had prosperity. They were not struggling to exist on a day-to-day basis. They had cupboards that are full, just like ours. They had everything they needed. Okay, then what happened to the poor and needy? They starved. Sodom had blood on their hands. Sodom was like Judea , except somehow Judea was worse. Brad was very accurate in his assessment that Judea was being judged based on how they were living and regarding their fellow Jews. That's how their idolatry worked its way out into an injustice against their fellow human beings This was the way their sin dis displayed itself. And this is what God prescribes as a remedy to their sin. We're going to see that in verse 16. But one of the commentators remarked that a person cannot break one of the first four commands. without it spilling over into the last six. The only way that we'll treat our fellow humans correctly is if we have the proper regard for God. Then verse 16, back into Isaiah again. This is the remedy for the situation that the Judeans are in. It says, wash yourself, make yourself clean. Put away the evil of your doings before my eyes. Cease to do evil. What Isaiah is describing here is a change of mind that results in a change of behavior. These people need to turn around. Now they can't get rid of their sins, but they can receive the forgiveness that God offers them for their sins. That's what they need to do. They can't clean themselves, but they can receive the cleanness that God offers. In that way they can make themselves clean. Just as we go to the cross and receive what Christ did in our benefit, in our behalf, to receive the forgiveness of sins that we so need. What these people need to do is to confess their sins as sins and by God's power turn from them. Instead of trying to fool God, which is what we have seen, they need to come clean with God. Instead of trying to add God's blessing onto their sinful lifestyle, They've got to repent of that sinful lifestyle. This is what hypocritical religion always needs to do Come clean. External conformity to a code is never enough. We've got to have it in our hearts. This change has to infect us from the beginning to the end. Then Isaiah says the following: after putting off the old, we must put on the new. Verse 17: learn to do good. Learn to do good. Look at this. This word for learn is a word for training. What God commands will not come naturally. Who of us have not discovered that so far in our Christian lives? What God commands does not come naturally. It's something that will come point by point, step by step, lesson by lesson. It's a series of instructions. These folks are told just like us that we must be in the training process of choosing and doing the good instead of what we are naturally inclined to do. To the degree that we are one of the hypocritical worshippers of God, the worshipper that is more concerned about how we look to ourselves and others. than how we really are in the core of our hearts, to the degree that we're that kind of person with that kind of worship, we need to take up a different training program. We need to train to do the right things for the right reasons, no matter who's looking. But at this point we learn What it was that God was so angry about. We learn that the sins, the sins that these people were really guilty of. And this is very helpful for us because we can learn what God gets upset about. And that's always good to know. We see what really offends him. This is how the Judeans are to learn to do good instead of what they are currently doing now. They are currently manipulating other people for their benefit. They need to stop. and treat those people lovingly. He goes on to say, seek justice, rebuke the oppressor, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow. That's what God is angry about. People are being exploited. People are being used for the selfish purposes of other people. The same people who are showing up for worship are exploiting people on a regular basis. And they don't see how that's a problem. They don't get that they are doing the things that their God hates while showing up to worship Him. Ultimately, what they display is that they only really care about themselves, but they want God to get with the program of blessing them. Look at the sins. Seek justice. What this means is they were not seeking justice. They were acting, counting, they were actually counting on injustice. They didn't want what was right in God's eyes for those who are weak. What they wanted, what was in their best interest by taking advantage of the weak. Justice is a good thing. You know, we think about it in terms of where we stand with God, and certainly we need grace because justice would wipe us off the face of the globe. But justice from a civil kind of environment is a very good thing. Justice between people is a good thing. We should always fight for the justice of those who are deprived of justice. When a person is robbed of justice because of their body shape or their intelligence or their skin color, we should stand in the gap as much as we can. We should want our neighbors to be treated the way we want to be treated, if we were in their same spot. That goes on: rebuke the oppressor. What God is telling these people is to place themselves between the oppressor and the oppressed. He's telling them to be the ones to stop what is going on here. Be the one who says that this will not happen on my watch. This will not happen to the people who are around me. This kind of attitude is courageous. This is the person who will stand up to evil men when it costs us everything. And that's exactly what God requires of us. That's what He's calling us to. It's not optional. This is not only for the exceptional follower. This is what all of us are to do. I remember walking down a hallway at Garrett with Ruth and a professor many years ago. And the pr professor began belittling a person with little intelligence, and I joined right in. And uh I don't remember what Ruth said, but she took up for that person. And I was instantly convicted at that point. We need to rebuke the oppressor. We need to take up for those around us and treat them the way that we would want to be treated ourselves. We need to seek justice. But it's terribly easy to do what will most benefit ourselves instead. And that's what these Judeans were doing. Then he goes on, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow. Now, what is it about the fatherless and widow that always gets God's attention? I don't know if you've noticed that as you read through the Old Testament and the New, that you can't get past God making mention of taking care of the widows and the orphans. Why? Why are they so often that focal point? Well, let's think about this. When you remove a father, what does that family lose? Well, in their culture, what was lost was protection and provision. What does that mean? Well, the fatherless and the widow were the most vulnerable in their society They were the most open to exploitation. In other words, the only thing that would protect them from a person's worst inclinations was the spirituality of the people around them. The widows and orphans would prove the character of their neighbors. If widows and orphans were protected and provided for It was because people had a fear of God or a love for God that causes them to act that way. If they were exploited It , was because people were acting as if there would be no repercussions, that God doesn't care, God is not watching, um for exploiting that, the powerless And the powerless would suffer from the selfishness of those neighbors. How do you deal with those who have no power and status? How do you deal with those who have no power and status? Because that's often the litmus test for your spirituality. How we treat our own children sometimes reflects more about us than we care to see. Jesus said as much when he said that whatever you've done to the least of these. You've done unto me. That's where we show ourselves. It's the job of the faithful to protect the widows and orphans or anyone who happens to lack power at any given time. Sometimes I think the instincts of some of our liberal friends may actually be better than we give them credit for. I sort of hate saying that. But protecting other humans is truly a godly trait. How we go about it may be worth consideration, but Christians should protect the powerless and try to obtain justice on their behalf. Now that the sin has been exposed, God calls for a meeting. Verse 18. Come now and let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, though she they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If you're willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land, but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. We see here that God's primary motive is not to punish. He offers a way out. And didn't we start with that? Didn't we pretty much start by saying that all of history is God 's children rebelling and God reaching out to them. Well here it is again, just like God. He wants to appeal to the reasoning of those who are exploiting others, those who are sinning so badly against them, those that are also guilty of idolatry. He says, Let us reason together. That's what God wants for us, no matter what state we're in. He wants us to listen to reason. He wants us to hear him. He wants us to adapt to what he says. So he does not need to discipline us or punish us. Let me ask you who are parents, did you ever enjoy spanking your kids? I mean, there's sometimes they needed it so bad that there may have been a sense of satisfaction that some justice was being held here. But, you know, uh did you ever think, man, I wish I could spank my kid today You know, wake up in the morning thinking, man, I I'd really like to do that. No, we would rather that they would listen to reason The fact is that kids often don't. So we need to do whatever we need to do to guide their behavior, to correct their behavior. God would prefer that we reason with them. He would prefer that we receive his total and absolute forgiveness for our sins. He would prefer that we would avoid those sins. He would prefer that we live in fellowship, live in the light, and walk according to it. So that our our fellowship is not interrupted, it's not disturbed. That's what God wants He wants us to willingly submit to his lordship. He's offering all of this today. We can respond to his call, then as in now. Submit to him willingly. Confess your sin willingly. You'll receive good from his hands. You'll eat the good of the land. You'll experience the best life he has for you, no matter how that phrase may be misused. You will truly be blessed if you will surrender your life and your actions to your God. Or don't. Verse 20, but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Please don't choose this path. No matter who you are, no matter what you're doing, don't choose the path of rebelling against God. It will not go well. It can only lead to destruction. No matter what you're tempted with this morning, don't choose this path. Remember, this is God that is speaking. The mouth of the Lord has spoken this fate. I thought it would be fitting to close with something that Christ had said that was kind of similar. about true worship and false worship, about who God really listens to and who he really doesn't listen to. Luke 18, 9 through 14 Also, Christ spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. He prayed with himself. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector. I fast twice a week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the tax collector, standing afar off, would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying God be merciful to me, the sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Let's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you for Isaiah. We thank you that you empowered him with your words to speak these truths that we can glean from and learn from. Lord help our worship not to be like theirs. Help us to see any seeds of of ineffective Worship, worship that's duplicitous, worship where we're trying to pull the wool over your eyes. Help us to see that in ourselves so we can stop, so we can submit, so we don't need your spanking. but that we can maintain our fellowship with you and walk according to your direction. We ask that as we continue in this book of Isaiah, that we would be reminded and and uh Challenged and shaped into a people who quickly respond to your correction. And who are longing to follow your direction. And just that you would glorify yourself in this body of people. By people who will obey you and love you and cherish you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.