If you're sitting in your seat in Oakland, Maryland, and there are some things that are true about you, there are some amazing claims in Scripture about you. If you believe that Christ was born of a virgin, lived, died, and rose again, if you've trusted what Christ did to take care of your sin , If you believe what he says to the place where you obey him, you love his people, and you trust him with your life, never perfectly, but steadily, if you have those evidences that your faith is true, Then there are amazing things that the Bible has to say about you and to you. We saw last week the life changing promises that God has made to us, where he says, I am with you. I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. No wonder God can say, fear not, and expect us to fear not. No wonder God can say, be not dismayed, and expect that we won't live in panic mode These claims are absolutely amazing. We have the absolute God in our corner. Or actually, he has brought us into his corner. We are significant for this one reason. We are his servants. We are his children. We are his bride. But most importantly, we are his. We are not stumbling through a life with no meaning and no purpose. We're full of both because our God deserves to be praised by everyone who has pride. And it's our job to represent him everywhere we go and to do his bidding. Wow, what a thought to begin with on this Sunday morning. And it isn't wishful thinking. It's not like like the uh motivational thing that that Grace was talking about in in uh Sunday school These aren't hokey. They're truthy. Full of truth. Let's go right to the text. Verse 11. Behold, all those who were incensed against you shall be ashamed and disgraced. And those who strive with you shall perish. You shall seek them and not find them. Those who contend with you, those who war against you shall be as nothing, as a non-existent thing. He's going into great detail here to let us know exactly what he thinks of them. For I, the Lord your God, will hold your right hand, saying to you, Fear not, I'll help you. Part of the strengthening we're promised is due to the resistance that we will face. Remember, three times now we've come up with God will strengthen us, and uh he has to be strengthening us for something. I emphasized last week that we need God's strength to live a holy and godly life, and so we do. But we will also need it to face the opposition that we are going to face in this world. Look at what is expected. He says, some will be incensed against you, some will strive against you, some will contend against you, some will outright war against you. God doesn't stop selling. This is what we can expect. We have been given a gracious period of history in our in our uh country that has been a uh a refrain from the normal for a long time. But it's easy to see what's coming. How long it takes nobody knows. But there's a growing hatred toward Christianity. A little of it we may have brought on ourselves by pushing political agendas to make non-believers conform to our beliefs, but most of it comes simply because we have absolutely authoritarian beliefs. We believe there is an absolute God who reigns over everything and has the right to tell us what to do. Has the right to tell every human being what to do. We believe that he has clearly communicated, and we believe that he has clarified what he likes and what he hates, what is right and what is wrong And those who love darkness, those who love that which God hates, will hate us by default. Christ told us as much. They really can't help it in their current state of mind. So opposition is expected in the ones that God will help. And it isn't just mammy pamby opposition. Sometimes it's life-threatening opposition. But what will happen ultimately to that opposition? Think of all the Christians who have been tortured and murdered in Muslim territories. Think of our brothers and sisters in North Korea. How about those lives we heard the stories of in the Insanity of God movie that we watched? They all have something in common. All of their enemies will one day be as none. They will one day be as none. The question in the movie was, is Christ worth it? Is Christ worth it to pay such a tremendous price now? And the answer is yes, he is worth any price. And it will all be made right in the end when they, the enemies of God, are as nothing. Every price will be made right in the end. Our enemies won't slip by the gate. They won't get away with it. They will not prosper in some other place. Absolute righteousness will rain down on them to their eternal demise. I love how God describes their end. They shall be ashamed and disgraced. That's exactly the opposite of what they are now in many cases They're lofted up as being you know some some virtuous force. But they shall be as nothing. They shall perish. They shall be as nothing, as a non-existent thing. Do we get this? Scripture doesn't repeat itself so often to make an insignificant point. We're supposed to really get this point. If it's repeated a bunch of times, it it means it's that important. Our enemies have no ultimate power. It's not something that will last. It's very temporary. And justice will be served completely and forever. But look at verse 13. What a wonderful contrast. For I, the Lord your God, will hold your right hand, saying to you, Fear not, I will help you. Take a close look at this. What do you normally do with your right hand if you're right handed? You take care of yourself. If you're fighting, you would hold your sword with your right hand, if we tell a sword. But look at the imagery here. It's like what Mark might do when going somewhere scary with white. He holds Wyatt's right hand with his left hand, so Mark's right hand is free to do business with whatever he needs to do business with. That's the picture here of our relationship with God. We can give up all of our ideas of self-reliance We can accept the idea that we are being taken care of by someone who can absolutely handle himself. I still vaguely remember when my dad would hold my hand. It always seemed like such a huge hand to me. And I always felt that I had nothing to worry about when he was holding my hand. Dad had an handle. But it's not just that. Look at what God is saying the whole time that we are walking together. Fear not. I'll help you. Or if you're not, I'll help you. It doesn't matter what emphasis you put on what word, it's all true. We have focused a lot on our need to surrender our fears based on faith in what God says. It's a cold, hard logic that we must allow to replace our wrong thinking. to replace any lies that are in our thinking. It's a discipline based on faith. But that's not what we're seeing here this morning. Here we see such a relational connection that the Savior is wooing the child into absolute trust. Really, if this were a physical reality and Christ were holding our physical hand and saying softly, Don't worry, I am here. Imagine yourself and the things that are perplexing to you. Having Christ holding your hand and saying, don't worry, I'm here. I'll help you. No matter what he's done. Wouldn't that process be much easier if that were true? Well, that is the relational picture that God wants us to get here. That's the idea that Scripture is giving to us about God. That is the truth about God put in terms that we can feel. We can more than just see, we can feel He's like our father taking care of us. Some of our fathers were better than others. Some were non-existent in our lives. But we have the idea enough to know what a father can be. We've seen enough examples to know what a good father is like, and that's the picture that's being painted here No harm will come to us that he cannot handle. Maybe the cold-hard scriptural truth doesn't gain much traction some days in our struggle against fear. Well allow this to sink in. This is the appeal from Christ to you regarding your fear. Imagine that he is holding your hand and comforting you with these words because this is a truth. That is the spiritual reality and the ultimate destination. It really is that good. The picture that's painted here. Let's go on. 14. Fear not, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel, I'll help you, says the Lord and your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. I think I'll try this out someday. When Carla starts telling me about something she's afraid of, I'm just going to say, fear not worm, Carla. Guys, maybe we should all do this. We need to be the Worm Baptist Church. What's what's the point here? What is the worm? Now if you think about a bee or a snake or a spider, there's somebody in our church afraid of any one of those three things But who is afraid of a worm? Who won't walk in their yard at night for fear of night crawls I'm sure there are people like it, but not very many. Probably no one. A worm is insignificant, it has little use, it inspires no fear or respect. People walk on them and think nothing of it. Isaiah is saying that's what Jacob is, Jacob being the nation of Israel. That's the natural inherent value of the Jewish human beings from Jacob's bloodline. And that's us as well. We, apart from God's choosing, are insignificant. We're equal to worms. But what does God say to this worm? Again, he says, Don't worry, don't fear I hope we're getting this point. I mean in the last couple chapters you can't hardly miss it, and it's God who's saying it. Fear is a big deal. Fear is not something we can blow off as being inherently uh inherent to our personality or our situation. No, we are told to not fear, not to live in a fearful state. There are exceptions. If a grizzly bear starts chasing me down a road, fear serves a useful purpose makes my legs go a little faster than they normally would. But when I'm afraid of something that could possibly happen, like an economic collapse or getting Lyme's disease, which is a frightening thing I'm sinning. It's really just that simple. But look what else God says Just like God taking our hand in hand, here again he tells the Jewish people that he will help them, and then he lays out his credentials. God's good intentions toward his people, coupled with his great strength to do what he promises, are the reasons behind why we do not need to fear. There is truth behind The reason not to fear. It isn't just, well, uh everything will turn out all right. You know, everything will be just fine. Uh nothing bad could ever happen to you. God doesn't say those things. In the end, ultimately, he tells us those truths, but not in the short term. I suppose we could stand up and say, but God, I think you're a liar. You don't really love me. Or maybe we would say you don't have the power to stop bad things from happening. Or we might say you really can't keep the things that would do me eternal harm from happening. But most of us aren't going to do that. You know, we're not going to stand up and be so bold in our response to God. We'll just refuse to tell the truth about our sin. We'll call it something else, and we'll come up with a clever yes but that will fool us and keep our questionnaires at bay. But oddly enough, God does not add caveats. He just says, don't fear, and he tells us why. Now let's look at what God is going to do with this worm James. Verse 15, Behold, I will make you into a new threshing sledge with sharp teeth, and you'll thresh the mountains and beat them small and make the hills like chent. You'll win on them, the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them. You shall rejoice in the Lord and glory in the Holy One of Israel. Remember the highway of God? We learned about that earlier. The highway of God, the highway God would use to get to his people. Remember how the high places are brought low and the low are built up? Well this appears to be more of the same. I'm not sure how the new threshing fledge, designed to separate grain and chaff, fits in here. It looks like a mixed imagery It looks like it's mostly talking about bringing the high places low and the arrogant down to dust I'd like to read what our brother Ortland says here. He says, Isaiah is not talking about Christian political power taking over. And that is the reformed doctrine. from a long time ago. It's their idea of how the end of time is gonna work out. Basically that the kingdom of God is going to politically take over and at the end of time um And usher that into Christ's returning. That is not how I understand the return, and neither does uh Mr. Ordley. So he's not talking about political power taking over. He's talking about the gospel of human weakness triumphing over opposition and our timid faith overcoming the world. That prepares the way of the Lord. If you know Christians, you'll probably agree with me, he says, that it's a miracle the church accomplishes anything at all. But he makes us more than conquerors for his glory. The Bible says we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. And in his strength alone, our privilege is to thresh into smithereens Every obstacle to rejoicing in the Lord. That's our job. Let's get on with it in the power of the Holy Spirit. And it's brother order. Verse 17: The poor and needy seek water, but there is none. Their tongues fail for thirst. I, the Lord, will hear them, I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them. I will open rivers in desolate heights and fountains in the midst of the valleys, and I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and dry land springs of water. I will plant in the wilderness the cedar and the acacia tree, the myrtle and the oil tree. I will set in the desert the cypress tree and the pine and the box tree together. That they may see and know and consider and understand together that the hand of the Lord has done this, and the Holy One of Israel has created it. Now we see water. Water a lot of times, especially in that land, had an extreme value. You think about even now our property has no value if it has no water. Well over there it's even more so. So, but what do we know about first from Scripture? There's plenty to be said, but let's just look at a couple things In John 7, 37 through 39, it says, On the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone thirsts Let him come to me and drink. , He who believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. But this he spoke concerning the Spirit, whom those believing in him would receive. For the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. Being thirsty for God is a good thing in Scripture. Psalms 42, 1 and 2, it says, that the deer pants for the water brooks So pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? Being self-satisfied and saying I'm good, that's a bad thing in Scripture. So what are we? Do we thirst? Do we thirst for God? Do we recognize we have a need that is not met and to be met? That we need more of something in our lives. Do we want more of God's fellowship than what we have? The thing that we have been praying for for the last several weeks? We may have times in our lives where we imagine that what we wanted more of what we wanted was more of God, but God just didn't come through for us. You know, God, I wanted you so bad, but God you didn't come through. Those are most often lies we tell ourselves. God will quench our thirst, He'll fulfill our thirst if we thirst for Him and we'll come to Him. He promises that. If we want something else, however, God is likely to let us pursue it until we tire of the quest. When what we want is God, God is what we get. Scripture tells us that all the way through. God isn't taking some kind of pleasure out of withholding himself from us. When what we want is God, God is what we get. Not instantly, but certainly. When we blame our failures on some failure on God's part, we're barking up the wrong tree. We didn't fail because God didn't reveal enough truth. We didn't fail because God didn't provide an opportunity out of this mess. We didn't fail because God's resources were not great enough and were not given to us quick enough. We failed because we wanted what we wanted and it wasn't God. It helps clarify. God doesn't seem to like leaving people thirsty for Him. He fills them when He is what they want most. That's just what God is like. We can fool ourselves, but God is never fooled. Verses 21 through 29. Present your case, says the Lord. Bring forth your strong reasons, says the king of Jacob. Let them bring forth and show us what will happen. Now he's talking about idols. So we need to keep that in mind as we read this. Let them come forth and show us what will happen. Let them show the former things what they were, that we may consider them and know the later end of them, or declare to us things to come. Show the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods. Yes, do good or do evil, that we may be dismayed and see it together. Indeed, you are nothing. Nothing seems to be a theme in this passage. And your work is nothing. He who chooses you is not nothing. He who chooses you is an abomination. I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come. From the rising of the sun ye shall call on my name, and ye shall come against princes as the mortar, as the potter treads clay. Who has declared from the beginning that we may know in former times that we may say he is righteous? Surely there is no one who shows, surely there is no one who declares, surely there is no one who hears your words The first time I said to Zion, Look, there they are, and I will give to Jerusalem one who brings tidings, good tidings. For I looked and there was no man. I looked among them, but there was no counselor Who, when I asked of them, could answer a word? Indeed, they are worthless. Their works are nothing. Their molded images are wind and confusion. The rest of our text is talking about idolatry. And this is what Martin Luther has to say about idols. What is it to have a God, a small g god? What is it to have a God? What is God? Answer: A God is that to which we look for all good, and in which we find refuge in every time of need. To have a God is nothing else than to trust and believe Him with our whole heart. As I have often said, the trust and faith of the heart alone make both God and an idol. If your faith and trust are right, then your God is the true God. On the other hand, if your trust is false and wrong, then you have not the true God. For these two belong together, faith and God. That to which your heart clings and entrusts itself, I say, really is your God. And again we go to our friend Mr. Orbman. Our root problem is not social or intellectual or even moral as we usually think of it. Our root problem in all of life is that we keep going to false gods for their false salvation. More than we realize, our hearts complicate the profound simplicity of faith in God. And then we wonder why we're disappointed with life. Here's what we need to see with clarity. There is only one salvation. It belongs to Christ alone. We receive it on his terms, and no one has ever trusted him in vain. In our text, God is challenging the idols to act, which he knows they can't. He's inserting reason in a nonsense world. God is not a great reason. In fact, he invites it often in Scripture. He can stand up to any test if the test is given fairly. Idolatry lives in a world that is not challenged rationally. Ours is the same. We know that the false alternatives we pursue will never grant us what our souls need. Our sin is irrational. Our sin is irrational. Our idolatry is irrational. God is putting the false gods to the test, and they're failing. These gods were supposed to be able to project the future, but they could God tell them, go ahead, do something, show off, give us your best, show us what you got. It's a time. But they can do nothing because they are nothing. Verse 24, indeed you are nothing, and your work is nothing. See, you are nothing, so you can't do anything. He who chooses you is an abomination. Idols are nothing, but they uh this is another quote. I deserve nothing, but they still matter because choosing a cheap substitute for the living God cheapens up. An abomination is he who chooses you. Verse 29. Indeed, they are all worthless. Their works are nothing. Their molded images are wind and confusion. We need to be more than worthless. We need to represent the one true God. We need to walk according to what our God says. In verse 22, God challenges the idol to show the things that are to come hereafter. Verse 9 of our next chapter, chapter 42. Says, behold, the former things have come to pass, and the new things I declare before they spring forth, I tell you of them. Here's the true God Here's the God who really knows, knows the beginning and the end. Here's the God who can tell us what really will happen, and as such, knows what will happen, and as such, can prepare us for what will happen. That's the true God. This is the God who knows about your future and cares about your future. This is the God who gives the refreshing water to our souls when our souls are perched. Do you sometimes feel like you live in a malaise? Like life just moves on and your life doesn't matter. Like you're empty. I know I sometimes feel that way. Maybe this is a good time to examine who our God is. What is it that you're depending upon? For direction, for provision, for protection, for satisfaction? For excitement, for completion, for meaning. What are you depending on for those things? My brother gave me a book and the title is You Aren't Sick, You're Just Thirsty. It has to do with this theory that most of us don't have enough water in our bodies. You aren't sick, you're just thirsty. Maybe not up this one. We aren't sick. We're just thirsty We just need the water that Christ will provide in our lives. We need to have Him be everything for us. Anything else is just empty. It'll promise refreshment, but it will never deliver. It will promise deliverance, but just provide greater slaver. When we choose to worship an idol, we are choosing a cat , we are choosing not a casual option that God doesn't care about. We're choosing something that is hideous to God, an abomination. It's a big deal. Where are we holding back? Where do we think we can do better with our lives than to than to do what God commands us to do? That's that gets to be a tough question. You start looking at it in every aspect of your life. How you run your life, how you use your time, how you use your money. You know, um uh how we uh carry out our marriages, how we carry out our relationships, how we treat our children, everything. Under that guise of what God wants us to do, what we know He says. Maybe we need to go into new territories of trust. In our lives. We have territories that are frightening for us to obey God in those areas and say, I'm going to do it. I'm going to commit it to God and I'm going to do it his way, and I don't care what it costs me. Maybe we need to obey him in the ways that we've been afraid to obey him in up till now. I think it would be good for us to sing this song as a prayer. uh in closing this morning. Number three seventy three. Take my life and let it be Come to create Lord to me. Take my hand and let them move Happy infos of I love Happy Imposta Take my tea and let them be swift and beautiful for me. Take my voice and let me sing Oh is only for my king Oh yeah, for my king. Take my snugger and my gold , not on my food I live hold. Take my home and send my Let them grow in peasless praise, let them grow in peasant sprays. Take my will and make it thine. It shall be no longer mine. Take my war in. Is thino, it shall be thy royal throat, it shall be thy royal grown. Let's pray. God help us to do it. We have such good intentions, Lord. You know how we talk to ourselves. You know that we want to want. That we want to be more like Christ. That we want to depend upon you more. That we want to be more pure in our devotion to you. That we want to live a life that is more honoring and glorifying to you, Lord. You know our hearts in that manner, and you know how tricky we can be with our We ask that you help us to turn corners in our lives. Corners that will break into praise to your wonderful name. Help us to walk as if we believe that you are holding our hand. And you're keeping your right hand free to do business with whatever needs to be done business with. And you're telling us that we don't need to fear. You'll help us. Help us to live that way, Lord. And Lord, I ask that you would make a difference in us this week that is noticeable. We pray these things in Jesus' name.