The dreaded after dinner all For you or for us. Could go either way, right? Um it'll only take a couple hours. Um so we're uh on part three. Um we're gonna talk about uh taking care, how we Here, are we looking through James, in James 1, starting in verse 22, where he writes, but be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourself. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres Being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. And so we've looked at that and we talked this morning about just the uh the the vital importance of having this played out in terms of community, specifically the the ecclesia, the church. Um, you know, it's interesting we didn't I don't think we got into this much earlier, but uh when James writes, he said, uh being a hearer only is to deceive ourselves. Now the nature of deceit is that you don't know that it's happening to you. That's why it's called deceit. And so you need a mirror. You need uh outside revelation and often uh the church The community that you've surrounded yourself by is that mirror. God has set many mirrors before us, his word, his spirit, and his bride. And so God desires clearly that we hear him Genesis opens up with a sermon, God speaking into the nothingness that was, bringing form, order, creation. God has always spoken and communicated. And this is a a blessing that he does so. And we we we we have his word which is If it doesn't, you should stop and think about that sometimes, that God has given us his word. It sort of blows our mind. It blows my mind that he would be so kind to do that. And so we're going to look tonight in his word , specifically in Luke chapter eight. Luke chapter 8. If you've got your Bibles, turn over. I'm going to go ahead and read through it. We'll pray. I'll give you some thoughts and then we'll get into the text. This is the parable of the soap. And we're going to look at different ways that we can hear. There's a great crowd with gathering. Luke 8, beginning in verse 4, a great crowd was gathering, and people from town after town came to him, came to Jesus. And Jesus said in a parable, he said, a sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell among the path that was and was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it, and some fell on the rock. And as it grew up, it withered away because it had no moisture, and some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it. And some fell into good soil, and it grew, and it yielded a hundredfold. And as he said these things, he called out, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And this is amazing, this is unique in many ways among the parables because Jesus then interprets it for us. Beginning in verse 9, his disciples asked him what the parable meant. Jesus said, To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but for others they are parables. So that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. Now the parable is this: the seed is the word of God. And the ones along the path are those who have heard. And then the devil comes away, takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved. And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy. But these have no root. They believe for a while, and in the time of testing, they fall away. And as for what fell among the thords, the thords, these are those who hear, but if they go on their way, they're choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit, those not mature. As for the good seeds, they are those who hearing the word hold it fast in an honest and good heart and bear fruit with patience. Father, thank you again. For the goodness of your word. Lord, thank you that we can come so easily before you to communicate with you. And Lord, we recognize that we can only do that because of Jesus. And so, Father, as we approach you and approach you through prayer and through your word, as we gather together, Lord, we pray that you would be pleased. To dwell among your people. To as we continue to pray, Lord, to illuminate our hearts and our minds to the great truths of your word that we might not simply gain knowledge and understanding but that that that we might put them into action Father, that we might be doers of your word. Lord, loving your people and loving you. Not as a means of gaining more favor with you. I love um the the the quote from I think it's Tozer who said, our our belief in you adds nothing to you and our doubt takes nothing away. Lord our um our actions In the same sense, do not add anything to you. You are who you are. You don't need us to do anything. And yet father as a uh as as a as a dad rejoices in a child that joins him in his labor, even though he's Work is not that awesome or efficient. That relational joy that is present, Father, I pray that we would have a great sense of that and move out, Father, in passion and empower. Because we desire to be where our Father is doing the work that He is doing, following our friend and our brother and our Lord Jesus. So Father, as we consider tonight the different ways that we can hear your word, the different ways it can be ingested and taken in, and the different outcomes Of that, Lord, I pray that you would uh give us a clarity of thought and mind and heart and hand uh as we look into these marvelous truths from your word. We pray that you would bless our time in Jesus' name. Amen. So Jesus says, take care. How you hear. Take care how you hear. There are good and right ways of hearing the Word of God, but clearly There are some destructive and damaging ways of hearing. Now uh Sorry, Kate. Uh my kids going back to my kids. Where I am in life. My kids sometimes have hearing problem. And so one of the things that uh my wife kind of notice is that as we're uh reminding them of something that They already know that this not putting into action. Sometimes they'll just, you know, there'll be uh what schemes Like oblivious. And so just as just as an experiment, we started throwing in random uh words into our sentences as we're talking to them, like Browning Or cookies. So I'll be talking about something innocuous and say brownie. And all of a sudden like every eye did you say brownies? Did you say dad? Did dad say cookies? Um uh hearing and how he how he hears uh is is really a big Deal and I have a lot more examples of that that I'm gonna embarrass Caleb with later. Um But hearing is obviously a very big deal, an important thing. In fact, the reading in Romans 10 earlier just reminds me of the importance of hearing. And so I don't want you to feel as as we're talking about hearing and doing, I don't want you to to feel in any way like we're diminishing That the word of God should be heard because we're not at all. And in fact, Romans 10 tells us, he says, how then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how will they believe on him whom they have never heard? And how will they hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. There are those who have heard, but have not obeyed. Who have heard but have not Done, who are hearers but not doers. They have not obeyed the gospel for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us So faith comes from hearing, hearing through the word of Christ. Hearing through the word of Christ. Hearing and listening. This is a distinction that I am making. I think it is implicit in the scriptures. But in my home We distinguish between hearing and listening. Hearing and listening I think there's a danger in hearing the Word of God, but not listening to the Word of God. Again, in my house, we try to be very careful to distinguish between the two because I can hear you without really listening to. Now in the biological sense, hearing is passive. It's a passive sense. Sound waves travel through the air, they come in through the ear canal, they're transmitted uh from there into the brain and The brain translates that into discernible language, ideas, concepts. It's very complex and marvelous, but it is a passive sense. That's hearing. Listening by contrast is active Listening engages more than the ears. I think listening engages also the heart. And then the head and the hand. Now, children innately know the difference between uh hearing and listening. I am not, I'm I'm up front, I get that, this sounds contradictory. I am not by nature a talker It's not comfortable for me to talk a lot. I'm an internal processor. If my wife and I are arguing, I like time and space to think Uh she's like, okay, let's work this out right now. I'm like, I I've got to have room, I've got to have time to to sit and think. Uh and once I've fully articulated in my mind what I want to say, uh usually at that point and not before, then I will speak. Uh You know, if if you and I were hanging out a lot, uh, you'll find that I'm not terribly catty, and it's not that I don't like you, I do. Uh it's just that I'm not that much of a talker. Um My wife, however, she's the opposite of that. And I mean that in the most loving An endearing way possible. Uh but I have to say I almost never have to wonder what is on her mind. And she has blessed me with three very outgoing children who are generally the same way. They're all fairly talkative. They're all uh tend to be verbose, at least around us, and and each of them by the time they're 18 to 24 months old could hold an intelligent conversation with most Anybody. And they know, they knew then, they know now the difference between hearing and listening. And if you had kids. Yours most likely do too. And you uh you've probably seen a particular scenario play out. Um my kids will will come to me Uh typically while I'm doing something else, I'm engaged in some, you know, whatever. Uh and and as I'm doing whatever it is I'm I'm focused on that thing. And so my my child is is talking to me and I'm just I'm focus I'm they're over here I'm talking yes okay yep that's very interesting Uh but because kids know the difference between uh listening and hearing, uh little hands eventually sort of reach up to my face and they turn my head this way. Uh because they know That while I'm hearing them, I'm not really uh listening. Uh and and gently but firmly they they turn my head and continue sharing all of their thoughts Uh when my daughter Beth was about two, she would tell me, she would say, Daddy, I want you to listen with all of your head. And my son, my son said, Sam will will tell me now, Dad, put your face over here. Because they know the difference between hearing And listen. And I think scripture indicates a difference as well. If you read through the Psalms, you'll see the Psalmist often pleading with God to both hear and listen. Two quick examples. Psalm 61, 1. Hear my cry, O God. Listen to my prayer. Psalm 78. 1. My people hear my teaching, listen to the words of my mouth Hearing is needed and necessary, but listening goes further than hearing. Listening is the giving of one's time and attention To truly receive what the other person is saying and then act upon it where appropriate and necessary. Hearing is Passive in the biological sense, but listening is interactive. I would even say that listening has a spiritual aspect to it. Listening to someone Is is in a way giving of yourself. Listening is an act of care. It's an act of love. Listening, I think, tends to lead toward uh doing. My kids when when we when we've asked them to clean their room their times and say, hey, I need you to go clean your room. It's an absolute mess. I'll come back 15, 20 minutes later, nothing's been done. I say, hey Caleb, why didn't you clean up your room? The answer I almost always get is, oh, oh, I forgot. I forgot. That's not a hearing problem. That's a listening problem. It's an issue of misplaced priorities. Because they heard me when I asked them, but they didn't listen. They have knowledge of what they're supposed to do. But they didn't actually do anything with it. They are hearers in that sense, but not doers. And that's James's whole point. If you're not Hearing, if you're if you're if you're hearing the word of God, but not doing it , you're deceived. It's not that you have a hearing problem It's that you have a listening problem. It's an issue of misplaced priorities There's a huge difference between hearing and listening, as we see with our with our children when they turn our face or with your with your wife. If my wife has more than once said, hey, I need your face right here On me, off your computer screen, and off your phone, off your iPad, and right here. Right? Because it's about more than just the exchange of information. It's relational. It's about relationship. And as we said, I think the first night, when it comes to the Bible, when it comes to the scriptures, when it comes to the Word of God, the message. You hear is meant to do more than just fill your head with knowledge. The message is meant to lead you to the messenger. The message is meant to lead us to a person, not simply to knowledge about. a person. I remember uh a time when Katie, my wife, was first uh diagnosed with Lyme disease and she was uh dealing with uh just a particular season of uh of discouragement. We've tried a lot of stuff to treat it and it was like this continual process of hope deferred. So we would try uh antibiotics. We did six months of that. Oh it's gonna do it. No, it didn't do anything. Well let's try this other thing. This will be the thing. Oh no. And and after we've gone through several uh cycles of of of different things. Um You know, she just felt physically and spiritually and emotionally drained. And one night as we're discussing her struggles She gently expressed to me her desire for me to be more proactive in encouraging her during this difficult time. She just needed me to be intentional, to give her some encouragement. I thought, hey, no problem, I can do that. Easy, right? And uh a couple weeks later we're having a follow-up conversation, uh, and she uh expressed in the in the course of that conversation uh a level of disappointment That I did not seem to have listened to her. And quite frankly, I was surprised and more than a little offended. And I told her, I said, but how how can you even say that? Because I think about what you said almost every day. And she said, that may be true. You may think about it every day, but you haven't actually done anything about it. It was a fair point. I heard, but I didn't listen. There are many areas of life where just hearing maybe is is okay, but but relationships are not typically one of those areas. To be fully engaged in a in a relationship requires hearing and doing. It requires listening Not just the absorbing of knowledge, but knowledge and application. Because you see in that initial conversation, my wife had given me a message. I need your encouragement. I'm discouraged. I'm struggling. I heard the message. I thought about the message a lot. But it didn't actually do anything in light of the message. It wasn't a hearing problem. It was a listening problem. The issue wasn't lack of knowledge. It was failure to act upon the knowledge that I had been given. I failed to see that the point of this message from my wife was not knowing the message. The message should have led me to care for the messenger. Her message should have led me to do something in the context of our relationship, to be more than a hearer. And deceive myself in the thinking of just knowing was okay, but to be a doer, and to be blessed, and be a blessing in the doing. The value, likewise, in the scriptures and in the word of God is not in the message itself. The message is vital, it is important, it must be there. But the value beyond it is that it leads us to the messenger. And so it stands to reason that how we hear And that we listen is important. And so here in Luke chapter 8, verses 4 through 18, as we look at the parable of the sower, Jesus gives us here four responses. To a message, to the preaching of the Word of God, four kinds of soil, four kinds of hearts, four kinds of hearing. And what we notice again is that Jesus interprets each one for us. And he interprets them explicitly as four ways of hearing. The word. Take care how you hear. This parable is helpful for us in many ways. It helps us perhaps take stock of our own heart. Because we would certainly want to make sure, right, that we're not falling in. There's four. Three of them do not work out well. Three of them are bad ways of hearing. One is good way of hearing. We would want to know, would we not, if we're falling into one of those three destructive ways of hearing Because everyone around us, ourselves and everyone around us, everyone we interact with, everyone we lead or minister with or minister to fall somewhere within this spectrum. And so it's helpful, this is a very helpful parable because it helps us know better where we might be, but also helps us know where others may be, so that we can lead and help and serve and minister. To those around us, this parable again is unique and interesting because Jesus interprets it for us. And the fact that Mark's account of this parable in Mark chapter 4. Jesus even goes so far to say, says, look, if you can't understand this parable, how can you understand any of them? And so he lays out through the these these accounts, the account in uh in Luke, in Mark, and in Matthew. that he is the sower, that the seed is the word of God, and that the soil is the human heart in which these seeds fall And so we have the first way of hearing in verse five. Some seed Some word says fell along the path and was trampled underfoot. The birds of the air devoured it. And then Jesus interprets it for us in verse 12. And he says, the ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts. So that they may not believe and be saved. This is a stubborn, hard-hearted way of hearing This is an eternally devastating way of hearing. Hebrews 3. 15 says, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts in rebellion. 2 Corinthians 4, for the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. And so there is a way of hearing that is hard-hearted and leaves your heart open and vulnerable To the ruler of this current world system, the God of this world, the ruler of the kingdom of the air, Satan There's a second way of hearing in verse 6. He said, then some fell on the rock. And as it grew up , It withered away because it had no moisture. Jesus then interprets this for us in verse 13. Those on the rocky soil are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy. But these have no firm root. They believe for a while, but in a time of temptation fall away. So I think this is a a shallow, superficial way of hearing. This is buffet-line hearing. This sounds good. I'll take some of this for now. This is a person who may uh even appear to be zealous They may even appear to bear some amount of fruit. But then uh the scriptures say as it grows up, it withers. It withers quickly because it has no moisture. So something actually grows, but then it Fades away. There's no firm root. There's no real connection. There's no connection with the Word of God and the body of Christ. This is an outward quote-unquote faith that may look good for a while but eventually falls away. This is a type of hearing that lasts only until hard times come. In 1 John chapter 2, he speaks of a group of people, and he goes so far as to even say that they are anti -Christian. 1 John 2. 19 says they went out from us, but they were not of us. So this was a people that were among the brethren, but they were not of them. For they had been, had they been of us, they would have continued with us, but they went out that it might become plain that they were not of us. That's the second way of hearing. He gives us a third way of hearing in verse 7. Other seed fell among the thorns. The thorns grew up with it and choked it out. These thorns grew up with it and choked it out. Jesus gives us the interpretation In verse 14, as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked. But the cares and riches and pleasures of life and their fruit does not mature. That's the third kind of hearing. This is a worldly and distracted kind of hearing. This is a person who has received the world, but who is so distracted and preoccupied With the things around them that the gospel and gospel fruit is eventually choked out This may not be a quick withering away, but a slow fade over time as worries and riches and pleasures eventually crowd out Jesus. These thorns grow up with The seeds. The fruit does not mature. In 2 Timothy 4 10, Paul points out specifically such a person. He says, for demons In love with this present world has deserted me. Gone to Thessalonica. First John 2 again. Verse 15, do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in them. There's a fourth way of hearing in verse 8. It says other seed fell into the good soil and grew up and produced a crop a hundred times as great. Jesus interprets for us in verse 15, as for the good soil, he says, they are those who hearing the word hold it fast. They hold it fast in an honest and good heart and bear fruit. With patience. They endure. That's the fourth kind of hearing. The best way of hearing it is a receptive, upright hearing that endures. It's not only speaking to a absorb by hearing but also seeking to apply when it is heard seeking to bear fruit there's no such thing as a Christ follower who does not bear fruit. That's not to say that the amount of fruit is important not at all, but the presence of fruit is very important This is a hearing that detests the devil, endures trial and suffering, and disregards the world. And thus bears fruit. John 15, 8. This is to my Father's glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves. To be my disciples. And then if you read on in this chapter of Luke, Jesus goes on to describe the fruitful light as a powerful light. Right before he says, be careful how you hear. Verses 16. No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed. But he puts it on a stand so that those who enter may see the light, for nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light. Take care then how you hear. For the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks he has will be taken away. Take care how you hear. And you see this with the first three kinds of hearing. Each receives in some aspect the word. They they hear the word. But with the first type of hearing, the hard-hearted hearer Satan snatches it away. With the second type of hearer, the superficial shallow hearer, the first trial that comes along snatches it up. With the third type, the worldly and distracted hearer, what they think they have slowly becomes choked out I can't help but think of hearing in terms of stewardship, that there is a way of hearing the Word of God that is bad stewardship. And there is a way of hearing the word of God, of listening to the word of God that is good stewardship. We know from Jesus' parable in Matthew 25 that uh if we do not invest What he has given us that there will be devastating consequences Now, the hope in all of this, the encouragement, is that soil can change. The fact that there is an exhortation at all to take care how you hear indicates, I think, that there's a great hope that it's not just locked in and okay, you're this type of soil for all time, that's just going to be the way it is The prophet Jeremiah chapter 4 verse 3 says, break up your fallow ground and do not sow among thorns. I don't know if those of you uh involved in agriculture and farming know that word, fallow ground. I had to look it up myself. Hosea ten verse twelve says, Sow for yourselves righteousness. Reap steadfast love. Break up your fallow ground. For it is time for you to seek the Lord God that he may come and rain righteousness upon you. Hallow ground is that ground which has been plowed but not seeded. So it's been plowed. It's a little crusty on top. Uh or or or by because it's been sitting there for a little while, weeds have begun to s to to to spring up. And so we're encouraged by Scripture to break up the fallow ground. How do you do this? How do we break up the fallow ground of our hearts so that the Word of God might Take root and not be snatched up, not be uh chased away, not be ignored. I'm going to give you some ways to do that. None of these are revolutionary. You're all going to say, well, yeah, sure, that's the way you do it. This is not New new content or new information, but how do you know? How do you know you're hearing well? How do you How do you know you're listening? How do I know that I'm hearing God and not only hearing myself? How do I know I'm not being deceived? Because we said, right, the nature of deceit is that you don't know that you're being deceived. That's the whole thing with the deceitfulness of sin. So man, I can talk myself into believing anything and justifying whatever action I want. So how do I know if my doing is of God? How do I know if my doing is really a result of what I think I've heard from God? How do I know that I'm not just hearing the temptations of Satan disguised as the Holy Spirit. How do I know that every thought coming across my head is my own thought? How can I distinguish from my own flesh and the leading of God's spirit? What if those thoughts or urges or the things we think, oh this seems like a good thing to do, how do we know that's not coming from the enemy of our souls or from our own flesh? How do we How do we take every thought captive? 2 Corinthians 10, 5 admonishes us to do if we're not sure where the thoughts are even coming from. As you know, because you've been taught well, most commonly God communicates to us through his word, his inspired word preserved through the centuries. For us today, we have his word. We have his spirit. We have the bride, the community of believers around us. And so our first line of sort of discernment as we enter into the Word, the Spirit, and the Bride, is prayer. It's prayer. Again , not revolutionary. It's not a new thing, a new revelation. If we are confused about whether or not we are hearing From God. It is good and right. James tells us in the fifth verse of the first chapter that we're looking at, that we can pray for wisdom It is good to pray to pray for wisdom at any point, even when we're not confused, but certainly if we are. And so we should ask the Lord for the wisdom to discern his will for what he might have us do. When we pray, James says, in verse six of the first chapter, we must believe and not doubt. Because the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea tossed around, double-minded, blown and tossed by the wind. And then if we do not act out eventually in faith, having prayed and asked God for what He said He will give us, that wisdom. Stepping out in faith. And if we don't do that, he goes on in verse 7 and says, look, if you're not going to do it in faith, don't expect to receive anything from the Lord, but to talk to God in prayer. The first line of right discernment, keeping in mind that sometimes his answer is no. And if he says no, we can thank him for his clarity and and and and move on from there But if if there's no sense of no , then we can look to the Word. We look to the Word. It's God's Word. It's the primary way God speaks to us. It's the way that we learn God's specific character and of his dealings with people throughout history. 2 Timothy 3. 16 says that all scripture is feonusis. Feonusis. Theo, God, nuisance, pneumatic, air, breathe. All scripture is God breathed. It's breathed out by God and is a guide to righteousness, the righteous life. And when we speak to God in prayer, he speaks to us through his word. And so as we read through scripture, it is good to remind ourselves that this is not simply information, it's not simply Suggestion, it's not simply, hey, here's some good ideas. If you want to, you could think about these things. These are the words of God. Theonusis. God breathes. To hear the voice of God, read the Word of God, to see the face of God, read the Word of God. And so any thought, any desire, anything that we think we're hearing And desire to listen to, a desire to engage with, desire to be a doer, must be brought to the Word of God for comparison and approval. Am I considering this rightly Let the scriptures be the judge of our hearing and of our thinking, for the word of God is alive and active, sharper than any double-edged sword Penetrates even to the dividing of soul and spirit, joints and marrow, it judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart. Hebrews 4, 12. No matter how urgent you feel you must act on something. Remember we don't want knowled application divorced from knowledge, zeal without knowledge. And so we compare it against Scripture. If it's not in Scripture, if it goes against what Scripture says, you reject it and we move on. With this process, prayer, going to the Word, we have the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit of God. A divine person of the Trinity, not an impersonal force, not an it, but a him, with a mind and emotions, a will. Always with us. Romans eight tells us purposefully interceding for us. And giving gifts for the benefit of the church, 1 Corinthians 12, whose gifts we have, Paul writes, are for the common good. The Holy Spirit fills us and produces in us his fruit. Galatians 5, no matter the decisions we're making Day to day whatever is resulting from those decisions should in some way uh Bear the fruits of the Spirit, love, and joy, and peace and patience and kindness and goodness and gentleness and self-control for the glory of the Father. And so if we're dealing with something that say, well, should is this thought from the Lord? Am I listening to the voice of God? Now 1 John 4 says that we must learn to discern the spirits, to test the spirits. Does that does that thing, that voice, that thought, does it confess Christ? Two weeks ago I met with a 23-year-old man who one hour before he sat in my office put a gun to his head and pulled the trigger. The gun did not go off. The people who were living with him brought him in to see a pastor at our church. I happened to be there. uh and was available to meet with him uh on their way to a psychiatric hospital. Uh and so as I spoke with him and asked him why in the world he would do that uh because he said that he was a spiritual man. He believed in God. He believed and so as we're talking of Matthew about the Bible and about Christ and about God. And he talks to me about higher powers. That he's sure that most roads lead to some higher power and that he prays a lot. And that he uh gets responses to his prayers and so this act that he had just done uh seemed like something that a higher power was asking him to do and so we spoke of this passage in 1 John 4 Not every voice in your head is your own. So if you're praying to some force out there, and I told this confused gentleman that whatever he was praying to was not God. Because what he was being told to do does not reconcile with Scripture, does not reconcile with the Holy Spirit, does not confess Christ. as the Son of God. And so we are to test the Spirit. The Holy Spirit Of God will never ever lead us to gratify the sinful desires of the flesh. He will always lead us towards sanctification. The Spirit of God always leads us down the narrow path So we must be vigilant to test the spirits in that way and to follow, to discern what is the Holy Spirit in his leading for us. Some good diagnostic questions that uh I I find and and sometimes help walk people through when they're having trouble discerning, okay, what is it that I'm hearing? And should I listen to it Um are those promptings are they confusing or are they vain? If they're confusing Or vague in a way that, well, if they tend to be confusing, we know that God is not the author of confusion. He is rather a bringer of peace. That's 1 Corinthians 14, 33. Do those thoughts go against God's word? We already talked about that. God does not contradict himself. He's not going to tell you to do something That contradicts his word. Well, following those promptings, will following that voice, that inclination, will it lead to sin? Those who keep in step with the Spirit, Galatians 5 tells us, have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. I think we talked about that a couple years ago. Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. The promptings of the Lord will not lead us to sin. So we have prayer. We have the word. We have the Holy Spirit. And as we talked about this morning, we have the Ecclesia, the gathered church. It is good to seek counsel from those around you, from your leaders, from your elders, from your family members. From those who watch over you, for those who must give an account for your lies. The more we listen to God, the more we hear his voice, discern that it is his, the more we listen and then put to action The more we hear and do, the easier it is to distinguish his voice from the other voices in our heads. Or in our hearts. Jesus, the good shepherd, gives us a promise. In John 10, 4, it says, he goes on ahead of them, and his sheep will follow him. Why? Because they know his voice. Others may speak, but the sheep do not listen to them. The better we know our shepherd, the less we have to worry about listening to the wrong voices. And so in our hearing and in our doing, let us certainly take care how we hear. I'm going to close simply by reading to you two sections of scripture. The first from Psalm 139, the second from Hebrews 3, 7 through 14. It says this, search me. O God, and know my heart. See if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Hebrews 3, 7 through 14, therefore as the Holy Spirit says today If you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion on the day of testing in the wilderness? Where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works for forty years. And therefore I was provoked with that generation. And I swore an oath, they shall not enter my rest. Take care, brother, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to crawl away from the living God. Take care how you hear. Rather verse thirteen exhort one another every day as long as it is called today. It is amazing. We 're the ways that we are created in the image of God is that we can speak, we can communicate. With the power of the tongue, nations rise and fall, hearts heal and break. There's power in our words because we are made in the image of God, the God who created simply by speaking. But exhort one another every day as long as it is called today That none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. For we have come to share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end. Father, help us hear rightly. Help us listen well Father, thank you for Christ who allows us to come freely before you and who instructs us. Lord showing us the gravity. There is a gravity with how we hear, how we listen. So Father, help us listen rightly to your word. Help us extend care to each other by listening, not just hearing, but engaging our minds and our hearts and our hands. Well that we might be spurred not simply to saying, oh, interesting point, very good, but that we might be spurred to action. Lord, to love expressed outwardly for those around us In a way that proclaims your excellencies and shows those around us the glory of your gospel. Father, we need you to do that for us. Lord, we are often a confused people. Lord, and there are times Blessed these days by your grace. But there are times when it is hard to hear if that is your voice or not. And so Father, you are kind to give us so many. resources, so many mirrors around us that would reveal to us where you're leading us, how you're leading us, if that's you that's leading us. And so Father, let us treasure prayer, let us treasure your scriptures, let us treasure you as you indwell us, your Holy Spirit. And let us cherish and nurture your bribe. Lord, that those around us can confirm or deny. As needed, Father, when we fall into confusion or sin. Father, help us be doers who are blessed in our doing. Father, we pray that you'd continue to bless our time here, the rest of our evening, our sleep tonight, our day tomorrow. Lord, we're grateful to gather. Together, under your banner, under your love. So Father, we continue to pray and ask for your great blessing and guidance. In Jesus' name. Amen.