We ended on verse 6 of this text last week, and I'd like to talk about it a little bit more this week. Verse 6, Jesus said to them his brothers, My time has not yet come, but your time is always here Let's think about this a little while. Jesus gives us more insight into why he said what he said in the next verse when he says that the world can't hate you But hates me because I testify about it that it its works are evil. Jesus is essentially telling his brothers here, what you do and when you do it. Doesn't matter. It's almost like he's telling them, you can do what you want when you want to do it. Why? Because you're operating according to the flesh. You're doing fleshly stuff. You are the king on your soul's throne. Nothing you're doing is really all that vital. So if you do it, you do it. If you don't, you don't. If you do it today, if you do it tomorrow, it really makes little difference. Why? You're living as unbelievers. That's what he was telling them. You'll die and face judgment. Nothing you do will further the kingdom of God in your current status. Your contribution is insignificant. Do you ever find yourself wanting to be able to do what you want to do and when you want to do it? This is especially true of young people. Do you want to get out from under your parents' rule? Do you want the absolute freedom to do whatever you want? Do you want free from authority? Well, guess what? If if that's how you feel, if that's how you think, that puts you right there with Jesus Unbelieving brothers Go to the celebration today, go tomorrow, don't go at all, it doesn't really matter. Your life lives for itself is not important enough to matter. As long as you're the authority in your own life, your life is only as important as the single human being that you are. And you're surrounded by thousands of generations of people and a world filled with billions of other human beings. I've often said that our experience of our value As human beings, is usually directly proportional to the value of the thing that our lives are committed to. That might not sound important at first, but it is. We shouldn't be terribly surprised when people who live for themselves don't have a great sense of importance about their own lives. They feel unimportant. They feel insignificant. That's not true of all of them, but it's often true. And no amount of self-talk is going to turn a pile of dust into a diamond. We intrinsically know that none of us is really all that intrinsically valuable. We don't hold value in and of ourselves by existing. We need to have value assigned to us. And that's what Christ does when he calls us to himself. He assigns the value of his life to us, because that's what he was willing to pay for us. We are not our own. We were bought with the price, and that was the price. I know that I'm not intrinsically worth the death of Christ on my behalf. I wasn't worth it. What he paid for me was way too much for what he got. But I also know that is the price that he paid for me I have value, but I'll not experience a proper appreciation of that value apart from my commitment to the one who saved me. Do you feel like your life has little meaning at times? Ask yourself this question: what are you committed to? What are you living for? Galatians 5 us in commitment. Galatians 5. It starts by talking about freedom. Galatians 5 1. It says, for freedom Christ has set us free, stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Now wait Christ was telling his brothers that he was on a tight schedule. Christ was saying, I can't just do whatever I feel like doing when I feel like doing it, and that seems kind of restrictive, doesn't it? That doesn't seem much like freedom. I gotta do what I gotta do when I gotta do it. Yet Paul says Christ set us free. In order to understand this, we need to understand what we are freed from. and what we are free for. Paul goes on to say that we are not enslaved to a legalistic system of rule keeping To gain salvation or to keep salvation. He says it doesn't matter if you get circumcised. What does count? Verse 6, faith working through love. That's what counts. And he continues, Galatians 5, 13 and 14. For you were called to freedom, brothers. Well, that's good. We were called to freedom, but don't use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. But through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. So we as Christians are free from a legalistic pursuit of spirituality. And we are free for Living exactly the way God wants us to live. That's what we are free for. You see, that's the kind of restriction Christ was under. He was not free to come and go to the temple as he pleased. He was free to submit himself to his father's will. He was free for that. My point is that you and I must walk like Christ did. Verse 16, but I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. Those are the things we are free from. And the things we are free for. You see how a Christian lives? Our lives are ordered. Our lives are led. We follow. We don't lead. We follow. We might lead other people as we follow Christ. But primarily our lives are one of following. We walk by the Spirit. We obey the Word of God in the ordering of our lives. We submit to God's word in each decision. At least that's the goal. We know that's not always how we carry it out, but we know that that's what we want to do. When the Holy Spirit brings a scripture or a scriptural principle to our minds, we submit. Our lives are ordered. Our lives have a plan. What we do is very important. Because we are living for that which is higher than ourselves. And again, like we keep seeing over and over in the theme of the Gospel of John , Those who truly follow Christ are fundamentally different from the inside out. And there are clues when this is true. And Galatians goes on to identify some of those differences. They are soul deep differences. They are not just on the surface. They show themselves on the surface, but they come from deeper than that. They are soul-deep differences. They reveal a different source of living. Verse 22: But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh. With its passions and desires, those are the things we're free from. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. That's what we are freed for, and that is how we are to live And notice this says, keep step with the Spirit. This is similar to what Jesus is saying when he says, my time has not yet come. This is the kind of life that Christ modeled for us in our text this morning. Not my will, but thy will be done. It's that kind of life. We see the same kind of thing explained in Romans. Romans 8, 12 through 17. It says, So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh. But to live according to the flesh, no, we're not free for that. We saw in Galatians, we are free from moral legalism, and Romans is telling us we are also free from living by the flesh. We are free from that. We are from living like Jesus brothers. We are free from that. Doing whatever they want, whenever they want. We are free from that. We are free from that useless life that does not matter anymore. Verse 13, for if you live according to the flesh, you'll die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, if you live free from it , You'll live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. But for if for you did not receive the Spirit of slavery, To fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba Father. Again, three from three four. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirits that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. So do you see the difference? Christians have a completely different, an otherworldly Power source. We're getting our power from somewhere else. It's not internally generated. Christianity truly is not a religion that can be compared with other religions. Christianity is more like a virus that someone catches. Something happens to the Christian that's far bigger than the decisions that he makes. We're given the Holy Spirit, and now we're to live following the Holy Spirit's rule in our hearts. The Spirit even works inside of us, convincing us that we're really different than we were. Praise God for that. Sometimes we need some convincing. We really are different from all the dead men walking around us. That's what Christ has been saying in different words in our text. John speaks more about this in John 10 when he says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. They follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. So we see it again. Every shepherd knew exactly what Christ was describing here. There was a shepherd in the audience. They knew. They knew exactly what he meant, and most of the other people would have known, because it was a major industry. The sheep knew the shepherd's voice. Not because they compared all the voices. You know, these sheep weren't saying, well, that's not, that's not that whoa that one is. Because that one appeals to me the most No, they knew the shepherd's voice because the shepherd had chosen that sheep for his own. And the shepherd ingrained his voice on that sheep due to the shepherd's ownership and the shepherd's continual care of that sheep to where that sheep instinctively knew this is my savior, this is my Lord, this is my shepherd. So when the sheep hear his voice, it's built into the sheep to follow that shepherd. And notice that the sheep do follow. Again, these followers of Christ follow. The sheep don't pick their pastures, the sheep don't provide the still waters. They stick to the shepherd and they do what he says, and then she bleeds the shepherd leads them into all this stuff. Do you see the point that I'm trying to make based off of Jesus' life? Jesus was our role model for how life is to be lived. He submitted everything, and he submitted to his father's timetable. He obeyed. He lived for a higher purpose than his human existence, and his life was of ultra value to all who would ever be saved. Now, we live the same way. We live submitted to our master's timetables and our master's rules of engagement. We follow the Spirit in everything, or at least that's the goal. That's what we shoot for. We want to walk in the Spirit. And obviously, again, we fail at times, but we know what failure is. Because we know what we are called to. You and I live very important lives because they are lives being used by Christ to build his eternal kingdom That's pretty amazing, really, that God would choose people like us to involve us in something so very important. What we are part of is far more important than the life of John Ziegler, or any of us for that matter. You and I live best when we imitate our friend John the Baptist when he said he has to increase, I gotta decrease. We're getting it then. Carla and I came across something in Legnair 's Tabletop Devotional. It's from John Owen, and he wrote this in his classic book, The Mortification of Sin. So I'm going to quote it Those who seek to put sin to death do not just seek to deal with a few besetting sins. Rather, they pursue obedience to God in all of life. And that's what we're talking about this morning with Jesus. Owen says that you cannot mortify a specific lust that is troubling you unless you are seeking to obey the Lord from the heart. in all areas. If we do not ser if we do not strive to serve God in all things, we cannot expect to have victory over specific sins. If we will do anything, we must do everything. So then, our need is not only an intense opposition to this or that particular lust. And we all understand that. We all know what those things are for us. It's more than that, but a universal, humble fame and temper of heart that watches over every evil. And seeks the performance of every duty that is pleasing to God. Certain sins may trouble us more than others, but God hates every sin. In our lives. Thus, we must pursue holy obedience in every area of our lives. I believe that many of the failures in my life are due to wanting to limit God's work on me to certain areas where sin makes me uncomfortable. I don't like it. Makes me feel like a bad person. Makes me, you know, experience how sinful I really am. They're the sins that really bother me. But there are some areas where I have the freedom to do something, like Galatians was talking about, this freedom that we have in Christ to do these things, where the thing in itself is not sinful But I become convicted that it's not beneficial. There's something I could do that would be better for the kingdom than partaking of the freedom that I am enjoying and rationalizing. And I don't want to take that thing on. Maybe it's hard, maybe I don't want to give it up. And as a result, I end up having difficulties on all fronts. Because I'm not willing to welcome God's work in every area of my life, and often in a particular area of my life, that I can rationalize or justify. I think that's what John Owens is addressing. The application reduces down to this. Will we view our lives? The way that Christ viewed his own. Will we view our lives the way that Christ reviewed or viewed his own? Will we limit all that we do To the Lord's leading. Not what we can justify, but to the Lord's leading. Will we pay close attention to our consciences? Will we welcome the Holy Spirit to bring Scripture to mind continually? Will we seek out which way we should go from Scripture instead of from advantage? Okay, let's continue. Let's look at verse 7 again. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it that its works are evil. Jesus is telling his brothers that they're in no danger when they go to Jerusalem because they pose no threat. They're of the same kin as the religious leaders in the fleshly crowd. They're not on the other side. They're not the spirit people. They're the flesh people. They'll not uh they're not going to point out the sin that is around them. They're not going to walk in the light. So they won't receive all the hate that the world will dish out. on those who follow Christ. This is not to say that non-believers can't hate non-believers. We see that plenty of times. But this is what it's talking about. Jesus warned his true followers often that the world will hate them and they should expect that they will be hated And it will be without reason, it's going to be without cause, it'll be irrational, it will be unexplainable. You look on the news and you listen to people rant and rave, and you see a lot of that Hatred will just well up inside them. They can't help it. The world can't hate its own in the way that the world will hate the influence of Jesus Christ wherever it comes from. And Christ tells us why. Christ reminds them that those of this world are doing works that are evil. No good, just evil. Verse 8, so you go up to the feast, I'm not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come After saying this, he remained in Galilee, but after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but in private. This passage makes a lot of people uncomfortable. It makes me uncomfortable. Jesus said that he was not going to the feast. He waited a while, then he went to the feast. What's up here? What's the deal? Well, maybe I'm going to lay out a couple of possibilities. Maybe it was implied in what Jesus said that he wasn't going to this feast the way that his brothers were taunting him to. I'm not going. It's like he was saying, You're telling me to go to the feast to exploit it for my purposes? I'm not going. I'm not going in that context. If that's true, it wouldn't rule out that he would go with a different motive and a different purpose later And maybe that's how we're to understand it. Maybe the fact that Jesus said he was not going because the time isn't right didn't exclude him from going when the time was right. Or maybe Christ is demonstrating that we don't owe everyone all the truth all the time. Something like this is always dangerous to say, and I'm always careful about saying it, especially around kids, because of where our flesh automatically goes. As soon as we think it's in any way, at any time permissible to deceive people, then where we go next in our flesh is to use it for our selfish purposes, to get ourselves out of trouble or to get something we want. That's usually how we lie. When flesh is in charge, that's how we lie. Well, whatever Christ was doing, he was not using it for selfish purposes. Maybe if Christ had told his brothers the truth, they would have made trouble for Christ and it would have rushed his timetable. He absolutely would not allow that to happen. Jesus may have lied in order to be able to save every person who would ever be saved. It was that big of a deal. You and I do well to be very careful about telling the truth as much as we can in every situation that we are in. If a lie could be used to give us a selfish advantage, that is always a sinful reason to lie. And that's generally how we are tempted. But if it could be used to save a life Like Rahab the prostitute did to save the Israelite spies? That's a good reason. Sometimes we find ourselves in bad spots, like when we tell someone we'll keep a confidence. Have you ever been in that spot? You tell someone, I'll keep a confidence, and then what do you do when somebody asks you, did so-and-so tell you this? That's a bind. We either lie by not keeping the confidence, or we lie by saying that the person did not tell me this thing. So can you see what I mean? There are multiple examples in Scripture where lies were told by godly men, and there is no bad commentary in Scripture about it. As if there is a hierarchy of law in Scripture, which I believe But the lies were to save lives. That's different than the lies we're tempted to tell. The lies were given to save lives. Remember when David acted like he was a crazy man He was saving a life then. And it was a deception. It was a very clear deception. I'm not exactly sure what we should make of all this, but it really doesn't pose anything that I regard as an ethical problem, no matter how we look at it, uh how Christ was handling it, what Christ meant. Alright, verse 11. The Jews were looking for him at the feast and saying, where is he? The word for Jews here, and we need to keep this in mind, the word for Jews here is likely referring to the immoral Jewish leadership This word begins to use be used more and more commonly to refer to Jesus' enemies. So from here on in, if you assume when it says Jews, it's talking about enemies of Christ You are more than likely going to be right. You have to tell by the context, but that is often the case now. So these leaders expected Jesus to show up. Well, what self-respecting leader would miss out on an opportunity like this? They probably, the leaders probably thought like Jesus Brothers did This is golden opportunity. This is the autumn glory of uh of our existence here. That's where all the people are. Surely you're going to go there. And they wanted to arrest him. Verse 12, and there was much muttering about him among the people. While some said, he's a good man. Others said, no, no, no. He's leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews, no one spoke openly of him. The word for muttering here means secret debate. Secret debate And I think the word really emphasizes the secrecy of the conversation, not the debate about it, but the secrecy of it. Because these folks didn't want the leadership to know what they thought of Jesus They wanted to have an opinion about Jesus. They wanted to be smart about Jesus. They wanted to have conversations about Jesus, but they didn't want it to cost them anything. And I think that's the emphasis. They didn't want it to cost them anything. A lot of people in our society have no trouble talking about Jesus For some, it's an opportunity to show much how much they know about Jesus. For others, it's just a chance for them to sh tell someone how Jesus fits into their worldview and how clever they are and how they have figured Jesus out. Jesus can be a very interesting conversation piece to a lot of people. But what we see throughout Jesus' life is that it does not matter if a person has a positive opinion about Christ or a negative opinion about Christ. Opinions don't matter. Opinions are the result of human thinking, but they have no real spiritual effect, no spiritual impact When we read about Pilate's conversation about Jesus, I think it becomes clear that Pilate had a good opinion of Jesus. Some of the religious leaders who tested Christ had a good opinion about Jesus. The rich young ruler had a good opinion about Jesus But what none of them had that we know of was saving faith in Jesus Savings faith is when we rest the whole outcome of our whole life upon the person and work of Jesus Christ We live and die for Christ. That's faith. We believe what he says, we obey what he commands, and we love his people. That's what 1 John says. That's faith. This kind of faith is not a natural outcome from human thinking. This kind of faith is the result of a supernatural calling of a person. And at the end of the day, it is the most important thing about a man. Because this belief will transform a man from the inside out. This kind of faith can be dependent upon. This kind of faith will make a person stand for Christ. It isn't wishy-washy, it's life-changing. Christ's goal in all of his teaching was not to get people to like him. It was not to get people to have a positive opinion toward him. He was not aiming to get a positive opinion from men. That has no power. A good opinion of Christ never saves a man from his sin. He just goes to hell being right about one more thing. Our goal also is not to get people to think that Jesus is cool. Our goal is to have them respond to Jesus as their Savior and Lord, and nothing else will really help them. The people who thought Jesus was a good guy We're in just as great a danger of judgment as those who thought he was leading people astray in our text. Jesus was calling people not to vote for him, but to believe in him. And that's a world of difference. Let's close him for it. Lord