Of the king's dream this morning. And he's going to tell Nebuchadnezzar what the end of the governments of the world is going to look like. Verse 44, in the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. Okay, this is in the days of the kingdom of the feet. That was pretty much the history time that it's in. It's the feet with the clay and the iron. And uh something dramatic is going to happen during that period of history. You could say human history was going to get rocked. Uh most scholars believe that this kingdom was the Roman government Now, what happened during the time of the Roman governor? Obviously, Christ was born. Christ was born, died, and rose again Verse 45 says this: Just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. We're talking about a stone that did not come through human intervention. In other words, it's not an earthly kingdom. It didn't come about through the normal human processes that a kingdom comes about in. It's supernatural. Colossians 2. 11 uses a similar phrase when it says, In him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands. Made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. It's the same idea. It is a process that is normally accomplished by human efforts But in this case, it was accomplished through a spiritual process, a supernatural process, a process without human intervention. This can't be explained through human means. So we see a stone that broke all the kingdoms of men to powder. What's this talking about? Well, where have we heard this imagery before? When you think of a stone in Scripture, what do you think of? Probably one of these. Luke 20, 17 and 18 says, But Christ looked directly at them and said, Well, what then is this that is written? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken into pieces. And when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. And 1 Peter 2, 4 through 8 says, As you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe, but is but for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense They stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do. Christ was referred to using the imagery of a stone in Scripture. The Church of Christ was also referred to as stones. In Daniel, we have the kingdoms of men being destroyed by some other kind of kingdom. Some kind of supernatural stone. I think what this is saying is the stone of Christ, and by extension, his church Will be the kingdom that replaces all other kingdoms. It will be Christ Himself who will destroy all political kingdoms when he comes to judge the earth. It's vital that we see this. This Christ, who is so loving to his children, will be devastating to the kingdoms of men. There'll be no remnants left of political parties. That'll be a good day. There'll be no nations left. There'll be no political wranglings left. Those who think they're so powerful now will have their influence blown away like dust. All their power is a huge illusion, and it will be seen on that day as being such. It is God who is ultimately and always in absolute power They were all on a short leash, but they didn't know it. They were all fulfilling a plan that God has for this world. And they were all headed toward the day that the kingdom of God will replace all the kingdoms of men. They thought they were free to pursue their selfish gains. They thought they were accomplishing great things in their own name. They may have relished their perceived power, but it was a pipe dream. They were never in power. Read the news that way. They were only serving their owners. Most were serving their father, the devil. And the devil is on the same short lease of an Almighty God. There's no sign of struggle in this imagery. A boulder does not struggle to smash the car it lands on. It's just an inevitable event when all the parts are in place. That's how we're to think of it. It's interesting to note that the stone that crashed on the feet of the ten toes destroys All the previous governments as well. There are probably pieces of all prior world empires still existing in the current empires The U. S. certainly has borrowed heavily from Rome in their their frame of government. We still have Greek influences. And there are probably still remnants we're not aware of. Well, in the end, there will be nothing left of any world government Because none were divinely inspired. They were divinely empowered when they served God's purposes. They were not, those world governments, they were made with human hands. But they never wielded the ultimate direct authority of King Jesus Only the church does that. And for now, that's a spiritual kingdom that we are part of. One day it will be an ultimate kingdom that all the redeemed people will live under. Praise God. I think it's interesting how Jesus is so often presented to audiences in our day in the name of evangelism. He's presented as a needy savior that is powerless to save those who are resistant to him. He's pictured as some kind of rejected lover who's heart sick over his loss. You don't get any of that in today's imagery. Here you get the idea that God is truly angry toward those who have loved living in the kingdom of rebels. His wrath is about to be poured out on those living in the prior kingdoms that rejected the rule of God. We do well to adapt our view of God to what Scripture tells us He is loving enough to send his son to seek and to save the lost. But he has not changed his attitude toward the sinful world. If we will not receive the forgiveness provided by Christ when he took upon himself the wrath of God for our sin, we will need to pay that cost ourselves. And the wrath of God is bound to grind a rebellious humanity into powder. That is the imagery of this text. Kingdoms are always made up of people. Lots of people. This week we still have an opportunity for people to man the fair booth on Friday and Saturday. You may have seen that in the announcements. You can have an opportunity to warn some people about their condition if you like and to spread to them the love of Christ. We would love for you to talk to Carla if you if you're interested in that. Friday and Saturday are still open Now back to the stone imagery. And in the days of those kings, of the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. Some people have a view of the end times that the church will grow and grow in power over human governments and will hand the control of the reigns over to Christ when he returns. In other words, the church will get more and more and more powerful politically. That's what they say, and that's how they think that the kingdom of God will destroy the other kingdoms. They get that from passages like we're in this morning, and I think they are terribly mistaken. But uh that because there's way too much scripture that lets us know things are going to continue to get worse and worse and worse, not better and better and better, until the kingdom of God arrives. Okay, then Daniel finishes his interpretation. He says, The great God has made known to the king what shall be after this. The dream is certain, and its interpretation is sure. Now, keep this in mind. Okay, we read this story. It's so easy to read the story, and we know the story, so we kind of read it fairly quickly. But keep in mind that Daniel was speaking to the most powerful human being on the planet. That king could say, I want him dead, and everybody in his employee is going to do their best to see that that happens right away. How would we speak about our God in that environment? We've got to admire Daniel here. Daniel basically said, There is no chance that I am wrong about this, because the God that gave me the dream gave the dream to you Gave the interpretation to me. Your kingdom was not the first. He knew that And it will not be the last. He did not know that. And your influence will not live forever. At some point you're going to be crushed in the dust. Your influence will be crushed in the dust. Everything that you have worked for. Not exactly what you tell an egomaniac like King Nebuchadnezzar. But Daniel doesn't care. He is speaking for a higher authority whose kingdom will last forever, and he knows the thing about fear. Fear the most who can do the most. Fear God. He can cast you in hell. Don't worry about men. He had that right. It's important that we note this too. It is nonsense to think that history is ultimately cyclical. There may be cycles, just like in your washing machine, but it's headed to destruction. The tub stops at some point. God revealed to the king and to us the destination of human history. And it will consist of dust of world kingdoms and citizens of the eternal kingdom. That is the end. Now I suppose we can make a bet that God who foretold all the kingdoms from Babylon to Rome might make a mistake about the final destination, but I think, given the evidence, that would be a fool's bet. The dream is certain. The interpretation is sure. Okay, now we've not seen the king's reaction to Daniel's explanation. How's he going to take this? All we've seen so far is what Daniel had to say. He's been told that his kingdom's not going to last. He doesn't have a timetable, but he knows now that his contributions to world history will not be as significant as he would like. How does he respond? Verse 46. Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and paid homage to Daniel, and commanded that an offering and incense be offered up to him. Remember how we talked about how cynical the king was toward his mystical division and his uh corporation and his kingdom? Remember how we talked about his sour attitude to the whole idea of the supernatural, that he seemed to be a little jaded in that effect? Well, what we see here in verse 46 is human reasoning at its best. It can change its mind when presented with logical, verifiable proof. Daniel told the king his dream. That's impossible. That's impossible. But Daniel did it anyway. That is proof of the validity of his God, of the supernatural. He met the king's criteria for proof. It was simple Tell me a dream that you can't possibly know, and then tell me the interpretation. Then I'll believe. And to his credit, the king did. But we're going to discover something next week. We're going to discover the limits of human belief. We'll see how limited humans are when their belief in God is human-generated. We'll find it's ultimately powerless and fickle. And then we'll see what happens when God decides to change a human heart. When God decides to change the heart of a human by showing them their weakness. That's where repentance happens, and not until then. Next week, this same king will demand that everyone bows in worship to a false God. There is not a single line between him making this profession of understanding, of faith, we might call it. And his his blatant idolatry in the next verse. Nebuchadnezzar's best efforts at becoming a true follower of God are powerless. But God isn't done with him. God is not done calling Nebuchadnezzar to himself. Now what we see in verse 46 looks like a conversion. But the king had not yet come to an end of himself. He bowed to Daniel and commanded that an offering and an incense be offered up to him. When you're getting a job review by your boss, you can't do any better than this. Here's the most powerful person on earth bowing to Daniel. Now, I think that Daniel would have tried to stop him from doing this. I mean, all through Scripture, anytime somebody offers an offering or bows to someone who is not Christ Himself, they stop him. Daniel doesn't hear, but I think the next verse shows us why he doesn't try to stop the king. Verse 47 says, The king answered and said to Daniel, Truly, your God. is God of gods and Lord of Kings and a revealer of the mysteries. For you've been able to do this impossible thing. You've been able to reveal this mystery. It looks like Daniel accepted the honor that the king gave him as a tribute to his God. It's like Daniel was the vehicle. He knew that the worship wasn't being offered to Daniel himself The king wasn't giving credit to Daniel. He was giving credit to God. And uh Daniel just was the middleman. I think that's the only reason that Daniel didn't correct that. Because it's certain that Daniel was not going to accept the praise. And he was not afraid of the king. So that's the only thing that makes sense to me. Now look at this statement of reason, of logic, of human wisdom. The king is essentially saying that your God revealed the impossible, that which I had no expectation that could be done. I was ready to give up on the mystical religions. I was ready to get rid of everyone who said that they had supernatural powers. But now I can see that you really have a God and he really is in control. He is in power. He is the real God. He is in charge of kings and governments and everything. He proved it by revealing the impossible to reveal. That's human logic. That was an emotional reaction to a deep truth. This was a statement of profession of faith. This truth had a powerful effect on the king. His reaction was a genuine reaction of worship initiated by a human experience. Look how dramatic it was. And look at how powerless it was. It did not change the king's next prideful temptation. It did not change the king's world of view. It did not change the king's deep-seated pride. People can decide for God all day long. In our world, they can decide for Christ all day long. But until God grants us repentance, until God draws us to Himself, like Christ said had to happen. None of our decisions and reactions for God will have a life-saving supernatural effect. Only the Holy Spirit can accomplish that in a person's life God truly must waken dead people for them to come to Christ. Regeneration must precede faith because human-generated faith is powerless to save us. Verse 48. Then the king gave Daniel high honors and many great gifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon and chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon. The king was a man of his word. He promised rewards and now he delivers on them. Look what he did here. First, God gave the king a mysterious, troublesome dream. Says God gave it to him. Then God put in the king's head to implement a supernatural test. The king also placed a death sentence on failure God set that scene. God set that scene. Who of us, if we were in that situation, would regard this as an incredible opportunity? Arranged by God. Knock, knock, knock. Who's there? Oh, I'm here to kill you. You know, that's that was the setting. I'd venture to guess that none of us would. But if God's promises are true, we should expect that opportunities like this are hidden behind the veil of the appearance. This story in Daniel should help us remember that our life situations are not often what they appear to be. And they are always opportunity to grow in our faith, no matter how potentially devastating they appear. Look at what God did with this situation. God placed one of his own as the second in command over the very wicked and worldly province of Babylon. This was the most important province in the whole kingdom. And Daniel was made prefect over the mystical division. It's likely that the wise men might have been scattered throughout the territory in various territory in various towns and villages and things. They were working remote, as it were. Now the Chaldeans are under him, as well as the rest of the people that he saved, you know, in the mystical division. This is going to be important as the story continues in the book of Daniel. Playing politics is nothing new, and we're going to see that played out, especially with Darius. And this is an aside. If God wanted America to have a genuine Christian person as president, we need not fear that the democratic process would limit him from doing so. He makes moves in our world as easy as a child moves a checker on a checkerboard. Doesn't look that way. It is that way. We're not victims of random idiocy as it might appear. There's plenty of idiocy. I'm not trying to undermine that. Our God is calling the shots. The leaders America is getting might be a sign of his judgment over us as a nation. But even in that, God can and will protect his people from ultimate harm. He promises that Those things that look like threats could easily turn into opportunities in his hand. We need to see that when we read the news. There's never any reason to fear when we rest in the hands of a loving and sovereign God. He knows what he is doing always. Now Daniel's sitting pretty. He just got a promotion, a raise, and a bonus above his wildest dream. He went from obscure to front page. And now he's in a spot where he can make changes in the government to benefit God's people and to benefit the running of a world government It's not unusual for God to put his people into the running of governments. Praise God again for that. And we can just thank God how he intervenes in our benefit for our benefit. So, does Daniel now, having received all this, does he just focus on himself and his own good fortune? No. Daniel has buddies Daniel has a family of faith. Daniel has, as it were, a church. And Daniel immediately uses that which he has been blessed with to most bless his friends. There, too, is an example for us to follow. Verse 49, Daniel made a request of the king, and he pointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over the affairs of the province of Babylon, but Daniel remained at the king's court. Friends like Daniel are the best kind. They share their blessings, and things aren't as good to them if they can't share them with you. Isn't that sweet? You know, isn't that how our best friends are? Daniel probably knew this opportunity might not come again. Stuff like this doesn't happen every day. And he knows the worst the king is likely to do is say no. So he takes the risk to share his blessings with his friends Daniel's reasoning to the king might have gone something like, King, how about my friends? They're like me. They serve the same God. They prayed for us to know this dream. They'll serve you well. And your kingdom's likely to be blessed by this same God if you take my buddies. So the king appointed them as administrators in the province of Babylon. Maybe one was in charge of public works, one was in charge of finance, one was in charge of police. You know, it's that kind of thing. That's what we're talking about here. It would be those types of things that they administered This gave Daniel an awesome amount of control and power in Babylon. Now let's think about this a little bit. Here were God's people in a secular world. Shouldn't these men be separating themselves from the world? Shouldn't they be focusing on the Hebrew communities? What attitude did God want them to have as they were living outside of the Promised Land? As Francis Schaefer would say, how should they then live Well, God spoke through Jeremiah about exactly how they should live. And we know that Daniel at some point had read Jeremiah's prophecies. This is what Jeremiah told to the Jewish people regarding this Babylonian captivity that they are in. The question is: how should these Jewish people live when they enter captivity? And this is his answer. Jeremiah 29, 5 through 7, says, Build houses and dwell in them. Plant gardens and eat their fruit. Take wives and beget sons and daughters, and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters to husbands. So that may they may bear sons and daughters that you may be increased there and not diminished. Okay, that makes sense. We could expect that. Keep the bloodline going, keep the population growing Live your lives in the environment you were placed in. That's God's will for you now. So we would get you keep your keep your families growing. But what he says next is really surprising. He says this, verse 7, and seek the peace of the city where I have caused you to be carried away captive. And pray to the Lord for it, for in its peace, you will have peace. Now, this isn't exactly a people they like. They aren't there because they chose to move to Babylon. And they're saying, pray for the wicked Babylon that forcefully took you out of the promised land. Pray for the peace of your enemy that has you there in their land against your will. What? It is God's will that the Judeans seek to prosper the heathen kingdom of their enemy. The reason is that the better Babylon has it, the better you have it. If it prospers, you prosper. If it has peace, you have peace, which is much better, a much better environment to raise your families. Now think about the implications of that principle here. We Christians, as we work for secular companies and governments, we should do our best to see them prosper by all moral means. We should work diligently to see that the workplace thrives as a result of us being there. Naturally, this will mean we are not going to compromise our walk with Christ to do so. But every worker, every company should be better off for having hired a Christian. They should outshine their co-workers in work ethic and quality of work, quantity of work and quality of work. Unfortunately, this is often not the case. Those who call themselves Christians often do not apply the biblical teachings to that area of their life because they don't see it as being spiritual. But it should be true that Christians are the best people to hire. In my prior company, I was able to hire three Christians, which was a blessing by God, and he arranged it all But our department had camaraderie that other managers were actually jealous of. They would talk to my boss about our department being special. And the work would get done well and on time. And that's how it should be. Now I never made it to the King's Gate. But in the meager corner of the company I was in charge of, I had no doubt what the will of God was. My team and I were to make my company better. So when you go to your secular workplace, realize that God has a purpose for you to be there. And it's to represent Christ spiritually to your co-workers and supervisors. By how you approach improving the productivity and the environment that you work in. So at the end, Daniel remained at the king's court or the king's gate. And what that means is essentially he became the king's right-hand man and had the ability to make decisions on behalf of the king, so the king didn't have to be bothered with every decision. And Daniel would have been the kind of guy that knew, well, that better go up to the top, or this one I can handle. The king probably clarified that over time of where his limits were. Daniel had enormous political power to do good for all the Hebrew captives. But we'll see in the next chapter that this power did have its limitations. I think the overarching application from all this so far is to factor God into every life event as the one whose purposes are being carried out. Evil is not something that God struggles against. We do, but God does not. He's got this. And we can trust him deeply and totally, no matter what our circumstance. And another might be work hard to represent Christ well, even in the godless environment that you are in and that you work in. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much again for your word. We thank you for this period.