Weeding out idolatry What period of your life were you the most faithful to the Lord? When were you most willing to do whatever Christ said, no matter how much it cost you? When did what he say thrill your soul? When it felt like a drink of water after a day in the hot sun? When would you say you were most on fire for the Lord when you were willing to obey him, even if it cost you the things that were dearest to you? In our text, God is essentially reminding Judea of their history, of their roots, of a time when they as a country were actually committed to following their God It's a lament about how far they have fallen. It's a sadness to God to see what his people were when they owned him as Lord and God. And now they're far from that condition. And it's about to cost them dearly. Where are we compared to where we were? Are we still willing to do what he says to do? Are we willing to go where he leads? Are we willing to sacrifice whatever is needed for his kingdom's sake? Let's look at what God has to say through the prophet Isaiah. Verse 21: How the faithful city has become a harlot. It was full of justice. Righteousness lodged in it, but now murderers. We begin with the faithful city. This refers to Jerusalem, like a man would refer to a good wife who remained faithful to him and him alone. She did not go outside of the marriage vows to find fulfillment from another source. That was the high point that this city has fallen from. It used to be a place of justice. And righteousness was right at home there. It hung out. But it has since made itself scarce. I got this from the Moture 's commentary, this quote. It says, righteousness and justice are rooted in divine holiness. Righteousness embodies holiness in sound principles, and justice is the expression of righteousness in precepts. This reference in our text to harlotry is actually referring to the idolatry of Jerusalem. We see that language a lot. We've covered it a couple times already, I believe This is not primarily a reference to sexual sin of these people. Sexual sin is just the image that God uses to convey how God feels about idolatry, how he receives it. God is saying that his previously exemplary wife has gone after another man, other sources of fulfillment and provision. This would be a good place to define and explain idolatry, and that's what we're going to do a lot the rest of the uh this morning. When God laid out his will in regard to all human behavior in the law, this is the first thing that he said. The first thing that he said. Exodus 20, verses 3 through 6. He says, You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth below, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me. But showing mercy to thousands to those who love me and keep my commandments. How fortunate we are that God is so gracious. The very first thing that God commanded is that we would not allow anything that would compete with our worship of God. There was to be no other God or even a thing conceived to be a likeness of the true God. Remember uh when the when Moses came down off the mountain, he found that the Israelites had made a golden calf. And they weren't saying, let's go follow another God. They were saying, let's come up with some kind of image that represents God. And uh God didn't like that at all. God wanted no confusion on this point. Don't serve other gods or even allow your own ideas of this one true God. You are only to serve the one true God as the one true God states himself. Any variation of worship would be considered idolatry. And idolatry is essentially the worship of a false God. The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia gives us this information about idolatry. Based on the word teraphim, which is basically household idols or idolatry. There is ever in the human mind a craving for visible forms to express Religious conceptions. And this tendency does not disappear with the acceptance or even with the constant recognition of pure spiritual truths Idolatry originally meant the worship of idols or the worship of false gods by means of an idol, but it came to mean among the Old Testament Hebrews Any worship of false gods, whether by images or otherwise. And finally, the worship of Yahweh through visible symbols. And ultimately in the New Testament, idolatry came to mean not only the giving to any creature or human creation the honor or devotion which belonged to God alone, But the giving to any human desire a precedence over God's will. This is worth a quick look. In Colossians 3, 1 through 5, it says, if then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is. Sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. And this is the most important verse here. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Covetousness which is idolatry. Now there's a little bit of question, is he talking of that whole list as being idolatry? Or is he just talking about covetousness as being idolatry? And I I tend to word the second. Verse 5 talks about a broad range of desires for things that we don't have. Paul defines covetousness here as idolatry. So we're correct. When we apply the concept of idolatry, which is what we have been doing, you know, obviously we don't have carved images, at least I don't think we do. that we put on a mantle and bow before and pray to every morning. But we apply idolatry conceptually, and we're right to do so because the New Testament tells us here that we can. It can be a conceptual item, something that has given God status, worship status in our lives, something that we live for, that we look to for fulfillment. Here's some more information from Easton's Illustrated Bible Dictionary. It says, in Scripture, idolatry is regarded as of heathen origin. And as being imported among the Hebrews through contact with heathen nations. The first allusion to idolatry is in the account of Rachel stealing her father's teraphim, which is an idol. Which were the relics of the worship of other gods by Laban's progenitors on the other side of the river in old time During their long residence in Egypt, the Hebrews fell into idolatry, and it was long before they were delivered from it. So when they went to Egypt, they had a problem with idolatry as well. Many a token of God's displeasure fell upon them because of this sin. The idolatry learned in Egypt was probably rooted out from among the people during the forty years' wanderings. And that's likely part of the reason why they wondered for forty years. But when the Jews entered Palestine, they came into contact with the monuments and associations of idolatry of the old Canaanite races Remember, they're the ones that God wanted to wipe out completely because of their sin and their idolatry. And then they showed a constant tendency to depart from the living God and follow the idolatrous practices of those heathen nations. It was their great national sin, which was only effectually rebuked by the Babylonian exile. And that exile finally purified the Jews of all idolatrous tendencies So that's the history that we see in the Jewish people of idolatry. Idolatry began with the physical manifestation of a competing God. Basically, a statue of some sort. But its concept eventually expanded to covetousness, which is that driving desire that we have where we look for something that matters to us. Outside of God's provision for us. The working definition I've come to use is that idolatry is looking for what only God can give us. From another source. Looking for what only God can give us from another source. Now let's go back to the verse. Verse 21: how the faithful city has become a harlot. We talked two weeks ago about how God compares the sin of idolatry against God to sexual sins committed against God and others. The word harlot means that it's most literal, highly fed and therefore wanton. Highly fed and therefore wanton, which is kind of an interesting definition. It usually refers to a female either committing adultery, most often, or committing fornication. Most simply put, a harlot is someone who pursues a lover outside the bonds of marriage. But implied in this pursuit is a person who has everything they need, and that's an important part of this. They have everything they need, yet they still go in search of alternative experiences, alternative thrills, alternative security, alternative provision. Desperation is not the motive. I think that's what it's showing us. Essentially, this person has no excuse for what they are choosing. But they're choosing this route because they want to, because they feel like it. This is the word God uses to describe the city of Jerusalem. They're unfaithful to their God. It isn't that God hasn't provided for them. It isn't that he hasn't taken care of them. It isn't that he has been unkind or uncaring to them. They just wanted something more, something different, something more to their fancy, something that would make them feel something different. So they chased another God They abandoned true worship of the true God and allowed their worship to become truly false. It's no wonder that God describes their worship as tiresome and irritating to him. Think about it. It would be as if a man knows his wife may still be cooking him supper and cleaning his house, and that she is at the same time sleeping with another man. When we understand it like that, we can clearly see how going through the motions of service before God means less than nothing to God. It offends him. And it would. In fact, it would be an insult added to his injury. Now, this is where the passage begins to get personal. How is it that we can easily imagine how horrible infidelity would be if it's done to us? We can experience that imagination with all of its horrors very easily. But we will not equate idolatry with infidelity in our own lives. We regard what someone could do to us as absolutely hideous, but we refuse to accept that what we do when we chase our favorite idol is just as bad from where God sits. The biggest difference is when we chase idols, we're doing this sin to someone who has always treated us perfectly. If someone were to commit that a sin against us, we know We're imperfect. Our idols aren't quite as easy to spot as the idols these people worshiped We can't take our wooden statue off the shelf and throw it into the wood stove. It would be nice if it were that simple sometimes. It would be an act where you'd do it once and it would be done. Our idols are best spotted by the effect that they have on our day-to-day lives. We are far too sophisticated. To admit that we worship idols. I mean, who's going to say, well, I worship idols? I'm proud of the idol I worship. But we can see the effects of our idol worship easier. We look to all kinds of things to bring us what only God can provide. What do we trust to keep us safe? What do we trust to give us joy? What do we trust to give us meaning? We can best tell what our idols are when they fail to deliver. Our strong emotions are often where our flaws lie, where our idols lie. We can have strong, or we can have wrong expectations of human relationships. That's a good one. We may expect them to deliver far more than they're capable of. We may expect them to bring us what only God can bring us. Sometimes the shortcomings of our love for each other serve as notice that we've lost our first love, our love for God. We can have wrong expectations of money. We can think that only money can provide for us. Only money can keep us safe. Only money can keep us secure. Sometimes we worship pleasure. We chase it with the commitment that only God should have in our lives. We put pleasure as a pursuit That only God should be should have that time, that energy, that commitment, that uh enthusiasm reserved for. It gets the best of our time, the best of our resources. We orient all our hopes around it. Time is measured by the time of the next scheduled event. What is the scariest thing that God could remove from your life right now? What would cause you to flip out if you lost it? Look at that closely. It might indicate idol worship That fear might be a beacon to show you what it is that you trust more than your life to more than God What do we rely upon and pursue for our meaning, for our contentment, for our happiness, for our validation, for our pleasure, for our protection, for our provision, for our purpose? For our fulfillment. Where do we look for that? There's a very good book by Elise Fitz Fitzpatrick called Idols of the Heart. And I'm gonna be quoting a good bit from that book because it's just so helpful in tracking it this stuff down. And if we can do nothing today but get on on the trail like a good dog, get on the trail of our idolatry and hunt that down this week. We will have accomplished as much as um One would hope to accomplish in the whole book of Isaiah. It'd be a wonderful thing. She says this, and I'm again it's quite a few quotes. What do I long for so much that my heart clamors, give me this or I'll die? What must I have for life to be meaningful or happy If I answer that question with anything other than God Himself, then that's what functions as a God for me. Idols aren't just stone statues. No, idols are the thoughts, desires, longings, and expectation. That we worship in place of the true God. Idols cause us to ignore the true God in search of what we think we need. And again, more quotes. I can imagine that you might be wondering, okay, Elise, how can I tell if I'm worshiping the blessings that I desire or God? Let me summarize in this way. If you're willing to sin to obtain your goal, or if you sin when you don't get what you want, Then your desire has taken God's place and you are functioning as an idolater. The sin of unbelief lies at the heart of all other sins, and particularly at the heart of idolatry. Idolatry is the most comprehensive description of the shape of unbelief used by the writers of the Bible, and it's easy to see why. When we fail to believe the truth about who Jesus is and miss the impact of his astounding works in suffering and dying for our sin , It will be impossible to resist the allurement of the gods of this earth as they whisper their promised pleasures to us. C. S. Lewis says this, we are half-hearted creatures fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at sea. We are far too easily pleased And then on with uh Lisa Fitzpatrick's. Even though I purposely choose to disobey God as he did, I always do so because I believe that's the best choice at the time. Eve thought that eating the forbidden fruit was her best, most delightful, and desirable choice. She believed that disobedience was better than life. She forgot God's sweet loving kindness. Sin is always occasioned in us by our belief in its goodness. As Richard Baxter writes, the will never desires evil as evil, but as seeming good. Man looks to idols to calm his fears and produce desired benefits to bring him happiness. To identify your idols, begin to look at the thoughts and imaginations that bring you happiness. Ancient cultures had gods for all the misunderstood forces of nature, including gods of fertility and harvest. They worshiped these gods because children and good crops were recognized as sources of happiness. They were willing to sacrifice a portion of their harvest or even a child. If they could control their environment and gain some assurance of future joys, they trusted in false gods because they were believed there was some profit to it. And we do the same thing. And that's such a a true statement. We don't follow after false gods because we know that they're not going to provide for us. We go after them because they we think that they are going to give us what our soul desires, what we really want, what I got to have today. And go on and going on with the quotes. Instead of fashioning idols out of wood or stone, we fashion them in our imagination, worshipping that which we believe will bring us happiness. We don't carve a good spouse out of a tree of pine, but we worship the thought of the joy that one would bring us We don't chisel out a facsimile of the successful man or woman, but we believe that that is where our joy can be found. We believe that our happiness is bound up in having our expectation fulfilled. These beliefs function as gods just as surely as if we had carved them from wood or overlaid them with silver. Our thoughts and pictures of imagined happiness are valuable to us. We can't imagine life without them. Remember that your strongest desires, the thing you are most passionate about, are ultimately what define your worship. If you passionately desire the respect of others, then your life will be colored by the fear of men. You'll worship other people's opinions. If you intensely crave acceptances, you will be terrified of loneliness and rejection. You'll serve gods of man-pleasing, peer pressure, or codependency. If you covet comfort, pleasure, or fun, you'll worship money or prestige as gods who hold the power to bless or curse you. That's the end of the quotes. I don't know how to put into words how important this is to all of us. I guess we just need to imagine how big a deal infidelity would be in our relationships And then we start getting a clue of how important this really is. Well, God intentionally uses that word is a word picture to clarify just how big a deal our idolatry is. Our idolatry is always a slap in God's face based on the distrust that we have in Him to give us all that we need, to supply what our heart really desires. He takes it very personally because it is very personal. Not all sin is idolatry, but all idolatry is sin. I'm focusing on this this morning because it's vitally important. We have got to get this. If we're going to get anything from Isaiah, let's get this. We cannot have any tolerance in our sneaky hearts. For this gravest insult to God, we cannot allow our hearts to trust in other gods. Other sources that promise to deliver only what God Himself is capable of delivering to us. We must pray that God would reveal to us any of the idols that we hold in our hearts. That's a prayer God will answer. We must know if and where we are committing sins of this caliber so we can be weaned from them. Isaiah will make this point over and over again. Well, now that we've laid a foundation for the seriousness of idolatry, we can move on. Verse 21: how the faithful city has become a harlot. It was full of justice, righteousness lodged in it, but now murderers. I quoted someone's idea two weeks ago that when the first four commandments are broken, it can't help but leading to wrongs committed in the next six. The first four are our relationship to God, the last six are how we are to treat people. You you lose touch with one through four and it's guaranteed that you're gonna mess up on six through or uh five through ten. Our world thinks when service to God is abandoned, our treatment of fellow humans is bound to deteriorate. But our world thinks it's just the opposite of that truth. John Lennon would have us all imagine how wonderful the world would be if we abandon all ideas of God. Our world says that extremism of any religion religious ideal is harmful to the world's good. All it does is separates people, it says. That's all bad. Our world says we should abandon all serious notions of God. Yet Nazi Germany gives us one of the best examples of what kind of world you end up with when you abandon true true thinking about God, when you abandon your service to God. Jerusalem abandoned true worship of God and committed itself to idol worship. The result? No justice for people who needed justice No righteousness extended to those who needed help. No. All that are left, this scripture says, are murderers. Murder is the greatest example of someone who puts their selfish interest above everybody else's selfish interest or best interest. To take someone's life for our own selfish interest is the epitome of arrogance and selfishness and rebellion against God. How sad this would have been. This had been once the center of God's influence in all the earth. Jerusalem, it was the peak of what God had to offer at one point. It best represented God. It represented God's best reflection. These people at one time were faithful. This is probably speaking of the reign of King David and King Solomon. It was a glowing example of justice for the populace. It's the place that everyone wanted to live. Because you knew when you lived there there would be justice in that government. It was an example of kings and rulers doing the right things for the right reasons, for the most part, never perfect. But that's no longer the case in this text. Now the leadership is corrupt. Where it once sought to honor God by how it treated the populace, Now it looks out for its own advantage. Now they're looking out for number one. Verse 22 says, Your silver has become dross, and your wine mixed with water. Now it would be one thing to say, your silver has a lot of dross in it. The dross is the imperfection. Like if you were going out to to mine some silver, you would come up with a bunch of rocks that have silver in them, and then you would uh melt it down. And the dross is the stuff that is non-silver. And then the silver kind of separates itself from it. Well, Isaiah is saying that your silver, your redeeming quality, no longer even exists. That's how serious the statement he's making. The silver has become less than silver. The silver has become worthless. Now you're silver, the best thing about you is the part that one throws away in search of something that's valuable. Kind of like a joke. And when wine mixes with water, the wine is no longer pure wine, and it never will be pure wine again. It's now only a part of what it was. Its value has been diminished and it can't be regained. This is sad. It's just utterly sad. Sin had caused this gem in God's eye to become nothing but an eyesore. There was no longer anything worth saving. The value of this city that was so valuable in God's estimation at one point is now completely gone. Who they once were, they are no more. We started this sermon by asking and looking at what we once were. I hope that we can't look at our lies and see this comparison. But we've got to look I hope that we remain committed to any past goodness we may have experienced from God's hands, and that we would be willing to repent now of any error and pursue a vibrant, obedient relationship to God our Father, like we have had in the past. And if we've never had that relationship, this would be the perfect time to start that relationship. To surrender one's life to God, receiving what Jesus Christ Did on the cross for us, because that's the only way that we can have our sins forgiven. Only He could pay for our sins, and we we receive what He did as being the cost. That we should have had to pay for our sins, but now he did it, and we can receive what he did and surrender our lives to his lordship, receiving that his His price paid will save us. Will save us from the judgment of sin and provide us a new life. I came across a really good quote used to explain the horror of this passage. And it's from a commentary called Preaching the Word. It says, Sin promises to spice up our lives. But it dilutes everything. Simone Weal was a French Jewish intellectual who actually died in England's England during World War II after putting herself on the rations of her fellow Frenchmen who were suffering under Nazi occupation. She understood the difference between good and evil, and she said this Nothing is so beautiful, nothing is so continually fresh and surprising, so full of sweet and perpetual ecstasy. As the good. No deserts are so dreary, monotonous, and boring as evil. But with fantasy, it's the other way around. Fictional good is boring and flat, while fictional evil is varied, intriguing, attractive, and full of charm. We need God to tell us the truth, or dreariness will feel exciting, and freshness will seem lackluster. We can 't allow ourselves to be seduced into worthlessness. And we can rest assured that that's where the seduction is going to head us. That's the goal. The devil wants us useless in the Master's hands, worthless to his cause. He wants us all to become the dross, not the silver. That's his goal for your life. To be draws. Whatever temptation he has laid in front of you today, that is what he intends for you Then Isaiah continues, Your princes are rebellious and the companions of thieves. Everyone loves bribes and follows after rewards. They do not defend the fatherless, nor does the cause of the widow come before them. We need to understand where this people, who were formerly God's example to the world, now sit. They have abandoned their God They thought there was a way more to their liking, more satisfying to their flesh, and this is where they end up. What God, what Isaiah is about to show us is what happens when any of us cease living for God. We may envision ourselves as good people who are above committing this horrible behavior, but we are not. Here are the leaders of the people, and how does God categorize them? Rebellious. These are people who know what's right and wrong, but they're committed to what is in their own selfish interest. They don't care whether it's right or wrong or not. And they'll spend anybody to have it. In fact, they'll murder them. They're called companions of thieves. Their buddies are crooks, is what he's saying. They hang out with drugs, and they are drugs, stealing other people's possessions simply because they want them and they can get away with it. Sort of looks like politics has never changed. We see the same thing today in our country. We daily hear about our leaders have sold out the good of the people for their own personal gain. And it goes on to say, everyone loves bribes and follows after rewards. They don't defend the fatherless, nor does the cause of the widow come before them. Now, if you're in charge of executing justice, of deciding right and wrong in civil and criminal issues, how is the way that you can most profit personally From that position. It's easy. Sell your product. Sell the verdict to the highest bidder. And when you do that, what you have left is sure to be injustice. It's the opposite of what you were appointed to do. It's the opposite of the very nature of your job. And that's what we see here. For the right reward, they'll abandon the good that they should be doing and do the evil they were appointed to stop. These people are for sale. And who pays the cost? People who always pay the cost. The least of these. Those who have no money and no power. The powerless are the litmus test of the morality of those who have money and power. The powerless are always the litmus test of the morality of those who have the money and the power. What happens to the powerless reflects the true values of those who are in power. Those in leadership in Isaiah's day show what they really are made of. They are godless and immoral. They will pay no price for that which God loves. They don't that which God loves. They won't come to the defense of the powerless. The problem with the Judean rulers and people is that they were living for themselves at the expense of everybody else. God was very hard on them. Their idolatry was a personal offense to God, but idolatry against God always spreads to injustice and cruelty toward mankind. That is the natural outcome of rebellion against God. Another quote: everything is subordinate to self-interest. So that those who bring their needs rather than their gifts are dismissed without a thought. That's where we get to when we abandon God. Here is an error for us to avoid. You know, as we're studying the Bible, we're always looking for application. What's uh example to follow? What's an error to avoid? Well this is an error to avoid. And we think at this point, I would never ever do such a thing. I would never uh not look out for those who are powerless. I would never take a bribe to promote such an injustice But what will we do? Our families tend to be the places where we're most likely to exhibit some of these traits Will we allow members of our families to commit injustices to other members of our families while we sit and watch because it would cause too much to interfere? It's a simple example. Fathers, this application is pointed mostly at us because we have the most authority. Will we use our authority even when it costs us things that we value? To look out for the littlest of the people. Is there really anything different from that and taking a bribe? Mothers and fathers, will we apply ourselves to making sure that we deal with the injustices we see rather than turn the other way, making sure we don't see those problems? That's a simple example. There'd be lots more. But before we think that we would never do such a thing, we need to look close and see, well, what have we done? When we take our responsibilities for the weakest seriously, it will almost always cost us something that we hold dear to carry out those responsibilities properly. But it's our job to do so. Just as those who are in leadership at the church must make sure that none of the least of these get treated badly by those who may have more influence and power in our little circles than those who have less. It's the same mentality. To do the right thing, the just thing, is often costly, no matter how small our application of it may be. And it isn't like it's below us to show injustice due to pride or selfishness. It's just like us. We need to recognize that it's like every one of us to do such a thing if we don't guard ourselves against it It's only submission and obedience to God that will ensure our proper attitudes and actions toward the powerless. I've handed out a list of idolatry questions. If you didn't get it when you came in the door, it's still out there. Please pick one up. It would be really good for us to consider this week, and this is homework. I I never assign homework. I'm assigned homework this week. Take that sheet. And look at it carefully and prayerfully. And ask God, as you're going through it, about the questions. What am I trusting to provide me what only God can provide? Where are my competing gods? And And I think it'd be good to lay this in front of somebody that we know and trust as well and say, what do you see? You know, this is what I'm seeing about me. What do you see? And uh we may May get more truth than we cared and have, you know. Often that's how it works. But it would be wonderful Where are our competing gods? This week would be a wonderful time to weed out any competing loves in our lives and renew our commitment. To not only what it once was, but to what it can be. To close in, I think 373. Take my life