There's a tremendous difference between being for Christ and being in Christ. There's a tremendous difference between being for Christ and being in Christ. Our flesh, our selfish instincts, can sometimes find reasons for being for Christ. We may have been brought up with morals that we believe in and we've lived by, and seeing others violating those rules makes us angry. And we think I have to go by the rules. You should too. And we think that those offenders should obey Christ in those things. And all of that can be 100% flesh. There can be nothing spiritual about that. We might have a sense of right and wrong that aligns with much of what Christ has said. So we are for Christ's influence to gain more favor. We want it to grow. We want it to become more popular. We might think it'll make our society better. Probably would. There have been times in Arab governments where they chose Christians to serve in their governments simply because the leaders knew that the Christians would be peaceful and not militant, like some of the mil Muslim citizens. I think it's safe to say that President Trump shows signs that in many ways he is for Christ. He's picked many Christians to be on his staff, and it's too high of a percentage for it to just be coincidence, I mean it could be miraculous, but the president says positive things about Christ and about Christians. It's very good for us Christians to be surrounded by people who are for Christ. We tend to lead a more peaceful life with less persecution. That's nice. And politically, it works out pretty well for us. There are lots of people in churches who are for Christ. If they looked at their hearts very closely, they'd find selfish, fleshly motives for the reasons they go to church. Maybe they want to be viewed as being a good person. Maybe they don't want to disappoint those people who love them. And generally, they are for the moral teachings that Christians hold to, especially as those teachings apply to other people around them. But at the end of the day, many are only for Christ. It is merely human-generated opinion that they hold. There are some folks I see on Facebook who are like this. They like Christ, they're intrigued with Christ, they speak well of Christ, but so far as that's as far as it goes. Remember that Christ said in John 6. 63, it is the Spirit who gives life and flesh is no help at all? The words that I have spoken to you are Spirit and life. The flesh can cause you to like the idea that you have in your mind about Christ. You have that human capacity to like that. Your selfish desires can cause you to like whatever version of Christ you have in your mind. Many of these Jewish people were for what Christ was saying. They wanted him to serve as their human leader. But all of that is a far cry from having life. It's a far cry from being in Christ. Only the Spirit can bring you to Christ in a specific way that counts spiritually and eternally. Let's go to our text. Verse 31. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. And in this instance, you could refer to those who believed Christ in this text, the same way you would say those who are for Christ. We'll see in the next few verses that these people did not have a saving belief in Christ. Up until now, they were voting for Christ. They were for Christ. As Jesus reveals Himself more fully. will find that that they will violently be against Christ. But up to this point, with the vision they have of who Christ is, they're all for him. John MacArthur lays out some helpful theology at this point. He says, saving faith consists of three elements. Saving faith consists of three elements, commonly referred to by theologians with Latin terms, because theologians just love Latin terms. Notitia, a census In Fiducia. A census in Fiducia. Notitia knowledge Is the intellectual component of faith. It involves an understanding with our minds of the basic biblical facts. Regarding salvation. A census, which is assent, goes one step beyond notitia and confidently affirms those facts to be true. And Fiducia, that's trust, acts on them by personally appropriating Jesus Christ as the only hope for salvation. I had a conversation with a few gentlemen just the other day, and they were good at one and two, but they had no fiducia. They had no trust in Jesus. Fiducia or active faith, true belief, assigned trust, is what happens that shows a person as in Christ. And not just for Christ. Fiducia, active faith This person has essentially thrown his life onto Christ in trust that Christ's work is going to save him He sees that Christ's sacrifice has bought us for a price and now we are fully his. That's the kind of trust they have. This person understands the truth, agrees with the truth, but more than that More than just being for Jesus, this person trusts Christ with his life for salvation. This person acts as if he is no longer the owner. of his life. Now he is owned by another, and he is glad that it is so. Glad for it to be so because Christ is worthy of all worship. That's what a person who is in Christ looks like. Many of the problems the modern church has are the result of not discerning the difference Between that which is man created and that which is God created, from not discerning between flesh-born and spirit-born. When the church is made up of flesh-born people, we're simply for Christ, flesh is still on the throne in those people's lives Much effort then is spent making sure that no one's feelings get hurt. There's constant infighting, there's little unity, there's little peace. More decisions are made to placate people's fleshly desires and ambitions than to honor Jesus as Lord. The church becomes just like every other social institution. When the church is made up of people who are in Christ, any self-discovery of fleshly motives, of seeing who we really are and where this stuff is really coming from, and it's not Jesus. Any discovery of that is followed by repentance and restitution Flesh is not placated in those people's lives. Oh, we know what we're like. I mean we we fall into things. We don't even know we've fallen into them. We can be pretty ignorant, pretty nasty, and those kind of things. But when it's exposed And it's it gets dealt with. Peace and unity are then possible. Now, what Christ says next needs to be heard by every generation. If you abide in my word. Then you're truly my disciples. If you abide in my word. We've talked previously about so-called ministers preaching an easy believism gospel. And they say if you'll just pray a prayer, you're set for life, like like Mark was talking about this morning in Sunday school. There doesn't need to be any evidence of your salvation for your salvation to be legitimate. All you need is a memory of a prayer. You can live a godless, rebellious life for the rest of your life, but it God is obligated to save you because you did that thing. Jesus says, if you live by my word, if you trust my word, if you take my word and apply it into every nook and cranny of your life, those are the people who are really and truly in me. Those are the ones to whom the Spirit has given life. And you can have that assurance. And we've talked a lot about assurance. Assurance is granted to us when we see fruit of our life that resembles what Scripture says our life will look like if we are in Christ. That's not to say a person can't be outside of or inside of Christ and not have assurance, because you know we can live some sloppy lives, some some do some evil things. But we only have assurance to the degree that we are conforming to the image of Christ. Now, notice that it does not say, if you abide in my word, you will be my disciples. There's nothing about earning salvation here. This is not a means of salvation. It's proof of salvation. It's proof of salvation. Actually, Jesus is really explaining the difference between true belief and false belief Between being for Christ and being in Christ. Spirit-inspired belief and fleshly generated belief. One results in fundamental spiritual change that leads to a change in behavior and the other does not. If you believe, then you abide. Belief is how salvation is obtained. A changed life is the result of this salvation. That's a constant in John's gospel. He says, If you love me, you'll keep my commandments. John 14, 15. He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and and will disclose myself to him. If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him. He who does not love me does not keep my words, and the word which you hear is not mine, but the father's Who sent me. Again, he says, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. John 15:10. You are my friends if you do what I command. Command you, John 15, 14. It's very clear that true belief results in a changed life. And we can hardly go on without saying this. Is it perfect? No. But if there is no change, there is no assurance of your salvation. No Christian has ever changed as much as he wants to change. But every Christian is changing. Every Christian is obeying. Jesus says so. So it has to be so. Verse 32, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. The progression here is important. If you truly believe you will abide in Christ's words, Now, what's the result of abiding in Christ's words? Well, we come to know the truth in the process of doing the truth. I think this emphasized what I preached a few weeks ago. When we're willing to obey God, he reveals even further what to obey. Have you ever found that true in your own life? We can't expect God to have God reveal his truth to us when we display no fervent desire either to know it or to do it. If we're not going to go out of our way to know it, even if we don't exactly know how to about uh know how to go about doing it, but we'll try, if we won't make it a priority, if we give it no time, no effort We have no reason to expect he's going to go out of his way to reveal it while we remain in that state. God tells the man who cares. Now, what truth is it that this is talking about? Uh you'll know the truth and the truth will set you free. What truth is it? Is this about how the planets revolve around the sun or how molecules work? No, that's not the context. It's the truth that has been revealed in and by Christ. That's the context. Now there are two beautiful facts about a Christian and sin. First, when we believe in Christ, a Christian is no longer under the domain of sin. Romans 5 and 6 explains that in detail. When Adam sinned, every person born after that, other than Christ, was born under the domain of sin, the umbrella of sin. A human does not have to commit a sin to be condemned by sin. We are, by default, at birth, condemned because we were born in sin. We were born under its domain. Now, before we think how unfair that is, how can that be? We didn't didn't even sin yet, and we're we're held accountable. Well, we don't need to worry. Because as soon as we start to breathe, we express our sinful nature. In fact, it wouldn't surprise me if it comes out in the womb. Ask any mother, did you need to teach your child to be angry when they didn't get their way? Did you need to teach him to lie? Did you need to teach him to be selfish? No, we we sin like a dog barks. He does what he does because he is what he is. So we were born under sin's domain, and we as soon as we had the chance, we displayed that in our behavior. When we come to Christ, something happens Romans 6, 6 says, We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. And then verse 14. For sin will have no dominion over you since you are not under the law but under grace. A true believer, at the point of their conversion, is immediately removed from sin 's domain. Mike always explained it as the power cord of sin was removed by Christ. It was unplugged by Christ at our salvation. We are now free to not sin. We are free as Christians to not sin, and we are no longer under a state of condemnation. Because of sin. The power of sin cannot make a Christian sin. That's what Scripture says So in this way we believe and we know the truth and the truth makes us free. But there's more. There's more. You may hear this and think, well, sin sure seems to have power in my life It sure is appealing. It's desperately hard to say no to some temptations. So you might be thinking, well, maybe I'm not a Christian if that's how it works. Well scripture never says that sin will not have influence. Think about it like social media There's influencers on social media. For the longest time I had no idea what they were talking about, but now I think I begin to understand. They don't show up at your house with a gun and make you do what they say But they say things that may appeal to you to the point that it changes how you think or what you do. Sin still has the power of influence. to a Christian. It appeals to our fleshly nature, that holdover of our sin nature. And the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life still exist in us. It can't make us do anything. But st sin is still plenty appealing Paul knew this. He wouldn't have said the following if Christians would never again have trouble with sin. So if you're having trouble with sin , Don't don't read that as evidence that you're not a believer. Romans 6 11 says, so you also must consider yourself. Now Paul here is telling us how to overcome sin. And he says you have to consider yourself. You need to calculate it this way. You need to believe it to be true, even when it doesn't feel like it's true You must consider yourself dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. And our first response is, I'm not dead to sin because it looks good to me. You've got to rethink it, believe it based on what Jesus said. We're dead to sin and alive to God. By faith, you've got to believe this fact because God says it is a fact. This is truth, and believing this truth of doctrine will allow you to live in experience the way that a Christian. Christian should. And it goes on to say, and let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. This is telling us we're gonna struggle We're gonna have trouble. Sin is gonna be appealing and it's gonna take a battle. It's telling us that as Christians we have a choice. Sin can't make us obey unless we allow it to reign. Don't let it. That's what what Paul is saying. Don't let it. We can now say no to sin because of the fact that we died with Christ and we're alive with Christ. We're in Christ's domain now. We're not in sin 's domain. And Paul goes on, verse. 13 gives us a little more specific help. Don't present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness, for sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under the law but under grace. Can you see it now? The truth of what Christ did has to be actively believed. In order for us to experience freedom from sin. God's word says it's true, but that truth has to be believed, and the believing in the believing of the truth We find our freedom. We will know the truth, and the truth sets us free. There's a good book out there called Gospel Fluency. By Jeff Van Derstelt. That is based on the series that we went through about how people change by Paul Tripp. And the whole assumption of this book is that applying the gospel to our lives Is what changes us. Applying it at every step, it changes us. For instance, maybe a friend does something that offends us. Our first response is irritation or anger or self-pity or whatever we all have our own go-to. But then we consider the gospel. We think about our salvation, and we think I was saved by grace. I was saved by grace. I didn't earn anything. I deserved punishment, but I was saved by grace. I was terribly offensive to God. I was his enemy, but he saved me And I'm called upon to extend that same grace to those around me. Why did I react the way I did? What was it that I desired and did not get? Or what did I think I had a right to? And as we consider that line of thought, we find our personal idolatries, and we all have them. We call ourselves out and we confess those idolatries and we submit ourselves to the Lordship of Christ. We worship our way out of our sinful reaction. And we recognize that Christ is a far better thing to worship than that idol that we've just allowed to control us. And then we're free to respond properly to our situation. We might need to confront a brother's sin, we might need to apply long suffering. Oh, there's a thousand things we might need to do, but we are free at that point from sin's control. On our lives. We are not acting toward each other in sin at that point. Sin is not driving our actions and reactions because we have brought those to the light. We've known the Truth. The truth of the gospel and all of its implications sets us free from sin's power over us. So believing the gospel sets us free positionally. We're no longer under its power. And applying the gospel to our lives in a day-to-day process frees us from sin operationally. Believing the gospel sets us free positionally, not under sin's domain. Applying the gospel sets us free operationally so that we can overcome each thing as it comes. Are you struggling with sin? I I I question if you're even a believer if you're not. Uh that's a battle we're all in. Is there something that you keep f falling into and it feels like you cannot stop? In fact, you might even be afraid of triumph because you failed so many times. Commit this day to worship Christ, to believe Christ. Over everything else, to believe that truth that is revealed in Scripture in the gospel Ask him to show you the idolatry that drives your behavior. What do you love more than Jesus is essentially it. And then add to that the grace provided you in Christ's body. Ask someone who you trust and is confident in the Word to help you. Expose your sin and get help with it. You never intended to face this struggle against sin by yourself. That's why God put you in a body. This brother or sister can keep reminding you of this truth while you're probably going to keep needing to remind them of the truth that they need to hear with their struggle. They can remind you how much Christ is more worthy than any idol you're trying to replace him with. We truly are, as Red Green says, all in this together. Okay, so Jesus made this amazing statement. If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. What a wonderful ray of hope that is for those who are tired of sin, for those tired of guilt, for those who thirst for righteousness. But evidently that's not the audience that Christ was speaking to, because this is their response. Verse 33. They answered him, We're offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you'll become free? Now, you've got to keep in mind their history. It's difficult to imagine that these people were talking about political freedom There was hardly any power in the region that the Jews were not slaves to at one point or another. So they were experts at being slaves. You know, they knew that. So they're probably saying, hey, we're God's chosen people by blood. And by virtue of Abraham, we were never the heathens like those people who are around us. We never had a sin problem like they do. And that really isn't our concern. So what kind of freedom are you offering us exactly? If it's freedom from sin, well, we don't need it. I think that's the essence of what they're responding to. And Jesus answered them with a truly, truly, and we know what's coming every time a truly truly hits. Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. In first John this is repeated. First John three eight says, Whoever makes a practice of sinning Is of the devil. For the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. So keep in mind, and we've said it a lot of times, but I think we have to keep saying it, the issue is not an isolated sin. It by itself doesn't tell us much. 1 John 1. 8 says, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth isn't in us. So 1 John is saying, I'm not talking about an individual sin that you commit or you know something you did. Did today, uh one one time thing. Uh verse ten, if we say we have not sinned, we make God a liar and his word isn't in us. So he's not saying perfection That's not the issue. John understood that Christians are not sinless. There's no perfection short of eternity. It's the continual habitual practice of sin. That reveals what he's talking about. Incidents don't reveal the heart as much as habits do. If a believer can sin , And it doesn't break his heart to do so. There is no evidence that this person is a believer. So Jesus said that if a person practices sin habitually without remorse, which is evidence that he's no believer at all, that person is a slave to sin. That person is enslaved by sin. It's the nature of sin to enslave. That's why it's so deadly dangerous to play with a sin. Sin isn't playful. It's the devil's tool. It's intended to destroy you. And that's what he intends it for. And when when those temptations are brought to your mind, sometimes they are supernaturally given to you. They're not intended for anything good. It's to destroy you. So even when it doesn't rob a Christian of his salvation, it robs him of his joy. It destroys relationships. It distances him, distances him from his relationship with God. It only provides regret and distraction. From the Christian life. It's a distraction from the ministry that we could be doing. And it's intended by the devil to be so seductive as to fully enslave a person. I think addictions are the best object lessons, the best illustrations. At some point, a person would panic rather than to give up their sin. That's slavery. That person is not free to do anything but the sin that they are under the power of. And I've I've dealt with uh some people who have been addicted to drugs and and alcohol and things and it's amazing what what those people will do. To maintain that source. That person isn't free to do anything but the sin that they're under the power of Then Jesus continues, verse 35. The slave does not remain in the house forever, the son remains forever. At this point, Jesus is probably referring to the difference between the sons of Abraham and the sons of God. The Jews think they're set because they're of their bloodline, because they're being sons of Abraham. And Jesus is saying, No, no, that's not how it works. You're not sons. You're slaves. And slaves have no security. They can be bought and sold. They don't have eternal relationship that saves. You Jews are not in the favored status with God that you think you are I am, but you're not. Because I'm the only son of God and I remain forever, but you won't Because you really are, who you really are is going to be revealed. Verse 36: So if the Son sets you free. You'll be free indeed. You're slaves. You're worse than you think you are. But if sun sets you free, that's when you'll know freedom. That's when you'll get it. Jesus is looking at these guys in the eye and telling them that only Christ has the ability to set you free from the sin that you are enslaved by. In other words, he's telling them, You need me for salvation. He's saying, You need Christ for salvation. They need Christ to have their thirst for righteousness quenched. Only Christ can take care of their sin problem, and that's the greatest problem that any human being has ever encountered. What a wonderful truth when received by a believer! If you're in Christ this morning, relish this. Relish it. You and I, if we are in Christ, we are free indeed. Yeah, there are times in your life that you have to believe it because Christ says it, not because you experience it. You believe it because Christ said it, not because you feel it. You believe it because Christ said it, not because it looks like it. The evidence from our lives may be spotty, but we will be free. Partially experienced in this life, fully experienced in the next. Jesus is the only one who has the authority to set slaves of sin free. I like what D. A. Carson said at this point. He said true freedom is not the liberty to do anything we please, but the liberty to do what we ought And it is genuine liberty because doing what we ought now pleases us. Let me read that again. True freedom is not the liberty to do anything we please. But the liberty to do what we ought, and it is genuine liberty, because doing what we ought now pleases us. Verse 37, I know that you're offspring of Abraham, I know it. Yet you seek to kill me because my words find no place in you. The Jews focused on their biological descent. Jesus is showing them how far they are from the faith descent. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, they would have been cheering in the streets if Christ had shown up. Yet this audience, they want to kill him. This biological descent is worthless in spiritual things They're truly of their father, the devil. That's their real lineage. That is their spirit spiritual descent That's the descent that matters the most in our lives. The devil wants Christ dead, and these offspring of Abraham want Christ dead also, proving that their spiritual lineage is from Satan. You seek to kill me, Christ said. Why? Because the truths I say to you do not resonate. They're foreign to you. They're easily dismissible. You have no hunger and thirst for them. Why is that? Jesus has a very clear answer, and it comes back to what we've said over and over It's the difference between flesh and spirit. It's the difference between what man creates and what God creates. It's a question of origin. Verse 38, I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your Father. Jesus wants us to understand how we're supposed to discern life. We do what we are inclined to do because of whose children we are. We do what we are inclined to do because of whose children we are. That's the principle. You and I might want to have a different view. We might want to think that if their experiences were different or if their circumstances were different, well then they might have come to Christ. But what we find at the end of the day is that all it all depends on which Father they have. Our jobs are to lay out the gospel of Christ as clearly and as accurately as possible to everyone in our circles. We meet people's objectives uh objections and their arguments as best we can with reasonable defense We come at it with scripture and logic and reason, and as we do this, we are praying and we are praying and we are praying for the miracle of regeneration. If God calls a person to himself, now we have someone who has God the Father as their father. If not, we have a person who is responding to their father, the devil. A person's spiritual father determines the most significant things about them. Think about this. There was never a better evangelist than Jesus. I think we can agree on that. There was never a better evangelist than Jesus. But when he met with the Jewish leaders and even some of the Jewish people, he was completely ineffective at changing their hearts. And what he did was not to double down on trying to convince his hearers with reason that would resonate with their psyches. What he did was accurately report the source of their spiritual problem. Eventually, maybe some of them did repent. We don't know. But it's important to realize how Christ dealt with his situation. He simply revealed the source of the spiritual problem. He didn't hem and all. He did not hesitate He revealed the problem no matter how offensive that truth might be. And he did that because that was the only chance that these particular sinners had of ever repenting. We should learn from that. We have to be free to tell people that their greatest problem is not usually what they think it is. Their problem is their sin and their natural alienation against God. Every human has to repent. We have to all turn 180 degrees and fall upon Christ for grace. That's what we need, more than we need air. Let's pray. Oh Lord.