As I studied this passage, I was stricken with how much this passage applies to our current situation. And we need to keep orienting to the text, I think, to keep getting the lessons that God has for us. We see this in verse 6 when we jump back. John Actually, John 6 15. Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king. Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. So the crowd, this crowd that he's talking to, this crowd believed in Jesus. The problem was in what they were believing in Jesus for. These people were willing to submit to Jesus as their king. The problem is in what they would submit to Jesus. These people believed that Jesus would save their lives. But the problem is what these people believe Jesus would save them from. Jesus walked away from these people. Think about that. He had huge crowds. We might think we had reached a pinnacle of success to gather such a large crowd. But if that crowd is coming together primarily for political purposes, for earthly purposes Even in the name of Jesus, Jesus would have nothing to do with it. He would eventually walk away after making his appeal. And then when these people kept after Jesus, he began to wean them out. He talked about the competing breads. He talked about the bread of the flesh and the bread of the spirit, and how different they are, and the the appeal of each of those and the power behind each of those. And he contrasted the needs of the spirit. He urged the people to prioritize properly, knowing all the while they couldn't do such a thing if God did not first do a miracle in their hearts and in their lives. God had to call them to himself in their soul of souls and heart of hearts. Jesus told them not to prioritize flesh food. Don't work for the food that perishes. Prioritize soul food. Work for the food that endures to eternal life. And where is that food? That food is Jesus. That food is Jesus. Believe in Jesus. That's the punchline of the whole chapter. Believe in Jesus But Christ had to clarify some things in his world, just like we need to clarify some things in ours. There are two kinds of life. There's natural life. There are physical circumstances that can be very pleasant or unpleasant. They're nicest when we have abundant food, clothing And shelter. They're nicest when our walk, our work, is the least futile, when it's touched the least by the curse. And safety from our enemies. We all want safety from our enemies. And we want to live in a world where there's justice so that evildoers are punished. We want our property and our loved ones safe from harm from others. That's all natural life. It's a natural response. It's a natural desire. Does that sound familiar? Is that not what we hope to get from our government? I mean, when government is functioning at its best, isn't that what we want to get from them Are we not cheered when we believe that justice is being restored, that the trends are going in a good direction? Do we not mourn when we see a sense of deep confusion about right and wrong, and we want that to be corrected? Sure. We need to ask ourselves this question. And this is the this is like the vital question here. If Jesus showed up today, walked through the back doors, and he he said He said, Ferndale , you pick. You pick. You can have me as your earthly king. And I'll clean up this mess. Abortions will end, crimes against people and their property will be punished immediately. Food, clothing, and shelter will be easily and readily available to everyone, and no enemies will ever cross the borders of your country. You can have all that. I'll provide that. Or You can have me as the king of the kingdom of heaven. I'll restore a right relationship with you, between you and my Father. I will give you a new heart. You can approach the throne of God with confidence because all your sin is forgiven. I may or may not make your here and now circumstances better. So I'm not promising that. That's not part of the deal. I'll not allow you to do whatever you want with your time or your body or your money or your mind. I'll tell you how to live and I will discipline you if you rebel against me. But you will be given eternal life and I will keep you in fellowship with me until you die and enter into eternal existence that I have prepared for you. So, which do you want? Which do you want? All of chapter six is about which do you want? What do you believe Jesus for? What will you submit to Jesus for? What will you trust Jesus to save you from? The answers to those questions display whether Jesus has called you to himself or not. As Jesus talked to the crowds from verse 26 on, he is appealing to the crowd to come to him as the bread of life, that which will sustain. He's saying, Believe in me for the salvation of your souls. The more Jesus talked, the more people were getting the idea that Jesus had no intentions of improving their day-to-day circumstances. He was no name-it-and-claim it smorgasboard of great earthly stuff. No, Jesus kept talking about his heavenly origin and his heavenly purposes and his heavenly offering. He kept talking about his mission. And what was the response of the crowd? Well, in verse 41, they grumbled about Jesus with the idea, who do you think you are? Basically, they were regarding Jesus as one of us humans, but with superpowers. That's kind of how they were seeing him. And they believed that he could straighten up the political situation better than any other candidate right now. He could restore something pretty close to the earthly garden of Eden And let's face it, that's what they were after. But when Jesus starts talking about coming from heaven and going to heaven, And being God in the flesh, now he's being unbelievable. And frankly, not what they're really interested in. He wasn't at all committed to fixing their circumstances. He just wanted to fix their hearts. The natural man will never be satisfied with the true Jesus. The natural man will never be satisfied with the true Jesus. He'll always be a disappointment to them. They might follow a man-made Jesus easily enough. They might add a Jesus unto their present life in order to get the best of both worlds. But the natural man can't be persuaded to pick up the instrument of his own death and to follow Jesus They can't see a good reason to die for themselves than to live for Christ. There's just no incentive there that appeals to them in the natural man in flesh. Well now we reach 52 where we're starting. And the the Jews then disputed among themselves. Okay, now they're not grumbling against Christ among themselves. Now they're disputing amongst themselves. How can this man give us the flesh to eat? It's fleshy. So first they grumbled. Who do you think you are? Now they're frustrated and argue among themselves about Christ's absurd and grotesque claims. Their frustration and their anger are peaking. Remember in verse 32 where Jesus says, My Father gives you the true bread from heaven. We discussed this, remember? And they knew that Jesus was speaking figuratively and not literally, but they refused to allow that. They were wanting to see problems in what Jesus was saying, so they found problems in what Jesus was saying. So when Jesus says in last week's text, verse 51, that the bread I will give for the life of the world. This bread, it's my flesh. They had every clue to believe Jesus was speaking figuratively But of course, that's not what they believed. That's not how they heard it. So Jesus lays it truly, truly on them here. And we know what to expect when we hear it truly, truly coming. If taken on its own, this truly, truly, without context, would be the most bizarre and reviling thing that Christ ever said. And we find later on in the Gospels that this was the soundbite that was spread by his enemies. And it essentially is Jesus is for cannibalism. That's it. Be careful of sound bites that are not given in context. That's true of everyone, but it's especially true of Jesus. Now I find it interesting how many of Charlie Kirk's quotes are used to prove how hateful he was or how racist he was Yet the quotes in the context of the conversations he was having, and then in the bigger context of his philosophy of life that he explained, never proved anything of the kind. Those who knew him personally, even those as he were even his enemies, didn't attribute it racism and hatred to him. That's how it is with sound bites. And we all we always need to be careful of sound bites. Verse 53 and 54, so Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. You want to get a bunch of Jewish people upset at you. You just give them this quote. That'll do it. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life and I will raise him up on the last day. What in the world does Jesus mean here? What's he saying? This is one of those scriptures that's used by a bunch of different groups to support a bunch of different points But in context, we can, I think, fairly easily come down to what he's saying. First, is this literal? Or is this figurative? This drinking my blood and eating my flesh. And we might say, of course it's figurative, but not everybody believes that. Many Catholic scholars and many of the early church fathers believed in transubstantiation. They believed that when we take communion, the food that we eat and the wine that we drink literally turns into the flesh and blood of Christ in In fact, Luther and Zwingli argued energetically about this issue. Now, Luther's was a little bit off from transubstantiation, but it was in that in that realm. And Luther held the the point that Christ said, This is my body, and he take it literally. And Zwingli argued that it was figuratively symbolizing. Christ's body. So let's look at our text. Should we understand this as the Catholic scholars would? As Luther did, or as Zwingli did? Okay, first, and I think I've got like six points, seven points here. First, the Greek word for flesh that is used here is never used in the scriptures where it's talking about the Lord's Supper. Where he talks about my body, he uses the word soma Here, where it talks about flesh, it sucks. So he refers to it the communion with a different word when he calls it his body. That's the first Second. Now remember back to verse 51. Jesus said, The bread I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. The bread I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. This is the same word for flesh. It sucks. It's not uh Soma, it's Sarks. And it's it has been used already in this context as referring to a sacrificial offering I will give this flesh for the life of the world. I will give myself, my body to the life for the life of the world. So we see this Sarks Sacrifice connection in like six other verses in John. It's used the same way His body being given as a sacrifice for the people. When Jesus is referring to his flesh in the context of John 6, the emphasis is on what that flesh that we are to eat was being used. for, what it was being given for, what the purpose of giving it was for. The flesh was being used as a sacrifice for the sins of the people. It was to save the world Not an alternate food source. Third, the Greek verb used for eat and drink is in the aorist tense. This would not mean something like, unless you eat and keep eating my flesh. It would mean more if you do not eat my flesh one time and in a way that covers you for all time. It's a one-time event. It's a once and done kind of thing, not a continual thing. It's more like justification here, where he talks about it, than sanctification. It's an event, not a process. In Corinthians, we're told that each time we take communion, we're to remember why we're taking it. Communion is taken over and over and over again. That's not how this is being referred to by Jesus in this text. Yet we're to eat and drink the blood of Christ one time for our salvation. Fourth, it would be odd that Jesus is talking about communion to a bunch of hostile unbelievers, something that's only for true believers, and he's not even yet instituted it with his closest friends. So it's unlikely that he's talking about communion. Fifth, this eating and drinking are absolutely essential for the eternal salvation of a person. He says, unless you eat of it, you have no life in you. So this would mean that none of the Old Testament saints, nor the thief on the cross, could possibly be saved because they never took of this. Yet Jesus clearly told the thief on the cross that he would be saved, and we know that there are Old Testament believers that are saved Sixth, this eating and drinking per provides salvation. This would mean that anyone who takes communion is automatically saved forever. And I don't know anyone that believes that. Although I suppose if we look long enough, there's some some oddball out there somewhere who came up with that as a theology, but that's not commonly believed. And sixth, the whole context is clearly figurative. If it's not, Jesus is a loaf of bread that came down from heaven. That's absurd Everything in this context is described as true, has to be has to be treated the same way, where he says, I am the true bread, I am the true uh uh Water, I am the true anything, we've got to take it all the same way. We looked last week at how this means it uh the true means the ultimate of that thing, the breadiest bread, we had said. It's not just the thing, it's it's that which is most Most most true of it, not just the most real bread, but the bloodiest bread. To understand Jesus is suddenly speaking literally is to violate all the interpretive rules We would find ourselves in the same spot as those who grumbled against Jesus. So I think the evidence against this talking about transubstantiation is formidable. In fact, it's absurd, really, if you go by the context. So then what does it mean? What does it mean when Jesus talks about beating on him? Well, if someone told you that you're going to need to work hard to burn bench press two hundred pounds , Ruth, you'd probably have to work really hard to do that. And and then they said that you would need to do a lot of rep Repetitions in order to get to the place where you can press 200 pounds. And then they said it's going to take a lot of sweat and dedication to bench press two hundred pounds. You you would know as they're talking to you that everything they're saying is about the same thing You would know that everything they're talking about is the process of getting to that goal. That's how we should understand our text Christ said, Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. We need to think backwards. The question is, how does a human being get eternal life based on what Scripture says Okay? How does a human being get eternal life based on what Scripture says? And Jesus already made that clear to Nicodemus. Remember back in John 3, he said, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up that whoever believes in him May have eternal life. Same praise. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him Should not perish but have eternal life. So how do you get eternal life? You believe in Christ. So well once God calls us to Himself and makes us alive We call out to God for salvation. We call out to Christ for salvation. We call out by faith. We call out in belief. So what is eating Christ's flesh and drinking his blood? What have that logically? What does it have to logically mean? It has to be another way of saying that we take who Christ is and the work that He has done, we incorporate it into our lives by faith. That's what he's talking about. We get it in us. He uses the imagery of Eden, but it's just fake. We get it in us for the sustenance in life. You and I must use this figure of speech for something, you know, we we we do, we might use it for something we really like. For instance, I really like charter fishing. So I could say I really eat it up You know, and you would know what I mean. You wouldn't start thinking that I was chewing on the ship. You know? You would know what I mean. You and I, if we are in Christ, have fed on Christ's flesh, and we have drank his blood. That is how we gained eternal life. I'm more comfortable in saying I believed in Christ. But this is just a different way of saying it. It puts it in terms that make it more like more than just an exercise of our brains. Because when we say, you know, I believed in Christ, you can think of all these thoughts about Christ And then when you're talking in these terms, you're realize you're doing way more than thinking of bots. You are encompassing Christ in you. Jesus describes it in terms of full engagement in the process. It's very personal. When we eat or drink, we often pour ourselves into it. Think of how you feel when you're hungry and somebody lays a table in front of you with all the food you like. You know, you you're not disinterested. Okay? You are highly tuned in. You are enthusiastically engaged. That's some of what this imagery, I think, is meant to capture in how we believe How intense that is. We have encountered Jesus and we are eating it up. Notice too that this is much like salvation. At one point in our lives, if we're in Christ, you can say that we were saved. past tense, but at the same time we are being saved, present tense, and we will be saved Future tense. Here we see that at one time we ate and drank, and it it counted. But here we continue to eat and drink. The Christian life, if it's real, is active. We need to abide in Christ. Verse 55 and 56. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Again, true. We have to take that figuratively. In order to be consistent with everything else that we've looked at. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. So now we have the abiding concept. We've got the once-and-done idea. That we came to Christ and we drank and we were justified. And now we have the abiding part of it. So Jesus isn't talking about eating the human body, obviously. He's talking about what that body represents and what did Jesus Accomplished with his flesh. What did he say he was going to accomplish with his flesh? He paid our penalty on the cross. That's the food. That's the drink. That's what the Lord's Supper is all about. It's about what Christ's life represented, what it did. And in verse 56, we see this principle of abiding. The word for abiding means to actually live in a place. Live in a place. It's to be present. It's to be held, kept continually. What do we know about how we should live? Well, Romans 1, 16 and 17 says, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith. For faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live By faith. We come to Christ in faith. We live in faith. We come to Christ eating and drinking. Once and for all, then we continue to come to Christ, being nourished by faith in Him. This faith is what Jesus is calling eating, and this faith is drinking. We live in the constant state of trusting in God for that which is essential to our lives. That is living by faith, that is abiding. In John 8. 31, Jesus will say, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples John 15, 7, Jesus says, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish and it will be done for you. Then he tells them two verses later to abide in my love. Then he connects that to doing what Jesus says. A Christian, by his very nature, must live in Christ. This is all just more ways of saying that. We are drawn to know him better, serve him better, enjoy him more. That's what faith does. That's what abiding looks like. It's all describing different aspects of the Christian life We live in Christ. We live by faith in the Son of God. We eat his flesh. We drink his blood. That's the Christian life. Do you find that you can be perfectly happy living absorbed with what the rest of the world is absorbed with? If so, that's frightening. It doesn't matter if we're young or old. It's all the same. If we proclaim to be a Christian, but we can't remember the last time we went to God's Word so that our souls could drink at that stream. So that we could flourish, we could be revived. There's reason to be concerned. That's what a Christian does. That's what a Christian is compelled to do. It doesn't matter what our spouses think. It doesn't matter what our parents think. It doesn't stand directly before God. What is the state of our hearts this morning? Are we laughing up the voice of God wherever we can get it, like it's food, like it's drink? Or do we do the very least we can do? Is sermon time a time to catch up on thinking about the greatest concerns of your life? Or are you looking to hear from God through the text? The Christian life abides in Christ. Verse 57: As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he will live because of me. Are we getting the gist of this? The Father sent Christ and Christ lived because the Father sustained him in this life. That's how Christ lived. If that was Christ, how dependent must we be on Christ for our lives? We need to be feeding on Christ. As we're receiving our direction and sustenance from Him, as we get our strokes from Him. And our goals from him, and our thoughts are shaped by his word, as that is happening, we too will live in the same method that Jesus lived. We are dependent creatures. We are dependent creatures. We need what He provides And we need it more than we think we do, and we need it more often than we think we do, and we need it more intensely than we think we do We need what he provides. And then Jesus states that this contrasts again to people who would prefer wheat bread. He states it again. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread, me, faith, will live forever. I think by now we ought to get it. Of course, John 6 is pretty long, and it they don't nobody seemed to get it, except his disciples. We'll get there. But the the bread we need, the bread that will save us, isn't always the bread that we want. Yeah, it's not always the bread that most easily comes to our wanters. We should take a good hard look at that. These followers of Jesus were teetering on the edge. These uh so called disciples. They were soon to fall off that cliff and unless something happened later, they were lost forever. Now they may have come around, we don't know. Jesus is not like the bakery bread. That bread might keep us alive for thirty days, but it will do nothing for our souls. The bread of Jesus, God incarnate, will allow us to have life to full forever and ever and ever and ever and ever What does your heart crave for this morning? What bread do you most want? Verse 59, Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. I saw on social media that some people were saying that if your church didn't preach about Charlie Kirk, you should switch churches I cringed at that. Immediately I cringed at that. Charlie was an excellent example of a believer living by faith, but Jesus is the hero to the story. At some point, Christ's followers had moved into the synagogue. This was his sermon that he gave there, and it sure wasn't what they wanted to hear. And it wasn't in a language they wanted to hear it. Jesus preached what they needed to hear. He preached the cross of Christ. Which is what Charlie preached as well. I would say if a church is focused on the cross of Christ, it might be good to ignore any other man-made considerations. I think we might best end on Christ's call to his followers. And it was a call that appealed for a decision. And it laid out the need to lay aside the fleshly way of living. Jesus said this in Matthew 16, 24 through 26, which incidentally is actually after this in our text. It's it's actually between Chapter 7 verse 1 and chapter 7 verse 2, there's six months that pass by, and Jesus said this in that time period. Jesus told his disciples, If anyone would come after me If anybody wants to follow me, if anyone wants to be one of my people, let him do this. Let him deny himself and take up his cross. And follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. If you think it's all about your life If you think it's all about making this life on earth better, you missed the point completely. Whoever's going to save his life that way, that person's going to lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake, We'll find it. For what will it profit a man if he gets if he gets the worldly kingdom, if he gets the peace on earth, if he gets the bread bread from heaven continually? If if if all of the social structures are wonderful, if he gains the world and he forfeits his soul, what good is it? Or what shall a man give In return for his soul. Brothers and sisters, what is there in your life apart from Christ that you feel you must have? What is there in your life that you cannot hold in an open hand, welcoming our good God to do with it? Whatever he pleases. What are you trying to save in this life? What won't you give up? What do you expect that Christ has to do for you that's not on the list of the promises that he has given to us? John 6 is calling to people To let go of all those expectations and to give themselves unreservedly to following Christ wherever Christ goes. Is that how we're living? Is that how we are trusting? And my guess is, if if all the truth be told. It's probably a yes and no, you know. On a good day. In a good moment. In a good period of time. Are we saving our lives or losing them for Christ's sake? Let's close in prayer.