Well , this wor week we return to the book of Mark. We've been to church camp and we learned about killing sin, which is a logical application of the gospel of Christ in our day-to-day lives. Then for two weeks we looked at the qualifications of an elder, and the third week we looked at the job of an elder We're in the middle of appointing two elders in training, and we've ridden the roller coaster of dealing with regulations in the building of our meeting place. So that's that's where we're at. I think it would be good to remind ourselves where we are in the context of Mark to catch up. It's been a while We had read about Jesus telling his men that they were headed for a restful spot. When they got there, the disciples learned there was work to be done. It was a teaching time for them. Afterward, they were sent across a lake only to face a deadly storm, and Jesus arranged to act as if he were going to stroll past them in the middle of the lake. It had a dramatic effect on the disciples, and it turned the corner for them on realizing just who Christ was. When they reached their destination, miraculously and instantaneously, Jesus began teaching the crowds the next day. He talked to them about the two kinds of bread seekers. Most of the crowd rejected him at this point, proving that they were seeking the wrong bread. And now we come to our text in verse 1. Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together, having come from Jerusalem. We already know that the religious leaders in Jerusalem want Christ dead. That is their stated purpose. That's their goal, and everything that they do is in that regard. Another gospel tells us that Jesus was ministering in Galilee during this time because those who were in Judea wanted to kill him. It was a bit safer in Galilee. They at least had to travel farther. Jesus is going to use the next seven months to train his disciples out of out of the main thoroughfare in Judea. So these religious leaders approach Christ from a distance. We can assume that there is nothing sincere in anything that they do. When a person seeks to harm you, you don't need to play games with that fact. You don't need to assume that all their questions are sincere. Christ knew what these men were coming from, where they were coming from. He knew their hearts, and he's not about to put up with any of their nonsense. Verse 2. Now when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, unwashed hands, they found fault. I think probably all of us here know. When people are looking for fault, you can rest assured that they're always going to find it, real or otherwise. In Christ's instance, it was always otherwise. For us, sometimes it's legitimate When the Jews came back from Babylonian captivity, they came back with an oral tradition of rules. Eventually, these rules were written in the Mishnah. Along with them were added rabbis' commentaries called the Gemara. The combination is called the Talmud. The Talmud basically says that God appointed men by the oral law that Moses passed down to create laws in order to protect God's written law or to aid in God's written law. These created laws were originally probably well-intended rules for helping people obey God's law. But the original intention doesn't really matter. We'll see some universal problems of legalism that's displayed in our text this morning. Any man-made rule that pretends to have the same authority as a God-made rule will, by its very nature, be used for evil. Any man-made rule that pretends to have the same authority as a God-made rule will by its very nature be used for evil. Any man-made rule that pretends to have the same authority as a God-made rule will eventually supersede God's rule. It will eventually supersede God's rule Any man-made rule that pretends to have the same authority as a God-made rule will eventually be used to punish and exclude those who care most about God's rule. It will eventually be used to punish and exclude those who care most about God's rule. Any man-made rule that pretends to have the same authority as a God-made rule will be used in a process of rejecting the authority of God. It will be used in a process of rejecting the authority of God And any man-made rule that pretends to have the same authority as a God-made rule will soon be used to evaluate spiritual success or failure. It will soon be used to evaluate spiritual success or failure. These are universal truths. We'll see them all through Scripture. And where such rules exist in churches today, we'll see the same thing. Legalism is the process of adding rules to God's directives. Usually in an attempt to help one live up to God's directives. But it never works. And it always leads to distraction of God's directives. For us to do such a thing in our own lives is absolutely necessary. But for us to do it to other believers is somewhere between foolish and evil. The religious leaders pointed out a problem. The disciples were eating without washing their hands. Now, this isn't in the order of what your mother did when you showed up for lunch from playing outside with dirty hands. This was something, this wasn't something for your health. This was a ceremonial cleansing. It wasn't so much intended to wash off germs. as it was to wash off any contact you may have had with something that was ceremonially unclean. Maybe somebody you touched was an unclean Gentile Maybe that person had touched or eaten pork. Maybe they had been around any number of unclean situations. This rule was designed to ceremonially get rid of that impurity. This was not something that the common people were required by Old Testament law to do. The priests had to wash, but the common people did not. But the Mishnah required the common person to ceremonially wash their hands before eating. This is a description of the ceremony from John MacArthur's commentary. First, water was poured from a jar onto both hands with the fingers pointing up, so you would kind of go like that, so that the water would run off at your wrists. And then water was again poured over the hands with your fingers pointing down. Finally, each hand was rubbed with the fist of the other hand. And strict Jews would follow these regulations before every meal and between each course in the meal. It's not difficult to imagine the discussion and the thinking that was carried on to come up with such a rule. Maybe it started with the concern that Hey, our young people are not getting the importance of remaining ceremonially unclean. And we all as good Jews know how important that is, and they're not getting it. They're forgetting what a big deal that is. We need to help them. Let's see. How can we do that? Oh, I know. Let's make them wash their hands. That way they'll be reminded of uncleanness that surrounds them. Good idea. But when? Well, how about when they eat? First, everyone wants to eat and has to eat, and if we couple it with eating, we can be sure that they get this important lesson about purity. Yes, and people probably won't do it unless we tell them that it's required. So let's make it so. Let's make it so that if you really want to worship God, well, you must do this before you eat. This will help our people to live godly lives. Can you see how that stuff starts? It looks good. It looks helpful. But what it does is shows a mistrust in the wisdom of God. If God wanted this in Scripture, it would be in Scripture. I think all of us have ideas of what should be in Scripture, but it isn't. There are any number of ways we think we should help God out here. But God doesn't need the help. He gave us his word, and that is exactly what he wants it to be. We do very well to limit ourselves to what he said And we all need to apply it to our lives with whatever legalism is necessary for us to obey God. But we must never think that others are required to go by our own personal legalisms. If I think it's wrong for me to have a cable TV because I'll waste too much time, that does not mean it's wrong for someone else to purchase that same thing. If someone wants to drink alcohol because of , or they don't want to drink it because of the harm that it may do to them, that does not mean that someone else must abstain. What the religious leaders did in Babylon displayed a mistrust of God and his word. And in the end, they did a great disservice to God. by passing down rules that would eventually become weapons to use against the true people of God. Mark goes on to tell us more about these Mishnah legalisms. He said in ver- says in verse 3, For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands in a special way, holding the tradition of the elders. When they come from the marketplace, they don't eat unless they wash. And there are many other things which they have received and hold as having authority, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, and couches. Couches is left off on the most accurate translations. So we find lots of rules about lots of things. That's always what happens when we make little compromises with the purity of God's Word. It always leads to more and more compromises, more and more ways we think to help God out And the one thing you can trust about a legalist, they'll always view it as a fighting offense if you don't comply to their mutually accepted rules. They want conformity more than anything. We see that in the Pharisees' next question, in verse 5. Then the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands? Now, this could have been asked by a sincere person with a sincere longing to know, but that was not the case here. These people wanted to kill Christ. So we can assume their evil motives in asking the question. In essence, it was like so many insincere questions. It is really an accusation, not a question. It isn't like Christ could give them an answer that would satisfy them. There was nothing that Christ could say that would satisfy them. They would just move on to the next thing, the next opportunity. And the issue really isn't with what the disciples are doing. The leaders could have asked the disciples, but they didn't. No, the issue is about Jesus as the teacher of those disciples. The problem they're addressing is what Jesus is teaching his followers. That's what they're after with their insincere questions. We can read this assuming that the Pharisees were really saying, what they were really saying was, Jesus, you are blatantly teaching your disciples to sin in regard to ceremonial washings. You are challenging the whole structure of the Jewish traditions. That's what they're after. Verse 6: He answered and said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites? As it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. And in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pitchers and cups and many other such things you do. Jesus is not going to play a game with these men. He's not going to pretend that there is a speck of legitimacy in what these men are doing. He immediately calls them hypocrites. The word means play actor. We've gone over this a lot of times. They are one person while holding up an actor's face representing something completely different. Not at all congruent with the person behind the mask. These men were God haters and self-lovers. They loved what religion provided for them, but they could care less about anybody else. Yet they were talking to Jesus in the pretense of protecting true religion. Protecting true worship of God. It's difficult to imagine any act that would have been more hypocritical. But isn't that danger always with us too? How about when we don't like what somebody else is doing? Maybe we're secretly envious or jealous. Maybe we wish our conscience would allow us to do that thing that someone else is doing. Maybe it personally offends us simply because we find it distasteful. We can have all kinds of motives, but we approach the person or talk about the person like we have nothing but the purest spiritual motives for that person's welfare. We need to learn to spot this deadly seed. It's nothing but hypocrisy, pure and simple. When flesh is the secret motivation for us to confront a brother or a sister, that is one of the most harmful forms of hypocrisy. Before you talk about a brother or sister or confront a brother or sister, ask yourself this question. Is my true goal in my heart of hearts For this person to experience the peace and the blessing of God. Is that my goal? Or is there a motive of punishment or retribution? Our hearts really are despicable. And they're often most despicable when we pretend to care about God and about the other person. Jesus told his questioners that they were the perfect examples of what Isaiah the prophet wrote. They could pretty well quote, they pretty well knew from the start that this was not about to be complimentary. These guys knew this scripture. Then Jesus quoted Isaiah 29, 13, This people honors me with their lips. But their heart is far from me. And in vain they worship me, teaching his doctrines, the commandments of men. For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pitchers and cups. Jeremiah's first statement is the definition of spiritual hypocrisy. I believe that was Jeremiah 29, 13. Not sure then. They wear the mask of honoring God, worshiping God, caring about God's glory. Yes, the mask is all about God. The mask is very godly. The stated purpose with their lips is that they're all about God. They're all about spiritual things. That's all they care about. Yep. Their lips say the right things. They have the external all worked out. They give the proper impressions. They say and do the right things externally. But they have a huge problem, a huge disconnect, a huge hypocrisy. Their hearts and their words don't line up. They're actually at odds with each other. When our lips are saying things that don't represent our hearts, that is hypocrisy. When we posture having spiritually loving motives, but we really have very different motives, very fleshly motives. That is hypocrisy at its worst. True worship is the congruence of heart and lips. True worship is when our hearts truly want to please God and our lips are an expression of that truth. We can know when that's true because we care little about how it's perceived. We don't have to work to appear a certain way or have to have to have people approve of what we're doing or saying. We're doing it as unto the Lord, and we know the Lord is watching, and we answer to him, and it's all good We don't have to worry about how we're perceived. Congruence of life and heart is what a Christian shoots for. We're the only people who are free to live in truth. We don't have to hide. We don't have to pretend. Christians are set free to be what they are. And when we see that we're incongruent, we at that point can confess it and be real with it. It's not like we're going to get kicked out of the club. That's what grace is all about. That's how we got in. We didn't get in by getting by being by being good. We didn't get in by pretending anything. We got in by pretend or by receiving what Christ gave to us. And that's how we stay in. So we can give up that battle. We can give up that farce. We don't have to act. We can be who we are. Granted, that's not always good, and it requires a lot of change, but we can be who we are. Now, next Isaiah, after defining hypocrisy, tells us the point of failure. He says, in vain they worship me. In vain they worship me. These incongruent people are trying to worship God, but they have not started where true worship always starts. True worship always starts in humility and repentance. It's seeing God for who God is and realizing by default who we are. It starts with our hearts adjusting to who God is and who we are. It tells the truth to God and accepts the truth from God. But religious people attempt to worship God as they are. In their pride, they approach God seeking to do something for him, to do him a favor. And they'll always find that all their efforts of worship are in vain. They'll think they're doing something that pleases God and helps God, but they're always wrong. Their efforts will produce nothing with God. Now, how are this particular people thinking to help God, thinking to worship God? Teaching as doctrines, the commandments of man. That's how they were helping God. This is what the people in Isaiah's day were doing. This is what the people in Jesus' day were doing. And that's what people in our day are doing. They're coming up with rules and teaching them as if they're God's roles. Man, this is a dangerous urge. We need to guard against it in ourselves. It's so easy to think that just one more rule would really help God's people, but it won't. That's just false worship speaking. We see here what always happens. Legalism always ends up replacing what man says for what God says We start with wanting to help what God says, but what we end up doing is replacing it with what we say. Jesus points out this principle here. You can't have the commandment of God and the commandment of man in any kind of balance or coexistence. They will be at enmity. And flesh will always prioritize the law of man when both sides are when both things are side by side, man's law, God's law, we will head in this direction every time. Why? Because the laws of man are usually doable by the flesh. We can do them. You can keep score of them. And we can take credit for doing them And we can assess our spiritual success as a result of our excellent effort for obeying man's laws. Pride is given the throne that pride so often cherishes. Pride is given the glory, and that's so hard for the flesh to resist. Now it's likely those looking on could not see how these evil leaders were simply adding to the law So Jesus is about to show them. He's going to show them how it works. He's going to give them an example. Verse 9, he said to them, All too well you reject the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition. And immediately everyone in the crowd is probably thinking, How? Show me how. I want to understand this. How's that how's this work? For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and he who curses father or mother, let him be put to death. Okay, Christ is about to give an example of how it all works. The tradition and the law are read side by side. What happens? He chooses as his illustration to honor your father and mother and what the law says about those who do not honor their father and mother, but curse them. That's his point. So God has laid out his wishes, his demands, his mind, and his word. A human who follows God should honor father and mother. Part of dishonoring is to see that they're taken care of. It's to look after their needs. This was common in their culture. The young people took care of the old. Children took care of their parents when their parents could no longer take care of themselves. That was part of obeying God. It was part of loving God. Now, think about this a little bit. Didn't Jesus also say in Luke 14, 26, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, in his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Didn't he say that? Yeah? We know he did. This is the beauty of keeping all passages in context of the whole Bible That's one of the concepts of studying the Bible. You've got to keep the context of the Bible within the context of the Bible. We might read this one passage all by itself, the first thing we read about Scripture. and think that now believers will no longer need to fulfill our obligations to fathers and mothers and wives and children. Woo-hoo. Plenty of people have read this passage in isolation and come to that conclusion. But we see in our text this morning that abandoning one's family is clearly not what Christ must have meant in the Luke passage. So we've got to interpret Luke by what we read in Mark. That's how good Bible study is done. Jesus is very much endorsing a believer's taking his responsibility for his parents' welfare very seriously. Now, Jeremiah and Seuss, I don't have a selfish motive in saying this. It truly is what Christ is saying in Mark. Now to see just how strongly Christ meant this, we have to look at the application he makes and how strongly he denounces the abuse. And then you get the idea of how important it is. Okay, so God said, honor your mother and father. What do you say? What's your improvement to the law, Pharisees, big shots, leaders, people who are asserting yourself against Christ? Verse 11, but you say, if a man says to his father or mother, whatever profit you might have received from me is now Corbin. that is a gift to God, then you no longer let him do anything for his father or mother, making the word of God of no effect through your tradition which you have handed down, and many such things you do. Here's an interesting tradition. It isn't hard to see what might have been the motivation behind it. Try this one out for a moral sleight of hand. Suppose I have a lot of resources, and my aged mother has a disease that will require those resources. Now, God's word would require that I use those resources to take care of my mother That would be honoring her in the way that God requires, that God expects. Paul told us that those who do not take care of their families are worse than infidels. So we get the picture. Only a scoundrel would withhold help to their parents. That's according to God. But suppose I want a loophole. Suppose I want to accomplish two things at once. I want to keep those resources for myself, and I still want to Remain spiritual or at least appear spiritual. I want to keep the membership in my Jewish club. At the same time, the religious boys want to get their cut. They want to keep their coffers full. They just they at least want a cut of those resources. They would like to administer some of that cash. Well, the religious boys came up with the perfect solution. They said that a person could dedicate his resources to God. He would declare them Corbin. At that point, they're dedicated to God's service. Now, isn't service to God a higher, more lofty thing, more spiritual a priority than service to mom and dad? On the face of it, you might think so. That's the thinking that allowed this scam to continue. When a person declared Corbin, at least some of the funds were likely to make it into the coffers of the religion. And at that point, the tradition would not even allow the man to use his funds for his parents. Because that was not a spiritual function. But the rule was that a person essentially was allowed to keep the money and use it at their discretion for spiritual purposes. And in the future, they could even toggle the Corbin off by announcing the r the resources not Corbin. So after the death of a parent, a person could toggle Corbin off and they still have kept most of their resources. What a pile of deceit. Don't try. What a pile of deceit. But the religious leaders stood by it. And by standing by it, they were endorsing the overt sin of dishonoring one's parents. What does Jesus say? Making the word of God of no effect through your tradition which you have handed down and many such things you do. You see, this is the ultimate danger of legalism. We can only focus on so many things. And when there is a law of God in a human legalism, our flesh always drifts toward the legalism. And when it does, the word of God has less and less effect. Sometimes it's because, as in this case, the legalism actually negates God's law. But often It simply distracts us in our pride to focus on the external things and miss the internal things We focus on the religious to-do list, and the scriptures that address the person that we are inside are made of no effect. Don't ever allow yourself to think that man-made laws regulating the behavior of God's people are harmless. They are deadly dangerous. So should the church come up with rules about what's modest and what's immodest? No, we shouldn't. But should we have loving conversations about such things? We should seek God's heart and read God's word about such things. We should have loving conversations about such things. We should have interrelated relationships where we speak about those things that we see in each other's lives in loving ways. Should the church make artificial laws about anything that God is silent about? No, we shouldn't. We should love one another. We should ask loving and concerned questions when it's appropriate. We should lay out what God has said on every matter and love people and that process. But we do our Savior and His Word great harm when we add to the Word. It's a great irony That those who are quickest to add human traditions to help people obey God's word are usually the same churches that describe the authority of Scripture so glowingly and with most of the adjectives. We've got to get it through our heads. God does not need our help. He does not need our bright ideas. He does not need our suggestions. What is mostly required is our humble submission to that which has come from the heart of God. Now, we as Christians will need help. We all need love. We will need godly examples. We will need godly exhortations. We will need personal legalism to avoid falling into our weaknesses. But we don't need to add anything to the Bible. It is sufficient. So in making application, we've got to avoid the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. We as believers don't need to play act. When we're working hard to win the approval of other Christians or to create a spiritual impression with others, we should look at our hearts On any number of fronts, we must ask, why am I doing this? What's going on in my heart? What do I really want from my brothers and sisters? What's really driving my actions? We would do well to ask God to help us in that introspection. Ask Him to show us the truth about ourselves, because we don't come by it real naturally. And we can know for sure, if anyone knows about us, God knows about us. He sees our hearts. Another application is to see legalism for what it is. It's often a sinister evil hidden under the wrapper of good intentions, but it displays a mistrust in the Word of God. I have some personal legalisms. They serve me well. They help me to not sin. But it's only pride that would cause me to tell you that my legalisms should be your legalisms. In the church, we can't make rules in order to avoid ministering to each other. We can't set up artificial standards to avoid discussing things with other believers about their conduct or apparel or any number of things. At the end of the day, we have to trust and obey what God has said and love his people. And that's enough. God doesn't need any more assistance. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for what Christ showed us. About legalism, about religion, about falseness, about hiding and pretending, about working to create an image. We thank you that we can come before you exactly as we are, knowing that you loved us and chose us, knowing all of the things that are wrong about us. That we don't even know. We thank you that we can come to you and you offer freedom. We can know the truth, and the truth will set us free. We can see the truth about ourselves and the truth that sets us free from the lies that we believe. the wrong choices that we tend toward. And we can come to you and receive from you True grace. True forgiveness. True power to overcome those things that we have such difficulty with. We thank you that we don't have to pretend. Not with the church. Not with those we trust who love you. But we can be who we are and receive the help that we need and give the help that others need. Help us, Lord, to be congruent. We ask that you would help us to have our hearts and lips lined up. And that we are examples of changed hearts, not by an act, but by simply being who we are We ask that you'd help us in that process this week and that we would represent you better and better in a world that so needs to see real truth. And your word. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.