This church has had a rich tradition of preaching the sovereign grace gospel That is to say that it is God's decision that predetermines a believer's decision to follow Christ John ten has been full of this kind of teaching, as is the rest of John. It is difficult to come out of the book of John without having that understanding. John ten three says, The sheep hear his voice And he calls his own sheep by name and leads them off. We looked at this in depth. The ownership of the sheep does not come from the choice of the sheep, but from the choice of of the shepherd. The sheep respond to Christ's voice because they're Christ's sheep. The sheep they don't become the Christ's sheep By their response. They reveal whose sheep they are, by which shepherd they respond to. We've looked at that. Every believer in Christ has to come and he must have a faith response to Christ. Every believer must. See, we we must cry out in repentance of our sin for Christ to save us And it will seem to us as if we created that response, just like every other decision that we make. And it may take years for us to understand that there's more to the story It certainly took me years. I didn't know why I responded. I thought I had created that response in me. But Scripture tells me that's not the core truth. I responded because Christ chose me from the beginning of time. He owned me. I was his sheep. He knew me by name. He called me by name. I found that call on my life eventually irresistible. It was so compelling to me I could do nothing but respond to it. I love the idea that Christ would save me from my sin. How could I turn down such a generous offer? And maybe that's your same experience with you, and you're responding to Christ. And that's how Scripture presents it. But what about human reasoning? How far can it go apart from Christ? How far can it go apart from the Holy Spirit? We're going to look at that this morning, and that's sort of a teaser for this morning as we start into our text. Verse 22, at that time the feast of dedication took place in Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. Okay, so this is Hanukkah, or Hanukkah, the Feast of Dedication. And it was a festival to celebrate the Jews under Judas Maccabees. taking back the temple from the Syrians after Antiochus Epiphanes had desecrated it. It was a really interesting period of history, and there's a lot recorded about it. It is not an Old Testament uh festival. If you go through the Old Testament, you're not going to find this festival in it. It happened during the period between the Old and the New Testament. But it was a valid celebration of God's deliverance of the Jews from an evil oppressor. Now keep in mind That they're celebrating a great deliverance from a horrible oppressor through the work of a human being. That's what they're celebrating while they are at the same time rejecting the true Messiah, who the Father had sent to save men from their sins. They're celebrating a minor deliverance, and they're completely rejecting the major deliverance What we'll see this morning is one of the last, if not the last, public preaching that Christ did to the crowds of Israelites. This was it. After this, there would be little or no more of a public ministry. Now we're approximately in the middle of the book of John. John has 20 chapters, we're in chapter 10. Up until now we've covered a large portion of Jesus' ministry, and John tended to focus on the parts that weren't so focused on by the rest of the writers. John wrote this a good bit later than the other three Gospels. So he's filling in the blanks for people. But the rest of this book is mainly made up of telling us of the events of the last week of Jesus' earthly ministry. And that's where John really capitalizes on it. So half the book is up till now, half the book is this last week. There's a two-month break between verses twenty-one and twenty two in our text. And it was winter. It was winter. Winter tends to be very rainy in Israel. And the colonnade of Solomon had a roof. So that might be some of the reason that Christ was there. I didn't know this, but sometimes it even snows in Jerusalem in the winter. So it was winter. And this also may be intended to cast a light on how things were spiritually. at the time. It creates a like a an environment. Christ was facing a spiritual coldness Produced by the frozen hearts who would not believe in him. So in more than one way, it was winter. It was a bleak landscape in every way Verse 24. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you're the Christ, tell us plainly. Well, in our study of John, we've seen Christ over and over and over again revealing who he is to them. He had already revealed that he was the Messiah and the Son of God, and up until now they've picked up stones to kill Jesus three times for blasphemy. They know who he says that he is. They would have only accused Jesus of blasphemy. They would have only picked up those stones If they believed what he had just said was calling himself God. So they fully well knew who Jesus said he was They already knew what Jesus was teaching about himself. These leaders asked the right question. to the right person and received the right answer, and it did them no good whatsoever. This question by the Jewish leaders was not a sincere question. We can see that. That's obvious. It was a trap. Where it says the Jews gathered around Christ, it means they circled him They circled him. Likely that was meant to intimidate Christ. Maybe it was to keep him from escaping their grasp. Everything was about power to these leaders. Everything was about earthly power, political power. They wanted Christ to say that he was the Messiah in such a way that they could possibly either hand him over to the Roman government right then. Or to stone him right where he stood and have uh have the the claim that Christ made so uh abhorrent To the crowd that the crowd would gather in with it and go along with it and think it was a good idea They would do anything to uh to keep their power. And they often chose to move against Christ. During festivals, because that's when most of the people would be there and they they hoped to gain the support of the crowd, didn't always work that way. In fact, often it reversed on them. But and murder Murder was fine to these men if it served their purposes. Verse 25: Jesus answered and said, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. Alright, the Pharisees wanted to keep their discussion in the theoretical. They want to keep it outside of the world of proof, outside of the world of evidence. Jesus wants to bring it into the world of proof and evidence. It's easy to have a fuzzy view about messiahship. You can have a philosophical view about messiahship. You can talk at that at arm's length And Jesus is saying, no, no, no, let's talk about miracles. Let's talk about miracles. The problem here is that the religious leaders believed in Christ the way that many people believe in Christ. They believed that he was doing miracles, and they hated him for it. But they believed. They believed Christ did miracles, but they would not believe he was the Messiah Or if they did, they would not receive him as such. It's very difficult For us as humans to allow truth to reign supreme in our lives When truth and our experience collide, it's difficult not to go with our own experience, to believe our experience. When we have deeply held beliefs and the truth exposes them as being error, it's hard to give them up. Like the things that we think will make us happy in life. That's kind of like uh we believe those things and then the scripture comes along and says, no No won't I make you happy? It's hard to give up those things. It's hard to give up those deeply held beliefs. It's easier to prefer an echo chamber that agrees with everything that we believe Than to listen to a prophetic voice that's actually speaking the truth and nothing but the truth. The religious leaders had a set of beliefs that they held for many reasons. But there were wrong beliefs about the Messiah. And then Christ comes along and he reveals himself to them. He gives them plenty of information, but they don't want to go where the facts go. They don't want to go there. The miracles that Christ did are the facts. They could be documented. There were witnesses. They couldn't be disputed. You can pull up the person that had his his um lame limb healed, or his blindness healed, or you know, all the wonderful things that Christ did, you can bring them in his evidence. And you can't dispute it. They were intended, those works were intended as a springboard to seeing Christ as Savior. The leaders, however, they wanted to talk about a theory. They wanted to talk about a concept. They wanted to talk about messiahship Jesus says, that won't do. Let's start with the truth. Let's start with the facts that you cannot deny that are in here and now reality and they're not abstract. And then Jesus says the next sentence And I'm a little surprised it doesn't begin with a truly truly. You know, it's one of those blow-your-mind statements. Verse 26, but you do not believe Because you are not among my sheep. The big word in this sentence is because Why did the Jewish leaders not believe? Why did the Jewish leaders not believe? Historians might say one thing, psychologists might say another, sociologists might say another The leader's spouses or children or parents might say something else. But this is what God says. The problem is spiritual. They are owned by the wrong shepherd. They are slaves to the wrong master. Here's another slant on the same thing. It's a different way of looking at the same dynamic. Remember we looked at this in John 3, 19 through 21, and it says, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world. It's Jesus. And people love the darkness rather than the light. Why? Because Their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. In essence, we learn here that people who love their sin will not believe in Christ because they're not willing to expose and give up their sin. If you love sin, you've got to hate Christ. They'll hate anything that exposes their sin is something that God hates and they have to repent of We need not wonder why there's so much hatred of Christ in our world, especially in the circles where people are actively celebrating sin. They have to hate us because we represent the brutal truth of what they're doing. We're bringing God's light to it. We're quoting God's word. But those who do what's true, on the other hand, those who no longer love their sin, they willingly come to Christ. So we can't conclude that it's not fair that God would condemn people for remaining in their sin. Those people are actively loving their sin. If they hear the gospel and they will not respond to Christ, it's because they love them. Their sin. They're choosing for their sin. And if given the chance to give it up for Christ's salvation, they would never give it up. No, the mystery is not why God would punish those who hate Christ. What is amazing is that he would show mercy to some by calling them to himself. By causing their hearts to hate the sins that they have loved all of their lives. That is amazing. Verse 27, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. Now this is interesting, and this is wonderful. This is wonderful. My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me When we're Christ's sheep, Christ knows us and we follow him. We've explored the beauty and the wonder of Christ knowing us. We've talked about this in prior sermons. That's wonderful. But a question came to my mind as I was studying, and it focuses on the word follow me, the words follow me. My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me Think about Judas. Didn't he decide to follow Christ? Didn't he follow Christ for several years? In the context of the whole Bible, we need to look at what it means to follow Christ in the way that Jesus is using the word follow Christ. What might and can a human being do, apart from the Holy Spirit's work in his heart? How far can an unregenerate man go in following Christ? First, what can he discover by thinking and reading? What can the unregenerate person, how far can they get by thinking and reading? My belief is that an unregenerate person's discovery of spiritual truth can go as far as what the devil believes. And no further. James 2:19 says, You believe that God is one, you do well, even the demons believe, and they shudder. The demons know that Jesus is the Son of God. The demons understand the concept of the gospel. The demons are very familiar with evil and they love it. The demons understand understood eventually that Christ actually saved people by his death and resurrection. They understood that A human can understand every bit of all those things and be as lost as the demons themselves That's the problem. Paul talks about preachers who are evidently preaching the gospel in order to do Paul harm. And you think about that a little bit, you've got people preaching the gospel But not having the heart of the gospel. Philippians 1:15 says, Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry. They know the message and they're preaching it. But it's not because it's what's in them. It's not because they love it. And then he says, But others preach it from goodwill. It goes on to say they proclaim Christ out of selfish ambition. Not sincerely, but thinking to afflict m me in my imprisonment. Not very good motives for preaching the gospel, but they're preaching the gospel nonetheless. It's likely that these folks were not saved by the gospel, but they were repeating it. They understood it. They were doing this by human ability through human motivation. In the parable of the soils in Matthew 13, 3 through 8, we see one seed that shoots up through the rocky soil. These folks appear to respond to the gospel. They're all excited about the experience, but it dies quickly. These were human decisions to follow Christ. Again, done with the human ability and human motivation, but no spirit, no Holy Spirit. These folks can tell you what the gospel is, and they can often repeat the gospel enthusiastically, which they often do. I've seen that over. lot in in the evangelistic work in youth of Christ. But there's no fruit. The similarity between those who are lost and those who are saved is information. They have the same information, they understand the same information. A person can, using his own human ability and motivation, seek out and understand the gospel. They can write a book about it. A human apart from Christ can do that No, knowing Christian stuff is not following Christ. In fact, I was thinking of it this morning. AI. If AI can figure it out, human reason can figure it out. You can know as much as that. A person apart from Christ can know all of that stuff. They can know immense Amounts of information about God, but not be in Christ. Immediately we need to apply this. We can't allow ourselves to think that because we know what Christ says. Because we know the gospel, because we can tell the gospel, because we can spot doctrinal error. We cannot assume that we are following Christ based on that. The unregenerate person can do more than just know spiritual truths. The unregenerate person can even do many of the things that Scripture Prescribes for a Christian to do. They can put on the garb of a sheep. An unregenerate person can look more like a sheep than a sheep does. The Pharisees were good at keeping the outward trappings of the law. They kept the Sabbath, they tied the herbs, they kept the law of the laws. Christian youth groups are notorious for having lots of people who work hard to fit into the Christian club. They wear the t-shirts, they read the Bible, they may even make purity pledges. But when given the freedom to live as they feel We eventually find out they weren't believers at all. There are a lot of people who attend churches, even churches that are careful to preach true doctrine, but their lives inside their brains is very different than the images that they They portray in the meetings and in the get-togethers. All of their devotion to Christ is drummed up with human motives and human effort. Their lives can be described by psychology, not by Holy Spirit activity. Doing Christian activities is not what is meant by following Christ. There are a lot of people who decide for Christ. There are a lot of people who think that Jesus is a good idea. They think something like this. I believe he exists. He has a lot of stuff to offer that I like. I want some of them. And I believe that he loves me. And all I need to do to get what I want from Christ is to pray and invite Jesus into my heart. Then what I need to do is all done, and I get to cash in on the prizes. They may do this, they may change things in their lives, act more like what they think a Christian ought to look like They may even be very sincere, but the miracle of rebirth in that person's life is absent. So, what is it to truly follow Christ as Christ describes here? What is it to follow Christ in a saving way? What is it to follow Christ like the eleven disciples follow Christ and not like Judas did? What is different about the true sheep following Christ than everyone else who tries to follow Christ? In their own power. Ezekiel gives us a foretaste in the Old Testament. Ezekiel 36, 26 and 27, he says, and I will give you a new heart. And a new spirit I will put within you. And I'll remove that heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I'll put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. To truly follow Christ. We need to be given something from God. It's not something we can create, no matter how hard we try. We need a new heart. We need a new spirit. We need a God infusion. A supernatural change of nature. We need God in us, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. That is what we need 2 Corinthians tells us the same thing a different way. 2 Corinthians 5, 17 and 18. It says, Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away, the new has come. All this is from God. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. When we are made a new creature, it is all done by God. That's the only place it can come from. It has to happen to us, not by us This is the difference between someone who tries to follow Jesus and someone who actually follows Jesus. The difference is a miracle. An astounding work of God. It's much bigger than a human decision, although a human decision is always part of the process. I want to tell you right now, if you're trying hard to be a Christian, give up this morning. You cannot be. You cannot become a Christian by human effort You cannot make yourself a Christian. It simply cannot be done. Maybe this explains some of the trouble you're having in the Christian life You're going about it in a way that won't work. The worst thing that could happen to you is for you to carry out every rule that you're trying to carry out You might never get to the point where you realize that you cannot save yourself. Let your frustration drive you. To a merciful Savior. Let it make you desperate to call upon Christ to save you. So, what can you do? You can place your faith in Christ. If you're desperate to be made right with God, you can rest assured that you did not put that desire in your heart God has already begun a good work in you if you want that. If you want to come to Christ, you can come to Christ That's the beauty of it all. You can never have a uh a doctrine that undoes that fact. If you want to come to Christ, you can come to Christ He rejects no one who calls upon him by faith. And it may be at this point the Good Shepherd is calling you by name. At this moment. What must you believe? First Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with Scripture. That he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scripture. If you've attended our church very long, you're very aware of what the gospel is. You can probably repeat it. We've had our courses. What you must do is repent and believe. Mark 1, 14 and 15 says, Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Repent and believe in the gospel. Repentance is admitting that my way does not work. I am a sinner. I lived a life resisting God and committing things in my mind or in my actions that God hates. That has been descriptive of my life. I have no merit to win God's favor, nor do I ever hope to have any merit to win God's favor. I have no capacity to make any of it right. But it needs made right. Believing is to cast oneself onto the merit of another It's an act of trust. It's the kind of belief you exhibit when you believe the ice is thick enough to hold you and you walk out on it. It's that kind of belief. It's more than intellectual. It's more than an understanding that this thing might be true. You risk your whole life on the thing being true that you say that you believe. You're trusting your life to it. That is belief. Repent and believe. Believe in the gospel in just that way. Call out to Christ to save you, believing that this salvation will affect every single bit of you. Not all once. Maybe fortunately, I don't think we could handle it. But it will affect every bit of us. Call out to him, wanting to be right with him more than anything else on earth. If you do that It is guaranteed that Christ will save you. But He will not save you because you prayed the prayer. He'll save you because he has already granted you a new heart that drove you to pray the prayer. And that's the part we don't understand until we read it from his word. If you display saving faith, it's because God has already given you saving faith. It's people who have gone through this transition who are truly following Christ. We follow Christ because we are his sheep. Let's look at our text again. Verse 26. But you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me. So verse 26 says, You don't believe because you're not my sheep. Verse 27 says, You do believe because you are my sheep. And there's the difference. I focus so much on this portion of the text because we're surrounded by confusion about salvation My concern is not so much of someone promoting an Armenian slant to the gospel rather than a sovereign grace slant to it. My concern is more about what true saving following Is really made of. We cannot be confused about that. We can't be blurry about that If there is not a supernatural change in a person that makes them buy into the full agenda of Jesus Christ, there is no reason to be confident that that person is following Christ. A follower can pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, and they mean it. A follower can pray that and it is congruent with what they really want in their lives. And we know, yeah, yeah, we We have funny ways of showing it. Uh sometimes we we stray from that which is most core to us. And we are uh We aren't the best examples at times of people who are totally consistent. That is to be expected in the Christian life They'll but they will wrestle with their fleshly natures at many points, and in their hearts they want what Jesus wants. They want what Jesus wants. No one can get to that place by trying hard. That is not the fruit of a human nature There are those who say that a person can come to Christ and remain just as they were. Those people don't understand salvation No one can decide to suddenly hear the shepherd's voice calling them to follow him in all areas of their lives. No, that is reserved for Christ's Sheep. Our decisions will never create that outcome. But when that does happen to a person, when we suddenly hear Christ call on our lives , That person is never the same. The sin they loved, they begin to hate. The truth they hated, they begin to love. They weren't Jesus To tell them what to do. They want Jesus to tell them how to live. They find that they love Fellow believers. They believe what Jesus says is true and they attempt to apply it in their lives. That is following Christ the way Christ describes it here. And this helps us understand the next verse, verse 28. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one, no one will ever at any time snatch them out of my hand. We'll touch on this more next week, Lord willing, but the point I wanted to make here is that if a person is truly saved, their salvation is absolutely certain. It is impossible for them to lose it. And it's easy to see why that's true when we see that a person's salvation, when we see it from the proper perspective. If a person is saved, they didn't create that salvation by their decision. The cause of salvation is God's decision. The evidence of salvation is man's. Decision. When God chooses to do this amazing miracle, there is nothing that can undo it. And that only makes sense. Would God make a mistake in his choosing from the beginning of time? Could he possibly make a mistake? You know, we know that's an impossibility. Would something he chooses to do be ineffective? Could he mess up in his choices? Of course not. Well, with that being true, with that being the proper perspective, with that being the reality behind it all, then it only makes sense that Jesus is both author and perfecter of our faith. If God is doing it, It cannot be undone. If it was a result of my decision, of course I could change my mind and undo it But that's the beauty of our salvation. It is done to us as in us, but not by us. It cannot be undone. The gifts and callings of God are irrevocable. Verse 28: I give them eternal life. And they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. We get our salvation in this God-ordained package, and it is secure For eternity. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, please glorify yourself in our lives through these truths. Lord, you know which one which ones of us are true followers. I would hope it would be all of us, but you know the truth. You know which of us that you have done that miracle of rebirth in. I pray, Lord, for those of us who you have done that for, that you would help us to see our lives from your perspective. Help us believe in our heart of hearts and soul of souls that we are absolutely secure in you and that you love us with an overwhelming love Help us to wean ourselves from looking at our circumstances to determine your degree of love for us. And help us to look at the cross instead and remember Help us to keep looking to you. And for those here who are not confident of their salvation, for those who need to keep trying to be saved, I pray, Lord, that you would do whatever is needed in their lives for them to become truly saved. And truly confident in their salvation. Lord, we want to glorify you as true followers. Help us this week in that never-ending task. I shouldn't say never ending, Lord. You will end it one day. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done here on earth, just like the angels do it. In Jesus' name, amen.