If I had taken out a loan in nineteen eighty six And invested $5,000 in Microsoft stock, I'd have $10 million today That was a missed opportunity. Now I'm not going to punish it myself too much. I'm the worst investor in the world, and Microsoft would have gone bankrupt if I'd have bought any of their stock. But anyway, it's a missed opportunity. What we're going to see in our text this morning is a tremendous opportunity that was largely missed by a wide range of spectators. And the tragedy of the missed opportunity is summed up in verse 53 that we kind of tagged it on the end. At the end of the day, with all the opportunity that all these people had at hand, the onlookers chose the most mundane The most predictable, the m the safest and the most comfortable option. They went home. They were sitting on the verge of the greatest opportunity available to mankind, and they went home. And with most of them doing nothing, doing nothing about the opportunities that they had at hand This text should encourage us to act when God gives us opportunity. There's some business that can't wait until tomorrow. There's plenty that can, but there's some that can't Lots get lost when we go home. Some business needs done right now, today. It's urgent. And now as we read our text. What we will see is diversity. Diversity, our world loves that that word. I don't know if they know the definition, but uh we see a bunch of different sections of the crowd And each section has a different perspective. And as far as we know, each perspective missed the opportunity. Let's look at the first group, verse 25 and 26. Some of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, Is not this the man whom they seek to kill? And here he is, speaking openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the authorities have changed their mind? Is did the authorities do they really know that this is the Christ now, even though they wanted to arrest him? That's kind of the question. So here are some in the crowd who are badly informed and curious. We're going to see how badly informed in the next verse, but they were badly informed. And they were curious. They're looking at Jesus and they can't figure out how. If the Jewish leaders are so intent on silencing him, why is he still standing here? Did the leaders change their mind? Did they think he was the Messiah? Is that why they weren't killing him now? That's their take on what others might be thinking of Jesus, but verse 27 tells us what they were thinking about Jesus. Verse 27, but we know where this man comes from. And when the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from. What we see here is the danger of the traditions of men. We see it as the ultimate danger in this crowd. This is a di this is a thought that could get these people in a great deal of trouble. The tradition of man is keeping them from receiving the Son of God. They think they know how to discern who the Messiah is based on bad information. But the doctrine they believe is deadly. It's very wrong. Evidently, this false understanding was a popular belief at the time. The tradition was that the Messiah would be completely unknown until he suddenly shows up to redeem Israel. There was an apocryphal book named Estras, and it says : just as no one can explore or know what is in the depths of the sea. So no one on earth can see my son or those who are with them except in the time of his day. So these Jewish people are believing false scripture And that has set in them an expectation of what the Messiah would be that is false. These folks thought that because they were familiar with Jesus' origins and his history and they had seen him over a number of days, they thought that disqualifies him from being the Messiah. He can't be the Messiah because he didn't show up suddenly. Do you see how serious that is? And how serious that can be. Missing Christ because of false doctrine. Missing Christ. Because of wrong beliefs. No wonder the devil loves false doctrines so much. No wonder there are doctrines of demons. This is a perfect example. These people were dismissing the true Christ, God in the flesh, because he didn't fit into the mold of their false doctrine. These people would go home to their homes because they believed badly. They would miss the greatest opportunity they have ever had because they believed badly. Verse 28, so Jesus proclaimed as he taught in the temple, You know me and you know where I come from, but I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know. I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me. I think we best understand this first statement by Jesus is sarcasm Jesus is saying, So you think you know me, do you? So you think you know where I'm from, do you? Well, you're all wrong about me From beginning to end. You're wrong. You don't know where I'm from. I'm not even going to correct you about the fact that I'm from Bethlehem. Because more importantly, that wasn't my original come from place. I came from heaven I was sent from my father. I was sent from heaven. I was sent for the purpose of my father. I was sent by my father. You think you have a problem with me. You think it's all just a mental puzzle as to where I fit into the plan. But you don't understand the problem is a spiritual one. It's a heart problem. The problem you have with me is because you don't love God. The problem you have with me is you don't know God. I know my father. I was sent by my father. I'm doing what my father once done. If you knew my father, you'd know me. If you love my father You would love me. If you listen to my father, you would listen to me. Jesus said those things over and over again. He's telling them, so you think I'm some kind of theoretical mental puzzle to figure out at your leisure You're mistaken. I am not. I am calling you to follow me. I demand your commitment, not your mental curiosity Your entire eternal future is dependent upon what you do in answer to my demands upon your lives. He's shifting the burden. It isn't Christ's burden to prove Himself to them. It's their burden to follow Him. As a result of Jesus proclaiming His heavenly origin , As a result of him calling their cards, the Jewish leadership increases its zeal to kill Christ. Verse 30. So they were seeking to arrest him. But no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. So here we see, here enters another section of this diverse crowd. This section of the crowd wasn't curious. These people were not victims of bad doctrine. These people hated Christ because of what Christ might cost them. And the Jewish leaders wanted to kill Christ because he made them. look bad and he might cost them their positions and their power and their money. We learn that over a large portion of scripture. But those are just some that Scripture revealed to us. But look at this closely. Why did they not arrest Christ? Had they not gained enough power? Had their intentions and resolve not reached the proper level, like they weren't angry enough? Well, from a human perspective, we might have looked at the situation and said, well, the circumstances just didn't line up perfectly for them to be able to reach and get him without raising a stink in the i i i i in the populace. People, we could say people responsible to do certain jobs, they just failed to do those jobs. And that might all be true. But that's not the truth from where God sits. That might be factors that you could say, well, it's because of this, because of this, because of this, but what we learn here is what God From God's perspective, it wasn't time yet. Christ's hour had not yet come. God had not determined when this would this event should happen yet. So it didn't happen. Carla and I were at a Legione Ears conference in Orlando many years ago, and R. C. Sprohl's son mentioned from the podium a very beloved preacher's untimely death. And that's what the word he used, untimely death. R C took to the podium and he was shaking his head I don't remember exactly what he said, maybe Carla does, but it was something like you can teach him and you can teach him, but they still get it wrong. Surely my son knows there is no such thing as an untimely death. God controls your hour. It is impossible. It is impossible For you to die a second earlier or a second later than God 's predetermined time for you Job 14, 5 says, Since his days are determined, and the number of his months is with you, and you have appointed his limits that he cannot pass. He's talking about the length of time. Psalms 139-16 says, Your eyes saw my unin unformed substance, in your book were written every one of them. The days that were formed for me. when as yet there was none of them. So your death day was planned before you were born. Hebrews nine twenty seven and just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so it is appointed. To die. Do you trust God? And you know, we know w we should But do we really trust God? Do you trust God with the life and death of those that you love, yourself included? Do you trust God with the life and death of those you love? Do you trust Him with the ending date of your life? It seems to me we only have two options. Maybe there's more, but uh I think we can trust or we can worry. I suppose we can not care, but most of us do. So we can trust or we can worry. Because the one certainty is we can't control it, no matter how hard we try. Okay, so we've seen two sections of this diverse crowd. Here comes a third, verse 31. Yet many of the people believed in him, and they said, When the Christ appears, Will he do more signs than this man has done? Here we see people who are pro-Christ based on the evidence that they have. That's good. We don't know if these are true believers or if they're false believers who believe about Christ but don't yet trust Him with their lives, that sort of thing. We aren't told which kind of believers they are But they're believers. They they at least are pro-Christ. And this is a bit more encouraging. They're looking at the evidence and they aren't allowing the false doctrines to distract them They aren't allowing the evil, hateful leaders to dissuade them. They're looking at the clear evidence of the supernatural acts that only a man of God could do. And these are signs that were promised regarding the Messiah. And these folks are asking a wonderful question. Can we imagine anyone doing any more than Jesus is doing? Really, uh you know, if if Jesus isn't the Christ, could anyone do it better? And the intended answer with the this question is clearly no. It's that kind of question. No one could do it better. There's clearly enough evidence to believe that Jesus is the Messiah. He has proven himself. We're given another test of miracle workers in the Old Testament. It's not just enough that people do miracle working, but the miracle workers have to be preaching the same biblical truth that the Bible says, and you gotta check 'em that way. But Jesus passed that test as well. He's teaching exactly from the Bible. In fact, he's telling us things about the Bible that we never knew before Christ was doing messianic things and preaching a messianic message. Why not believe him as the Messiah? That's where these people are coming from, and that's a good thing. Now this just spanned the flames of the desires in the Jewish leadership, but it's not the desires for Christ It made them want to kill Christ more. Verse 32. The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to arrest him Now they aren't just intending to arrest Christ like they had in the past, like we should arrest him. They're sending out the officers of the temple with an assignment, get him today. We want them now. They're taking more and more risks with the crowds. They have reached the point that they could no longer bear to allow Christ to live. They take the only action they can without risking their own precious heads. So now we have another group of people, and these people are not driven by hate. These people are just doing their jobs, as far as we know. They're probably jobs that they need and want to hold on to, these officers of the court. Many of us can relate to doing what we're told because we need to feed our families. In fact, I would assume that most of us here, especially most men out in the workforce, are fully aware of of that uh motivation. And that's what these guys are like. Evidently when the officers reach Christ, this is what they find. Verse thirty three, Jesus then said, I'll b be with you a little longer and then I'm gonna Then I'm going to him who sent me. You'll seek me and you'll not find me. Where I am, you can't come. And the Jews said to one another, Where does this man intend to go to will not find him? Does he intend to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks? What does he mean by saying, You'll seek me and you'll not find me? Where I am, you can't come. Now Normally, by this point in John, we've said this several times, when John speaks of the Jews, he's usually talking about the Jewish leadership who is intent on killing Christ. So we are given their response in this text. These Jewish leaders must be intentionally dumb and dense at this point. Christ has told them often where he is from and who sent him. Yet they completely ignore that point of conversation. You and I know without question that Jesus is talking about his resurrection. Those around him who were listening should have known that as well. He certainly said it enough times. And it seems very few actually did, even of his followers, but they could have if they were just to believe what Jesus was saying. We have those moments in our lives too when we have heard what God says, and somehow we mystically don't hear it, don't understand it, and eventually it comes to us. But anyway, these Jewish leaders were projecting onto Christ what they are. I think that comes out in this passage. They were thinking that Christ would do what they would do. So Christ would come up with some kind of strategy to save his own life, because they would save their own lives, and maybe rework his approach to his rise in power because obviously he was getting a lot of resistance. And they're thinking, well, I'd I'd try and do something different, try to try to finagle another route to the top. So they figured Jesus was gonna go somewhere else and build up his power base That seems to be the suspicion here. Maybe he'll go to the Gentiles who converted to Judaism in the dispersion. So when it's talking about the dispersion, it's talking about Dealing with Gentiles who are Jewish converts in Gentile areas. That would make sense. That's a smart political move. But they wonder, why does he say we won't be able to find him and we cannot reach him? I mean, we can go to those places. I wonder how he hopes to accomplish this. What is Christ up to politically? You can almost see it running through their heads. That looks to me like the best way to understand the passage. At this point in the text, we skip ahead to the final day of the feast. And the Jewish leaders are still listening and they're still seeking to kill Christ. And the officers are still carrying out the assignment to pick up Christ, and the curious crowd is still evaluating Christ, trying to figure out what to make of him. And that's the context on verse 37 where it says, On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart Will flow rivers of living water. There's something important for us to know that we find out in Jewish history here. The Jews had at one point added a ritual to each day of the festival. It was a water ritual. It was designed to commemorate God's providing water in the wilderness. This is extra biblical history. You wouldn't know it if you didn't read it there. But that's that was happening in this. It was well documented. It anticipated the blessings of the Messianic age, this promise of water, this this uh um The water ritual. And it was the symbolic prayer for rain I'm reading John MacArthur's account here, and he says this. Each day of the feast, the high priest drew water from the pool of Siloam and carried it in a procession back to the temple. At the water gate, on the south side of the inner court of the temple, three blasts were sounded on a shofar at the trumpet made out of a ram's horn So mark the joy of the occasion. Isaiah 12 3, this is based on it, therefore you will joyously draw water from the springs of salvation, was also recited. At the temple, the priests marched around the altar while the temple choir sang the halal. The water was then poured out as an offering to God. It was against the backdrop of that ceremony that Jesus spoke his stunning words. Most people at this feast would have had an understanding about what this ceremony was all about. This helps us understand just how profound what Jesus was saying was. His words would have been pregnant with meaning to the listeners, because they're used to this. So let's let's look at what Jesus was saying. First, he stood to say it. Now that would that kind of escapes us. Well, maybe it's just logistics, but normally when the Word of God was being read, The speaker stood, and when he taught, he sat down. The fact that Jesus stood in order to say this was very profound. He was speaking words from God. That's how the people likely would have received it when they saw him stand up. When it says that Jesus cried out, that means he was yelling this Yelling it maybe at the top of his lungs. He wanted everyone within listening distance to hear this. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Are you thirsty? Are you thirsty? I think everyone is thirsty. Everyone wants something and is chasing something that by having it a vital desire will be satisfied, at least for temporarily, at least for the moment. We chase stuff that makes us happy. We chase stuff that gives us some sense of fulfillment, even if it's temporary. People thirst for power. They thirst for money. They thirst for popularity. They thirst for significance. They thirst for pleasure. They thirst for escape. They thirst for comfort. We're thirsty people If we have enough, it's usually only temporary, at least of a lot of stuff. What was it that you chased this week? A thing that you were not satisfied with until you had it. Well, Jesus is appealing to thirsty people, but he is not appealing to every kind of thirst. Jesus said in Matthew 5:6 : Blessed are those who hunger and thirst. For righteousness. For they'll be filled. They'll be filled. If in your soul you're thirsty to be made right with God If you're thirsty to have your sin forgiven and expunged from your record, if you're thirsty to be able to put on a righteousness that's better than your own If that's the kind of thirst you have, Christ's going to satisfy that if you come to Him on His terms. He will satisfy that thirst. Amos prophesied that there would be a thirsty people like this In Amos eight eleven it says, Behold the days are coming, declares the Lord of God, the Lord God, when I will send a famine on the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord. People are going to be thirsty to hear from God. A time was coming when there would be a people who longed to hear from God and they wouldn't be hearing it They wanted his righteous word proclaimed to them. They were thirsty for the truth. And Jesus is calling these people He promises to satisfy them. John 6. 35, Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. We went over that earlier. Isaiah tells us not everyone who speaks for God is going to be doing this. Not everyone is going to be satisfying thirsts. We need to be careful where we go to for water. Isaiah 32, 6 says, For the fool speaks folly, and his heart is busy with iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the Lord. To leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied and to deprive the thirsty of drink. That's what the fool is doing. If we go somewhere else for this water, we will leave as thirsty as we can. When we just hear fleshly messages, our soul remains thirsty. We keep wanting more. We'll know we're missing what we need. Isaiah also tells us what Jesus tells us this morning in Isaiah 44, 3, I will pour my water on the thirsty land. And streams on the dry ground, I will pour my spirit upon your offspring and my blessing on your descendants. That's the water that Jesus is talking about. There will be an abundance of living water. It'll be too much for the ground dry ground to soak up There'll be plenty of water. In John again 4, 13 and 14, we went over that. Jesus said to her, everyone who drinks of this water. They'll be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I'll give him will never be thirsty again. The water I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. Remember that from John 4? Jesus is going to do us better than indoor plumbing. Remember He'll satisfy our souls with himself in such a way that we will never need to go anywhere else for substance In our text, Christ says, Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not yet been given because Jesus was not yet glorified. I'm going to touch some more on that next week. But do you see the abundance here? Not only will Christ provide enough water for each individual, but the water will run over to those around him. Let's go back to verse 37. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. There are some who would say that people who don't know Christ are all thirsty for him. They would be wrong. I used to believe this and I was wrong. Romans tells us this, Romans three, ten through twelve, as it is written, None is righteous, no not one. No one understands, no one seeks. God. In their individual, original state that they were born into, apart from God working on that person, no one seeks God. No one is Innately thirsty for God. We might be thirsty for some of the stuff He could give us. Like we're thirsty for peace, we're thirsty for you know happiness, we're thirsty for lots of things. But no one in their innate state seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they become worthless. No one does good. No , not even one. So no one seeks God, no one thirsts for God. Remember that this is describing the natural state. That's the state we're born in. So why does Jesus call out so everyone can hear? Think about that. Why would he be yelling at the top of his lungs to a bunch of people that you know, unless God moves upon them? They're not even gonna hear it. They're not gonna they're not gonna care. Why is he so urgent in urging people to come to him and drink if they're if no one who is born no one is born with that desire? The answer is it's because God is at work in those whom He is calling to Himself. It takes a miracle for a person to hunger and thirst for Christ. But God is in the business of doing that miracle. He is doing it continually. As long as life on earth continues and Christ delays coming, there are people that God is calling to Himself. There are people that God is making thirsty for him. And when God calls a person to himself, they find that they hunger and thirst for something different than they used to. They might not be able to explain it from the camp. And they actually can't go without that, which they had previously no interest in. They didn't really think about the state of their soul before God previously. Now they're disturbed if they do not have peace with God They don't they didn't care about their sin before. Now they feel an immediate need to confess it and claim God's forgiveness of it. I had a friend ask me, how do you know if God has called you? And one very simple answer is your thirst for God. Your thirst for God. Your thirst for the things of God. If you have that thirst, you didn't create it. God did. I've been reading John Piper's book, Desiring God Again, and I'd encourage everyone to read it, and if you read it once, read it again. It is so good. In it, John Piper urges everyone to pursue real lasting pleasure in everything that they do Now you would think that's strange coming from a minister. But that's what he does. And what he means is to pursue the pleasure that is found in Christ, because that is the deepest, most fulfilling, best pleasure that is exists. He makes the point that all of us are always doing the thing that we think will make us happiest. If you want to understand your behavior, if you want to understand what you did yesterday, you were seeking your happiness. You were. Now you might think, well, it's a funny way of doing it. I I invited suffering into my life. Uh how's that you only did it because you believe that there's a better payoff at the end That it makes it worth going through what you're going through now. You are pursuing your pleasure. You're just doing it in a very mature manner. Even Christ suffered the cross, what for? For the joy that was set before him. He did it for his happiness. It was so great that it put the suffering of the cross in perspective. He did it, Hebrews tells us, for the joy that was set before him. The pleasure he would receive in the future, by what he would gain through the suffering that he was going through, was worth For the joy. Mr. Piper tells us that when Jesus uses the imagery of hungering and thirsting, he is using imagery of the pleasure of fulfilled desires. When Jesus says, Come to me, you are thirsty, we come for the pleasure of the satisfaction of our thirsts being quenched. When Jesus appeals to us to come to us, he is telling us to come to Him for the pleasure that the relationship with Him is going to provide us. Come for the deep satisfaction we will experience when our deepest need is being met. I might have used this illustration before, but when Jonathan and I used to go places to fish, and we had to walk into them, we would we almost forgot water. That's people who love fishing. I I can just tell you that. That's a symptom. But by the time we got back to the the vehicle, which may or may not start, the we were parched I mean we were we were just parts. And the first drink of water or soda at a gas station is like the most wonderful thing in the world. Now after a while we got smarter and now we leave water in the vehicle. But uh we didn't then. That's the picture I think we're supposed to get. We're coming to Christ for our deepest pleasure. Our deepest happiness. And that pleasure is so good that it is worth every cost experienced on the way. How do you see Jesus this morning? How do you see coming to hear from him in his word? How do you see going to him to spend time with him in prayer? Is it like thirst fulfilled? Now we have a problem here because our flesh is involved in all of this. And the devil is involved in all this. And the devil doesn't want us to do any of these things So I find it is extremely difficult to maintain consistent prayer, even though I know I love it when I'm doing it. That I somehow put it off. And that's not a coincidence. If there's anything in this world that the devil doesn't want you to do, it's to trust God in prayer. But anyway, do you find when you finally do it? When you overcome all those obstacles and and you do it That it just fills you in a way that nothing else does. When you're reading the word , it is meeting a desire that you couldn't even You couldn't even speak. You couldn't describe. All you know is that this meets it. This gives me that food that my soul needs. When we are functioning fun functioning at our most rational state. That's how it is in the life of a believer. Have any of our thoughts and attitudes robbed us of that joy? That can happen in a Christian's life. It's not like everything is always, wow, this is great. I'm reading God's word and everything's just clicking for me. There's there's obstacles. Are there obstacles that are robbing us? What is it in our lives that keeps us from experiencing Christ like a long draught of water after a long walk? Ask Christ. If you're lacking your thirst for your relationship with Christ, ask him to help you to find your way back to your truest sanity. Ask him to restore to you the joy of your salvation. Christ will do that. It's in his will. Ask him to show you what you have allowed to get in your way of your enjoyment of his presence. Jesus is saying this to us today. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Again, we'll continue this passage next week. Let's pray. Lord, you hold out this offering to us