What would you pray for if your friends were in the spot that Paul's friends in Thessalonica were? They were out of their minds with concern about their current standing with God based on misunderstandings about the Lord's return. And they were being urged to prepare for a coming antichrist and an environment of pure deception. A deception that's going to cause many who appear to be true believers To be proven to be false believers. What is it that these people would need? How should we pray for them? What do we think they need from God? What should we what would we ask God to give to them? Well, let's find out this morning. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to look for four things. For four things. What does this tell us about Christ? What does this tell us about the Father? What have the believers already been given? And what does Paul pray for them to get now? So let's start with what this tells us about Christ. In verse 16, it says, Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father. Paul's about to tell us what he asks, what Paul desires that his friends get at God's hands. And this is very, very significant. There are some so so-called Bible scholars who say that the deity of Christ was made up by people a thousand years after Christ. That was a concept, they said that really the new believers they didn't understand. understand it, but uh the first century Christians they didn't really understand that, but a thousand years later they came up with this doctrine That's what they say. Well Thessalonians was probably written a few decades after Christ's resurrection, and it was one of the first epistles to be written. And here it's as plain as can be Look who comes first in this sense. Paul says, now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father. Our Lord Jesus Christ, and then God our Father. And then it goes on to mention what both of them have provided to the Thessalonians and what they will provide. So It talks about Christ, it talks about God, and then it says, They provide these things that only God can provide. So this is describing something only God can do, and it includes both Christ and the Father. Now, Paul was raised as a Pharisee. There is no way that he would have made a statement like this if Jesus was not God. And he certainly would never have put Christ first in the sentence if Christ was not God. He would uh naturally their way of doing things would be you put God first. Well he puts Christ first That's wonderful. So here we have clear proof of the deity of Christ very early on in the life of the church. Also note here that both Christ and the Father are stated as being ours, our God and Father. We can never get the idea that there are hours for us to do whatever we like with. Like it's not like my car is mine and my house is mine. But nonetheless, this is very personal. I had an earthly father who loved me. And I sometimes visited my friends' homes, but I never had any question about which dad was mine. He was the one who gave me a name and who provided a home and who played ball with me. My brother and sister and I all knew that was our father. Our father. We have a mutually recognized family relationship. He is ours. That's how it is with Christ and the Father. They are ours by the saving work of Christ. They own us as their own, in complete unity of love and purpose. Okay, what else can we learn about God, our Father? It says, who loved us and gave us. Who loved us and gave us And gave us. us? Now, often, at least in my thinking, see if it's true for you, often we think of Christ as loving us and giving his life for us. So we'd immediately think of that, loved us and gave us. Yeah, it's Christ. But what about God the Father? Does this quote bring anything to mind? God loved and God gave. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life We always need to be careful about how we think about God. Here we find that it's not only Jesus who loved us enough to give us his life. The Father loved us so much that he gave up his only son. Fathers and mothers Which do you think it would be harder to do? To give up your life or to give up your child's life? We can't make too much of this, but we can say with all confidence that God the Father and God the Son were in complete unity in the plan that they had for rescuing mankind. And naturally, since the Father and the Son are one, it would be impossible for them to be out of sync with this. They were both loving and they both gave. God the Father loves you deeply. And we've stressed this a lot, and I don't know that we could ever, ever stress this enough. God our Father loves you deeply. Okay, so we covered what does this tell us about Christ? What does this tell us about the Father? Now let's move on to what have the believers already been given. What have the believers already been given? First, eternal comfort and good hope through grace. Eternal comfort and good hope. Through grace. These are things that were given to the Thessalonians and to us by Christ and the Father Eternal comfort and good hope. And both of these are given to us through grace. Now, eternal comfort. What's that mean? Eternal comfort. Well, the word for comfort here has the same root as paraclete, which is what the Holy Spirit is and does. He is our paraclete, he is our comforter. He comforts us, and we're to comfort each other. But look at this. Remember Simeon. Remember Simeon who is waiting for the Messiah. What does this have to do with our text? Simeon. Luke 225. It says, And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and devout, waiting for The consolation of Israel. Jesus. The consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. Who was Simon waiting for? He was waiting for Christ. And what is Christ called here? The consolation of Israel. This is the same word as comfort in our text. It's the same word. Christ both in our consolation and he provides our consolation. Christ is our comfort, and He provides our comfort. He is the source of all true comfort and exhortation and building up and strengthening. Those words are all like synonyms. And he also provides to us all true comfort and exhortation and building up and strengthening. So he's the source of it all And he provides it all. And the Holy Spirit carries out this ministry for us as we walk in Christ. He is our comforter, our exhorter, our encourager. Christ had sent the comforter. And again, a word from the same root. And we too, as Christians, are to comfort and exhort and build up and strengthen each other. Should be a whole lot of comfort there. But the point here is first that Christ is this thing. God the Father loved and gave us eternal comfort. When we read that, we need to think of it in two different ways. Who is the comfort? Christ. What is the comfort? Our comfort is the truth and support that Christ provides that comforts us and builds us up. Now notice this is something the Father and Son have already provided. This was past tense. We already have this as Christians. Eternal strengthening. This means it was given to us in the past. Eternal comfort. It's continuing now and will continue on until we see Jesus. So it's eternal. We are sitting in the midst of Christ's encouragement, if we're his. We're sitting in the midst of it. This means it's ongoing. It should be happening now. How are we encouraged in Christ? How do we get encouraged in Christ? If you think, man, I'm not very encouraged in Christ. Well, how do we get that way? It's by abiding in Christ. It's by reading God's word and hearing God's word. Look at this. Acts 15, 31. It says, when they read it , They rejoiced over its encouragement. Same word, encouragement. This is referring to the letter that the apostles sent to the church at Antioch regarding Gentile requirements. They found encouragement and they rejoiced over it. In 1 Corinthians 14:3, those who were prophesying were speaking edification and encouragement, same word. In Romans we find encouragement in the scriptures, and we find hope as well. Romans 15:4 says, For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction. That through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures, the encouragement of the scriptures, we might have hope. Then in 1 Timothy 4:13 it says, Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. We find exhortation in the message. Exhortation is when an encouragement and comfort, and again they're all the same word, it's when truth hits our lives in a way that meets us right where we are. When truth hits our lives in a way that meets us right where we are, it's like medicine on a wound or a drink in the desert. It's that kind of thing. Also look at this, and it's a concept that we are a church are pretty familiar with and we fur refer to it pretty often. It's an understood concept among us. 2 Corinthians 1, 3 through 7 says, Blessed be the God and Father. Now listen to how many times the word comfort is used in this passage. Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction. So that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction. With the comfort With which we ourselves are comforted by God. For as we share abundantly in Christ's suffering, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort. 2. If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation. If we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer. Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings, you will also share in our comfort. This has got to be the premier comfort text. But it's all the same word. What we learn here is that none of our sufferings are useless. Think about that. And we all suffer. None of our sufferings are useless. If we're in Christ, our suffering should lead to comfort. As we discover and God reveals the truths that have to do with our suffering, we receive the comfort that we need so badly, and our comfort should lead to the comforting. of others. Sometimes the sufferings that you experience, while they will benefit you They are intended to give you future ministry so that you can comfort others with what you went through, not just what you went through. But the answers that you received from God's Word as you went through those things Notice what we see in all those passages. Our need for comfort and our receiving comfort is ongoing. It's day-to-day life. It's the life of a Christian. Now, do you have a story of comfort? Is it recent? How's God recently comforted you? Have you faced something in your life that you absolutely needed God's answers to, and you got them? Recently. Have you struggled with something and found the answer in God's word or a sermon or in a book? recently is your relationship one where you daily lean upon Christ for support and you can report how he has met you in your need recently Our lives should consist of fresh encouragement provided by God through his word or through his people. It should be something we depend upon because, well, we need to. We need it. We need encouragement. We need strengthening. We need a comfort. When our testimonies are primarily stories of the past, we're in danger. God 's mercies are new every morning, and so are his encouragements. We do well to relish in them and share them with each other as much as we possibly can. So God has given us encouragement in the past. He gave us Christ, and He has provided everything we need since then in regard to our strengthening. Now, next is good hope. Good hope. We've talked about this many times. When we use a word in Scripture, we've got to know how Scripture defines it if we hope to fully understand Scripture. We need to use our Greek dictionary from time to time to know what the writers meant. If I were to tell you that I hope a political candidate will win, And I use the word hope. I hope a pro uh political candidate will win. I'm using the English word hope perfectly. I earnestly wish for something to happen. I have no idea if it will, but I hope it will. But if we define the scriptural word for hope that way, we completely miss what we're talking about. It's a completely it ought to be a Different word. The hope that Paul talks about is an earnest expectation of a good thing that is sure to happen. See the difference? We have a good hope and a sure hope. But again, look at this. 1 Timothy 1:1. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God our Savior, and the Lord Jesus Christ, our hope. That's how he refers to Jesus Christ, our hope. Again we see that this hope, just like our comfort, is both a person and a thing. God loved us so he gave us Christ, our hope. He is our hope. But then he gave us what to hope for. Romans 15:13 says, Now may the God of hope Fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. We see that everything is tied in with believing. This God of hope gives us hope by believing and by the power of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit gives us the power to see and to believe. And by believing in God's word, we grow in We grow in wildly looking forward to that which God will provide to us for sure. Now remember, hope has already been given to us. When we were given Christ, we were given hope. Oh, we had much to learn and much to unlearn. We had to grow in hope. But again, just like comfort, it's something we continue to grow in. Do you have a sure hope in Christ? Do you believe your future that you will receive is worth anything that you are going through? That's hope. You are counting on that great reward if you believe such a thing. Has Christ stripped from you some of the things that are highly likable in this life? That's often an aid to our hope. It helps us let go little by little of our hope in this life. It grows fixed upon the glorious promises from God given to us in Christ. Then next we see this through grace. We get comfort and hope through grace. We were given Christ through grace, and we were given comfort and hope. through grace, and we are currently being given comfort and hope through grace, and we will be glorified so we no longer need comfort and hope through grace. I doubt that any of us are surprised about that. I hope not. We are saved by grace. We are saved not by fifty percent grace. We are not saved by eighty percent grace, not ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent grace. It is all 100% grace on God's side that provides this all for us. We didn't work to have it. We cannot work to have it. But through faith, we can make best use of what has been given to us through grace. Now we we see uh our final point. What does Paul pray for them to get now? Okay, we have what we had been given. Now, what does Paul pray for them to have now? And Paul prays that God would comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. That God would comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. Before we get to that, we should take note of this, and this is a A little lengthy. Our future benefits always come on the foundation of that which we have already been given. Our future benefits always come on the foundation of that which we have already been given. Now that's not often how we think. If you gave a beggar a dollar one day, and the next day you walk past him, and he says to you, You should give me another dollar because you gave me one yesterday, we're not likely to give that guy another dollar. He'd seem like he thought he was an Entitled to it. It was no longer a gracious act on our part. But with God, we learn to always build on that which Christ has already given us. We were given peace with God. We were given new life. We were given hope. So Christian wisdom says this since God has given, he will continue to give. Since God has given, he will continue to give. That's what all Christian growth is based on. We know that our God will continue to provide everything we need to grow in Christ. We count on it. If he authored our faith, he's going to finish our faith. We see here that Christ removes our victimhood from our prior identity. and our prior circumstances. We are made something that we were not before, and we are given blessed gifts that we did not have before, so that we can continue to grow const consistently with what Christ says we are. And with the help of the gifts that he has promised. There's something to notice here. It's kind of an offshoot, but I think it's important for us to understand. In the 1960s, humanism began to have noticeable effects on our society. It existed before that, but it started to show itself more. Humanism is now, using Brad's word of the month, insidious. It's everywhere, and it's in everything Humanism assumes that people are basically good, and humans only do bad things when they're affected by bad circumstances. So it's really not their fault when humans do bad things. Bad things happen to them. That's what causes their bad behavior. So the society is responsible for their bad behavior So, you and I, who have made good decisions, are ultimately responsible for those bad decisions that others make. That's the fruit of a humanistic belief. And we see it everywhere. The Bible says no. No, people are not basically good. Their hearts are wicked and their behaviors are selfish. Our problem is not a result of what happened to us. The problem is a result of what happens in us. Of what we are. The Bible does not hold the society responsible for the sinful choices of the people, it holds the individual responsible. And the society is the conglomerate of their of their evil actions. In the sixties, this shift happened in our law. Prior to the sixties, the attitude of the law was buyer beware. In other words, the buyer was responsible for what they did with what they bought. And if they didn't want to buy something, they shouldn't buy it. They should check it out themselves. And there are some problems with that, but nonetheless, that's how it was. Sellers of a product, for instance, uh a ladder I I love that. They would not be held responsible for somebody standing on the very top of the ladder and had fallen off because they were doing something that was stupid. Well that changed. Now the ladder manufacturer is responsible to tell the buyer, don't do stupid things. And I'll tell you how on every step of this ladder. Don't stand here, don't stand here And if they don't inform the buyer what stupid is, then the seller can be held responsible for the stupid thing that the per the buyer does. Now take a look at all the warnings on products. Every one of those warnings is probably a result of the company being sued. When you read the warnings on the products, realize that the warning is there because someone probably sued the company because they did the thing that the warning warns against. Now that's frightening when you read some of the warnings on some of the products, but nonetheless, the whole setting is an outcome of humanism. The assumption is that those who suffer from the choices must be victimized in some way. Otherwise, they would not have made bad decisions. Now, I like psychology because I like understanding human behavior, and it never came very naturally to me. But psychology is not always true science It's been infiltrated with the humanistic philosophy. So now we've got to be very careful. Psychologists are exceedingly good at coming up with labels. And if we accept the label, the label becomes our identity, or at least piece of it. And it becomes sometimes the excuse for what it sometimes helps us to understand why we do what we do. Sometimes it becomes the excuse for what I do or what I cannot do. So let's say I have a trouble with addictions. I look up my problem on Google and it tells me addiction is a chronic brain disorder. Addiction is a chronic brain disorder. Okay, I see my problem isn't a sin problem My problem is I have a disorder. I have a brain disorder. That's something outside of my control. That happened to me. I can't do anything about it. I was born with that thing. So now you've got to accept me. as being an addict. And I'm powerless against the harm that I might do to you by my irresponsible behavior The label, when accepted, can become an excuse for our sinful behavior. After all, I am a good person. If I'm doing bad things, it must be because something outside of myself Is victimizing me. Or maybe we blame everything on a life event that happened earlier in our lives and we say, I can't do this thing that God says I must do because I have suffered from this label or that label And that's who I am. But that's not what God's word says. That's the amazing thing that we saw this morning. To the Christian, God has made us new. While we may have actually been victims of this world's evil, and nearly everyone is to some degree or another, he has supercharged our change. He empowered us to live in a new identity that He provided. He didn't just remove our guilt through Christ's death and resurrection, he gave us ongoing gifts to live the Christian life. That's what this passage is talking about. God blesses us with a new identity and he blesses us with resources and he puts them into place for us to know He is good at what He does. He has done these impossible things in our lives, and we can look at them and we can say, He granted me hope. He granted me comfort and he continues to. From what Paul says, it looks like we should build on that What we do next is not based on what life did to us. It's based on what Christ did to us We call upon God for future resources, and we have the confidence to do that because of what He has already proven he can do for us. Christ loved you. The Father loved you. They gave you Christ. They gave you hope They gave you comfort. There is power in this tree to overcome what man did to us. If God says we must Do anything. If God says we must, that means we can by his strength do what he commands. He has given us the capacity to obey everything he calls us to obey. And he proves it by what he has already done in our lives. He does not expect blind belief. He has given us the evidence of what he can do already. We just build on what he has already done. Is there anything in your life that Christ commands you to do, but you tell Christ, I cannot do that because You're commanded by Christ, and you say, I cannot do that because, and then you fill in that blank. I challenge you to take that to God in prayer this week. Confess your unbelief and ask God to show you the way to fuller obedience to Him. He is worthy. He is worthy. So what does Paul pray for these followers? And this extends to us who read the epistle. Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and work. Now remember, these believers were out of their minds with concern about the end times That's the wording that's used. We looked at that. Paul told them the greatest deceiver of all time is going to be hitting the stage and deceiving those who do not love the truth. That seems like quite a threat. So what do they need? They need more of what they have. They need more of what they already have. They need God to comfort their hearts. Well, He already comforted them. Now they need more. You and I will never run out of the need to be encouraged. You and I will never run out of the need to be comforted, to be exhorted, to have the truth meet our point of need. To have people come and administer the healing bomb we need, and they can apply it well because they first experienced it themselves. They suffered. And they got God's answer, and they applied it to their life, and they can walk into our life and apply that to our hearts. We need to keep this in mind in our relationships with each other. The comfort we provided last week may not be the comfort needed this week. The challenge we may have given last week might need a softer comfort this week, or vice versa. Paul prays, May God comfort or encourage or strengthen synonyms your heart. And what else? They need established. Established. This word means to make stable, place firmly, set fast, to strengthen, to make firm. Jared poured concrete for the walls of his house the other day. That was quite quite an interesting uh setup he had there. But these forms for the concrete were supported with heavy steel supports, braces The supports were establishing those walls. So when they got full of concrete, they didn't fall over, which would be unfortunate. They were making them stable, they were making them firm. Well, that's what these out-of-the-mind people need from God. They need to be made more stable. Then what do they need to be stable for? What's supposed to come out of this stability? What are they to be stable about? Every good work and word. Every good work and word Have you ever noticed that when people are unstable mentally and emotionally, they tend not to do or say much that is helpful? They require far more resources than they provide. And that's fine. We all find ourselves in that state. But that is not a state a believer should remain in, and that's what Paul is saying here. Paul's prayer is that they get stabilized into a useful state. That's the goal. Now remember that Paul was having trouble with some of these people being idle and lazy. They weren't working. They weren't performing work, and that won't do Paul wants them stabilized into doing every good work and word. I think it's interesting that this is both saying and doing stuff. Saying and doing stuff. You and I probably tend in those two things into one or the other We tend to either like to talk about God or we like to do stuff behind the scenes and not talk to people. But God wants us doing both. When we see a brother that is a physical need, we're to do the work of meeting that need. And a lot of times that doesn't need words. We also need to provide for our families and we need to run our families well, and that all takes work. Lots and lots of it. In fact, almost everything of value to other human beings requires some kind of work And when it's done for Christ and in Christ, it's it's good work. It's a faithful work. And then there are words. Words. How many times have words from another lifted us out of our pit? People are actually saved for eternity by words. By words they hear. Sometimes we are the little Jesus that was placed to say the needed thing at the right time. We should be the good word people. I see that as a little emblem that we wear. The good word, people. Colossians 4 6 says, Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt. So that you may know how you ought to answer each person. We're the gracious speakers. So we looked at this prayer and we discovered what does this tell us about Christ and the Father, and what have the believers already been given, and what does Paul pray for them to get now? Now we get to apply this to our lives. And I'm going to list a few things, but man, this is wide open to whatever God has laid in your heart. First of all, while it was a benediction, it also makes a good prayer. It's good for us to pray this. for each other. Second, God is in the business of exhortation, but we must put ourselves around Christians and around His Word to receive and give exhortation. How are we structuring our lives is their question. And the question is not to ask how are others doing it. The question is, what am I doing? How am I structuring my lives so that I have opportunity for exhortation? And third, God will work on us making us solid as a rock. But it's not for the sake of being solid. It's for the sake of doing his ministry. Do we want to do his ministry? Then we need to invite him to fix whatever it is that's keeping us from it. Alright, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you again for your word, you are so bountiful in giving us so much.