All right. Last week we looked at the first things Christ said about the coming day of judgment. And I uh We also had a very animated conversation, at least that was my idea of animated conversation, in Sunday school this morning about this passage, and please feel free to uh to join in Sunday school and bring up your Points and questions and concerns and information that you may have. So anyway, we looked at the coming day of the judgment. First, there will be false messiahs There were false messiahs in the apostles' lifetime, and there will be some at the end. There will be wars and rumors of wars. That happened during the lifetime of the apostles, and it will happen in the last days. There will be earthquakes. This happened during the lifetime of the apostles, and it will happen in the last days. And it's easy to prove statistically that earthquakes are increasing dramatically. over time. There will be persecution of Christians. That happened during the lifetime of the apostles and it will happen in the last days. Here are some quotes about persecution of Christians today. They're taken from sources that appeared to me to be more factual than sensational. I think it's pretty good information. These are some quotes. Christians are the most persecuted religious group worldwide. An average of at least 180 Christians around the world are killed each month for their faith. The source for that was Open Doors USA. Christians in more than 60 countries face persecution from their governments or surrounding neighbors simply because of their belief in Christ. The source was the United States Department of State. And in a recent article, Justin D. Long emphasized the startling fact that more people have died for their faith in the 20th century than in all of the previous centuries combined. During this century, we have documented cases in excess of 26 million martyrs. From AD 33 to 1900, we have documented 14 million martyrs So while Jesus was talking to twelve apostles in A. D. 33, what he told them about end times was true of their time, but even more true of ours. We ended at verse 9 last week, so let's go on with verse 10. When we look at the verses up to verse 10, we come up with a question that we have to be able to answer. Why? Why? What Christ has just told his disciples is that people are certain to suffer in the future. Not only isn't God surprised, he's planning on it. It is certain to happen. And God is allowed, He's going to allow these evil people to do what they want to his people. He is also going to allow the people of this planet to face the devastations of war and natural disaster. And not only that, the devastation is going to escalate. Why? Why does a loving God allow such things? Verse 10 gives us the answer. Verse 10, and the gospel must first be preached to all the nations. The gospel must first be preached to all the nations. We've seen this before, and it should be no surprise to us by now. God allows the history of the world to continue He allows his enemies to breathe his air and carry out their evil plans. He allows the world to disintegrate because he is waiting for one thing. He wants every person who is going to share his presence for eternity to have the time and the opportunity to choose to do so. It's important for us to grasp this. The evil that is happening on this planet is horrendous. And God sees every sinful act. He sees the butchering and rapes of our brothers and sisters in Arab lands. He sees the exploitation of human beings around the globe. He sees the anguish of families losing loved ones in tornadoes and earthquakes. He sees the suffering caused by disease. He sees the effect of fallen humans failing to love their children or their parents. This is not a nothing to God. God doesn't, you know, just brush that off. Remember that God is absolutely just. It's part of who he is. It's part of his character. But there is something worth holding off that justice for. There is something that causes him not to immediately crush the source of all this suffering. He could do it at any any time. Any time he wanted to. He won't do it by our rules or our preferences. When justice comes, it will be complete and thorough. He'll punish every human being who has not responded to Christ by trusting him for their salvation. He will punish every human being who has rejected Jesus Christ. God will end suffering. God will end it. But he will allow it to continue until the last human being who is going to receive Christ Praise that prayer to receive Christ. All human history is waiting for that event. And then time as we know it can end. Now let me ask you: if a person coming to Christ is that important to God How important should it be to us? If that's what history is for, how important should that focus be in our lives? I think the answer pretty well goes without saying The gospel is going out to all ends of the globe on a very advanced rate. Oddly enough, the Internet, which we often associate with very many evil things, and rightfully so. is also been an avenue that gets the gospel to places that uh it's amazing how quickly that information can can disperse But anyway, the gospel is reaching more lands more quickly than it ever has. At least that's what a read. People are hearing the good news at an escalated rate. Everything that Jesus predicted is happening. It happened to the disciples, but it's happening even more now. Next in our text, Jesus gives his disciples instructions About how to respond when the Jewish leaders pass them on to the Roman government for punishment This direction, this direct application for this passage was first to the guys who heard it, who Jesus said this to. Our question is, does this apply to us if we find ourselves in the same situation? I don't see any reason why it wouldn't. I think every Christian who has ever been delivered up to a government for persecution simply because they're a believer should obey the instruction of Christ here. Verse 11, but when they arrest you, and notice he says, when they arrest you, that couldn't have been very comforting if you were one of the disciples, when they do this to you and deliver you up. Do not worry beforehand or premeditate what you will speak. But whatever is given you in that hour, speak that, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit. This is an odd passage. If we find ourselves in a situation where we're going to be facing a judge because we are Christians, What God wants us to do is to trust Him for the outcome. How often do we act like our future relies completely on our efforts and on us? In this situation, we aren't to be distracted by fretfully trying to figure out a way out of this mess. So really, if we're in a mess like this and we are forbidden to prepare a speech or even a method of defense, what would we likely be doing? It would seem to me that we would be praying and praising God, which, oddly enough, is exactly what we find the disciples doing when they're in prison. Praying and praising God. This command frees the followers of Christ to focus on more important things. Again, this is not an instruction to preachers in how they're to prepare their sermons. If I'm prepared like that, you should fire me and hire somebody who'll do some work. But if we end up in jail together someday, you may have to remind me that we need to let God speak through us and not plan ahead of time what we're going to say. Because I would want to prepare. I'll want to trust my efforts to deal with that situation. But that's not what God wants. We're giving clear instructions here Paul, after having this very thing happen to him, where he was thrown into prison, had to answer, he said this in 2 Timothy 4. 17. But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that the message might be preached fully through me, and that all the Gentiles might hear, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion It's interesting that we are to be so dependent upon the Holy Spirit in this particular situation. This is a dependence upon divine guidance at its purest We aren't allowed any other source at this point. Those who say that God no longer provides divine guidance Those who that God no longer leads and guides us and puts words in our mouth are missing the point here. Because here it says that's essentially what you're supposed to wait for. God still puts words in our mouth. I would guess that all of us have had experiences in ministry efforts where what came out of our mouths was so true and so effective that we knew it didn't come from us. We heard ourselves saying it, but we knew that God was providing that guidance. For whatever reason, that's all that God will allow in this particular situation. I'm guessing that primarily God has something to say to the unbelievers in that setting, and he doesn't want us messing it up. Why this situation? I don't know. Uh I suspect we don't know. But we do well to pay attention to it. God intends to issue a clear message to those who are guilty of persecuting him and his. Now verse 12. Now brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end shall be saved. We look at this and it's kind of foreign to us. We have never had this happen to us more than likely. Obviously, we have not been put to death. But uh if any of us lived in so many of the Arab countries right now, we would say, oh, this is so true. This happens every day. How mo how many reports have we read where this exact thing is happening in Arab lands right now? If you come to Christ and you're a Muslim, it is very likely that your Muslim family members are going to turn you into the authorities. If they are faithful to their beliefs, they must. And if they don't want to be persecuted themselves, they must. So it happens all the time. And those who come to Christ know it will happen and they expect it to happen. And why are these followers so hated? It's because of the name of Jesus. It's only for one reason, the name of Jesus. These people have turned to Christ for eternal salvation. And that means they have turned their back on any other way of salvation. And that choice means That they uh they are making a choice to follow Christ and Him alone. It isn't because these people have suddenly become obnoxious, It isn't because their political views have changed. It's only one thing. They have trusted Christ to save their souls. That is the true test of whether something is pure persecution. Is it an attack because the person believes in Christ? It is for the name of Christ. I think we're too quick to define things as persecution in our country. For example, if we hold a Bible study at our home and it violates zoning regulations about parking, we call that persecution. It usually isn't. It may reflect laws that are unfair and not well thought out. That's not too surprising. But the intent in most of them is not to single out Christians. We're moving toward a time when Christians will be singled out for what they believe. But that doesn't happen very often in our country yet. Now we're often singled out because we stand against things we believe to be immoral. That's not exactly the same thing as persecution because of the name of Christ. Anyone who speaks out against immorality will be hated, no matter what God they serve. Our text describes persecution because of the name of Christ. As for the disciples and Christ's followers, this was a regular occurrence. Paul was the enforcer for one of the group of Jewish persecutors. These Christians were being hunted down and caused to suffer for one reason and one reason alone. They loved Jesus Christ and they would not deny him. Notice again the use of the word all. Probably a lot of you here are sick or hearing this, but it says, and you will be hated by all for my name's sake. I bring this out just about every time I notice it because it's important that we interpret words in the context of how Scripture uses them. When we read this, we immediately understand what it means. But if we take every word outside of the context, we would miss what it means by focusing so much on the word. Not every person on this planet is going to hate us if we love Christ. But we will be hated by people all over the world for loving and living for Christ. We certainly will be hated by all of Christ's enemies for loving Christ. But the people at our church are not going to hate us for Christ's name's sake. Do you see what I mean? All needs to be defined by its context. All always needs to be defined by its context. All does not usually mean all of everything. All of each one and every one. It means all of the context that it is talking about. Verse 14. So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing where it ought not, let the reader understand, then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. As I've been studying, I've been reading commentaries from two distinct points of view, and we've been discussing this a good bit. The first is that this event Christ is speaking of will happen in the future. Another is that the whole thing happened in the past. The futurists, like John MacArthur, say that this whole thing is talking about Christ's final return in the future. It's all talking about that. This interpretation then requires a future temple in Jerusalem that has not yet been built. With that interpretation, we can't really believe that Christ would come back to judge the earth at any moment, at any time. The temple must first be rebuilt before he returns. That seems difficult with other passages that says that Christ could come at any time. It also seems a stretch to believe that when Christ says in verse 30 that this generation won't pass away until these things are accomplished, that he wasn't talking about the generation that was living at the time. One of the questions the disciple ask is, when will the temple be destroyed? So if we're to understand Jesus answering their question in a way that they could understand it, We would tend to see Christ answering this question in a way that happened in their lifetime rather than sometime way into the future. But if we're to accept this all as happening back in 8070, then we have other issues. If it's already completed, then we've got some other problems. How should we understand that the gospel must first be preached to all the nations in verse 10? Could this mean that at Pentecost this prophecy was fulfilled? Or maybe in Paul's journeys that this prophecy was fulfilled? That would have all happened before the destruction of the temple. So is it talking about that? But the passage that's most difficult to overcome in the histor historicist or preterist view that says it's all done. The abomination of desolation reference. Abomination means that which is foul, detestable, and immoral. Here's information from John MacArthur's commentary. He says, the book of Daniel mentions the abomination of desolations three times, 927, 1131, and 1211. In Daniel 1131, the term is used to describe the historical perversion of Antiochus IV. Seleucid king who controlled Israel from 175 to 165 BC, calling himself Theos Epiphanes, which means manifest God. You talk about arrogance now. The guy called himself God Antiochus desecrated the temple in Jerusalem by sacrificing a pig on the altar, forcing the priests to eat its meat, and erecting an idol of Zeus within its walls With ruthless abandon, Antiochus oppressed the Jewish people, slaughtered thousands, and selling many more into slavery. The intertestamental apocryphal books of 1 and 2 Maccabees detail both the atrocities committed by Antiochus and the Jewish people's ability to overthrow him and purify the temple. That's the end of quote. Now, the problem for the view that this has happened in history is that as far as we know, this didn't happen. Here's an event that is the signal for all these people to evacuate the city. It's something clear that Christ is referring to. And it should be something that anybody watching would know what it is. And it would be something similar to someone sacrificing a pig on the altar, which is not something that would escape your notice. The closest thing that happened to this is that there was bloodshed from a Jew versus Jew conflict in the temple. So there was there was blood shed in the temple, but it was Jewish blood I think it's unlikely that the common person would have read that as the abomination of desolation. You can often tell when a position is weak, and the the beauty of it is we can even tell it about ourselves. I have done it many times. A position is weak because you're forced to spend a whole lot of ink explaining how something makes sense when it doesn't. That's the this is the verse where that happens. When you read in the commentaries about uh uh His source's view or a preterist's view, they have to put a whole lot of ink to this one because it doesn't make any sense They they try to explain how it does, but they work really, really hard. It's always also interesting that the phrase is added, let the reader understand. It's like Angie said this morning, not very helpful. Let the reader understand he doesn't tell you anything. Why would he say this? Does this imply that this is for future readers in a time period that's coming? Is this a warning to those living very close to the end of time? Could likely be. Remember, Mark was not writing to Jews. He was writing to Romans. And he goes on, then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. This prophecy that Jesus gives here is very specific to geography. It's only those who are in the specific region who are told to flee And they're told to flee by removing themselves from cities and towns and hit the wilderness. They're to go off-grid, and they're to do it right now. Verse 15, let him who is in the housetop not go down into the house. Back then they had houses that uh they would have the top floor that was used for drying stuff and and uh and hanging out Sometimes just uh in the evenings they would go up there w uh because of the the cool and that sort of thing. And uh basically if you're up there and you receive notice of this, don't even go back in the house. And that would only take a few seconds. Nor enter to take anything out of the house. And let him who is in the field not go back to get his clothes. What we see here is an emergency. This is the last minute. There is no time left after this event. The message is, if you're present when you hear of this event, run for your lives. There's no time to pack. The next event is going to be awful. As I study this, I don't think there's really a direct application for us to make. based on the passage. We don't live in that region and there's no mention of this being global. This particular thing. If we were in Israel, there would be a direct application, especially if the temple gets rebuilt. There would surely, there was surely an application if a person lived in this region in 70 A. D. a person would have been safest in the wilderness where the Roman soldiers had no interest in going. But again, like we talked this morning, when would they have known to do that? And we're not certain about that. Verse 17 But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days, and pray that your flight may not be in winter. For in those days there will be tribulation such as not been since the beginning of the creation which God created until this time nor shall ever be. Again, we're talking about a s a specific geography and a specific event. It's easy to understand why a person would want the gentlest of climates here. Essentially, these people will be camping without the benefit of the nice camping equipment we have now. Mothers, how would you like to take your small children into this environment under these conditions? You can see why you would be praying for good weather. Now again, is this in the future or is it in the past? If it was in the past, it's essentially saying that the tribulation experienced was the worst in human history. That is possible. The Roman overthrow of Jerusalem was devastating. There is stuff written about that that is horrendous. It was awful. Parents were eating their own children. It was that bad. If that's in the future, it will be worse than that. If what we're talking about is is in the future it will be worse than that. We have all probably read of the inhumanity that's been inflicted to humanity over the course of human history. I mean you just read about uh what the Germans did to the Jews and it's just amazing. It is absolutely amazing how cruel humans can be to each other. But what's described here is the worst cruelty ever experienced, and that is considerably horrible, awful, unthinkable. But look at the context here. Do you see any break in the suffering due to being a Christian? Due to having Christ's name and this tribulation? It appears to me that this tribulation is a result of Christ's name This is not true of the fall of Jerusalem in 70 AD. Jerusalem fell because they were trying to throw off the yoke of Roman rule. It had nothing to do with Christ. If that's true, this prophecy cannot be fulfilled in the first fall of Jerusalem. I'm not sure it's true, but it's worth looking at. Now, let's look at how bad this tribulation was. Verse 20, and unless the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh would be saved, but for the elect's sake, whom he chose, he shortened the days. The word for shortened means to end abruptly or to stop instantly. God will not allow this period to last to the place that it wipes out all of human life. So he will suddenly and surely cut it short. We have no way of knowing if such a thing was done in AD 70. If this is future, which it appears to me that it is, we can at least know what God will not allow this torment to go Any longer than it must. And notice why. He says, for the sake of the elect. That's always what God has his eye on. His people. He does not allow them to suffer one more day than where something is accomplished in eternity for them. God notices your suffering It is never meaningless. It may appear meaningless, but it is not. There is a reason and purpose for suffering. When it no longer serves an eternal purpose for the benefit of believers, it will be suddenly and abruptly ended. That is what your God is like. Verse 21, then if anyone says to you, look, here's a Christ, or look, here he is, or there he is, don't believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will rise and show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. But take heed, see I have told you all things beforehand. I'm not sure how or if this happened in AD 70. Most of those who claimed to be messiahs were prior to AD 70, not after. I haven't seen much evidence of them coming after 70 AD. So maybe this is referring to future end times. I think it is. That's how it's commonly understood and presented. There will be those who claim to be Christ with the Antichrist being the one that is the most deceptive In fact, this person will express such spiritual power that you can't tell by looking at this person that he's evil. That's the most frightening thing in this whole in the whole topic of the Antichrist. If you don't know what God says, He's going to impress you He's going to be able to do things that you think only God can do. And they're going to be things that appear to be good things. It'll take spiritual and biblical perspective to know that this person is false and evil. This person will probably be followed in mass by people who say they love Christ, but don't know their Bibles. This person will do supernatural things or at least appear to do so. And he will speak our vocabulary. This guy is going to be flat out dangerous. Most deceptive person ever on our planet This is just one more indicator that we cannot allow ourselves to trust our impressions. We can't think that we can intuitively know what is true. We have got to depend upon what God says. Anyone proclaiming to be the Messiah is not unless he splits the sky in his appearance and fits every prophecy that is given about his second return. Many who claim to be believers but who don't know the word will be proven to be false when they sign up behind this guy. Now look at the beauty here of God's provision for us. Mark says, take heed. See, I have told you all things beforehand. Mark is essentially saying, you've been warned. You have no reason to be seduced because I told you ahead of time this was coming. These people are going to be slick. They're going to be greasy. They're going to be impressive and seductive. They'll be deceptive. But they will not fit the bill spiritually for what I say the Messiah is. They aren't true. And if you don't trust your perceptions, but trust God's word, you're going to be able to prove it. You're going to be able to know it. You're going to be able to stand against the crowd and say, God's word says this. I don't care what he does Oh, that we would get this point in our lives. Oh, that we would get to the place where we believe nothing above God's word. When we'll stop doing the things we feel so compelled to do and believe in the things we feel so compelled to believe and simply trust God to lead and guide us. Trust His word to be true no matter how we feel. Trust his word to be true no matter how we perceive things. Trust his word no matter how things might look. All the trouble that we would have avoided up till now if we'd have simply done that. We will probably experience in our lifetimes people who have spiritual power to produce amazing results. This is going to increase, if I'm reading it correctly. But we cannot allow ourselves to be swayed by power and results. We have got to trust God to lead and guide us. We have got to allow God's word to be the thing that teaches us true from false. Good from evil, wrong from right. I hope that many of you are studying our passage with me. This this concludes the text. I hope you're studying it with me. I have a very difficult time knowing how to interpret it. And I think our applications are safe ones But it would be good if we could pull the gifts God has given to this church in studying this passage and talk together about it. Also, as a final application, we know that we are racing toward the day of God's judgment on earth. We know that. Whether or not this passage describes it, there are plenty others that do. There will be a day for sure where God will separate the sheep from the goats, the believers in Christ from the deniers of Christ. If there is any test you really want to be prepared for, that's the one. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, If you've never committed your life to him and received what he did on the cross as counting for your sin, today would be an excellent day to do so. And if you're playing around with sin in your life, today would be an excellent day to repent of it. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you give your people warning. We thank you that you give your people the inside scoop on what's going on in this globe. Our world can't understand. They can't even understand the the the Muslim dilemma and the conflict that continues. But you tell us what it is. You tell us what hatred of Christ will accomplish. And we see it all the time. We thank you that you give us the inside scoop on how this world is progressing, what it is progressing to, and why it is lasting this long. We thank you that you give us the real things to be afraid of. And they're not climate change, but you. And we thank you that your word gives us the insight to know the true and the false. And that you give us the warning that it will take that insight. It will take your word to be discerning in those days. We ask that you would help us to live in such a way that we are prepared for whatever happens and that we would be committed to loving your people and reaching out to people who don't know you in a way that's appropriate given how much you care about such things. Help us to reflect by our hours and our moments and our concerns. those things that are most important and significant to you. And again, we thank you for your word and we thank you for the opportunity to share it together. In Jesus name, Amen