A few paragraphs earlier in our text, Jesus had warned the disciples about the leaven of the Pharisees, the leaven of Herod. And the parallel passage in Matthew refers to the leaven of the Sadducees. But the disciples were preoccupied with their failure to carry out their simple jobs. So all they heard is, you guys forgot to bring bread. And they missed Christ's point completely. Christ was warning the disciples about leaven. What he was talking about was a pollutant introduced into something pure that will pollute the whole lump When Christ talks about leaven, it looks to me like he's referring to anything natural that we depend upon to produce spiritual results. Anything natural that we depend upon to produce spiritual results, or anything non-biblical that we depend upon to give us biblical results. That kind of thinking is deadly to any kind of spiritual progress. Now, have you ever noticed in your life that if you fail to learn a lesson the first time, the opportunity comes again? Well, God is very patient with us. He knows that the things that are wrong with us are very persistent. And we will continue to display our evil or foolish dispositions. Until they are thoroughly dealt with at his hand. Christ knew that when he told his disciples to beware of leaven, that he would get to address it again We're about to see the leaven that Peter is carrying come streaming out of his mouth. And Christ will address it in no uncertain terms. But again, look at the context. Peter has just proclaimed one of the most important truths of his life. When Christ asked who the disciples thought that Christ was, Peter boldly stated that Jesus was the promised one. Jesus is the Christ. He was the sent one of God. Christ gave this profession of faith that Peter made one of the most glowing responses he ever gave to any statement ever made. In Matthew, Christ said this, Matthew 16, 17 through 19. He said, Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah. For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. And I will give you the keys of the kingdom, and whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Wow. I gotta believe Peter was shocked. He wasn't used to getting such positive responses from Christ for the things that he said Christ is saying that Christ will build a church on the truth that Peter has just proclaimed. And not only that, he tells Peter that the thing that makes this so good Is not what Peter had done for God, but what God had done for Peter. Peter didn't figure this out. What was coming out of Peter's mouth was an absolute miracle. Peter's mind was spiritually enlightened to God to see this truth. Now, had we been there and taken Peter aside and asked him, hey, how did you come to the point of saying what you said? Peter would have likely told us that he figured it out. He watched Christ and he listened to Christ and came to the conclusion that Jesus was the Christ. But look how Christ describes that same incident. He says that Peter said what he said for one reason. It was a miracle. God supernaturally enlightened Peter to this truth. Are you a believer this morning? Do you believe and proclaim Jesus Christ as Lord? If so, I can tell you on the authority of God's word that you are in the state that you are in as a result of a miracle. From your perspective, you might feel like coming to Christ was the smartest thing you ever did. And so it was. You weighed out the truth and decided for Christ. And that's all true. But it isn't the whole story. There are a lot of people who are smarter than we are, and they mock Christ. No, the other side of the story is that God did a miracle in winning us to himself. God supernaturally revealed Himself to us. He caused blind eyes to see. He caused the dead to come back to life. That's how the scripture describes it. Praise God for his amazing love toward his children. How very, very blessed we are. Now Peter had just made this amazing, insightful declaration. Jesus is the Christ. Jesus is Lord. Christ responds in an overwhelmingly positive way to Peter. So, now is Peter ready for the leadership team? Is he ready to step out and start leading the church? Has he overcome all of his previous hurdles? Well, not exactly. Let's look at what happens next and think about the implications Peter has shown that he has the Holy Spirit in him. He shows that he is a follower of God. Does that mean that from here on he'll be spot on? Verse 31. And he, Christ, began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. He spoke this word openly. Jesus now begins to teach the disciples what being Christ is all about. He was telling the truth that flew in the face of everything that they were so sure about. He was challenging them on everything that they assumed about the Messiah. Everything that they had been taught, everything that they had begun to hope for and long for. The Christ, the chosen one of God, was not going to be the answer to all their fleshly hopes and dreams. He was not going to bring utopia for the Jewish nation in this go-around. He was not going to provide health, wealth, and happiness here and now. These guys who had recognized who Christ is, they had recognized that. Now he's telling them what he's all about. And it turns out to be a very tough pill to swallow You know, Peter wasn't alone in this, was he? How quick do we get with God's program for planet Earth Sure, we come to Christ because we need saved from the consequences of our sin. We don't want to face God's judgment in our unrighteousness. We want rescued from it. And that's all smart and right and good. But we bring expectations with us that are unrealistic. We begin to think that Christ is going to make this life wonderful. We think it's his job to protect us from all pain and suffering. If he loves us, he will surely bless us with what this world has to offer, we think. Isn't that what we're signing up for? Well, look at what Christ says about his own mission. Look at the cost he says he will have to pay to live a life blessed by his Father. It says, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again. Christ faced his mission understanding exactly what it was going to cost him. He was going to have to suffer, and his suffering was going to be extreme. On top of that, he was not going to turn around the spiritual leadership of the people. He was not going to fix what was wrong with the world. He was not going to improve it. In fact, he was going to be completely rejected by the leadership. Those who were supposed to represent God were going to be the major source of Christ's suffering. Then Christ was going to be killed, and three days later would be the eternal and dramatic endorsement of God upon Christ's ministry. Resurrection would be the display of the victory of Christ. It would show God's approval for what Christ had done. And it would be the evidence that the claims of Christ were all true. That's what Christ expected i in his life. What the disciples expected was a political and social messiah that would make the Jewish people the the top dogs again. That's what they were after. They wanted to be on top. They expected to be the elite. They expected to have a form of heaven on earth. What do we expect? What do we expect from Christ? What causes us to accuse God of being unloving or uncaring? Do we expect that God will protect us from loss? Do we think that because God can heal us, that he must heal us if he loves us? Do we think that God must provide health, wealth, and prosperity because he can? Do we think somehow that God owes us more than our brothers in Syria and Iran? Do we think he owes us more than his own son experienced? Every year I live, I become more convinced that faith has its focus on that which God promises, not on that which God could do if he so chose to do it. We must be mentally and spiritually prepared for suffering in this life. Look at how Scripture describes faithful followers. We've touched this a bunch of times, but it's just so important. In Hebrews 11, 13 through 16, these all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off were assured of them. Embrace them, and confess that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For those who say such things declare plainly that they seek something else, they seek a homeland. And truly, if they had called to mind that country from which they had come out, they would have had opportunity to return. But now they desire a better, that is a heavenly country. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God. Notice the word ashamed there. Not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them. The reasoning Scripture lays out is not what we will face on this life will be made more pleasant. It is that what we face in this life is worth it because of the next. We have a hope that transcends this fallen existence. We have a city that is worth whatever it costs to get there. That's what we're promised. Now, what is Peter's response to what Christ says about his own suffering? How does this man with the correct proclamation of Christ's identity respond? Surely it's going to be positive. Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. You always know you're in a bad spot when you start telling God that he's wrong. Here's Peter going by his gut feelings. Here's Peter trusting his perceptions. Here's Peter thinking that his moral instincts have some kind of authority, that he can trust them, that he can go by them Here's Peter with a combination of divine inspiration and the leaven of human perception. This is about, this is us. This is us when we trust anything but the Word of God to instruct us about life and about God. Peter is probably as sincere as the driven snow. Peter is probably trusting his feelings about this situation and being sure that he's right. He powerfully feels the need to straighten Christ out. He needs to set him straight. Do you know what we see here? We see a picture of us every time we trust our human perceptions to inform us about this life. We all have seemers, and they're all broken. Scripture says there's a way that seems right to a man, but where does it lead? Destruction. Until we recognize that those moral indignations that ooze out of us are often not of God and have not been trained by God. Until we cease to trust our seemers, we'll continue to be just like Peter, on and off. There are things we think are horribly wrong. But God's word doesn't say they're horribly wrong. There are things that we think are very important and are very right. But God's word doesn't say they are. We were born in sin, so we really can't think that our moral instincts, our built-in instincts, are going to be accurate without training. They have to be changed and informed by the Word of God continually on every topic. We don't know about how to run a church We don't know about how to run a family. We don't know about how to run a marriage. We don't know how to live how to live our lives by instinct. We only know it by reading God's Word. And the hardest part in reading God's Word is getting rid of our assumptions, getting rid of the thought that we already know it. We tend to think we already know what Scripture is going to say. We know what it has to say, because that's what we've always thought it would say, so therefore when we go to look for it, we're going to look for it to say what we think it's going to say And when we go that route, our efforts are already condemned to failure. The way we need to approach Scripture is with the perspective that we don't know anything. We don't know anything. Instinctively, we don't know anything. We're not bringing anything to the picnic. We only know what's true when God tells us what is true. All of our assumptions are up for grabs. But God's word is right about everything. That's how we should study Scripture. Peter was only doing what we're tempted to do all the time. In fact, every time we're asked for advice or we feel inclined to give it, we can be in this spot. Peter trusted himself. He trusted his wisdom. He trusted what he would have called common sense. He didn't check it with the Word of God. He didn't have to, he thought. He knew better. And that's all it takes for us to go in exactly the opposite course that God would have for us. That's all it takes for us to condemn people who God approves of and approve of people who God condemns. That's all it takes to cause church splits. That's all it takes to ruin your life. Just trust yourself and follow your heart. That's all it takes for us to think we know better than God. Peter rebuked Christ. Peter tried to straighten Christ out. Peter told Christ how Peter saw this whole situation working out. Now look very seriously at what Christ thought of that. Verse 33, but when he had turned around and looked at his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get behind me, Satan, for you're not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. Okay, so Christ was teaching the disciples. Peter probably approached Christ and said something like, can I talk to you in private for a little bit? And uh so they probably took a few steps away from the rest of the disciples and Peter started into Christ. What did Peter say? Well, we don't know all of it, but we have seen enough of this sort of thing, I guess, to guess what he said He was likely telling Price to get with the party line here. Be more positive. It's going to work out well for you. Don't be so negative. You don't have to die. This isn't going to happen. And then he goes on in in Matthew 16, 22 it tells us that Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord. Lord, this shall not happen to you. Peter, full of self-assurance, tells Christ that he is wrong about how all this stuff is going to work out. He unknowingly is encouraging Christ to avoid the cross. He's dissuading Christ from his primary mission. He is discouraging the only thing that would ever save humanity from their sin. He is suggesting a path that would avoid suffering, humiliation, and pain. And look how Christ responds. Peter pulled them aside. They have their backs, evidently, to the rest of the disciples. Christ doesn't say anything at that point. He just turns around. Turns his back. And uh on Peter. And he says to the rest of the disciples, not to Peter, he says, get behind me, Satan. Wow. Think how painful that would have been for Peter, especially riding on the past excess that he had, maybe for the first time. What a severe offensive rebuke. But sometimes a dangerous disease requires severe medicine. We as Christians cannot afford to be too soft-skinned. Sometimes we too need this kind of rebuke. And we can't allow ourselves to get distracted by the severity of the rebuke. We need to focus on applying to ourselves the truth of the rebuke, no matter how it feels to receive it. And look who Christ describes his message to. It's as if Satan himself had delivered the message. If Christ would have followed Peter's advice, we would all be lost for eternity. There would never have been a cross that Christ died on, and all of our sin would be uncovered and unforgiven. What we see here is leaven. It's the very thing that Christ warned these guys about earlier, but they missed the lesson. Now they aren't missing the lesson. Peter's thinking that Christ can attain his spiritual objectives by means other than spiritual. Peter is mixing his thinking, his feelings, his desires with Christ's mission. And what does Jesus call the result? Does he call it mistaken, stupid, misguided? No. He calls it satanic. We've got to take notice of this this morning. We've got to do business with it. Peter was spiritually enlightened, and at the same time he was capable of perfectly representing the devil's agenda. By doing what? By trusting his own wisdom and instincts and perceptions. I don't know how to make this point strong enough. We who claim to be Christians have got to recognize this tendency, this potential that we all carry with us. All we need to do to God do damage to God's mission is to allow our flesh to have a voice. We can do every bit as good as Peter in representing the devil's agenda, and we can do it just as unknowingly as he did it. Peter was probably as sincere as the driven snow, but his he was equally as wrong as he could possibly be. Look at Christ's evaluation here. He says, For you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. Mindful, mindful. This word in Greek means to exercise the mind It's very specific. It's a thinking word. It's about using our heads. It means to be mentally disposed in a certain direction. Peter had a thinking problem. He was a believer. God had revealed the identity of Christ to Peter. He responded by receiving Christ, but he still had a thinking problem. Well, Peter isn't alone. We all have a thinking problem. Some people see spiritual growth, sanctification, as the process of God zapping us a little at a time. If I have a temptation, God should zap that out of me. If I have a fear, God should zap that out of me. If I need to do something hard, God should zap that into me And it's my job to sit on my hands and wait for him to get that done. And if he doesn't, well then I really can't help it. Whatever I do. God hadn't come through for me. But what I read in Scripture is that spiritual growth comes by addressing our thinking problem. That's not to say that God won't grant us supernatural gifts, he does from time to time. But the mainstay of Christian growth comes by replacing lies we believe with truth that God gives us. Romans tells us in Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service, and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed By the renewing of your mind, be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. So how are we transformed? How are we spiritually changed? How do we spiritually grow? Is it by waiting for the next God zap? That's not what Romans says. It says, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That means replacing the old things we thought to be true. With the truth that the Word of God reveals to us. It means we don't trust our old stuff. We don't protect and defend our old stuff. We replace it with new true stuff. How does that look day-to-day? 2 Corinthians 10, 4 through 6 says, For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds. casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. And being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled. Look at this. This tells us where the battle is. And it tells us how the battle is won. We believe lies. Every sin we knowingly do is based upon a lie that we believe. We might say we don't believe it, but we prove by what we do that we do believe it. Growing in the Christian life is the process of identifying those lies and putting them into captivity. We no longer allow ourselves to think whatever we feel like thinking. We take captive the fuel for our disobedience and place it, replace it with the fuel for obedience. David said in the Psalms, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. That's how it works. Sometimes we feel like it's too hard for us to do the right thing, to face our fears, to face our lusts, to face our doubts, to face our suffering. But God's word says that we have everything that we need to do so. We may need to call on Christ's body for help, but we have everything we need for life and godliness So we do battle with our flesh and with our fleshly thoughts by believing God's word and distrusting our own perceptions and assumptions. When we refuse to do this battle, we're just as likely as Peter to be voicing lies that will do great harm to people. What are we mindful of? What do we fill our minds with? Where do we trust to find the real answers in our lives? At the end of the day, every one of us is just like Peter. We are as likely to proclaim the miraculously revealed truth of God as Or the devil's most harmful lies. It all depends upon what we allow ourselves to think. I hope that what we have seen in Peter will drive us all to question where our impulses take us. We need to ask questions like why am I doing what I am doing? Why am I saying what I am saying? Why am I thinking what I am thinking? Is it leaven? Or is it truth? Is it from God? Or is it best representing our enemy? I think we've got plenty of work for this week. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your kindness and grace to us. We thank you that you lead us in perfect paths We thank you that your word is true and that we can completely rely upon it. And we thank you for revealing to us that our hearts are desperately wicked and we'll not get to half of it until we stand in your presence. So we ask that you would help us to face this week the way you want us to, in your will, in your name, representing you, by believing you and what you say. And adjusting and adapting all of our thoughts to your clearly revealed word. And we ask all these things in Jesus' name.