We're gonna cover a lot of territory this morning. I chose this text from John because I think we can cover it in one week. And then our next week will be church camp. And then the three following weeks, we'll be doing a special kind of side study on eldering and elders. And we have some reasons for doing that, which we'll lay out as we go. Now, our next text in Mark can't be preached through in one week, so I thought it would be best to take a little sidetrack this morning Our text in John happens right between our Mark's last text and Mark's next text. So this is what happened the day after The uh disciples got out of the boat on the other shore after having their wits scared out of them. I referred to this text last week, but we're going to go into greater depth this week. Now remember that last week we saw Christ walking on the water. And he got from one side of the Sea of Galilee to the other with no visible support, at least from the crowd's perspective. So we have a picture of the crowd. on the on the initial shore that is mystified. Verse 22, on the following day when the people who were standing on the other side, that's where Jesus came from, of the sea saw that there was no other boat there, except that one which his disciples had entered, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but his disciples had gone away alone However, other boats came from Tiberias near the place where they ate after the Lord had given thanks. When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there , Nor his disciples, they also got into boats and came to Capernaum seeking Jesus. The big question now is: where's Jesus? So the crowd begins to add up the facts. Well, there was only one boat on location, and it left with the disciples, and no Jesus. Now there were more boats, but all had come and none had left. So the people decide to go to Capernaum to look for Jesus. They must have figured due to the direction that the disciples left in, that the disciples must be going to Capernaum. Then verse 25, and when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? When did you come here? What would you have asked if you were there? The question on everyone's mind is, how in the world did you get here? So they ask the first question in order to try to figure it out. Tell us when you got here, and then maybe we can figure out how you got here. But look how Christ answers them Verse 26. Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs , but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. There are ultimately two kinds of seekers. There are earthly bred seekers, and there are heavenly bred seekers. And Jesus always knows which is which. Some people are seeking an earthly, fleshly advantage by following Christ. Others are seeking a heavenly spiritual advantage by following Christ. Now make no mistake, it's not because one person is better than the other The only reason that a person seeks Christ for the right reason is because God has moved upon that person's heart to do so. If you're inclined to truly follow Christ for the right reasons, it isn't because you're better or smarter or wiser than anyone else. It's because God did a miracle on your heart and called you to himself. No one comes to the Father except Christ calls them. Christ will say that two times in this text, and it's also stated all over the book of Romans. So, there are physical bread seekers and spiritual bread seekers. A good question to ask is, which am I? Which am I? Really, why do you seek Christ? Why do you follow Christ? Why are you here this morning? Is your primary motivation for following Christ to make this life better? Do you want the benefits that Christ offers now to make your existence more pleasurable and less painful? Do you expect a heavenly protector and provider to make you physically healthy and emotionally happy? Do you hold the same things as the world does as of the highest priorities? But you count on Christ to give you those things instead of some other source? That's all these people were doing. They liked Christ as a bread machine. Is that what Christ is to us? We can tell if that's true about us when Christ does not deliver those things here and now that we want here and now. How long does it take for us to turn on Christ? How quickly will we attack his character when what we want is happiness and what we get is suffering? We need to look at our lives and ask, why are we following Christ? To what end? Really, what do we expect? And we can often best tell what those wrong expectations are when they aren't met. What causes us to sulk with God or to rebel against God or to pity ourselves? Those are clues that what we want from God is a wonderful here and now. And what we need most is what God clearly promises to do. I'm continually reminded of Hebrews. Hebrews 11, 13 through 16. And it talked about all these people who had died painful deaths in faith, and it says, these all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off were assured of them, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For those who say such things declare plainly That they seek something that's not here and now. They seek a homeland, it says. And truly, if they had called to mind that country from which they had come out of Is that if that's what they were living for, that if that's what they were hoping to get their satisfaction from, they would have had opportunity to return to it But now they desire a better, that is a heavenly country. They're living for something in the future. That's where their hope is set. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. Is what we are after the heavenly city. Is that where our hope is fixed? Is that the thing we expect from God because that is what He has promised to us? We must grant that a life lived in this way requires a great deal of trust in God's character. It absolutely does. But God's character is greatly trustworthy. The heroes of the faith really did just this one thing. They sought the spiritual bread The spiritual benefit. They sought God for what God is offering and for what He wants to offer. And they did so because God called them to the process. So, which are we? What does the evidence of our lives say? Look at the contrast in the text. Christ holds the signs Against the loaves. Some came for the signs, and some came for the loaves Following Christ, because the signs assured you that he was the Messiah from God was the right reason to follow Christ. The signs are what spiritual people were looking for. They were looking for the Messiah, and they knew they would find it by the signs that God would give. The whole world, on the other hand, looks for a breadgiver. Nothing's changed today. The world applauds the church when it provides soup kitchens. But it hates it when it focuses on saving people from sin and getting people into heaven. So how does the crowd respond? Verse 28. Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? So Jesus tells them that they should seek the signs rather than the loaves. They ought to be spiritual. It's almost as if the crowd thinks, oh We're talking about being spiritual now. We're off of talking about bread. Now we're talking about spiritual. Well, we'll show just how sincere and spiritual we really are. And they ask their question that is essentially, okay, Jesus. What must we do to be spiritual? What works must we do to save ourselves? The rich young ruler thought the same way. What good thing must I do? And Jesus answered them and said to them, you can just imagine how frustrated he is much of the time that he's dealing with these people. This is the work of God. You want the work of God. You want to know what good thing you should do? This is the work of God that you believe in Him who sent me There's only one thing that a human must do to make him right with God. There's only one thing that a human can do to make him right with God. There's only one thing that's possible to do. It's to believe in the Messiah who was sent to save people from their sins. It's to trust in his work To save you from your works. It's to trust his goodness to rescue you from your badness. Essentially, there's nothing you can do that you can take credit for. And that's the real strike at the pride of man. That's that's the undoing. That's when people hear this part of the gospel and they think I'm not for it. Because that robs me of any of my pride You can't win salvation. You can only receive it like a beggar receives a piece of bread. That's how we all come to Christ. If we have ever come to Christ, that is how we came So how does the crowd respond? Do they say, boy, I I don't understand Christ, but I would really like to do what you say. I I don't know how to do what you're talking about, so please help me with this. No. Verse 30, therefore they said to him, What sign will you perform then that we may see it and believe you? What work will you do? Our fathers ate the man in the desert, as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. We find in Scripture that there is no amount of evidence that will make a disbelieving heart believe. Evidence is not the trick. What exactly had these people just seen? They had seen food created out of nothing, and they knew it Matter from nothing. Does that give a clue? It's a most profound miracle. And what are they doing? They're trying to twist Christ, manipulate Christ into feeding their flesh in a miraculous fashion. It's very similar to how the devil tempted Christ. They're proving to ignore the sign that they had already been given. They're doing exactly what Christ said was their problem, not the solution. Verse 32, then Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven. But my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. These people made the mistake of lofting the gift up. to be more important than the giver of the gift. They're making the symbol more important than the reality. Carla likes the look of a Jaguar car. So I told her that I was gonna get her one if I ever got the chance. So that was safe. So so one day I got on eBay and I bought her this little statue that goes on in front of a jaguar. And it's a jaguar. So it's it's an emblem of a jaguar. And then I mounted it on her Buick. Now only a fool would think that the statue, the emblem, was more important than the vehicle that it sat on. Mana, in our case, was the emblem. Christ is the car. Manna was the physical bread that would feed physical bodies to keep them alive until they died and were buried. Christ was the bread of life that would give life to a person that could never be taken away. The manna fell out of physical heaven. Christ came from spiritual heaven. He came from God. These people were trying to manipulate Christ into giving them the emblem. Christ was offering them the car. They wanted bread. He wanted to give them eternal life. What do we want from God? What do we want from God? Which do we value from God So now the people seem to be very dense. They aren't getting the idea that he's talking about himself. So in verse 34, and they said to him, Lord, give us this bread always. They're saying, okay Christ, that sounds good. Give us that thing that God is giving and give that to us forever. Keep giving it to us and giving it's probably something good. I'll probably like it, so yeah, give us give it to us. Verse 35, and Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out. Christ makes it inescapably clear now. I am the bread I was talking about. I am the car. I am the significant thing. I am the bread that makes you live forever. When you're truly hungry and thirsty spiritually and you come to me, you will never feel that way again. Because when I meet that need, it is fully met for eternity. When I grant salvation, you are saved once and for all. When I grant peace with God, you get peace with God. You are no longer his enemy. The things I give only need to be given once. But the problem with the people is that they did not believe Christ. They were not willing to trust Christ. They were not willing to confess their sin. They were not willing to admit that they stood where they stood. And they really had no interest in following Christ. They weren't going to. Why? Because the Father had not given these people to Christ. God had not initiated the miracle of faith in their hearts. Verse 38, For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of the Father who sent me, that all he has given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day And this is the will of him who sent me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day. Do you want to know what Jesus is up to? Do you want to know what his mission on earth consists of? Do you want to know what Christ left heaven for? A lot of people think a lot of things. You might hear all kinds of things from all kinds of circles, but this is what Christ said. The Father has people picked out to save. And Christ is going to save every single one of them. This is going to be accomplished by people seeing or hearing about Christ and believing in him. Those people will have everlasting life and will be raised back to life one day. That is the mission of Christ. And that is the mission of the church. Everything that we do as humans should be with this end in mind. Christ didn't come to heal every sickness of everyone who was ever born. He could, but he didn't. He did not come to feed every person who has ever been hungry. He could, but he didn't. He did not come to clean up corrupt governments. He could, but he didn't. In short, Christ did not come to fix this planet. He came to rescue people from the results of being born onto this planet. Christ came to save sinners. The church may do a lot of good things in an effort to win people to Christ They may express their love in a million wonderful ways, and that's all well and good and appropriate. We must treat people as we would want to be treated But we must never lose the focus of what we are here for. We are primarily here to aid the people who God has called in their trip to heaven Whether that be inside the church or outside the church, whether that be someone who has not yet come to Christ yet or someone who has. That's what we're here for. The building that we're thinking about building is just a tiny tool in that greater picture. One soul saved has more value than the whole completed building. And we must never lose that perspective. We must never forget what we are here for. Now the Jews heard this, and this is how they responded. You can just imagine by this point that they're going to be responding in a way that isn't exactly pleasing. Verse 41, then the Jews complained about him because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it then that he says, I have come down from heaven? Yep. People who don't believe will always find a reason why they don't believe. You can count on it. Verse 43. Jesus therefore it answered and said to them, Do not murmur among yourselves. It would be hard to be part of the crowd when Jesus was around, because he always knew what was going on. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him There he says it again. And I will raise him up at the last day. He adds that in because the eternal perspective is the thing that makes it so important. It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught by God. Therefore, everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Look how Jesus deals with these people here. He doesn't beg them to believe. He doesn't encourage them to believe. He only tells them what it takes to believe. And what it takes is nothing short of a miracle. This is so much different than so many approaches we have all seen about evangelism. By many teachers' definitions, Christ was a terrible evangelist. Look what he didn't do. But we know that it doesn't matter what we think. He was the greatest evangelist that ever lived. And Jesus is saying, what it takes to come to God is to be taught by God. What it comes, what it takes to come to God is to be taught by God. What it takes is for God to speak to your heart. Through the word of truth preached to them. If someone comes to Christ, it's because God taught their heart. Verse 46, not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me has everlasting life. I am the bread of life Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they're all dead. This is the bread which comes down from heaven that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I shall give is my flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world. Remember, this whole thing started by Christ feeding 25,000 people. It all started with a free fish sandwich. Christ used that to teach them about the real meaning of everything. And he lets them know that the answer to their sin is going to be in the giving of his flesh. He makes it pretty clear. He is going to give his life, his body, his flesh to save the world. His life for our lives. Verse 52. The Jews therefore quarreled among themselves, saying, How can this man give us flesh to eat? His flesh to eat? These people knew that Christ was talking figuratively, but they were offended people. And offended people will always find a way to stay offended. So they do. Then Christ said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. See how he keeps adding that in. I will raise you up at the last day. That is ultimately significant For us, when we are coming to Christ, we have to understand that that is the focal point. For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him. As the living Father sent me, and I lived because of the Father, so he who feeds on me will live because of me. This is the bread which came down from heaven, not as your fathers ate the manna and are dead. He who eats this bread will live forever. These things he said in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum. Christ lays out his all-sufficiency for salvation of mankind. He's talking figuratively about what it means to believe in Christ. We're going to trust what he did and what he did alone as the means to living, as the means of our life. We will eat his flesh and drink his blood figuratively as we participate in and remember his death and his burial and his resurrection. Verse 60. Therefore, many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is a hard saying. Who can understand this? When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples complained about this, he said to them, Does this offend you? Is that really the issue here? Does this offend you? What then if you should see the Son of God the Son of Man ascend where he was before? Basically, what are you gonna do when you see me raised From this earth into heaven. It's the spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit, and they are life But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe and who would betray him. And he said, Therefore I have said , to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my father. The third time he said this. That's a pretty significant point. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more It's good for us to read this. It's good for us to see this. It's good for us to see what those who follow Christ for a better here and now Will ultimately do. It's good for us not to be shocked or surprised, and it's good for us to examine our own faith in light of this. What will it take to make us quit? What will it take to make us quit? What must God do to meet our expectations? These people didn't lack intellectual cleverness. What they lacked was faith. I tend to be a bit suspicious when people make claims about God's word, either read or preached, that it is hard to understand You know, when they start focusing on boy, that's hard to understand. I can't understand that. That's a hard saying. With the implication that You know, you should really make this easier. God should make this easier. If it's hard, it can't be true. It should be simple. Mike used to say that sermon F's are for Christian F If any of us received instruction for how to locate a million-dollar treasure, we would work with all our mental energy until we fully understood it. That's how we're to approach Scripture if we really believe that it contains the words of eternal life. If we fail to prioritize it. It isn't because it's too difficult to understand. It's because we either don't believe that it is what it is, or we just don't care about spiritual bread. Notice that Jesus did not mince words here. He essentially preached a message that would drive those away who did not believe. And he never made a single apology for that. And he never backed down, he never slowed down. If the truth can drive you away, you were never Christ to begin with. And he knew that. Now, up to this point, the whole incident has been dismal. Okay? Christ fed all these people. These people saw, they were firsthand fed by something out of nothing. And they listened to what he had to say, and they were impressed, and in fact, in one passage it said they tried to take him by force to be the Messiah. They were that gung-ho, and you would think, well man, they must really believe in Christ. No, not at all Now they show their true colors. And it's dismal, but but there's a high point. Verse 67, then Jesus said to the twelve, Okay, the disciples he's talking about are all those mass of people who aren't disciples really, but they're following temporarily because they like the the sandwiches. But Jesus said to the twelve, do you also want to go away? But Simon Peter answered him. I love this response. Lord, to whom should we go? You have the words of eternal life. He got it. Also, we have come to believe and know that you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. They got it. Finally, finally, somebody got the point. Remember that the twelve did not get the point by the feeding of the twenty-five thousand. Scripture says their heart was hardened. But they suddenly softened up when they saw Christ walking on the water. We don't know why God used that event to make that million-dollar change, but it was very effective. But here it is. I love what Peter says here. The Lord, to whom shall we go? To whom shall we go? Really? Isn't that the position we find ourselves in? Even when we get full of ourselves and full of our disbelief, we know too much to go anywhere else. All other religions are bankrupt when you look at them in comparison to Christianity. They're all man's effort at reaching God by some effort or state that they can attain or something that they produce. In and of themselves, it has nothing to do with God coming to meet them where they are. It has to do with us somehow getting to him But at the end of the process, no matter what religion we would choose and no matter which one we would submit to, we still know we're a sinner. Nothing has happened about our sin. And that poses a problem only Christ can solve, and we know that. So we consider, well, how about no religion at all? And then we look around at nature. And you can't miss it. You've got to know that somebody designed all that. So we come back full circle. To whom else do we go? To whom else can we go? To whom else does it make any sense to go? It's only Jesus If you want salvation, there's nowhere to go but Christ. Only He is the way, the truth, and the life. And we we receive all of that by hearing words and believing them. What a simple thing. And we reach the point that Peter did where we believe that Christ is God and is our Savior. And there's nowhere else to go. Now after this wonderful success, after this positive ministry statistic, we have one of the most dismal truths in Scripture. Even among the twelve resides one who is the devil. Jesus answered them, said , Did I not choose you the twelve? And one of you is the devil. He spoke of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, for it was he who would betray him, being one of the twelve. We continue to see that Jesus was not surprised by what happens to him. He knows what's coming, and he does nothing to change how that's going to happen He does some things to make sure of the when, but the how is already in place. And we see that this evil, even in the heart of the central intimate band of Christ followers. was going to go allowed, going to be allowed to go undetected and undisclosed. And it will be used to accomplish the greatest good for humanity that's ever been done. Even evil serves a purpose for believers in the hand of God. So, what kind of disciple are we? Are we like the crowd wanting a God who can manipulate and who we can manipulate in order to have our best life now? Or are we like the disciples who realize that Christ truly is the answer to everything that we really need? Is our hope for existence in a heavenly city? Or do we want to have our fulfillment in our present existence? How do we think? How do we live? How do we respond when God allows us to suffer? Will hard times weed us out? Or will they prove that our trust is in the true bread of life, come what may? It would be good for us to examine our lives in this regard this week. Where is our hope, really? Where is our hope? What do we expect from God? Closing friend. Lord, we thank you. We thank you for your word again. We thank you that you continue to nourish us and enrich us. We thank you for this bread from heaven. We thank you for the eternal perspective that it grants us. And Lord, we are people of the earth. We uh we easily fall back into wanting what we want and thinking that you should provide it for us. Help us to adjust our perspective to your perspective and to understand and believe that what you have for us is better than anything that we could have ever planned for ourselves. This life is temporary. What you provide is eternal. Help us to cling with everything that we are in trust in you no matter what. that we would honor you and serve you and prioritize you in our lives. And Lord, as we uh Think about this building that you evidently are leading us in that direction. We thank you for that, but we ask that you would help us in everything. to keep our eternal home and our eternal dwelling and our eternal church as the continual priority In Jesus name, Aben