Alright, let's do a quick review where we are at this point. Jesus made some very dramatic statements about how committed he was to the veracity of the Old Testament scriptures. It is impossible to miss his emphasis. That Old Testament law would be fulfilled by him where it applied to him. And it would and by everything else where it applied to everything else. But the law was going to be completely fulfilled. Then he went on to tell us his view of inspiration. He says, every single letter and every single part of a letter are inspired by God in the original. And then he tells us that his followers will be people who keep the law and teach the law correctly. The more they keep it and teach it correctly, the greater status they'll have in the kingdom of heaven. And that brings us to today. As I looked at verse 19, I think there is something I missed, so I've got to go back a step. I'd like to go back and touch it and then we'll go forward. In verse 19, it says, whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments, one of the least of these commandments. Look at the word least in that text How are we going to understand that? Is there really such a thing? Aren't all the commandments of equal importance? I mean, something's either right or wrong, isn't it? So doesn't it make it 100% important, like everything? Well look at what Jesus said. Matthew 22, 34 through 40, he says, but when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. And then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him and saying, teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? Essentially, what's the greatest? And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. That's the first and great commandment. And the second is like So it's the second in importance. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. If you want a summary of the universal moral law of God, the law of God that applies to everyone now, it's this, these two. And all law breaking is a violation in some way of these two. But the important thing for us to notice this morning is that the first is greater than the second. There is a priority in the law of God. Some laws are greater. They have preeminence over the other lower laws. A long time ago, Mike taught us about hierarchism. And hierarchism is a way to resolve what to do when two laws conflict. For instance, when a Jewish baby needed circumcised on the eighth day, and that day was a Sabbath, they could not circumcise the baby and keep the Sabbath at the same time. So there's a conflict. So they had to decide. They they didn't want that decision. They had to decide that. They had to choose the highest law. They chose the greatest good in that instance. And in those situations, they were not guilty of breaking the lower law. They were credited because they chose the higher law. So there is a hierarchy of laws, and we can make decisions accordingly. Loving God is greater, of more importance, than loving people. That's why we don't bend God's commands regarding how people should behave for the sake of people. That is not loving We love God first and we accept what He says. He's the expert. When we love Him, we obey Him. We receive from Him the truth. We believe it. We act upon it. All love for humans is determined and directed by that greater love, by that greater law. We would be breaking the higher law to accommodate a lower one in a different way than is prescribed. And that would not be loving, that would be evil. Okay, let's move on. Verse 20. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. When you first read this, does that scare you? Your righteousness has to be greater than the Pharisees. I'm quite certain it scared the people in his audience. There's an interesting side point here. Jesus is making a dramatic statement. And this dramatic statement was decidedly negative. He is saying two things at once. First, the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees will decidedly not get you into heaven. And second, you need to do better than that. The point I conclude from passages like this is that there is a time and a place for calling out systems of thought. It's often necessary in order to contrast false teaching, false teaching that includes incorrect ideas about God and life with correct doctrine. And those who are the teachers in those errant systems are the biggest targets for illustrations of what is wrong about their way of thinking, about their way of teaching, and what needs to be made right about it. Now much of what Christ is going to say in the rest of this chapter is the denunciation of the ministry of the scribes and Pharisees. If we were there and we were seeking to defend their system, defend them, defend their ideas, we would have found ourselves in a bad way. Even though there were probably some exceptions to the rule, Jesus addresses his criticism to the whole group. We as Christians have an enormous, enormous body of things to be thankful for and to be positive about. But sometimes negativity has to be employed to emphasize the seriousness or great danger. of a thing. We certainly need a good balance, but we need to keep that in mind as we analyze and evaluate Christian ministry, Christian doctrine, Christian teaching Christ was brutal on Pharisee. Okay, moving on. Now Jesus just got done telling us how his teaching was not inconsistent with the law and the prophets. He said, I back that. You're not going to hear a word out of my mouth putting down the Old Testament law and prophets. But Jesus knew That Pitt Crowd tended to lump the Old Testament words and the words of the scribes and the Pharisees and their traditions. They took them together as if they were the same thing. So Christ begins to make the distinction between what God says and what these so-called spiritual leaders say and do. And like I said, much of what Jesus is about to say after this verse is to set apart what Scripture says and intends, and how the scribes and the Pharisees parse it out for themselves. Now, what did the people think of the scribes and Pharisees? The Jews had a saying: if only two people go to heaven, one will be a scribe and the other a Pharisee. And I'm led to believe that that was not created by a scribe or Pharisee, but the common man. So Christ's audience was not likely to say, well, it's about time somebody came along and saw through these imposters. No, for the most part, it appears that the Jews of the day figured that the scribes and the Pharisees must be the poster children for spirituality, for righteousness. Compared to the Sadducees, and that's what they had kind of the pick from, you've got the Sadducees and the Scribes and Pharisees, and the Sadducees, they were the other religious leaders who were more sold out to the Roman government. And whose theology was extremely liberal, and uh that would have been your other alternative. So the Pharisees were the separatists, In fact, that's what the word Pharisee comes from. And they were the ones to take a stand on doing exactly what the Bible says. That would have been their reputation. They're the Bible thumpers. They're the ones who stuck to the word. And the scribes were the ones whose whole life was made up of making copies of scripture and studying each little nuance of each word. They were their theologians, as it were. So if a person really wanted to know what the Bible actually said and what it meant, they would go to these guys. And if they wanted to just be in the club that gave them lip service to God, but was really about prestige and power, they would follow the Sadducees. The man on the street probably would regard himself as so far inferior to the scribe or Pharisee that he would think of himself, I'll never reach that level. You know, I'll let the experts do it. You know, these guys are experts. spiritual guys and that's their that's their job I'll never be like them and I give up trying it Now think about it. Who's that like who's like that for you? Who do you regard as, man, that that person is really spiritual? For me, among other people, it would be the likes of the John MacArthur's or the Spurgeons or the John Pipers or the R. C. Sproles or the Bodie Bacchums or you know know those kind of guys that you just love listening to them preach because you know they're preaching the word. Now imagine if you were told Unless your righteousness exceeds their righteousness, you have no chance of getting into heaven. That's probably about how these people fell These were the spiritual big shots, and they're thinking, I don't have a chance. I might as well give up now. I don't have a chance I imagine that Jesus had their full attention at this point. What in the world can Christ say now that's going to give me any relief from this anxiety I now feel because of what he laughed at? How can we have that greater righteousness? What is it that's wrong with our religious heroes? And Christ will go on Christ will go on and tell them, teaching by teaching, how they got it all wrong. What did the Pharisees teach that was so wrong, so bad? What were they doing that went against what God said? We're going to skip what is said in the Sermon on the Mount because we don't want to spoil it for our future sermons. So we'll look outside of the Sermon on the Mount to find out what Jesus had to say. But before we go on, it would be good to ask right here, what is your idea of true spirituality? What is your idea of true spirituality? What is our idea of a righteous person? What do we think real religion is? Would the devotions of the devotion of the Pharisees and scribes have impressed us? Would we be convinced by the extreme price they pay to do the right thing, that they were the real deal? Would we think that anyone that dedicated to doing God's will should never be challenged or reproached? How do you determine who you allow to influence you? Who do you follow? And why? With that in mind, let's look at what Jesus said about the religious leaders then. And Matthew 23 is the best chapter to go to if you want to see the scathing rebukes that Jesus had of that whole system. But he says in verse 25, Woe you scribes and Pharisees, the same ones that he's addressing now in our text. For you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they're full of extortion and self-indulgence. Blind Pharisee, first cleanse the inside of the cup and dish, that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead man's bones and all uncleanness. Even so, you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside, you're full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you built the tombs of the prophets and adorned the monuments of the righteous and say, if we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. Therefore, you are witnesses against yourself that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Notice the focus here. There are five references to external things. Five references to external things, things people can see. And there's a great deal of work spent by these scribes and Pharisees in creating these monuments, in doing these external acts. But what is it about their hearts? What weren't they showing? What weren't they talking about? What weren't they displaying? What was the real Pharisee? Extortion, self-indulgence, hypocrisy, lawlessness Lawlessness. They're the experts in the law. They're guilty in their hearts of lawlessness. They are in the bloodline of the murderers of those who spoke the truth. And they are excellent examples of his breeding. I think that's what Jesus is saying. Have you ever watched the dog show? I don't know much about this. But the dog that portrays the desired traits of the breed. Win the best of show. The scribes and the Pharisees were the best of show for truth murderers. That's his point. How did the Pharisees act? How did they think? Well, the Pharisee thought that spirituality is all based on what you end up doing. If you could do something without technically breaking the law, you were good to go. You're clean. The spirit of the law was not of great concern to them. It was the letter of the law that mattered to them. So they could lust after another woman, divorce their first wife, marry the second, and they think they're covered because they have not violated the letter of the law. But they forget that God sees the heart. He sees all the ugliness. He sees all the evil. The internal evil is not the evil that the Pharisees concern themselves with. Theirs was the religion of being outwardly impressive. How could they help not being self-indulgent? Isn't it the evils of our own selfishness and self-centeredness that are the cause of so many of our problems? Even when no one else knows what's going on, even when we keep up a good thing, our self indulgence is always the problem. And we can always justify that I can do different than I say because my spiritual effort entitles me special privileges. I think we all have that in us. We think my my case is an exception. I don't have to obey in this particular way. The Pharisees and Sadducees had to be hypocrites. After all, how can any of us look at our heart of hearts and think we are morally superior to anyone? Humility would drive us to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth about ourselves. But that is not the kind of ministry these guys had, and it's not the kind of ministry they wanted. Matthew 23 also says, Woe are you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites? For you pay tithe of mint and anise and tummy. And have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith. These you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. Blind guys who strain out a gnat and swallow a ham. I don't know if the people laughed when they heard that. I suspect they might have. It's a really funny imagery. But along with focusing on the internal, they accentuate the less important. They are experts at which does not deliver the spiritual mail. at that which does not deliver the spiritual nail. They seem to have a propensity to tithe just about anything. Maybe they have to buy extra long shoelaces so they can cut a tenth off before they use them. You know, they're ridiculous. Think of all the mental effort it would take to be so spiritual. But there were probably people suffering all around them who they could have and should have held. They should have been adjudicating rights and wrongs so the people had justice. There was surely much suffering as a result of sin, but these guys had the power and the resources and the authority to relieve They could have been ministered mercy, but they were too busy counting their onions. They should have been pointing people to trust in God in all of their circumstances. They should have been telling people how good their God is and how deeply he can be dependent upon. Faith is what is mentioned. That's what they forego. That's what they miss. But no, that would interfere with countling rosemary stocks. They have all the wrong focus. They don't see that their lives are given to them to express love. They think their existence is to obey rules better than the next guy, and then do that in such a public fashion that you get all the credit for it. Luke 18, 9 -14 says, also he spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. I can almost stop here. We know this story so well. The Pharisees stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank you that I'm not like other gods. I thank you that I am so much better than they are. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector. I mean that's pretty ignorant. And you get the impression the tax collectors can hear it. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I possessed. Oh yeah, you know how to count. And the tax collector standing afar off would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Look at verse 11. The Pharisee says, I am not these things. Extortioners, unjusts, adulterers. Do you remember what we just read? Jesus accused them of being extortioners and unjust. In Matthew 5, Jesus is probably accusing them of being adulterers. The very things that they say, I am not They are exactly it. But they don't have the proper spiritual framework to see it. They don't have the humility to see it They don't understand scripture in such a way that they are the people like all the other people that the law condemns. Then, and this is very important to our text, look whose righteousness exceeds the other. And this is the this is the like the The point you're looking for. It's one of those insights into Scripture, and you see it, and you think, thank you, Lord. The Pharisee is clearly condemned. He might have created more laws than God Himself, and he may keep every one of them, but it is all an effort to hide himself, to hide his guilt, to hide who he really is. But look at this low-down traitor to his people. This guy, the tax collector, was a traitor to his family. He was a traitor to his God. He was a traitor to his country. This man comes to himself. This is a beatitude guy. Poor in spirit. Morning. Meet. He wails to God for the agony that truth creates when it collides with our reality. He gets it. He gets who God is. And he gets who he is. And notice he does not say a single thing good about himself. He's beyond saying anything good about himself. He knows. He's not good. He's not better than anybody. Any of that kind of thinking completely misses the point. No, he says, God be merciful to me, the sinner. Is that not what every righteous heart cries out every day? God be merciful to me. And what happens? The righteousness of the tax collector was greater than the righteousness of the Pharisees. Because the righteousness of the tax collector was the imputed righteousness of Christ. He was justified, it says. How? Did he suddenly become all that great? No, not at all. By faith. Why? Because of humility. Only the humble qualify for grace because only they can see that they have no merit. Oh, our hearts can praise God at this point. Tears are appropriate here. Here is the salvation of Christ. Here's the justification of the one calling out to God. We are all in the tax collector's shoes. Praise God. Verse 20, for I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. The word exceeds here is an interesting word. A quote from John MacArthur. It says the Greek word for exceeds is used of a river overflowing its banks, emphasizing that which is far in excess of the normal. The Lord requires genuine righteousness, real holiness that far exceeds anything human, and that exists only in the redeemed heart The psalmist wrote, The king's daughter is all glorious within, her clothing is interwoven with gold. When the inside is beautiful, outward beauty is appropriate, but without inner beauty, outward adornment is appropriate. pretense and sham. God has always been concerned first of all with inner righteousness. Now it's important that we don't limit our understanding of how our righteousness must exceed the Pharisees. Can't limit it. First and foremost, it must be by imputed righteousness Nothing can happen if God does not move in our hearts. We need that miracle. This miracle moves us through the Beatitude process. And it drives us to the point where, like the tax collector, we call out to Christ by faith and desperation that he would save us. And so he does. And at that point, we are fully justified. We are fully justified. We put on like a robe the righteousness of Christ. At that point we are imputed a righteous, and that imputed righteousness exceeds any righteousness that any Pharisee could ever rise to. So that is all true and utterly necessary. But our superior righteousness does not end there. When we are justified, we are also simultaneously granted a new heart. And that new heart, that new life, and the Holy Spirit living in us will drive us to godly living. We have talked about this a million times. We have signs of life. So in our justification, we will have superior righteousness. But also in our sanctification, the acts of righteousness produced in our lives will be superior to the Pharisees. We've seen that even when the Pharisees did the right thing, it was always with the wrong motive. Even when they taught the right thing, they did not carry it out. Their lives were flawed because their hearts were evil. They were not doing business with the core of the problem. A believer's acts of righteousness, when done as a result of faith, are done for the right reasons. We do the right thing for the right reason from the right heart. We don't care who sees what we're doing We don't ultimately care if anyone praises us or recognizes us for our faithfulness. We do what we do primarily because we want to please our Lord. When we walk by faith, our mo our motives are not self-serving. And along with this, we're daily dealing with the evil that we cannot that cannot be seen by the rest of the world. They have no idea what's going on inside of us. We are wrestling in the battle between flesh and spirit. We are spotting evil way before it makes its way to action. We call lust lust. We call envy envy. We call worry worry. We call pride pride. You get my gist. Here's a quote from our brother Jones. A man once said that the best definition of religion was this. Religion is that which a man does with his own solitude. Religion is that which a man does with his own solitude In other words, if you want to know what you really are, you can find the answers when you're alone with your thoughts and desires and imaginations. It's what you say to yourself that matters. End quote. The inner man was not the concern or the focus of the religion of the Pharisees. To religionists, what matters is what can be seen. What matters is what law could catch you on. Externally. To them, pleasing God is not nearly as important as avoiding the law's punishment on your actions I think we can see that the Christian does not need to despair about a righteousness exceeding that of the Pharisees. Our far superior righteousness begins with the miracle of God calling us to himself. At that moment, he imputes Christ's perfect righteousness to us. Apart from Christ, the Pharisee has a false righteousness, a man-centered attempt to impress God without realizing that such a thing is utterly impossible. We start with the perfect righteousness accounted to us by faith. And then because of the new life that Christ gives us, we begin battling against the flesh. Against the whole world of evil in our hearts, the holdovers of the old nature. We're fighting the muscle memory of our immorality. And we have little care about what others see. When we are really truly functioning from faith, it's not looking to find out what the public opinion is on how we are doing. We're more concerned about what God sees. I read a story a long time ago about a politician who was part of a sting operation, and he was recorded accepting a huge bribe for a huge amount of cash. And he stuffed all that cash into his pocket as he was being recorded. And he looked at those giving him the bribe and he asked, does it show? Does it show? That's the righteousness of the Pharisees. They aren't worried about the money in their pockets. They just want to make sure no one can see it. Our righteousness needs to be truth in inmost places. It's the battle with ourselves that only God sees. And we get up each day and get at it again because we love God. And mixed in with all the other competing factors every day, we really do want to please Him. That is the righteousness that far exceeds the Pharisees. Spoilers in prayer. Lord, we thank you that first you show us how impossible it is for our righteousness to gain us any merit. And you show us the example of those who are best at thinking that they can merit salvation. And we see that their their efforts are completely futile. They can't possibly reach. your standard. They cannot possibly be holy, to be perfect, which is what is your requirement. Father, we thank you that you give your righteousness to us as we simply cry out. We're the sinners. We need mercy. We need grace. We need what you do. Because what we do just We praise you this morning that you're you are so gracious and merciful to us. And we ask that you would help us to live out the true kind of righteousness. And that when we start looking around and when we start looking for payoff from the attitudes of others and all the other things that we can get caught up in, that we remember who it is that we're serving. And what faith really looks like. And that our righteousness truly would exceed the righteousness that's self-induced and self-created and self-produced. Help us this week to live a life that pleases you in everything we do. And we thank you for this great encouragement this morning. That what you do through us is what needs to be done. Thank you in Jesus' name.