Good to see all your faces this morning. Well, we'll have one more sermon next week covering the book of Mark. which has uh really been a study of all the gospels through the springboard of the mark. I admit that I did that largely for my benefit, Mike used to teach that all of the Bible should be understood through the interpretations of the teachings of Christ. Essentially, God means what Christ says God means. So in order to move to the next book and interpret it accurately, or any book after this, we've got to understand the Gospels clearly and be able to interpret them that way. This morning we're going to approach the patch passages we're looking at a little bit differently. We're going to skip back and forth in order to follow an outline that makes it easier to follow, and that's why you uh got an outline this morning. Sort of an unusual thing. So anyway, you've got the outline sitting in front of you. And uh you can You can read it for yourself, but that's what we're going to be following. So the the first thing we start out with is Roman numeral one. Is there anybody that doesn't have here comes one. Here we go All right. Looks like we're good. The first is the time frame of Christ's post-resurrection ministry. The time frame of Christ's post-resurrection ministry. In verse 3 of Acts 1, we see to whom he also presented himself alive after his sufferings, suffering by many infallible proofs being seen by them during forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. Christ really didn't spend a whole lot of time with the disciples after he rose from the dead. Think about this. His whole ministry was going to ride on the shoulders of these guys and these people. From this point until the world as we know it ends. These guys have got to carry the mantle of their master and launch a ministry to the ends of the earth before they are killed. Jesus spent much of three years with them. During much of this time, they had very limited understanding as to what he was saying. We've remarked on that all the way through their or uh study. It's just kind of amazing what they missed at times. And now, as they're learning very fast, no doubt, they only have a few short days to learn what they need to know. Jesus was only going to be present for 40 days, and we know that seven of them passed without any contact. We learn in our passages today that there are a bunch of encounters that we aren't given the specifics about. Christ seems to be regularly showing up to teach the disciples. He's also affirming their faith by infallible proofs. He has shown himself to them in ways that they know that he is telling the truth about his resurrection. That's why they were able to die rather than to change their story. They could face death knowing that what they knew was true. You only do that if you know what you believe is true. So, all of this is happening in 40 days. You can bet these guys are lapping up information as quickly as possible. They are now getting the point about what this is all about. The next point in the outline is two content of his teaching during this time. And the first is purpose of Christ's words and his actions explained from Luke 24. 44 says, And then he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms concerning me. And he opened their understanding, that they might comprehend the scriptures. Then he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead. the third day, and that repentance and remissions of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, and you are witnesses of these things. Christ appears to be giving the disciples a review at this point. I guess the test is coming. He is giving a review. He's telling them what he previously had already told them. And how they are now to think about it. When Christ says, when I was still with you, when he uses that phrase, he clearly means that was before the resurrection. Now look at what it took for them to understand. This was the missing piece prior to this point in much of the disciples' understanding. It says in 45 that he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the scriptures. We talked a lot about the fact that the disciples were slow to get some of what we think are very obvious points. Maybe had we been there, we wouldn't have thought them so obvious, but to us now they are. Sometimes we what we don't get by concentration, we get by illumination. Sometimes God has to open our eyes to see some things. Have you ever been reading and uh reading the Bible and suddenly you see something that has been so obvious all along, but somehow you miss it every time you read it before Maybe the same thing has happened in your life. Have things like that happened in your life where something you're doing doesn't get your notice at all and then one day it you see what you're doing in a completely different light Sometimes God simply has to open our understanding. Sometimes it takes a miracle for us to see the point. And he will. If what we want to do is to please him, if what we want to do is to obey him, if what we want to do is serve him, he will open up our understanding to those things that will aid our walk in him. Now, what was the message? What was he teaching them in the short period of time that he has before he's gone for a long time? The first thing was the necessity of prophecy fulfilled regarding the following things. It says that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. Now that phrase right there is a lot more important than what we might think at first glance. What should the Bible be made up of? What should be, what books should be included on the inside of our Bible? What Old Testament scriptures should we rely upon as authority? The Sadducees only gave authority to the first five books of the Bible. That's why they could pull some of the doctrinal things that they did. Jesus here proves that they were wrong about that. Jesus included more than the first five books. The Pharisees, who played an equal part in killing Christ, as the Sadducees did, were actually correct on this point. The law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms should be relied upon. Christ said what they prophesied had to come true. So he was relying upon the authority, the scriptural authority of of those books. I guess the point to get here is that a person can be looking at the right Bible and still not serve the right God. Jesus said that the Pharisees were sons of the devil, but they had a complete book of the Bible. The right Bible only does you any good if you're willing to do what it says, if you're willing to submit to the Lord of that Bible. Now, what points in the true scriptures does Christ mention that needed to be fulfilled? There's likely more than this, but we know it's at least this, because it's what he says. A? Christ's suffering. B, resurrection on the third day, and C, the gospel message of salvation spread to the world. It would be a really good study to look at all the passages that foretold these three points in Scripture. Time won't allow us to do it now. But we can We can rest with certainty that the Old Testament prophesies these three things somehow. Now look at the points that Christ singles out. First is Christ's suffering. We look at this, and we've talked about this a lot over the study, we look at Christ's suffering as just a necessary part of what a Messiah would do. They did not have that expectation. This is not anything that most Jewish people were prepared for. This is not something that they expected in a Messiah. We see it clearly portrayed now in hindsight when we read Isaiah 53 and we say that's about Jesus. That's about the Messiah. That had to happen. But they just didn't get it. They were puzzled about Isaiah 53 possibly They couldn't see how it fit into their boxes of what the Messiah would be. Christ taught the disciples how to use the Old Testament to validate the ministry of Christ. We may not have thought of it this way before, but Christ is doing a very intense Bible study here. And all the times I've read this, I have never noticed it. He's teaching these guys what they were going to need to do to bolster the faith of the believers and to contend with unbelievers that they were called to minister to. He's teaching them how to think about the Old Testament. They had to know how to make it very clear from the beginning of time that God intended to have his son crucified. This had to be. Then the next point was the resurrection on the third day. It's difficult to find a scripture that clearly describes that event, but Hosea 6, 1 and 2 seems to be the closest one. In Hosea 6, 1 and 2, it says, Come and let us return to the Lord, for he has torn, but he will heal us He has stricken, but he will bind us up. After two days he will revive us. On the third day he will rise us up that we may live in his sight. Now this was talking about Israel, but maybe it should also be understood in regard to Christ. Don't know. We also have the example of Jonah, who was in the fish's belly for three days and three nights, and Christ referred to that several times. Other than that, there's nothing explicit about raising on the third day. But there's a lot in the Old Testament that would say that Christ had to raise from the dead in order to accomplish all the other prophecies about what the Messiah would accomplish. So it's not at all a stretch to say that the Old Testament said that he had to raise again. The resurrection would not be something that most Jews would have expected from the Messiah. In the box they had placed it in, they probably would have seen no need for a resurrection, because they saw no need for a death. The Messiah would not need to die the way that they had it calculated. Okay, and the next, um, the gospel message of salvation spread to the world. It says, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things Notice what Christ said should be taught. I mean he's already given us the Great Commission. And now he's kind of emphasizing it, filling in some of the dots, filling in the gaps. Repentance and remission of sins. Repentance of and remission of sins. Repentance is this. This is coming from the Greek-English lexicon of the New Testament. the change of mind of those who have begun to abhor their deeds and misdeeds, and have determined to enter upon a better course of life so that embraces both the recognition of sin and sorrow for it and hearty amendment, the tokens and effects of which are good deeds. That's a pretty long definition for repentance. Sometimes we understand it as just turning around, and that's also true. Repentance is not a word you hear a lot anymore in popular Christianity. It's a hard sell to people who primarily are coming to Christ because they want to feel better. They want to improve their lives and they want to benefit their mental state. I mean that's a lot of the appeal even that churches hold out to uh uh potential members Well, repentance isn't a happy process. In fact, it can make a person absolutely miserable. Seeing ourselves as we truly are is one of the most harrowing experiences we can have. Fortunately for us, it doesn't happen all at once Or we would just, I think, be laid out. We'd never function again. But we get it in doses as the Holy Spirit decides to show it to us. Admitting that we are the primary problem in our lives is not pleasant. Um I thought it was interesting that Emma asked me, why is life so hard this morning? And I said, well, we're the problem. We're the problem. But Christ makes it exceedingly clear If we're to represent Christ properly, this is the message that we have got to be preaching. If our message does not include turning from sin, we are not preaching what Christ said to preach. I know there are a lot of popular preachers who don't want to talk about sin. In fact, if you read their books, they'll tell you, you know, if they'll give you advice, don't use the word sin. They don't want to emphasize it. They want to find the synonyms for the word sin. They want to call it selfishness or irresponsibility. But that doesn't capture the heart of the problem in sin. The word sin assumes a sovereign God who has the right to expect perfection from his creation. And sin is coming up short. It isn't a problem because it makes our lives and the lives of other people miserable, although it often does. It isn't that a problem because of that, because some sins don't make your life miserable, at least not at first. The problem with Sin is that it is a violation of God's creation, a violation of God's design, a violation of God's authority. It's a strike against the lordship of Christ. God hates it and he takes it personally and he says so. And no matter how we intend it, it is personal. So if we're going to represent Christ well, we have got to discuss sin. In fact, most of the time, that's the best place to start a conversation about salvation. Sin is the bad news that brings attention to the good news. Without a proper understanding of sin, of one's need for God, of one's need for salvation, of one's need for someone to take our penalty We'll never get it. A person can't have a proper understanding of salvation if they do not have a grasp of their own sin. So we start with calling a person to repentance, and that repentance is a repentance from all sinful actions and attitudes and states of being. If we're not calling people away from sinful states, we are not preaching the gospel accurately. The next we must preach is the remission of sins. Remission is this, forgiveness, pardon of sins, properly the letting them go as if they had not been committed. Again, the Greek English lexicon. Here we come out with the good news. The good news that was preceded by the bad news. The good news that counters the bad news. This is what the death of Christ was for You know, sometimes we reduce this in our thinking, as maybe good practice, I don't know. We reduce this in our thinking into theology. Yes, it's a fact. You know, this is this is how the facts uh uh stack up. But that's a mistake What we have here, what we're talking about here, is an earth-of-shattering reality. It just happens to be doctrinally correct. This is an amazing thing. Christ wanted this ragtag group of guys to spread this message across the whole world. Sin is a big deal because it's an offense against God. It deserves his wrath. We all fell under the condemnation of God because of our sin. We started there But God sent Jesus Christ, who was born, lived, and taught, and then was crucified, buried, and rose again to take care of the sin problem. Sometimes I think we forget what it was to know that we were unforgiven. Do you remember that state for yourself? The state of being unforgiven. That's how most of the world lives their whole life. Some have an ache to be forgiven, but don't know where they can get forgiveness. We have the answer. We have the answer. What are we doing with it? Are we looking to put out this message that Christ gave us to spread? Do we look for opportunities as we go into the world or as we reach out into the world? Is that what we're looking for? The disciples were to stay in Jerusalem at first, and their ministry was to begin there. They were to first saturate the geographic area of Jerusalem. Christ was specific about this. He was very clear. The first world they were to go into was their own. They were to preach repentance and remission first at Jerusalem. And it was they who were to be witnesses of all that they said. While they needed good theology, their stories started with their experience. They saw Christ. They saw what he did. They knew who he was, and they were to tell their story. They were to give first-hand testimony to the truth that they were telling. A witness is someone who has seen something. It's fairly simple. That's what these people were to be. And that's what we too are to be. We're to tell our story. Do you have a story as to how Christ's grace first touched you? Tell it. Tell it. Tell what Christ has done in your life. That's the hardest thing for anyone to argue against. I mean They have to come right up and say you're an absolute liar when you start telling them about your experience of coming to Christ and all the good things that he has done for you. How can they tell you your story isn't true? How can they tell you that Christ did not do to you what he what you say he did? Our story about our salvation is our most compelling ministry tool. It's our evidence that God can and will do miracles through Jesus Christ. He did it to us, and we all have we all have a story. Um I think it was Van Tavner I ran across that quote of his and he said uh A person is never one to Christ after an argument. Now, I don't know if that's technically true, but I think I got what he's saying. Witnessing is going to have a much uh a much more received ministry than uh argument. Argument has its place and we have to use it uh when it's needed, but uh We're called to witness. B. Explaining the kingdom of God, Acts 1. 3. It says, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. So while Jesus was teaching the disciples, he was telling them how to understand the Old Testament and the ministry of the Messiah. So he's laying in them in this quick Bible study. This is how you read the Old Testament. This is how it points to me. This is what had to happen. So when you're dealing with your Jewish patriots or compatriots, you lay it out this way. And then he told them what they were to do. But he also added to their knowledge about the kingdom of God, how the kingdom of God works. That's what the Sermon on the Mount was all about. Christ has now given them more information. Maybe he repeated a lot of what he had already said. Whatever the case, he was teaching them what ministry on this earth is all about. He was explaining God's mission for this planet in the kingdom of God. He was explaining how God's people on this earth are to exist, how they are to prioritize, how they are to make decisions, how they are to think That's all kingdom of God fuel. And then Christ answered questions about the future in uh letter C, the time of restoration of Israel. I like this one. Acts 1, 6, and 7. It says, therefore, when they had come together, they asked him. The disciples asked him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And he said to them, it is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has put in his own authority. Isn't this interesting? All this time, this is what the disciples thought would happen. Remember when they came to Christ, immediately at first, they thought this was a political movement that they were going to be the big shots of. They thought that Christ would restore the kingdom to Israel. They thought Christ was to politically make Israel the top dog, the world power, and they wanted a right-hand seat for that. Now they ask him again, and it was probably a decent question, a good question. They at least understood that the Messiah truly would make Israel great again. Not like Trump's promise. I mean when God says he's gonna make it great again, he's gonna make it great again. We know from Scripture That there will be a new Jerusalem planted on planet Earth, and it will be the center of everything important that goes on on this planet. So Christ is going to do this and he's going to punish all wickedness. He's going to reward the faithful. So they're asking, okay, Christ, now? You're going to do it now? We've waited three years. You know be a good time. And we know you're going to do it. Is it soon? Are we going to get to see it? Will we get to be part of it? Isn't it interesting how Christ responds? He does not say he's not going to do such a thing, which is a good indication to us that he is going to do it. In fact, his answer implies that he will do what they ask. He is going to do it. No, his answer has to do with timing and the need to know. Timing and the need to know. He essentially tells them that it's none of their business. It's not for you to know when God has appointed this to happen. This is God's decision, and God's going to keep it to himself, so get used to that. Now, how would we have responded if we were there? Don't you just hate to be told that something's none of your business? Don't we hate it when a person refuses to answer our questions when we think that we have the right to know? Don't we hold it against God when we ask him questions and he doesn't answer them? Like why? Don't we use that as evidence against him? Don't we think that if he doesn't answer us, we have the right to pout or rebel or disobey or whatever? Well, these disciples were told straight out that this question would not be getting an answer today. And they were not going to know when Christ restores the kingdom of God on earth. And today, we still don't know it. Now, look at the Christian bookshelves. Continually there are people getting rich, selling paperbacks, telling everybody when this is going to happen. That's just like us, isn't it? The one thing we're told we won't know is the one thing that we feel like we must know. The one we think God will suddenly reveal to us. That's pretty typical. Now Christ moves on to what will be the disciples' immediate future. Roman numeral three, promise and purpose of Pentecost. It says, Behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you are endued with power from on high. And being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You have heard from me. For John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. And then in verse 8 of the other passage, let's see. In Acts. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth. From the time that Christ ascends to the time of the pouring out of the Holy Spirit will be ten days. So they didn't have to wait very long. Now, if you had been there, might you not think that it's vital to get this message out as soon as possible? Might you not think that there's no good reason to delay the gospel mission in the message? Let's get going. Let's go right now. Isn't it interesting that at this critical time Christ told them to wait? We learn that while the mission is utterly important The empowering to do the mission properly was even more important. While the mission itself was very important, the empowering to do the mission was more important. We don't know if the disciples understood that this mission was way more impossible than they immediately thought. Maybe they thought they had the talent to do this job. Probably Peter did. Although he's learning. We've we 've got to go a little easy on him now. He's been picking up some important messages. Lessons. But God clearly knew these guys did not have what it was needed. They needed heavenly power. And that power was so critical to the mission that Christ would not allow them to even try it until they had received that power. I doubt they had any idea what this baptism in the Holy Spirit was going to look like. It looks like they were essentially told that you'll know it when you see it. It will be obvious. And in retrospect, so one could hardly imagine anything that would be More obvious than that. Now, note what this power will affect. It says, you will receive power and you will be witnesses. That seems to be the general effect of the new outpouring of the Holy Spirit. And we've talked a lot about this in Sunday school. It's not like the Holy Spirit wasn't. Operating on the planet prior to Pentecost. No one would have ever come to Christ had the Holy Spirit not been in operation. But this was a special outpouring of the Spirit for a purpose. And it seems to be that it was given in order to make the witnessing of the disciples effective. That's the context. I get really nervous when people separate the baptism of the Holy Spirit from the purpose of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. It's easy to start thinking that this power given at the church to the church at Pentecost is primarily to zap out all the difficult struggles that a person might have against sin. We begin to think that the Holy Spirit was given to us to overpower us with wonderful emotions. We might even think it was given to us to show supernatural wonders and signs. But primarily the Pentecost Pentecost was about empowering the ministry of evangelism. We see later in Acts just how important Pentecost and the signs that accompanied it really were. It is difficult for us to put ourselves in their shoes. They needed these signs. The supernatural acts that accompanied the ministry to the Samaritans and the ministry to the Gentiles were the very evidences that the apostles used to validate that it was God. Who was doing this work? To us who are Gentiles in the Gentile world, we don't get how important that was. But these apostles were Jewish. Crossing into the Gentile world for them was a huge barrier. They found it hard to even imagine that God would want them to. The signs that accompanied Pentecost and the expanded ministry to the Gentiles were the perfect events to show that yes God is doing this. Yes, God wants this done, and this is what he is leading you to do. God Himself is accomplishing this thing, this amazing thing of bringing the Gentiles to Himself in mass numbers. Carla and I have been reading a book about revival. And one of the things that's very evident in all of the revivals of true God worship in Scripture is that it always begins with an act of God. A movement of God. And that movement of God moves human beings to essentially get with the program. He inspires people to pray. But he starts it. He inspires us to pray, we pray, we all pray, and God then accomplishes what it is he set out to do As they do what God tells them, God accomplishes wonderful things to glorify himself. But the point is that it is God who moves to accomplish great things for himself. People are able to get involved in this, and it's wonderful that we do. God calls us into that involvement, but the involvement doesn't cause the revival. God does. God was going to initiate this wonderful ministry of spreading the gospel across the globe with an outpouring of His Holy Spirit. He was going to provide the internal worker who was going to accompany the external witness. with all these disciples. And that helper would use the truth being proclaimed to point to Jesus Christ in the souls of the listeners. And what would happen as a result? It says, you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria until the ends of the earth. Look at how this was going to go. First, it would go to the Jews and a minority of Gentiles in the city of Jerusalem. God would saturate the original chosen people with the gospel. They would have the first opportunity to respond, and we'll find that very small percentage of them did. Next, it would spread from Jerusalem to all Judea. These are primarily Jewish neighborhoods, Jewish towns. But that's not all. It's then going to spread to those who are regarded as nominally Jewish, polluted Jewish, the Samaritans, the hated rivals. Spiritual but hated rivals. The gospel was going to be preached to them too, those who were regarded who were disregarded by any self-respecting Jew. God was going to accomplish this work. And then where would it go? This would not have been lost on anybody who was listening in this group. It was going to the Gentiles. It was going into all the world. This message was to be preached to people who the Jewish people did not even want to touch. This was culture shock Christ was sending these Jewish believers to those who had previously been despised by them. That is what God is like That's who the gospel is for. And we're the ones who are to deliver it. And we're the ones who were the despised ones to begin with. And God's Spirit will empower the message as he sees fit. Like I said before, I've never realized before actually studying these passages. That Christ actually spent a concentrated effort during this short period of time doing a Bible study with these apostles. Here's Christ himself, who was the Word of God. And what did he focus on with the little time he had left? Bible study. Bible study. And it was Old Testament Bible study at that. He wasn't even teaching the New Testament. We can never get the idea that Bible study is not all at all that critical to our lives. When Christ only had forty days left to lay the foundation of all this future ministry, he seems to have spent a large portion of it teaching the Bible. It's obvious from our text and what we learn later in Acts that we have everything we need to do evangelism and discipleship. We need to always be in our Bibles, becoming better workmen. But we have the tools. Most of us understand the message of repentance and the remission of sins through the holy through the Holy Spirit. or um the remission of sins. We're going into the world on a regular basis, most of us are. Christ is accompanying us through the Holy Spirit every everywhere we go in this endeavor. He said, I'll be with you always, even to the end of the earth. So he's coming with us through the Holy Spirit in this endeavor. And the Holy Spirit promises to work on the inside of people while we testify on the outside. With all that said, it seems that the only things that will limit ministry are either our silence or our hypocrisy. The only thing that's going to limit our ministry is our silence or our hypocrisy. It's nearly impossible approaching the end of the gospel to not make this point. We should be about the business of being disciples. We should be about the business of making disciples First ourselves, so that we're following and obeying Christ in everything that we know of, and then extending it to others by witnessing of what we have in Christ and what Christ has done in us. And holding out that opportunity for the Holy Spirit to do his work and for us to have the glorious opportunity of helping others obey the way that we're doing it. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your kindness and grace. We thank you that you continue to reach out to us with your word and to bring clarity to it. And to show us how necessary it was for you to accomplish exactly what you did, and that it was foretold thousands of years before it happened. We ask, Lord, that you would help us to submit wholeheartedly to your Lordship and to buy into those things that are important to you. And what it all comes down to, Lord, is people. We see that all through your word. Help us to be the people who respond to you in a way that reaches out to others to give them the opportunity to come to know you, to have their sins forgiven. And the opportunity to grow in you and to obey you and to enjoy the rich and deep fellowship of you. So we ask that you would help us to incorporate this into our lives this week and make any changes that are necessary to more Fully and thoroughly glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen.