If we only find a failure, we don't uh use it. We're going to relish in the truths about our lives being lived in the presence of our good shepherd again this morning. We're learning at the expert hand of David. Last week we covered our shepherd guides his flock, our shepherd provides for his flock, and our shepherd protects his flock. We saw this in verses 1 and 2 and then skipped ahead to verse 4. And there are many things we didn't take time for last week. So we'll begin with three of the things that are assumed about sheep. There are the responsibilities of the sheep. This varies a little bit from the the idea of, you know, sheep. being stupid and having no sense, no ability to change their minds, any of that. So anyway, they're the responsibilities of the sheep, if you will, and it's the way that the sheep take full advantage of having such a good shepherd. First, the sheep must love their shepherd. Let me use an illustration to make the point, since none of us are currently raising sheep, at least I don't think any of us are. Imagine a man that is the picture of what a husband should be. In fact, imagine that he is a perfect husband, perfectly fulfilling what Scripture tells us a husband should be. He knows his Bible and follows the Lord and all that he does. He's continually taking his wife's need into consideration. He determines the path that the marriage will go based upon Christ's words. He's enthralled with his wife Now it's it's very likely that at least one of you women sitting here is thinking, I would be so happy if I were with that man. As if it were the qualities of that man that would make you happy. But it simply isn't true. It's possible to be with that perfect man and be perfectly miserable. That's really the hardest thing for us to believe, and guys, we're going to get a little bit of this later, but it's true. Because it's not the virtue of the husband that brings you joy. It's your appreciation of his virtues enjoyed in a submitted relationship to his leadership that brings you joy In other words, your joy in the relationship is based upon your relationship to the beloved If you were to come into this theoretical marriage relationship to the perfect husband, thinking that you can still keep welcoming advances from men who want to have an intimate relationship with you, you're not going to enjoy that perfect husband. If you expect that your husband will relate to you as a woman would relate to you, you're not going to enjoy that perfect husband. If you think that no man has a right to tell you what to do, you're not going to enjoy that perfect husband. If he leads you in paths you simply refuse to go in, you're not going to enjoy that perfect husband In fact, any area where you expect your husband to perform in other ways than Scripture defines his role. You're going to be discontent or angry or sad or disappointed. And your feelings are not his fault, because he's perfect. I think that many women would be astounded to find out how much they would react to Christ like they react to their current husbands if they were married to Christ instead of their current husbands. They also have some of the same complaints they have now, and their unhappiness would surprise them when they realize that none of it could be blamed. On their husband, because their husband is perfect. If you find that hard to believe, think about it deeply. For a husband to make you happy, you must be happy in your husband And I hope I didn't lose the men here in all of this. We are the bride of Christ too. We are guilty of the same thing. If we had a perfect wife, we would experience the same things that I'm talking about here. I sometimes wish that every man could have Jesus Christ as their boss for a year. I wish that every teenager could have Jesus Christ as their parent for a year, and that every woman could have Jesus Christ as a husband for a year. We would see with clarity, the clarity that few of us desire to have, we would see all that is truly wrong with us, because we would know by our strong feelings. But it's not his fault. That's coming out of us. We would never be the same, I don't think. Or if we were the same, we would know it's our own fault. We tend to idealize the idea of Christ being with us in the flesh. And I grant that it would be amazingly good for us to have Christ. along with us in the flesh. But it would also display our own darkness more than anything in life ever has. We would know that if we're angry or hurt or bitter or offended It's not his fault. It's just our darkness exposed. If he expected us to do things that we previously said we can't do We would know it's not his fault. It's just our flesh. Don't believe in me? Are you happy in Christ? Are you happy in your good shepherd? Do you complain about your past? Your shepherd picked it for you. Are you afraid about your future? The Lord promised it will be good for you. What do you find yourself grumbling about? Do you really think that's Christ's fault? Like he must have missed a detail along the way, or he doesn't know me very well, or any of those other things? Do you see what I'm saying? We have the perfect shepherd. But having the perfect shepherd does not in itself bring us joy. We can't control how well we are shepherded. Unfortunately, with Christ, it's perfect. We know that. What we do control is how much we benefit from his shepherding. We as sheep have to love our shepherd. We're to love the Lord with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. Now we humans are different than sheep in that we have minds that shape our hearts. We aren't at the whim of all of our desires like a sheep is. You and I must do battle with thoughts that make us dissatisfied with either our shepherd or our shepherd's provision. We do that battle. We have the ability to do that battle. When we are miserable or dissatisfied with our lives, we know one thing for sure: it's not due to a defect in our shepherd. You and I, in order to fully enjoy our good shepherd, must form all of our expectations about our shepherd from the promises of God. We must expect from him what he promises to us. We must expect from him what he promises to us. And we must not demand from him that which he gives us no reason to expect. When we rein in our expectations, we find that we can frolic with our shepherd. We'll spend our time as near to him as we can get, and we'll fully enjoy his provision. The way to most greatly benefit from our good shepherd is to direct our hearts to love our shepherd. Second, we have to follow the shepherd. We have to follow the shepherd. J. A. Macher says that fellowship with God. And its consequent blessing of his fellowship with us does not just happen We cannot drift into it any more than we drift into holiness. It is our first obedience Walking with the Lord requires our purposeful action, and if we do not seek his face, the results will all be bad. Solomon told us this in Proverbs 3, 5 through 8. He says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lead not unto your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. It's like a shepherd. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. When we direct our hearts to Christ, Christ directs our hearts. When we trust the shepherd, we get the direction that we need. And we get the intervention that's required to walk that path. Scripture is full from back to front with guidance on how to live and how to think. That's the path that our shepherd has chosen for us. It doesn't tell us all the little stuff. It doesn't tell you what color socks to put on this morning. You know things like that. But it gives us the principles about how we should think about the lives the Lord has given us How we should spend the Lord's time, how we should spend the Lord's money, how we should treat each other, how to carry out our families and our marriages, how we should think about everything. It's all that we need for life and godliness. God has provided that for us. So we're to trust what our shepherd is saying. We're to trust his leading over and above what we might think apart from his word. When it says don't lean on your own understanding, referred to in this verse, um Our own understanding is thinking that has no spiritual basis. You and I must walk, or we must work to have an understanding of what Scripture says. That requires effort, it requires work, it requires attention. This verse is not about why we should not think and just have a uh walk around mystically listening for God's voice That's not what it's saying. It means to understand Scripture and not rely on anything we think of that goes counter to Scripture. That's what it means to uh To trust in the Lord and to walk in his ways. And when we acknowledge God in all our ways, what we are doing is inviting God's scrutiny Into all that we do. We're inviting God's scrutiny into all that we do. We intentionally live our lives in the presence of God. We have nothing in our lives we hope to shelter from God's examination. We have no closets with locked doors, or hall doors, or for that matter. To not be wise in our own eyes is to never allow our perceptions to have greater authority than God's Word. I was talking to Carla about this the other day, that if someone were to look at our marriage from the outside and deem that they might want to have a similar marriage to us, I would be really nervous. about answering that request. Because I have no confidence that the way I do everything is the way it should be done I know for sure there are there are ways that I have not done it right. And so if I give any advice based on how I did things It could be very harmful. Maybe I could have been a million times better as a father and a husband as I was. I don't know. So I don't want to say conduct your marriage exactly the same way that I have That would be foolish, but I can quote God's word as my authority. I know that's good advice. I may talk about how I tried to apply it, and that might be useful, but it's the scripture that makes us wise. We should never take too much credit for how God has blessed us. We should never be wise in our own eyes. And before we leave the Proverb, we've got to look at this as part of our following our shepherd. Fear the Lord and depart from evil, it says. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. We're talking about how it is the sheep's responsibility to follow the shepherd. The way not to follow the shepherd is to play with sin. Are there thoughts that lead you to despair? Well, keep thinking them, and you will place yourself in danger. That's not following the shepherd. Is there a relationship that you are fostering that is forbidden or unwise? Same thing. If men are following the path of illicit images of women, or women are pursuing the emotional pornography of Hallmark movie culture, we're not following the shepherd in that regard. This doesn't lead to green pastures that we will enjoy under the shepherd's care. Our temptations toward evil are as varied as each one of us are So we won't waste time trying to touch them all. You know which ones are true for you. They're the ones you struggle with The shepherd is leading us to depart from evil. When we choose paths of evil in thought or deed, we enter into dangers that our shepherd would have protected us from. At this point, we should fear our shepherd. Instead of being comforted by the shepherd's rod, we should consider it in a negative sense. We are fools to invite the chastening of the loving shepherd. We're fools to invite that. We're always wise to intentionally and thoroughly follow him. What adjustment to your heart do you need this morning? Where are you playing with evil and trusting in your heart? And being wise in your own eyes. Are there any areas like that that come to your awareness? We need to repent today Of those things. We're just inviting harm. We're just inviting hurt. We need to approach our loving shepherd with a renewed commitment to living only under his blessed scrutiny. It's walking by the Spirit, actually. And third, as Christ's sheep, we should recognize his rights over us and his ownership of us. As sheep, we don't own ourselves. Our value does not come from ourselves. It is placed upon us by another. This is a hard idea for us to free ourselves from, at least it is for me. I mean conceptually I get it. I get it right on the multiple choice question. That's not a problem, but living it See in life that way is hard. When you wake up to a new day, how do you think of it? The normal way of thinking is, well, this is my day. Yeah, it's my day. I'll determine what I'll do with it to serve my purposes. Maybe it is full of responsibilities, like many of our lives are. Maybe it has more discretionary time like mine does now. But it's normal to view it as our own. It's my time. That's them that's a wrong view. The view is wrong. First Corinthians six nineteen and twenty says, Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have From God. You are not your own. Couldn't be said any clearer. For you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. Christians are the sheep of the Lord's pasture. We exist for his pleasure. Which he invites us to join in on, which is wonderful. This is far from our world's constant preaching, like Billy Joel so aptly says. I don't care what you say anymore. This is my life. Go ahead with your own. Leave me alone. Wonderful. But that's the world's preaching. It says that we came from nothing with no purpose. The only meaning we're going to scrounge up will be the meaning that we assign to ourselves. There is no shepherd who loves you, so seek your own pasture, seek your own watering holes. You are your life's authority. That's a world. That is not our framework. That's not how we are to live as sheep. We gain little advantage from having a good shepherd if we will not recognize his right to possess us. All of our resistance against what our good shepherd is doing comes from the idea we have that I am and there is none besides me, like we looked at for a long period in Isaiah. I am, and there is none besides me. We have no rights other than the rights that God assigns to us. And we only have those rights because he is merciful and gracious and loving. Maybe part of our ministry toward each other should be reminding each other whose we are. Whose we are. I know Carla used to tell the kids as they were beginning to be independent, remember who you are and whose you are. Maybe when we begin griping or whining, we should ask each other, who owns you? What's he like? If we're in Christ, we are referred to as children of Christ, slaves of Christ, sheep of Christ. All of that conveys a sense of ownership and authority to Christ. We owe him everything. He owes us nothing, but he gives us much. Jack and I were having a conversation, and I asked him if I could quote this, and he said I could He was talking about his mistakes that he made in the past, and he said something like , I didn't know it was wrong. But after hesitation, he said something very profound. He said, No. I didn't realize how much I owed to God. We are surrounded by a so-called gospel message telling us to invite Christ into our lives and to let him be Lord. And it creates the impression that God is reliant upon our permission for him to act. Like we are deciding what Christ is allowed to do. And it would somehow make Jesus feel better if we would add him to our life and say good things about him to others. The problem with all of that is the idea of ownership is missing. You and I exist due to the sovereign power and will of God He did not ask our permission to create us. And surely, it is not due to our permission that he recreates us. It's by his will that he calls us by name. It's by his will that he causes us to hear his voice. He is. Lord. We don't let him be Lord. We only benefit from His Lordship or invite His judgment by how we respond to His call. Christ is Lord of everyone's life. That's what happens when you create everyone. You own them. You are their Lord. God is equally God of the saved and of the lost. The question is, how much do they benefit from his lordship? And as we come to Christ and we submit ourselves to the lordship of Christ, we gain the advantage of having a good shepherd. That we would never gain by not doing so. Christ owns us as his sheep. He created us for worship of him. He recreated us for worship of him. We owe him all that we are We don't have an iota of ownership to our lives. We are not our own. Salvation is the process of repenting of our tremendous rebellion against his ownership of our lives and then willingly surrender. To his will by believing in Christ to save us. In one sense, we don't make him Lord of our lives, we recognize his lordship of our lives and we welcome it willingly. Okay, up to this point in our last two sermons, we've dealt with verses 1, 2, and 4. And to close out this morning, let's look at verse 3. He restores my soul. He leads me in the paths of righteousness. For his name's sake. I've just brought out many things that we as sheep ought to be. And as we went through these things, we may have at point said, I think I'm doing pretty well at that point. You know, I I I think I've got that. I I think I understand that. I think I'm submitting. I I've seen God make changes in my life in this regard, and we may think that we're at least headed in the right direction You know, and that's always a positive thing. And this is good, it's expected in the life of a sheep under the Good Shepherd. We join together in praising God for his wonderful work in our lives. And you know, Mark often mentions about the body life and how thankful he is for it and how thankful we should be. And and the neat things that we we see and hear as we talk to each other about how God has used us in each other's lives. But we all know success isn't the always the case, you know. When we look in the mirror we realize no, it it's not all success. We all know that we do not always respond as sheep who welcome that shepherd's provision. We don't always live up to our obligations as sheep. And the first word of verse 3 screams out hope to us. Hope says he. He it is he who restores our soul. We know that our salvation relies primarily upon God's faithfulness to us, not our faithfulness to God. If not, none of us would find ourselves in God's eternal reward. We know what we're like, we stray too much. If it were not God's faithfulness to us , we would be lost. Now the word restores has to mean that there's something out of kilter that needs to be made right. There's something that's not as it should be or we wouldn't need restored. Oh praise God that this is included If it weren't, there'd be no hope left for us. We may as well lay down and die. But our shepherd restores us. The Hebrew verb for restore means to turn, to return, to go back, to do again, to change, to bring back, to reestablish, to be returned, to bring back, to take, to restore, to recompense, to Answer to hinder. So we get the idea, he does a lot of bringing back. You know, he does a lot of turning around. He does a lot of the work that is needed in our hearts. We get the idea. We know that he should never need to do this. We know that the proper place for us to rejoice is under his care. We know that we should have eyes upon our shepherd daily, hourly, minutely. We should live in his constant presence. We have no reason not to. We know. We know that's our reasonable service. To submit ourselves to him every moment of the day. We're to walk in Christ, live in Christ, abide in Christ. Paul said, for me to live is Christ. We don't have any excuse not to do that. But well, we're sheepish. We are, as the song says, prone to wonder. Even though the pastures are green and the pools are still, even though our greatest good is found in our closest walk with our Savior, even though all those things are true and we agree that they are all true Our shepherd does not abandon us to ourselves or to our enemies when we wander. He restores our souls. Praise God. The verb tense of restorers is continual. That should come as no surprise, because our ability to screw up is continual. He is doing it and he keeps doing it. It's so good that Jesus is not like us. It's so good for us to be mortal like Jesus, you know. Don't we find a point where we just want to give up on some true believers? Maybe they've not responded to our offer to help them as we think they should, or maybe they don't take our advice, or maybe they can't see what we are trying to tell them about themselves so they don't seem to be too open to fix the stuff and maybe their continual failure is personally offensive to us and we have we say have fun And we give up and move on with our lives. Now I'm not trying to say that there's never a time to make breaks or anything like that, but uh Jesus restores our soul. Jesus restores and keeps restoring us as we abandon his past. We might fear that Christ will treat us like we're tempted to treat others. We might fear that we've gone too far in our straying. It's just too far. No one would ever come after us after what we did. We might fear that Christ has given up on us, that he no longer cares if the wolf feeds on us since we've been so vexing to him anyway. We have been a pain to him his side, and if he let us go, well, we we would understand that. But that's not like our shepherd. It is like us, but it's not like our shepherd. If we are truly His, we will find repentance stirs itself up in our souls. We will tire of the sinful pursuits and distraction, no matter what it is. We will want the real food that comes only from the hands of our Savior. And we will call out to him, and we will not find him far off and aloof. We will find him close at hand and responsive. This is the effect he was causing in us so we could receive again from his good things. Spurgeon says it so sweetly. He says, We are too deeply graven. On the palms of his hands, to be at last left to die. We have cost him too dear For him to relinquish us. Having restored our soul a hundred times, he still restores it. It is the way of him. It is the habit of his love. The text lovingly insinuates that he is ready to restore us now. He is at his old work again, even now. He restores my soul. Where are you, dear brother? he says. Have you grown very dull and cold of late? Jesus is waiting to make your heart burn within you. Do you feel half dead spiritually? Your Lord and Master is even now ready to quicken you by his word and to restore unto you the joy of his salvation. That is what our shepherd is like. Now, why does he do it? We know that he is loving and gracious. We know that it's like him to do it, but what does he tell us here? What is what is the Lord's end game? What is the shepherd ultimately after? Says he leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Alright, first we see how He restores us. And then we see why. How do we know when we are being restored? How do we know God is doing that work in us? We'll see that He is taking us away from the paths that lead to destruction and into the paths that lead to righteousness. He will change our walk. If our life is being restored, our walk is being changed. If our walk is not being changed, our life is not being restored. It's pretty simple If we remain in our sinful practices without change, we can have no confidence that the Lord is restoring our soul. We don't always go from zero to hundred overnight. We're all used to that. We all know ourselves, we all know each other. But change will be visible even if it's small. It's painfully small sometimes. But it's there. How we think and how we live will become more and more conform to what we know our Master wants. What Christ has done for us will become more and more valuable and precious To us. And what the world offers will become less and less enthralling. That's what it looks like when we're being restored. Now, why? Why does the shepherd restore us? Is it because we're just so irresistible to God? Is it uh some kind of preciousness that we exude in ourselves? And and we're just such lovable, cuddly creatures No. That might be how we pick someone to love, where the love is commens commensurate commensurate to the attractiveness of the beloved. But that isn't what motivates Christ. He says this for his name's sake. God renews us for the glory of his name Our God is worthy of all glory. When Christ calls us to Himself, we invite His additional scrutiny. We are now representing Christ's name. Now he is attached to us. We are bearing his name. Christ has a vested interest in us. We represent him. God doesn't spank the devil's children. He disciplines his children because we bear his name. Remember this several years ago in Isaiah, in Isaiah 48, 9 through 11, it says, For my name's sake, I defer my anger. For the sake of my praise, I restrain it for you that I may not cut you off Behold, I have refined you not as silver, I have tried you in the furnace of affliction. For my own sake, for my own sake I do it For how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not give to another. God seeks his own glory, and he will not share it. He'll see to it that his children will glorify him. They will make much of his name. So God will restore their souls for the sake of his name. For the sake of his glory. The gospel is God's method of displaying his glory throughout heaven and earth If you ever think God's salvation is primarily about the people being saved, I think we're missing the mark Certainly, God is displaying his love toward them and his grace toward them, and what a loving and gracious God we have. There's no doubt that he has shown them undeserved favor and reward, but to what end? And I think this passage paints the best picture for us. Revelations 4, 8 through 11. And the four living creatures. Each of them with six wings are full of eyes all around and within and day and night they never s I the imagery here has to be symbolic. I I just can't imagine this being literal. But anyway Uh they say, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is to come. Who was and is and is to come. Now those are angelic creatures. They've never sinned. They glorify God just as they have done since the day they were created. There is a kind of glorification given to God that is pure and without blemish by beings that are holy and always have been nothing but holy. That's one kind of glory. But it's not enough for our King. He wants more. He deserves all glory. And I think we bring to God a glory that the angels are not capable of bringing. The angels bring the glory of those who have never needed grace. We bring an altogether different kind. Verse 9, and whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever The twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. So here we see the human worship. To Christ. They're displaying an aspect of Christ not seen in the angels. It goes on. They cast down their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you. Our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. So these humans recognize that Christ created all things, but more to the story comes a little later on in chapter 5, 9, and 10 it says, And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and open its seals. For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. These humans give glory to a risen Savior who shed his blood for the salvation of sinful, undeserving humans. This is for his name's sake. These people are there to display some attributes of God that the angels could not portray. We are there to show off God's grace. Every one of us will be a sign that says this is what God's grace can do. This is the result of the wonderful saving attributes of Jesus Christ. If you're in Christ, you are part of a glorification project. And as such, Christ will make sure you carry it out properly. Ultimately, not perfectly, but properly. He will restore our souls, and we benefit dearly and eternally. But all of it is to the end that Christ will be seen as He is. That's what the project is for. Christ will be seen as He is. You'll have millions, if not billions, of people who all have a similar thrill when they see Jesus. The the similar thrill of oh what a savior Oh, what a savior. He saved my soul, and he continued to restore my soul. Oh, he is worthy of all praise. That is the end game of God in your salvation. Let's pray. O Lord, we praise you for being such a glorious