I wanted to recognize the bravery that Mark showed in reading those uh Indian names. Okay. Okay. Your life is craving something this morning. There may even be many things that your your life craves. There's a primary love in your life. Every human has them. The question is not if you have them, it is what are they? Or what is it? And there are clues in your life as to what they are You'll think about this thing often. You'll chart your life to have as much of it in your life as you possibly can. You'll try to do whatever you can so you don't lose whatever this thing is. And you'll want it to somehow uh you'll want to somehow assure that you will always have this thing. And if it's threatened, you will feel it in the extreme. And whatever your particular go-to response is to experiencing a shakeup in your life, you'll show it. Maybe it's fear, maybe it's anger, maybe it's sadness, maybe it's despair, but that will come out. Jesus labeled this. He called it bread. Bread. If you want to understand this text, you have to understand this. He's talking, he's not talking about a thing that we buy at the store. That's you know obviously evident when we read it. He's talking about what you view as being a must have in your life The mainstay of these people's diet was bread, and without bread, they'd starve. Everyone understood their economic reality. Bread was really, really important to staying alive, and everyone wanted to stay alive. But when Jesus starts talking about bread, he's using bread as an image that people understood. But he was talking about something far more important. Important than physical bread. It was far more life-sustaining than physical bread. Jesus is talking about what a person looks to in order to have their greatest needs met. He's talking about what a person cannot imagine life without. He's really talking about worship. The question that we have to grapple with as we go through our text is What holds this place of bread in our lives? What do we regard as this kind of bread? Is Jesus our bread? Or is other stuff our bread? And if we want to understand our text, we must understand that that is the primary question. What is your bread? And one thing's for sure, if Jesus is not your bread, you're settling for less. Your life will never experience all the things that Scripture promises to a believer whose mind is stayed upon Christ. And your life is in eternal danger. If your bread is not Christ, you have little reason to believe you're safe with him. Jesus is going to go out of his way with these people in our text to call them to find Jesus as their bread. He's offering himself as their salvation, as their source of life and security. But we'll find that they don't pass the test. How are we doing with it? Is our life revealing that we trust Christ? Or does it display a love, a deep love, a yearning love, a love we can't do without for something else? Let's jump into our text. Verses 22 through 24. On the next day the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea. Saw. That it it seemed interesting to me. I didn't know seesaw was in the Bible, but it is. Uh the sig uh side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there And Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away alone. Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. So when the crowd saw That Jesus wasn't there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into boats and went to Capernaum seeking Jesus So here's the setting. These people had been fed by Christ. Most had stayed where they were overnight They knew that the disciples left ashore without Jesus. They knew there was only one boat missing, and it was the disciples' boat. So Jesus had no way of getting to the other side other than walk around the top of the lake, the northern portion of the lake, which would have taken longer than this. These people didn't see Jesus walk underwater. And we've got to keep that in mind. Jesus never told them about it. Only his disciples at this point knew that Jesus had walked on the water. So the people wake up, and there's no Jesus and there's no disciples. For some reason, they knew that where Jesus planned to meet up with the disciples, so they got into the boats and they went to Capernaum. Where they hope to find Christ. Verse 25: When they found him on the other s side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi. When did you come here? How'd you get here? These people are fishing for information. They want to hear this story. They want Christ to reveal the mystery of how he got across the lake without a boat. And Jesus doesn't tell them. Now we can take a very minor point from this: that just because a person asks a question doesn't mean that you owe them an answer. Most times it's polite to do so, and if it's in our realm to do so, and it won't violate anything 's fine, but uh sometimes I think we are too We feel too compelled just because somebody asks a question that we should give them an answer. You don't always have to. Anyway, Jesus answers a question they didn't ask They ask a question typical to Jesus, he answers what he wants to answer. And Jesus answered them and he said, Truly, truly I say to you, you're seeking me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. Now remember, and I hope we're seeing this, because man, it's just it's just screaming out to me as I'm going through John. Truly, truly sayings in John are usually statements that are that will blow the minds of the listeners. They're profound statements, statements that are usually not expected. They're usually statements that the crowd don't even see coming. And that's what we see here. Jesus isn't letting them know, hey, I know why you're here. Well, how I got here doesn't matter. I know why you're here. It isn't because you love me, it's because you love free food. And you view me as a source for continual free food, a country of free food. Now, they could have seen the signs that Jesus was performing and said Man, this is more important than food. Man, this is important stuff. Only God can do these things. We should lift our hearts up to God and worship. We should find out what this man has to say. We should cling to every word. If he has a sign from God, he must have a message from God. Let's find out what that message Because that's important, that's the most important thing here. But Jesus makes it very clear these people did not come to pursue something spiritual. Whatever they wanted would fit in their bellies. That was their hunger. Their hearts are only looking as high as the menu. They want Jesus to give them stuff. Have you ever heard a pastor tell his listeners that Christ is here to give them stuff? Like that's really what Christ wants for his listeners. Joel Osteen, this is a quote from him, God wants us to prosper financially, to have plenty of money, to fulfill the destiny he laid out for us. I don't really know what the prosperity gospel is. The way I define it is that I believe God wants you to prosper in your health, in your family, in your relationships, in your business, and in your career. So I do, if that is the prosperity gospel, then I do believe in it. Benny Hinn says this, there will be no sickness for the saints of God. If your body belongs to God, it does not and cannot belong to sickness. God will begin to prosper you, for money always follows righteousness. I wonder why Paul couldn't figure that out. He says, I don't need gold in heaven. I gotta have it now. Amazing. And these are just tiny examples of men who flourish as so-called ministers of Christ. Who are catering to a crowd that Jesus would not cater to. If you promise bread to people who love bread, you'll always have a breadline Munir said he had to cut back on the gifts to the poor because he couldn't tell if they were interested in Christ or interested in a meal ticket. We're going to have a very clear contrast in our text between the false gospel and the true gospel. One promises wheat products, free health care, and instant solutions to human problems. The other promises spiritual reformation and eternal blessing. So let's continue. Verse 27: Do not work for the food that perishes. But for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal. Now, like always, we have to take Jesus' words in their context. Jesus is not saying, man, whatever you do, don't go out and work to feed your family with bread. That's not what he's saying. That's the wrong context, and that would be taking Jesus' words out of context It is you know, it's particularly difficult with Jesus to make sure we keep his words in context. I think he might be a little bit harder than Paul or James or Peter. Now, what Jesus is saying is to focus your greatest energy on the greatest return. Focus on that which lasts forever. Don't sell your soul to get food that the best it will do is keep your body alive for a few days. If you're going to give yourself to something, make it the most important thing. Seek first the kingdom of God. All the rest of this stuff will be added to you as God sees fit. Worship correctly is what he's saying. Lift your eyes up to see who Jesus really is. He himself. Is this eternal bread? And he will give you the eternal bread. This bread's sustaining effects will never ever run out. Isn't that what you need this morning? Isn't that what you need this morning? Isn't your soul longing for a food that will last? This is real soul food. You can feed on the bread of Jesus, and your spiritual life will live on and on and on and on for eternity. Matthew 5, 6, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. This is the Jesus bread. Jesus tells the crowd that Jesus has the credentials to meet this need. He tells them, that's me, the Son of Man, that the Father has set a seal. The Father authorized Christ. That's what he's telling them. I'm here and I've been authorized. And I've been authorized by the Father. You can't get better than that. He backed what Jesus was saying. The Son of Man has the Father's absolute endorsement. Now we need to pay attention to what comes next out of the crowd, because this is always what comes next in all of man's religions. You're gonna start a religion, this is gonna be part of it. The only religion that doesn't contain this is the Christian faith. Our sinful natures always go in this direction. Jesus says he'll give them this bread that sustains them for eternity. The soul of man says, What must I do to earn it? What do I have to do to earn it? Verse 28. Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? That's just like the rich young ruler who asks, teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? The word used here for works in our text implies it's something that someone is good at. It's an innate ability that a person has. It's something they can take credit for. Jesus already the Son of Man will give it to you. I 'm not sure what happened in that sentence. But he already said, Jesus already said, the Son of Man will give it to you. But we get no credit for that. If Jesus gives it to us, we don't get any credit. So tell me, Jesus, how can I earn it Because that's what I want to do. I want to get some credit here. How can I earn it? What can I do that will impress you enough that I can win this award? And how can I excel over those around me and I win the prize, even if they don't Well, I I hope if you've attended here for very long, you're all saying the same thing in your head instantly, there aren't any of those good things that we can do There's not a single good thing that we can do that's going to earn any credit from God. We need the good things that Jesus can do, not the good things that we can do. Titus 3:5 says, Christ saved us not because of our works done by us in righteousness. But according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. Okay, so we can't earn it. What must happen? And Jesus answered, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent. That you believe in him who has sent. Now we might get the wrong idea here. We might get the idea that any human can just drum up his faith. It's a work they do. We can't do any other work, but we can do this work and drum up faith like it's a rational decision that a thinking person might naturally conclude in his day-to-day processing. And truthfully, that might be exactly how we experience it when we come to Christ. We m we might think, What else can I do when the truth is this clear to me I have to respond to Christ? It's the logical thing to do. But that's not how Scripture says it happens behind the scenes Above the clouds. Every person has to make a decision by faith. That is a certainty. We must believe in Christ. We are all right about that. But Jesus told Nicodemus it's bigger than what you see There's more going on here than you can see. In order to believe, we must already be born again. We must come to life first. We are the blind person who needs a miracle so that we can suddenly see what God is presenting to us. Christ must have already drawn us to Himself. Once that happens, we are finally free to decide for God. We have been enabled by His work in our hearts to come to Him. We can exhibit a saving faith. We are given a saving faith, like Ephesians 2. 8 -9 says, for by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. Your faith is not your own doing. It's a gift of God. Not a result of works. That's what we're being told here. Not a result of works, so that no one can boast. Yeah, to be saved we must believe in Christ, but we'll only believe in Christ if the work of God is first done in us. We can only do the work God requires after God does his initial work. Theologians call it regeneration precedes faith. You've got to be born again to respond to God's call on your life Being born again happens before faith happens. This is very important because there are those who say that you can be a Christian but show no signs. Of being a Christian. You can be a Christian, but bear no spiritual fruit, no signs of obedience. And if salvation simply was a result of a decision made in a person's mind, if salvation was simply mentally and verbally agreeing with the right facts, all of that would make a lot of sense. But if salvation means you are reborn, you are given a new heart You are a new creation by God. You are set free from sin's reign over your life by the same power that raised Christ from the dead. If all that is true, and Scripture says it is, a person logically has to display signs of regeneration. If there are no signs of change in one's life, there is no evidence of a supernatural work happening in that person If Jeremiah walked into our meeting and said, Sorry I'm late, a tornado just picked me up and dropped me in Broadford Lake And if his clothes are still neat and he has no bruises, and his clothes are dry, we have reason to believe that whatever may have happened, the story he told clearly did not happen. The same is true for a Christian that shows no signs of a changed life Now our work doesn't always look dramatic and dynamic. And it might not we might not our books might be boring actually if we read them about our lives But there will be change in how we conduct our lives and why we do what we do. Those that power will happen in our lives and we will be able to look back or maybe even better, other people can look back on our lives and say, man. You're way different than you used to be. Jesus is telling these people that he is the o he is the one they must believe in. He doesn't hear in awe about this. He just tells them straight out, me, the person in flesh, standing right in front of you, is the one that you must trust to save your soul. Me, Jesus. So these folks respond about how you might expect most people to respond. Verse 30. So they said to him, Well then, Jesus, uh, what sign do you do? That we might see and believe. Like, what you can do for us? What what work will you perform to get that Think about that just a little bit. Jesus had told these folks that he had the Father's seal of authority to make all the claims that he's making. And Christ hasn't been bashful up to this point of making claims that everyone knows declare him the Son of God or declare him to be God in flesh. Do you think that's the wisest first move to tell this guy what he needs to do for you if he wants your approval? This reminds me of Jesus telling folks the silliness of them thinking to play a song that Jesus is supposed to dance to. It's the same idea, I think. I think these people are getting indignant. They may be thinking, who do you think you are, Jesus? If you think we're just going to follow you, you're wrong. You've got to prove, you know, provide a little more proof to us. Again, they had just watched a few fish sandwiches feed 20 to 25,000 people, depending on how many women and children were there They saw this with their very own eyes. They saw the twelve huge baskets left over. And that seemed to be partly for effect to make the point that this miracle is easy. To Jesus. He wasn't scraping his miracle to the bone, just man, I gotta try a little harder because I got a little more feet. He just kept tearing bread. And now, if doing that didn't serve as a sign What would it take? These people were very hard to impress. And these people are probably thinking they're being realistic with Jesus, as if there's a give and take among equals I think of when Nicodemus approached Jesus. I think it's something like that. It's like they're saying, Jesus, you need followers. And we could be some, and we could use the Messiah. So let's work together on this for our mutual benefit. They thought way too much of their own importance. And this isn't the only time Jesus was approached this way. In Matthew 20. 1238 it says, then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying, Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you. But Jesus answered them: An evil and adulterous generation looks for a sign, but no sign's going to be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. Clearly, demanding a sign is not an indication of sincerity of worship. No, it's often a sign of evil and idolatry. So they ask, what will you do to impress us enough to win our loyalty to you? Come on, Jesus, you know you need it So what are you gonna do? And then the real heart comes out. And isn't that funny? I mean with kids we're used to it. With adults, sometimes it doesn't come out quite as much. But you go let them talk long enough and the real what they're really after comes out. Verse 31, our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it's written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. Now they're using what they think is a biblical argument for why Jesus ought to be their permanent cafeteria. When the people of Israel were delivered from Egypt, their Messiah of the time, Moses, gave them a sign. You know, he gave them a sign, and he provided manna. And that wasn't just for one day, that was for 40 years, Jesus. 40 years Moses gave him manna. And now we get the idea. The cat's out of the bag, which is an interesting uh saying. I don't know where that came from. It's a bit odd, but the cat 's out of the bag, they want the food to keep coming. That would be very handy indeed. So how would you expect Jesus to respond here? Well, it it sure isn't a script for let's make a deal. Verse 32, Jesus then said to them again, another truly, truly, truly, truly I say to you, it wasn't Moses who gives you bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. Truly, truly, we can guess the listeners aren't gonna like it. First off, Christ draws their attention to who it was who actually provided this life-sustaining food that kept many spiritually dead people alive for a long time. God the Father gave the food. So that's where you need to keep your focus. Only God can do this stuff. But the focus on this sentence is the true when G The true bread from heaven. The word for true means the ultimate of something This is not the meaning of true versus false. Like are you giving me a right answer? Is it true or is it false? No, it's it's not that. It's more like only a true Steelers fan would sit out in a freezing rain to watch the team. It's the ultimate of something. So this true bread is the ultimate of bread. It embodies everything the idea of bread should be. It fulfills the very idea of bread. When Christ used that word, everyone listening should have gotten the idea that Christ was extending the meaning of bread. Christ is saying that the manna was just a taste of the goodness of God's sustaining grace. Christ was going to be the fulfillment of it. In other words, Christ is the breediest bread. That would be a good way of thinking of it. He is the ultimate bread. He is the bread that is better than any bread that has ever been before. That's what the phrase true bread means. And then in verse 33, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Jesus makes this brutally clear. Christ is the manna this time. The manna in the wilderness was nothing compared to this bread that gives real spiritual eternal life. Jesus is the bread of life. And look at the scope of this ministry of Christ, who comes down from heaven and gives life to the Jews. To Judeans? No, it's to the world. Jesus gives life not to a single tribe of people. His focus is not limited to the Israelites of that time. He isn't just providing human pulse sustaining physical food that's eaten and passed on, only to be eaten again. No, no, no. This bread has come to give eternal sustenance to human beings throughout our whole world. Everyone in our world who will live forever will need to taste of this bread. There aren't two ways, there aren't three ways, all roads don't lead to God. There's one bread They'll need to believe in Christ. They'll need to trust his completed work to save them and his resurrected life to sustain them. Here's Jesus this morning with all of his authority holding himself out to this clan of rebels. He's calling upon them to believe in Christ. He's offering them to taste this relationship with Christ that is more fulfilling and more sustaining than physical bread could ever be. He's holding that out to us as well this morning. Will you taste and see that the Lord is good? You can. Everyone who truly calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Let's pray. Lord, we praise you this morning