As I uh keep saying, it is such a joy to have you all here. And uh To share with you in everything we've done so far, and I hope that the Lord has something significant to share with you this morning A few weeks ago, we took notice about the book of Daniel being primarily about God. We emphasize that point in two passages. The first is where we read in chapter 1 that the Lord gave Jehoiakim into Babylon's hand. So we saw that God determines the outcome of wars. We also read the text: God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. So God determines the likes and the dislikes of human beings. Today we'll see other areas where God does amazing things in chapter 1. We read: as for these four youths, God gave them Learning and skill in all literature and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. So it is God who determines the mental ability that people have. And he can increase it whenever or however he wants. He also grants spiritual gifts that he gave to Daniel that allow a person to do things that could only come from God, that could not have come from him. As we continue, we'll see far more. But I just want to touch on a few things this morning. I want to show you what I mean when I say that this book is primarily about God, not people. In Daniel 2, 19 through 26 through 23, we see that God determines what dreams. people have. And he also determines who he will communicate them to and uh how he wants them to be used, that information to be used. So God determines that. In Daniel 2, 44 through 45, God sets up a final kingdom that will topple all other kingdoms. And that can never be overcome. God does that. In Daniel 3, 28 and 29, we see that God delivers people out of the physical principles of nature. He can keep things from being heated in the midst of great heat. The Hebrew children were completely free from all the natural consequences of being in a fire. While all those around them experience the full veracity of that flame. In Daniel 4, 24 and 25, God drives men mad at will. God drives men mad at will, and he also grants sanity at will. God also tears kingdoms from people and he restores kingdoms to people In Daniel 5, God punishes those who treat the things that represent him, which were the instruments of his temple that the Babylonians had taken. The plunder, he punishes those people who disrespect those things. He can punish idolatry immediately if he chooses to do so. Sometimes we get a little bent out of shape about how God is spoken of in our culture. Don't worry, God can take care of himself. That's the point. And Daniel 6, God causes wild animals to do exactly what he wants them to do. A proper understanding of Daniel will drive us to understand that reality is very different than how we normally experience it. We experience the events in life as things that happen randomly and without reason. Sometimes we think they all have a natural cause and effect Big armies beat small armies. Lions kill people. Fire burns people. And while all that is usually true, that is not true when God is best served otherwise. What we see in Daniel is the supremacy of the purpose and power of God. God caused situations that appeared to be horrible to serve a wonderful purpose. God intervened in the natural cause and effect elements and had them go backwards temporarily. Sometimes we make the point that God does not need to use us to glorify him. Like God isn't in a bind where he has to use us to glorify him, and if we don't help, he's in trouble. He does not need to use us even to spread the gospel. His will being done is not dependent upon our obedience. Daniel is a book that displays this. Look at the part that the people of Israel, God's chosen people, played at making God's name known throughout the world at that time. You would have thought God would have used his people. You would have thought that God would have used the obedience of his people. These people were taken into captivity because of their disobedience. They were being punished. And they as a whole, the Jewish people as a whole, are never mentioned in the Old Testament as having a great effect on the Babylonian society. It was not their sheer numbers nor their being obedient that made the difference. God chose in this instance four guys. Four guys to make all of this happen. And he did it by putting them into a crucible of trial in order to inspire two kings To announce to their whole kingdom the glory of God, the message of God. God got Nebuchadnezzar and Darius to proclaim his glory. Two heathen kings became God's evangelists. God's hands are not tied. Our God is never limited. He can accomplish His will at any time through any person or anything. That is one of the points that comes through loud and clear in Daniel. That's one of the reasons that I chose this book to go over. Because in times of uncertainty, with the climate that we see around us, God shows himself to be strong here. The idea that God cannot reach the world without us is simply not true. Anyone who preaches that God needs us to do this thing or that thing does not really understand our God. The truth is it pleases God to reach the world through us. It pleases God. It gives him glory. He likes it that way. It pleases God to accomplish His will on this planet through His children. Maybe that's true so that more people can be involved in seeing the wonderful acts of grace that God does in evangelism. I think he wants us to see it. I think he wants us to be part of it. But one thing is for sure: we need God. God does not need us. Okay, let's look at the text. Daniel verse 1, or chapter 1, verse 10. And the chief of the eunuch said to Daniel, I fear my lord the king who has signed your food and your drink. For why should he see that you're in a worse condition than the youths who are of your own age? So you would endanger my head with the king. Which is very important to the uh head of the eunuchs. So the the chief of the eunuchs was smart. He liked Daniel. He wanted to do what Daniel wanted. God had given him favor with that that man, but he was scared for his life. And the chief is not going to risk his life for the preferences of some Hebrew children That's reasonable for a man that high on the corporate ladder. He has a lot at stake. And Daniel, watch how he responds. Daniel doesn't disdain that fear. For one thing, Daniel had no power in this relationship. The chief laid out his thinking, and he was honest with Daniel. He told him why. And this gave Daniel an opportunity to figure out a way to meet the chief where the chief was at. Daniel did not accuse the chief of being anti-Semitic. He didn't come up with some religious way to make that chief look bad. He didn't set himself up in opposition to the chief. He simply took the chief's reservations into account and he thought about it. He came up with a solution. Sometimes solutions are wonderful things. At work, I was taught that before I bring up a problem, I should usually do the work of coming up with a solution that I can offer to the problem I think this is a good idea in most relationships. It keeps our complaints to a reasonable level. And it costs the complainer as much as it costs the one being complained to. How many of your complaints would be offered if they had to be offered with a solution as well? I think that might cut down on some complaining that doesn't have some substance behind it Now we don't know what would have happened if Daniel had not come up with a plan. We only know that he did. And then verses 11 through 14 says, Then Daniel said to the steward, whom the chief the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Henaniah, Meshel, and Azariah. Test your servants for ten days But then let us be given vegetables to eat and water to drink, and then let our appearance and the appearance of the youths who eat the king's food be observed by you, and deal with your servants according to what ye see So he listened to them in this matter and tested them for ten days. I had never noticed before studying this that Daniel never laid out his plan to the chief of the eunuchs. He had already requested the change of diet to the chief, but the chief said no, and for good reason. And I think Daniel probably knew that the chief was never going to give up in on this point because the chief valued the chief's head. Now we need to look at this. Daniel has the favor of the chief of the eunuchs, and as we go through the story, we're going to see this man had a lot of power and influence. He also probably had a lot of employees. Daniel laid out his request to the chief, and the chief said no. What would we have done at that point? And remember, these are kids: 14, 15, 16, 17, in that range. And the people here they're dealing with are powerful adults. What would we have done if we heard a no? Would we have given up? Would we have accepted the first no that we ran into? God has given us all some degree of imagination and creativity and cleverness. I believe that we are to exhaust all of those things for the kingdom of God. For instance, Christian aid can't get money to some missionaries the way that they always did. The governments of those countries have said no, they are tracking all the all those financial things now Should they give up? They gotta know. No, they just needed to find a more creative approach. They used their creativity and their imagination and their cleverness to continue furthering the kingdom of God. They figured out another way. Is there a ministry to a person you're trying to do and the person does not seem interested? Sometimes it's time to move on, but sometimes it's time to be creative. What else might you do that would give you an opportunity? Obstacles are not always roadblocks. Sometimes they're detours. So Daniel got creative. He didn't beat his head against a method that was sure to fail. He clearly thought about it and came up with a better plan. And he laid out his plan to the man that answered to the chief. So it was the chief's employee. Daniel probably knew he had a better chance with an underling. Do you think Daniel knew if his nutritional plan was going to work? I seriously doubt that he did. He wasn't a nutritional expert, and the Jewish culture is not naturally vegetarian. So he may have had no experience in nutrition at all. It looks to me that he choose he chose the only path that he knew would escape the idolatry the idolatrous and the non-kosher food that was being offered to him. This is the only way. I mean he thought about it. He came up with the plan. He said, I don't know, this might work. Let's try it. He was trying the most faithful plan he could think of. He did the most faithful thing he knew how to do and trusted God with it fully. And what happened from there on, Daniel trusted into God's hands. Now, maybe Daniel would have accepted eating the king's food if the experiment had failed. Just like they were all , we talked about this in the last sermon, they were all given new idolatrous names. Daniel and his friends. They could do nothing about that. Daniel may have been willing to accept his fate of eating idolatrous foods if he tried everything he could and it would have failed. But he would not accept that condition until he knew that he had done everything in his power to be faithful. We'll never know, because the test was successful. God honored Daniel's faithfulness Verse 15, At the end of ten days it was seen that they were better in appearance and fatter in flesh than all the youths who ate the king's food. So the steward took away their food and the wine they were to drink and gave them the vegetables. Now, we're not told if the vegetarian diet was just that much better than the one they were on, or if God simply blessed it. We don't know. We just know that it worked. And it seems odd that they would get fatter on a vegetarian diet than on one with lots of meat. Brad pointed that out to me this morning in Sunday school. I the same thought to me. I mean there's one indication that I'm not going to do the you know the vegetarian stuff. But but it worked and they fattened up and they were healthy. And they were healthy looking. Now, keep in mind, Daniel and his friends had essentially just voted for the potato bar instead of the steakhouse. That was really their decision And it was a spirit-led decision. They were willing to pay a significant price to please their Lord. And God clearly blessed their decision. Now, what would we have done? Would we be willing to sacrifice the luxuries of this world? I mean, this is king's food here. This is good stuff. To be submissive to the will of God simply because God said it. That's something we need to continually consider. We cannot live for the love of this world Then verse 17: As for these four youths, God gave them learning and skill in all literature and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. We had mentioned this earlier. We need to notice God gave them. God gave them Have you ever been proud of how clever you are or how smart you are or how talented you are I think we're all prone to that. There is something in all of us that wants to take credit for anything that we do that we think is somehow admirable. I don't know of anyone that doesn't have that natural instinct. I want to take credit for what I know. I want to take credit for some things that I do. I'm going to take credit for the 11,180 days that I got up and went to work. There's a part in all of us that wants to say, see how wonderful I am. But at the end of the day, all that we think and do is a result of what God has given us. What would we do if our IQ was twenty instead of 120? What would we be like if we were born in poverty in a land of poverty? Any good that we do is based on how God has treated us, how God has blessed us. Pride is stupid. At its core, pride is stupid. It's uncalled for. It's not based on reality. It has no basis in truth. Any pride that we have is based on illusion. Apart from the gifting of God, we could literally do nothing. We are breathing. Because of the gift of God. The four Hebrew children were given a predisposition for learning stuff. They may have been even given information supernaturally. Like they're studying for a test and they get zapped with the with the content. We don't know how it all worked. They were quick studies, we know that, and they were exceedingly talented. And then Daniel was given something additional. His gift was very specific to him. The other three got a gift, he got two. And this was for sure not a natural talent. Daniel even says so when he's explaining to the king how he came up with the uh answer to the to the riddle of his uh The king's dream. This was something that God gave to Daniel supernaturally when and where God wanted him to know it. Now can you imagine what would happen if these guys started comparing themselves with each other? That would have been just foolish. Instead, they should thank God for the gifts that God gave to each of them. And that's probably what they did. Note too, and this is important, note too that God gave them exactly what was needed for them to serve his purpose. God gave them exactly what was needed for them to serve his purpose. That's true of everybody. Are others smarter than you? Better looking than you? More clever than you? More skilled in one way or another than you? Well, guess what? You are perfectly suited to what God wants to do with you. Don't get distracted by what you are not. I can assure you of one thing. God is not sitting in heaven regretting his mistake on how he made you. That ain't happening. You have exactly the raw materials he needs in you to accomplish what he has in mind for you. That's comforting. And verse 18, at the end of time when the king had commanded that they should be brought in, the chief of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar. Now, given what we're told, it's likely that the chief never knew that the Hebrew children were vegetarians. Nor did the chief care, because the chief was the chief. We know a little bit what bosses are like. That's so much like corporate life. I frequently tell my guys that our job is to make our boss look better. And that's how you get promoted, and that's how you have job security. And it's simple And the boss will rarely care about the methods you use to make him or her look good, as long as they won't get him or her in trouble That's corporate 101. This chief evidently trusted those under him to use their own ingenuity to accomplish the end goal. The steward did his job, and now the chief is presenting the steward's work to the king, and the steward's making him look good. So after three years of education, the Hebrew children had a chance to show what they learned. Talk about finals. You know, this is the final. This would have been the doozy of all finals. Verse nineteen And the king spoke with them, and among all of them none was found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishel, and Azariah. Therefore they stood before the king. Now I had never noticed this before either when I studied it. It looks like the king first spoke to all the graduates In an effort to weed out the best. So he's talking to all these guys and they're talking and he's getting a feel for how these guys are going and and these four guys just keep standing out. So uh they they were the best of the best of all the options. So this got them the equivalent of a second interview. Now they stood before the king and they started answering the harder questions. Now they're really getting taxed. This was likely used by the king to validate his choice. He picked the cream of the crop. Now he wants to make sure they really are the cream of the crop. And verse 20, and every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than Than all the magicians and enchanters that were in all his kingdom. And Daniel was there until the first year of Cyrus. In the first round of questioning, these children were being compared to schoolmates. In the second line of questioning, they're being compared to the king's existing staff. And they're ten times better. We'll see something in the next few chapters about Nebuchadnezzar. He was brutally pragmatic. We don't get the idea that he was ever very impressed by the magicians and enchanters. We talked about that last week. You wouldn't be it want to be in the magician division because he did not like them. Nebuchadnezzar didn't care get where he got by having a weak mind or a weak hand. He used what worked, and he didn't have much time for words without action. I think it's likely that what the Hebrew children told the king resonated with the king because it matched the reality that he saw. And he liked it. These people were not blowing smoke with no way of proving the reality of what they were saying. What these children were saying was wise. They were able to take the facts and use them well and accurately. They understood complicated things at a deeper level than their competitors. Maybe I can illustrate it this way to show you what I mean, what I'm thinking. This is an instance. Secular humanism tends to say that people are basically good. And if humans behave badly, it's because of their genetics or their environment. That is fundamentally a religious belief. It's an outcome of a humanist theory about our existence. And the humanists can go on and on about their theories about how people are evolving for the better And the theory can be very convincing if it makes some sense. But a guy like Nebuchadnezzar is going to say, wait a minute. Your belief does not fit the evidence. Your belief does not fit the real world that I live in. Children are rebellious from birth. It takes a lot more training to get them to do this than it takes to get them to do this. You know, we all know that. Your theory does not match the cold, hard reality that I can see. A guy like Nebuchadnezzar would be aware of those sorts of things. He'd be very keen on those sorts of things. So those who speak of their idealistic beliefs without proof will not get much traction to a man like Nebuchadnezzar. But a man who says, we are all born broken. We are all born rebellious against God and authority. We are all sinners That would gain traction with a man like Nebuchadnezzar, because it matches the facts of what he sees. It matches the real world he lives in. It describes reality accurately. And it would instantly put those who are speaking truth ten times higher than the idealists and the religionists. That's the truth that the Bible reveals. That's why we all do things we regret. It's why we all carry guilt. It's why we need a savior. We need someone to take our guilt That we deserve, that we hold upon Himself. We need someone who can take God's wrath for our sin so that we can be forgiven of that sin. We need someone who can grant us a new heart so that we can be freed from the power of sin in our lives. We need a savior. We need Christ. Next chapter, we'll see just how pragmatic of a man Nebuchadnezzar is. But here we we just see how well it served those who spoke the truth. These guys rang a chord with Nebuchadnezzar. When he heard them, he knew they were telling the truth. No matter how skilled at telling the truth the child the Hebrew children were though, they were going to have a have to stand a test that required more than talk. Nothing short of the power of God was going to deliver them from their next final. And it was a doozy too. And finally, we're told that Daniel was in Babylon up to the first year of Cyrus. I'm not sure why why that's there, why it says it that way, because in Daniel 10, 1, we see that Daniel was alive into the third year of Cyrus. So it's probable that this reference in chapter 1 was simply to let us know that Daniel lived through the whole captivity. Daniel was in Babylon the whole time that the Israelites or Judeans actually were in captivity. As a final note this morning, I was gripped with something this week Those of us with kids have probably said things like this: Work hard and you'll be promoted. Do everything you do with excellence, and it will eventually be rewarded. My brother gave me a cup with some excellent corporate advice. It said, stay awake, stay employed. His estimations of my capacity for success may have been limited. Based upon my early performance, which he remembers and I conveniently do not. Anyway, we give this kind of advice to our kids because it's good advice and it's generally true. We could quote much to the book of Proverbs at this point to back our statements. The interesting thing is how little we are told in the book of Daniel. About the work ethic of the Hebrew children. We know for sure they were principled. We're told about that. They were committed to obeying God at the cost of their lives. And that's surely a wonderful example to follow And I suspect that all of these guys were actually hard workers. I suspect they were. They seemed to have success in everything that they did. And that does not normally come through laziness and luck. But my point is this. In the book of Daniel, God seems to take all the credit. It's not primarily a book about what Daniel and Shadrach and Meshach and Abednego did. It's a book about what God did through these men. He arranged their circumstances. He gave them talent. He gave them gifts. He created situations to bring those things that God had given to them to the forefront He brought threat after threat after threat against them to show himself off. Their hard work and accomplishments and giftedness Were sometimes promoted, but sometimes they ended up being singled out for adversity because of the same qualities. There was no simple formula in place here And we can expect the same thing in our own lives. The beauty of this truth is that we can accept whatever situation we find ourselves in as a working of the hand of God That is that is uh sovereignty in motion If we're promoted due to our work being valued, praise God. If we're demoted because our work was devalued. Praise God. Certainly we have lessons to learn in the process. I mean, if our demotion is the result of failure, we should We should train ourselves to see and tell the truth about that and adjust accordingly. I mean, you we have room for improvement. I'm not trying to say that. But even if it's due to our failure, it's still in the hand of God. Even the consequences of our failure are in the hands of God. It's our God who does all the things needed for us to succeed in our sanctification and our ministries. So no matter what befalls us today, we can know that it is God who works in us to will and to do according to his good pleasure. We talked about this in Philippians, very important lesson. We can work confidently because it is he who works in us continually. We can work confidently because it is He who works in us continually. Maybe a good application for this week would be not offering a complaint before determining a solution. How much would that improve in our relationships? Another might be to think about ways where we have accepted the first no we experienced as a reason to quit and to revisit those things and find out what are ways to succeed that we simply didn't consider. If it mattered that much to us. Wouldn't we pour in a little bit more effort? Wouldn't we try a little bit harder? Have we given up too early in our ministries to others? And another might simply be to meditate on just how sovereign this God of ours is Really. He does not need us, but we so desperately need him. Let's close it for him. Lord, I thank you for your