In our text, Jesus had just discussed the difficulty of rich people entering the kingdom of God. They tended to be self-reliant and proud, the exact opposite of the mindset that a child takes toward his parents. Then Jesus talked about the rewards in following him. Now the disciples in the crowd are following Christ. Some are probably just going with Christ to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. So they're on the road. We learn about the mindset of this crowd from our text. Verse 32, now they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem And Jesus was going before them, so that paints the picture, and now we get the the framework of how they were, and they were amazed, and as they followed they were afraid. This trip was a long climb up about uh 2,500 foot elevation. I think of the backpacking trip that a few of us took many years ago and we started at the bottom of Dalai Sad's basin and walked into its highlands. And Brad teased Diane that she was expressing an attitude that said, just leave me here to die, because the walk was so strenuous and so long. Well, this is that kind of walk, except that it's probably hot and dusty. Now, the crowd was amazed and afraid, Scripture says. And uh ultimately that means they were astounded and exceedingly afraid. They were astounded and exceedingly afraid. What would create that mix of emotions? I think, given what we keep being told by Paul, that the disciples and probably the following crowd just couldn't figure out what Jesus was doing. And I suspect had we been there, we would have been in the same malaise. Here he is, the one who is to be the Jews' Messiah. And it would appear to them like he was just flirting with death. Jesus fully knew the hatred that the religious leadership felt toward him And he had done nothing to lessen it. In fact, his dealings with them continued to further infuriate the leadership. He made them look bad at every turn, mostly because they were bad at every turn. Now, how could these followers make sense of this? If you were in their shoes, wouldn't your normal reaction be fear of what the r religious leaders were going to do to them? And befuddlement that Jesus would put himself so close to their grasp It looks to me like a pretty natural response based on how they thought and based on their circumstances. Now, in your walk with Christ How many times has this been your response? We don't naturally understand the mind of Christ. We don't understand his plan. All we can think about is how it's going to affect us. And when we guess where it leads, don't we often respond with fear and surprise? Nothing's really changed. The disciples are truly just like us. We often don't get it. But it isn't God's fault. His plan's perfect. It's our problem. We've not learned to trust that he truly does know what he's doing. He truly does know how to keep a universe running. He really does not need our advice. And our lack of confidence in him is no reflection on him. It's only a reflection on us. If you'd been with Christ, how would you have responded? Well, the best indication is how you respond now when God's path for your life appears to be risky and costly. Then he took the twelve aside again and he began to tell them the things that would happen. We can clearly see here that the group was larger than the twelve disciples to begin with. Then when Jesus wants to be blatantly open, he removes the outsiders and he focuses on his inside team. We can understand from this that not everything we have to instruct should be addressed always to everybody. Those who know us best, we can be most candid with without risking their harm. Others, we must evaluate what's most beneficial for them. So they're appropriate messages in appropriate settings. Now Before we go to what Jesus tells his disciples will happen, let's take a look at what the disciples had been taught by their environment that would happen. This is what they had been programmed with. This is their training. This is how they thought, and this is commonly how many of the people in their area thought This is a quote from John MacArthur 's commentary that is quoting another book. The nineteenth-century historian Emil Schur summarized the Jewish people 's expectations regarding the coming of the Messiah and establishing of his kingdom as follows So basically, this is what most of the people would have thought, this is what they were being taught in Jesus' day about the coming Messiah. First, the coming of the Messiah would be preceded by a time of tribulation Second, in the midst of the turmoil, an Elijah-like prophet would appear, heralding Messiah's coming. Third, Messiah would establish his glorious kingdom and vindicate his people. Fourth, the nations would ally themselves together to fight Messiah. Fifth, Messiah would destroy all those opposing nations. Sixth, Jerusalem would be restored and made new and glorious. Seventh, the dispersed Jews scattered all over the world would return to Israel. Eight, Israel would become the center of the world and all the nations would be subjugated to the Messiah And finally, the Messiah would establish his kingdom, which would be a time of eternal peace, righteous, and glory. And this comes from a history of the Jewish people in the time of Christ. Such a perspective on Messiah's coming left no room for a dead or even a risen Messiah. And that was the problem with a lot of these, a lot of the things that they predicted or that they were teaching were close to true. But this did not leave room for a Messiah like Jesus was going to be We can see that those people who spoke for God didn't know what they were talking about. They thought they did. They probably even tried to, but they just didn't. That's so true of so many people who speak for God today. They speak of things they don't know anything about. They think they've got it figured out, but there are too many things that they don't know. So the disciples had a mindset, an expectation, and an assumed understanding of future events. And they were expecting Christ to conform to them. So every time he said something contrary, it caused them a great deal of trouble. Up to this point, Jesus had given the disciples this information twice now in Mark. In Mark 831 and 931. In 831 he said, and he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes. and be killed, and after three days raise again. Mark 9, 31 says, For he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and after he is killed, he will rise the third day. So, up until now, Christ had said these things. He would suffer many things. He would be rejected by the religious leadership He would be betrayed into the hands of men, and he would be killed, and he would rise again. This morning we see that Jesus is giving even more detail. Verse 33, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles. And they will mock him and scourge him and spit on him and kill him. And the third day he will rise again. Part of the new information is where and when all this is going to happen. Christ is headed to Jerusalem. It will be on this trip that these things are going to happen. In other words, it's going to happen soon. Jerusalem will be the location. It's gonna happen in the very religious center of the Jews world. Think about that. It's happening at the headquarters that God set up for himself on this planet. That's really amazing. That's the last place you would think the Son of God would be harmed. In God's center for worship. But that's exactly what will happen. Now, why is that? It's because there is nothing more dangerous than people who think they represent God who have lost touch with God. No one will do a Christian more harm than that kind of person. The first persecutors of Christians were the Jews Then there were others, but the great church or the church at Rome did Christians great harm. Then the Church in England. Did the church great harm. And the Muslims now are doing the church great harm. What do they have in common? They think they represent God But they have no touch with God. They don't know God's heart or God's word. They have formulas that they make up , that they make scripture fit into makes it easy for them to box it up but they're not open to being shaked by God's word Now Christ gives more detail. And the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes, and they will condemn him to death. And deliver him to the Gentiles, and they will mock him and scourge him and spit on him and kill him, and the third day he will rise again. First, the Son of Man will be betrayed. That's prophesied in Psalms 41, verse 9. Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up his heel against me. So he'll be betrayed. And then the Lord will be rejected by the leaders, by the Jews, and by his own people. We see that in Isaiah 53. 3, where it's predicted that he is despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with greed. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we did not esteem him Now, even worse than this was something that Jesus didn't mention to his disciples this time. He would be temporarily rejected by his father. Psalms 22, 1. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my groaning? You see, these are all spoken of in the Old Testament. They're all clues that the experts looked over These scriptures put a hole in the experts' theories, so they ignored them. They just wouldn't, they couldn't figure out how they fit, so they must not fit. And then Christ would be condemned to death. You know, that has to be one of the most evil and absurd things in all human history that the human race has ever done. It condemned its maker. Something like that seems absolutely amazing until we read the pages of scripture that tell us about ourselves apart from God. What we learn is that there is, it's perfectly predictable that we would want to, in our pride and arrogance, shake the yoke of our Maker. What Jesus predicts is nothing other than what human potential will produce if we give it free reign. If any of us were given absolute power to do what we want, We would soon find ourselves attempting to rid ourselves of God. It's our natural bent It's how we are, as unregenerate people. That is the sin nature's wish, and it's the sin nature's deepest desire We want to say, I am, and there is none besides me. We want to build the Tower of Babel so that we can accomplish anything we set our minds to. That's what's in us, apart from God. And then it goes on to say, and deliver him to the Gentiles, and they'll mock him and scourge him and spit on him and kill him. Look at this. These Jewish leaders who perceived themselves as so powerful, so full of God's authority, so fully representing God, had to submit to the Gentiles To the godless in order to accomplish this dastardly deed. Christ had to be delivered over to the Gentiles The heathen were given the power to say yes or no to these mighty Jews. So how did the heathen treat the word the Son of God? We know how the How the uh God's so-called people were treating him, how did the how did the Gentiles, how did the heathen treat the Son of God? Well, they treated him the same way that the chosen people did. They mocked Christ. Now, can you imagine judgment for these guys Can you imagine being one of these guys standing in front of Christ fully robed as judge, knowing what you had done? A person shows up who took such pleasure in belittling Christ on the cross in front of that. Can you imagine the utter horror that that person would feel? Because he'll know exactly what he did. And he'll realize at that moment just how evil and mindless of an action that was He will see that without a doubt he deserves the judgment of this man to whom he had been so cruel when he had the chance. That's just frightening. They mocked Christ. And then they scourged Christ. They hit Christ with a whip that had strands of leather that had tips of glass or metal or stone. It would tear the flesh right off of a man. If it was used too harshly, it would produce death. Again, imagine the people who gladly did this facing Christ on Judgment Day What dread they're going to feel. Because they'll know what they did on that day revealed the state of their souls. They'll know that they did what they did because of who they were. And then they spit upon Christ. It's possible that those who scourged Christ were simply doing their jobs. Maybe they had to do this. But those who mocked Christ and those who spit upon Christ were not getting paid by the spit. You know, they were doing this because of who they were. They were doing it because of what they were. They were cruel and evil people doing what comes natural to cruel and evil people. And then kill him. Then they killed him. The following is a quote about death by crucifixion. For indeed, a death by crucifixion seems to include all that pain and death can have of horrible and ghastly. Dizziness, cramp, thirst, starvation, sleeplessness, traumatic fever, tetanus, publicity of shame, long continuance of torment. horror of anticipation, mortification of untended wounds, all intensified just up to the point at which they can be endured at all. but all stopping just short of the point which would give the to the sufferer the relief of unconsciousness. The net unnatural position made every movement painful The lacerated veins and crushed tendons throbbed with incessant agony. The wounds, inflamed by exposure, gradually gangrened. The arteries, especially of the head and the stomach, became swollen and oppressed with surcharged blood, and while each variety of misery went on gradually increasing, there was added to them the intolerable pang of a burning and raging thirst. And all these physical complications caused an internal excitement and anxiety, which made the prospect of death itself of death, the awful unknown enemy at whose approach men usually shudders most, bear the aspect of a delicious and exquisite release. Now, all of this is what Christ knew was coming as he's walking on this road to Jerusalem with his disciples and other followers. And as he walked up his way up the mountain, he knew this was in store, and he chose it for us. How do we know that Christ knew all of this was coming before it even happened to him? He knew it because he knew the word of God and he knew the future. Let's look at Isaiah 53. We've delved into this pretty much off pretty often of late, and it is so uh appropriate. Psalms 53, 1 through 12. Who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground. He has no form or comeliness, and when we see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him He is despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised and we did not esteem him. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. It's our sorrows, our griefs. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. Really? Isn't that how it would have looked? If God was for him, wouldn't God have protected him from his prop persecutors? Wouldn't he have changed public opinion if God was for him? Wouldn't he have sent someone to rescue him if God was for him? Wouldn't God have protected him from suffering if God was for him? Wouldn't someone have protected his good name? Wouldn't a group of people rise up in his defense? Would Christ not have been given back his comfortable life of teaching and preaching? No. Christ looked like someone God didn't like much. He looked like he was God's enemy. Was he? No. He was God's greatest minister. We need to learn from this. We've got to drop all the stupid equations that say if God could do something for me, God should do something for me. We frankly don't have any idea of what God should do. We've never created a universe. We've never kept one running. So we sure don't know what God should do from day to day. All we know for sure is here is, for a much greater good, God allowed his son some of the most tortured hours of existence a man has ever gone through. And why Because he had a good plan for the rest of us. He provided a way for us to be right with him. That's what all the pain was for. Keep that in mind when you suffer. God always has a good in mind at the end. We cannot always know in this life what that is, but we will know someday. None of it will be senseless, and none of it will be worthless. Verse 5. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was led as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment. And who will declare his generation? For he was cut off from the land of the living. For the transgressions of my people he was stricken. And they made his grave with the wicked, but with the rich at his death, because he had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him He was he has put him to grief. When you make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities Therefore, I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with the transgressors. And he bore the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Some people say that Jesus failed to Estimate what the Jewish leadership would do to him, that he underestimated it. They say that he had a mission, but he failed at that mission because of his misunderstanding. And those people are full of absolute nonsense. Christ knew exactly what was coming. And he knew that it would please God to bruise him. Not that God took pleasure in Christ's suffering, but God took pleasure in his perfect redemptive plan being carried out for all those that he would choose to save who we get to be part of this morning. That same sovereign will is at work in your life and at work in my life this morning. Our future on earth isn't foretold in Scripture, but our life after that is. We don't know the immediate purpose of the events that happen in our lives, but we know there is one. God's love would preclude suffering that does not have a useful purpose. We do well to follow Christ's example this morning. He received God's will and set himself to do it, no matter how much it would cost him. You and I have that opportunity every day. What we face every day is God's will for us. And we have the chance to obey Him willingly and gladly, trusting that He knows completely what He is doing. The question is, will we? Will we stop using pain and loss and risk and danger as reasons to doubt God's love? Can you imagine what would have happened if Christ used our thinking in his situation? He would have concluded in seconds that his father didn't love him, so what's the use? No, let's take our lead from Christ. Christ knew better than we ever will what his father was doing. Christ paid more than we ever will to obey his Father. What can we conclude from that? What will we conclude from that? Is it not absolute wisdom to follow Christ's lead? And then we have, and he'll raise on the third day. And that is our hope. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your grace and mercy and kindness. We thank you for your word. We thank you that it reveals to us how you approached the most difficult thing that you were to face. Things that we can't even imagine. Being that you were guiltless and sinless and facing the penalty for all of our sin and the experience of all of our sin Lord, we ask that you would help us to live like you. We ask that you would help us to face the difficulties that we face with the same attitude that you did. And that we would submit and trust in your Lordship and sovereignty each step of the way. And Lord, we thank you that you truly did rise and it shows us exactly what is in store for us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.