Well if you remember, our outline from uh last week. Our outline for the text was awake, awake, awake, awake, awake, awake, depart , depart. Um and we broke it down too into the passages um 51 9 through 16 are awake. God's comfort is invincible. 51 17 through 23 is awake. God's wrath is past. 52, 1 through 10 is awake. God's salvation is spreading. And 52, 11 and 12 are departed. The life of pilgrimage has to go. So Isaiah's message here could pretty well be summed up in Ephesians 5. 14. Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. The title for the sermon could be When God Releases the Prisoners of Sin. Are the elect people of God ever Disciplined by God? Are the elect people of God ever disciplined by God? Can a believer continue in a known sin and get away with it? Or let's get even a little more tricky. Can a Christian continue doing something that they're doubtful about, but they show no desire to find out what God actually says? Can they use ignorance as a cover? Let's take a quick look at uh the New Testament In Hebrews 12, 5 through 11. Hebrews 12, 5 through 11. Verse 5, and you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you're rebuked by him. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we've had human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the fathers of spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us that seemed best to them, but he for our profit that we may be partakers of his holiness. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by him. Now, I'm not trying to say that everything that happens bad to us is a discipline from God. That's simply not true, and the scripture says so plainly. But there are definitely times when God does discipline his children. In fact, the reasoning is very strong here. Very strong. If we live in sin and God does not discipline us, we are not his children. If we are choosing to live in sin and God does not discipline us, we are not his children. Now we don't know how long that time frame is. But that's what it says. If we live in sin and God does discipline us, we are his children. It's pretty straightforward. God takes sin in a believer very seriously. We cannot live in it. We cannot play with it. God hates it and he takes it seriously. Is there anything in your life that you're doing that you believe to be wrong, but you keep doing it anyway? Is there anything in your life that you believe could be wrong, but you keep doing it anyway? If so, you must do business with that thing. You must enter into the process of repentance until you stop denying Jesus as Lord. If you deny, the Lord will help you stop. And he will do it the same way we help our children, said God. And it's no fun. Why? Because he loves us and does not want us to be lost. Let's look at another text. 1 Corinthians 11, 28-32. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself. not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason, many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep, as in the part of dead. For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord that we may not be condemned with the world. It's the same reasoning we see here. What we see here is that there were those in the church who were sick and those who got killed. Why? They were not treating their fellow body members the way they should have. They were not displaying the love of Christ toward those people that he died for. That's the sin. We see a direct example of this with Annai and Sapphira. All they did is try to look better than they actually were inside the body of Christ. If you look at what their story read it. It's pretty incredible. That's all they were doing. They had secrets at home and they provided a united front of hypocrisy in front of the church And God would have none of it. He would not have worldly functioning ruin the purity of his church. He would not allow the poison of what was said and done in secret to intrude into his church. Another quick passage, Romans 14, 22 through 23. Romans 14, 22 and 23. It says, do you have faith? Have it yourself before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves. But he who doubts is condemned that he eats, because he does not eat from faith, for whatever is not from faith. is thin. Here's where we see that ignorance does not get us off the hook. Our consciences are not 100% correct. I think all of us probably have learned that if we've lived very long So we can't use them as an authoritative source for right and wrong, as if they're the final deciding factor on what's right and wrong. But at the same time, until we have the information from God's word to train our consciences correctly Until we can quote what God says in order to seal and correct our consciences, we have to go by them. We're responsible to go by them. We cannot let them change. what God's Word says, but we cannot ignore them at any point either. Sometimes we do things and before we do them we really wonder if we should do it. We don't have a clear word of God to confront our pang of conscience. So it's kind of iffy in our minds. This scripture tells us we should not go against our conscience Going against our conscience is not acting in faith. It's doubt. And until we can do a thing by faith, we shouldn't do it. A rule of thumb is to tell the tale on ourselves is can you thank God for this thing you plan to do while you are doing it? Can you worshiply thank God while you are in the middle of doing it? Or would you prefer not to acknowledge God's existence while you're doing it? It lets us in on some of the stuff that we really don't really want to see about ourselves. And if we're doing something and we're uncertain about it, there's a million-dollar question that needs to be answered. Why do we not want to know what God says about this enough to search it out? Could it possibly be we don't want to know what God says? Because if we find out what he says, we'll no longer be able to do it. Our arts are the trickiest people we know. Now there's some issues that are hard to discern. Those the person have to make a decision of what's most faithful according to Scripture and go with that. But there are some things that the least amount of study would reveal the truth of. If we won't search out those things, we are already telling on ourselves. We're already revealing our tricky motives So God will discipline his children and it hurts, and it's supposed to hurt. But it is like every parent tells their children it's for their own good. It's small comfort when you're behind the scenes. Now, let's get back to our text. Isaiah 51, 17 through 23. It says, Awake, awake. Stand up, O Jerusalem, you have drunk at the hand of the Lord the cup of his fury. You have drunk the dregs of the cup of trembling and drained it out. The imagery here is of a woman falling down drunk. But the drink is not wine in this case. It is God's wrath. She's drunk with God's wrath. This woman is suffering from the consequences of her sin She has aroused God's anger and God has displayed his anger. There's an obvious application right off the bat here. An obvious application. Never ever do this. That's pretty simple. Never choose the path that will bring upon you God's anger. This reminds me of our son Jeremiah's description. I may have gone over this. before of how he would feel when he would see Suze doing something that was certain to bring down the wrath of her parents upon her head. And he would think, no, don't say that. Just don't say it. Stop right there. This is not going to end well. This is going to hurt. Well, Jerusalem did those things and they were hurting. They wouldn't take any warnings, they just kept doing them and they were hurting. But there's hope here. God is telling her to get up. Get up. Stand up the way you are supposed to stand. Awake out of your stupor. The time for suffering in your sin is about over. Stand up and prepare yourself for the Lord's gracious acts. That's what's being said here. Now, what state was this imaginary woman in? Verse 18, there's no one to guide her among all the sons she's brought forth, nor is there any who takes her by the hand among all the sons she's brought up. These two things have come upon you. Who will be sorry for you? Desolation and destruction? Famine and sword? By whom will I comfort you? Your sons are famed. They lie at the head of all the streets like an antelope in a net. They're full of the fury of the Lord, the rebuke of your God. Look at this. This drunk woman has no human comfort available to her. There's no one that can help her. There's no human resource that can get her out of this mess. She needs help. She's in utter need of help. But there is none coming from any corner. She has tasted desolation and destruction, famine and stor. That's a heavy blow that she's experienced. That is no small thing. Now God poses the question: Who am I going to get to comfort you? That's the question. There's something we need to get before going further here. Have you ever found comfort with this verse in Romans 8. 31 where it says, What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? Great verse, isn't it? If God is for us, who can be against us? There's great comfort there. If we're serving Christ, if we're trusting Christ, nothing can withstand God's work in our lives. No one can overpower what He has in mind for us. That's wonderful But have you ever considered the opposite logic here? If God is against us, who can be for us? If God is against us, who can be for us? This is equally true. Jerusalem was suffering, not at the will of the Assyrians or Babylonians, although they wanted to do it. Jerusalem was suffering by the will of God. And when that's the case, there is no escape. God points to all the likely human resources Jerusalem has and says, There's none to help you. You're out of luck. There are none to even show you give you a comfort. Your help will not come from those quarters. If you're being disciplined by God, there's only one place you can go to get relief. You've got to go to the source of your pain. You've got to go to God and do serious business with Him. If you've been saying no to God, confess your sin and say yes, getting humans to side with you and empathize with your pain will only prolong your pain. In fact, to try to minister comfort to somebody living in sin is to do that person the greatest disservice you can give them. As ministers, we have got to learn to think critically and biblically. We must ask the question for the person we are ministering to, is what they are willfully doing sinful If it is, then tell the truth about that. That's the greatest kindness we can ever perform, no matter how they might feel about that pronouncement. Even if they feel powerless to stop, we've got to tell them and offer our hands and say, here, let me help you with this. One of the greatest kindnesses we can perform among believers is to help them to avoid the disfavor of God. This might end your counseling session, but you'll have done more good than arms at least. In our text, Jerusalem was looking for human comfort, but God would have none of it until the issue was dealt with. Verse 21. Therefore, please hear this, you afflicted, and drunk, but not with wine. Thus says the Lord your God , thus says your Lord, the Lord and your God, who pleads the cause of his people. See, I have taken out of your hand the cup of trembling, the dregs of the cup of my fury, you shall no longer drink it. But I will put it into the hand of those who afflict you, who have said to you, Lie down that we may walk over you. And you have laid your body down like the ground , and as the street for those who walk over it. God has a word for those who are afflicted with sin and its consequences here. This is a wonderful passage. God speaks to us even in our rebellion. He communicates a way out, no matter what position we placed ourselves in. And look at where the wait out lies. Notice that it is God that pleads the case and pleads the cause. It is God who initiates the cure. It is God who takes out of our hand the predicament that we are in. It is he who takes upon himself the wrath. The answers we most need in our lives are the ones that only God can orchestrate. Now in verse 23, we see that God has not removed his wrath from everyone. That's where those who think that God will save everyone in the end miss it, I believe. God does not intend to save everyone. In this case, he's going to pour out his fury and wrath on those who persecuted his children. This has always been in God's plan. It may not happen as quickly as we would like it, but it will happen. Just one example, those in the Middle East who torture and abuse and kill the followers of Christ will one day taste God's unmitigated wrath if they will not repent. That surely is coming. God will have justice. Okay, so God is telling these people to wake up and stand up because God is about to remove his wrath from them. Then what does he say next? Isaiah 52, 1 through 12. Isaiah 52, 1 says, awake, away. Put on your strength, O Zion. Put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. But the uncircumcised and the unclean shall no longer come to you. Now, while we might first think that this is only referring to the city of Jerusalem, we know better because Paul applies some of our passage to the age of the church. This is more universal than just for one city in one point of time. This is a call to the people of God. We'll see that in, I believe, next week's. Sir. They are called again to awake. They are going from their state of lazy, sinful rest to a place of being fully alert and alive. This ought to get our attention. Do we too not want to be fully awake and alert to the movement of God in our lives? Do we not want to most glorify Christ, to most hear from Christ, to most be ready to move, to do God's will? That's what the appeal is here. Now we must ask, who are the uncircumcised and unclean? This is either literal or figurative. Or in some application it could be literal and then in some other application it could be figurative. We see that from time to time. The original logic is probably understood it as being very literal. But when parts of this passage are quoted in Romans, it is in the context of God's salvation for both Jew and Gentile, for circumcised and uncircumcised. So we must take it as applying figuratively for our application. The uncircumcised would be the uncircumcised apart. The unclean who are still in their sins. And what are the beautiful garments? They're the bride albee for the marriage feast of Christ. They're Nothing short than the righteousness of Christ that we wear as a robe. We see here a picture of the kingdom of God. That's what this is displaying. The only ones inside are those who have received Christ's righteousness for their own. The ones outside are those who have rejected his righteousness. When we came to Christ, this is the kind of awakening that happened to us. We might not have known how to describe it. We have no idea that's what has happened, maybe, but that's what happened. And every time we see our sin and repent It's more of the thing. We're awakening to kingdom life. We are awakening and becoming more fully aware of why he exists and what we live for. Then verse 2, shake yourself from the dust, arise, sit down, O Jerusalem. Lose yourself from the bonds of your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. There's so much in this verse. It is so rich. But first, we're to shake ourselves from the dust. Now this is probably the dust we're lying in. Look at your life. Have we not all chosen degrading circumstances in our lives from time to time? Have we not all tasted of some dusty, dirty circumstances due to our decisions? Have we not all had times where the only direction we could go was up? Because we'd already chosen such bad jewels. And maybe not all of us have had experiences quite that dramatic. But if we could see it from God's position, we would still see that about ourselves. We've all been in the dearth of our own choosing. But God is not content to leave us there. Praise God. He tells us to put on his righteousness. He tells us to take the position in him that we can never earn. Then he tells us to shake off the dirt that we're accustomed to, make even the dirt we deserve. Then we're told to arise and sit down. That's the part that I thought was funny. Arise and sit down. At first, this might seem like God can't make up his mind what we're supposed to do. Get up, sit down. But that's not what it means. The imagery here is one of getting up out of the dirt and sitting in a seat of significance, of influence, of dignity. And we wonder how? How can God do such a thing with people like us? We deserve the dirt. We deserve the humiliation. But God is not content with that for his children. His righteous robe qualifies us for a better seat This is gonna be like a person in a in who ran to the Syrian conflict from the United States, one who went there on his own decision. He's the enemy of the US. And one day he comes to himself and he says, I want out of here. I'll stow away on a jet, I'll ride in somebody's luggage, and the captain goes out of his way and finds that man and sits him in a seat in first class. It's mind-blowing grace. That's what 's being described here. The woman Who has been drunk on the wrath of God, and rightfully so, is now given a seat of dignity and distinction. This is the Christian life. A lot of times we don't realize it, but that's what it is. The more we see the seriousness of our sin, the more we get this point about God's amazing grace. God's grace does not just rescue us from the bad. It issues us into the best of the best. It's amazing. It's amazing. Then notice it says, loose yourself from the bonds of your neck, O Capit Daughter is on it. When we come to Christ, we come with baggage. All of us do. And it does not leave us before we sit in the seat. Our position may have dignity, though we carry a lot of what we were with us. There's always betraying bondage of sin. Sanctification is the process of loosening the bonds from our nets. We've been slaves to the worst of masters. We've been slaves to the abhorrent thing condition. We have patterns of thought, patterns of behavior, even patterns of craving that we need to break free from. And we break three one truth at a time, one idea at a time, one action at a time. Some people think that our pasts don't matter. And as far as God's judgment upon our sins, praise God, they do not But if we want to understand the dangers we face going forward, we find their faces most clearly displayed in our past. I believe that if we've not accurately repented of who we really were, we have not truly repented of who we really are. If we repented of an imaginary history, we have an imaginary repentance. We are still in danger of falling into the same pattern of thinking, no matter how that might flesh out in this life as compared to that. It's so easy to allow our perceptions of ourselves and our realities of ourselves to be vastly different. It's easy to keep the facts and theories from colliding. True repentance brings both of those together. Repentance requires reality. It cannot be done in theory. We can't repent of what we must have been. We can only repent of what we were. It's turning from who we really were to who really God is. That's why the truth is so important about both our past and our present. We need to loose ourselves from the bonds around our neck. Now look what this does next. Verse 3. For thus says the Lord, you have sold yourselves for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money. We'll end up with this verse and take up the rest of next week. I have some of my favorite applications ready to go on this one. But it didn't mean what I thought it did, so I had to throw them all away. The focus is that God gave his people into the hands of his enemies. God 's people needed punish. This generation needed discipline. They all needed to learn a lesson, so God gave them over at no benefit to himself. And he will get them back without exchanging funds. There's no economic involvement here. The people to whom they were given paid nothing, so they were owed nothing. That's the point Mr. Ortland takes a different view of all this and he focuses on the gospel salvation of God's people. And he zooms in on the redemption without money. And we can't miss that. Even if the application isn't perfect in this verse, it certainly is the truth. All of us sold ourselves without a prophet. We gave ourselves to sin because we were sinners. Whether it was before our proclaimed salvation day or after it, we have all chosen sin. And what did we get for it? Trinkets at best. Momentary pleasure, momentary acceptance or approval. But really, at the end of the day, we can get anything. Nothing of value So how do we hope to save ourselves? Well, they're probably none of us that have not tried in one form or another being good enough to save ourselves. I don't know if you guys remember, you know, in your process of understanding what Christianity is all about, trying to please God by doing good stuff. Trying to earn God's favor by uh By being better. And we've brought that into our relationship with Christ. We want to pay a price to earn something from God It is so desperately hard to wean ourselves from the idea of merit, of earning salvation from God. Our prices can't let that go. We want to in some way be worthy of the love of God. We want to see ourselves in some way as being lovable to God. We want in some way for our effort to win something from God. We want to be someone who is so lovable or virtuous that we have earned the love of God. And every bit of that thinking is as evil as it can be. We sow ourselves into sin without receiving anything of value, and God saves us. From sin without ever giving him anything of value. Oh, surely that can be true, can it? Doesn't a single thing my wonderful self can give to God earn something? Don't I deserve any credit? And the answer is no, none. Not a bit. It's all of God. All of it. Every single bit. What we've seen again in the Old Testament book of Isaiah is the New Testament grace of God. We see the truth about God and the truth about ourselves here in Isaiah. He has been embarrassingly revealing through this book. And we're called again to awaken. to the goodness of God. We're inspired into action by the call and the character of God. If we're living in known sin, we have business to transact this way. Can we determine that we will bring it under the scrutiny and correction of the Holy Spirit and the Word of God? Can we do that? Can we simply ask the question of our God Even if there is no known sin that we are clinging to, God, how can I be more pleasing to you? God, how can I be more pleased with you? What can I do? How can I submit to you? Better. How can I follow you? But would it give you greater glory And then wait expectantly for him to reveal it to us through his word, through his spirit, through life circumstances, made through our brothers and sisters. Awake awake. Awake awake. Awake awake. Lord , support. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you keep filling us with your truth. Striking, because we know that we are so accountable. But Lord we bring it on. Because we want to glorify you. And we all want to at the same time, and you know. God, bring about the changes in our lives that most glorify you. Help us to tell the truth about ourselves to ourselves. And to you. And to have true repentance. The kind of repentance that does business with who we really are. And accepts nothing but truth from you. As the answer. Lord, we want as a church to honor and glorify you. Lord, you gave us the command when you left to make disciples. And yet there's so many of us here that really can't say that we have. Bring us to people and people to us so that we can see Your mighty grace at work. And bring people to yourself. And Lord, please give us the glorious opportunity of introducing them to a walk. In Jesus' name.