Last week we looked at Peter as he was defensive when Christ told Peter about Peter. Peter, as well as the rest of the eleven, are about to stumble. Christ was probably telling the disciples this as they walked from the upper room where they had the Passover meal to the garden where they were headed. Now they reached the Garden of Gethsemane. This was probably a walled area in an area of olive trees. More than likely, it would have had a front gate. The word Gethsemane is probably from the Hebrew word that means press of oils. It was probably on the lower slopes of the Mount of Olives, which would be the hillside that faced Jerusalem on the facing hillside. There would have been olive trees and olive crestes. This was a spot that Christ liked, probably because of its beauty and its solitude. So Christ told eight of the disciples to stay, probably at the gate. He told them to stay there while he prayed. Then verse 33, and he took Peter, James, and John with him, and he began to be troubled and deeply distressed. Then he said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here and watch. So we see here that Jesus took his inner circle, the best friends he had with him, to do what he needed to do. There are Peter, James, and John. These are the guys that saw the transfiguration. They were the men who saw most of what Christ had done, most of the miracles. And now they're called by Christ to be with him. Why? Why? If Christ had communion with his Father, and that's what he's going to be doing, he's going to be praying, why did he seem to need the disciples' aid as well? This is probably Christ's greatest point of human need. Look at this closely and think about it. Christ did not say at this point, all I need is my relationship with my Father. Christ was depending upon these guys for the comfort and companionship that they could offer. We need to keep this in mind We should never offer the advice that all you need in life is your relationship with Christ when you face human needs The human body of Christ, the church, is provided to meet the needs that humans have for ministry. Christ was relying upon these guys for human companionship, for human ministry. They didn't do it well, but Christ doesn't pretend in any way that that did not matter. It did matter. It mattered a lot. Christ had something to say about their failure. The church, that's you and I, need to remember that we are responsible for representing Christ in each other's lives. And when we fail, we need to call it what it is. Our failures always result in other people having to carry weights that we could have helped them carry if they had been open to our ministry and if we had done our ministry. I guess there are two sides to this application. Our Christian walk is more than it's more than about Jesus and me. It's more than Jesus and mine. It's about Jesus and the body of Christ. There are times when we are in distress that we should rely upon others to help us. Sometimes we'll not find our way out of our physical or mental or emotional quagmires without help from fellow believers. Or at least it will take us a whole lot longer to do so. The quicker we rely upon the resources that God has granted to us, the sooner we'll experience the good things that He has in store for us. Jesus himself relied upon the disciples, and he served as a good example to us in doing so. If Christ himself relied on other fellow believers, shouldn't we? The other side of the application is that when we're called on for help, we need to help. We need to watch that we don't build lives where we're not available for helping our brothers or sisters. Our pursuit of flesh, like the disciples' pursuit of sleep, should not be prioritized above the needs of those around us. Often things can be arranged, but we've got to be careful how we prioritize. The disciples served as a bad example of this. Now, about Christ here at this point, John MacArthur has some good things to say, some insightful things that I help us understand what he was going through, I think. He says, as he anticipated what would soon take place, Jesus began to be very distressed and troubled. The word distressed, a form of the Greek word exembe means to be alarmed or amazed. Troubled is a strong term indicating severe distress and anguish. This was the deepest sorrow Jesus had ever experienced. The intensity of the pain was so great that he was astonished by it. His grief was fueled first and foremost by the horrifying recognition that he would soon become the bearer of sin and the object of divine wrath. We're going to talk about that in a little bit. I'm not sure that he's right about that. For the first time in all of eternity he would experience alienation from his father, being crushed by him as a guilt offering for sinners. The reality of it was nearly too much for even Jesus to survive. As he said to his disciples, My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death. Remain here and keep watch. The Greek Adjective here for grieved conveys the notion of being surrounded by sorrow and overwhelmed with sadness. The wave of anguish that flooded Jesus' mind was so intense it nearly killed him. He perceived it as being something that could kill him. causing his subcutaneous capillaries to dilate and burst so that his sweat was like drops of blood. That's the John MacArthur quote. Here's Jesus in the greatest need of ministry that he had ever encountered. First, he is looking at his death Now, this is difficult for any of us as humans, but I doubt that that's what's giving Christ most of the trouble. Second, we have the method of Christ's death, crucifixion. Crucifixion was not something you looked forward to. It was horrible. It was an awful way to die. There may be more hideous means of death, but it truly was an awful way to die. No one would look forward to such a thing. But even that was not the worst of it for Christ. Third, the third thing we know is that Christ will experience his father's rejection of him. Christ will call out to his father, Why have you forsaken me? So this is truly awful. The one thing Christ could always depend upon was his communion with his father. Christ would spend hours in prayer. His father was always available for Christ. His father was always there for him. But that was going to be temporarily suspended. But I suspect even that was not the worst thing to Christ. I think the fourth factor is Christ's distress. And Christ's distress is the key to understanding the whole event. Remember that Christ was the creator. He played a part in creation. He shares the attributes of his father. Christ hates sin. It's a stench to his nostrils. It's morally repugnant to him. Think of the greatest revolting subject you can think of, and sin is to Christ a million times worse than that. That's God's perspective on sin. And the more we understand that, the better off we are. Then think even about how you feel about your own sin. Think about how you hate the thought of it, or at least some of it. You scarcely want to remember it or talk about it. Now look at it from the Creator's view. Sin is everything destructive and it's everything rebellious. It's the downfall of a wonderful creation. It's everything ugly and everything evil. God should take it personally when people sin because it is personal. David had the insight to say, against you and you only have I sinned. Now, imagine those sins that you have committed. Just take the ones you most regret. And imagine Christ suddenly having those same images in his mind that you have in yours. Imagine the sins you despise flashing through his mind, and then my sins, and then the rest of the local church, and then all believers of all time at Oakland. And at Garrett County and Maryland and the United States and North America and the whole world All of that guilt All of that evil, all of that ugliness, imagine the oppressiveness of that burden If Christ received the burden of our sin while he was in the garden, everything here makes perfect sense. We can 't imagine this burden without the pain of Christ being excessive. Christ is now guilty of doing all the things to the Father and to himself. He is guilty. Christ has become guilt Personified. We know of all the horrible things that guilt does to us. Psychologists have written books on the topic, and that's just the guilt of one human sin. Christ is bearing the sin of every believer That had to that had to be on the verge of the impossible. On the verge of Unbearable to human flesh. It had to be the greatest emotional and psychological stress ever placed on a human being There's no wonder whatsoever what Christ would do next and why he did what he did next. Verse 35 He went a little further and fell to the ground and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Take this cup away from me. Nevertheless, what I will, not what I will, but what you will. The most common explanation of this by scholars is to say that Christ was praying that he wouldn't have to die for the sins of the world. Mike never believed that to be true. And largely due to Mike's influence, I don't either. Think about what we know of Christ. He kept telling his disciples why he was sent here. He told them exactly what had to happen. His whole purpose in coming was to die for the sins of the world. Does it really make sense after seeing Christ go 40 days without food and then facing the worst the devil could throw at him that Christ would suddenly be asking for an escape route under the severe distress he was under? I don't think it reflects Christ's character or resolve. It would seem there's another issue at hand. There's an issue that is threatening Christ's ability. to carry out his mission. Not his willingness, but his ability. Or at least that's how Christ perceived it Hematidrosis is the name of the condition that Christ experienced when he started sweating drops of blood. It's a rare but very real medical condition where one's sweat will contain blood. The sweat glands are surrounded by tiny blood vessels. These vessels can constrict and then dilate to the point of rupture where the blood will then effuse into the sweat glands. It's cause extreme anguish. Mike believed that Christ's concern was that Christ could not bear the anguish he was under due to bearing the sins of the world. Christ mentions two things. He wants the hour to pass from him, and he prays that the cup might be taken away from him. Here is Christ under such extreme stress that he's sweating blood. This condition happens right before people die under these extreme conditions It's highly likely that Christ is afraid he will die before he makes it to the cross. Christ did not want to fail on this thing he was sent to do. We learn about his attitude toward the cross in Hebrews. In Hebrews 12, 1 and 2, it says, Therefore we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. And the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. In Hebrews, we don't get any idea at all that Christ started having second thoughts about the cross as he got closer to it Many human beings have faced very painful deaths, even deaths of crucifixion, without sweating blood. And we can know that Christ was more brave than most, if not all, human beings. So the issue at hand was not a painful death. It could have been the fear of his father abandoning him. But it's more likely that Christ feared in his current state he would never make it to crucifixion. So to pray that God would remove the agony of the guilt Of our sin, so he can make it to the time of Christ's crucifixion, would be perfectly in keeping with Christ's character. What Christ must not have known, or at least couldn't think clearly about due to his distress, is that the Father knew that Christ would make it to his appointment with death, even in his extreme agony. It's very important to note how Christ prayed here. There are those who would say true faith is the process of naming it and claiming it. We're supposed to pray what we want to happen, and then we're supposed to believe that it will happen. And whether it happens or not is all contingent upon whether we believe well enough. So one would never pray a prayer that says, But thy will be done. No, they would say that's a faithless prayer. Now, that might give you a clue as to their theology when you have Jesus Christ praying that prayer. Yet here we have the master prayer. He is the prayer instructor of all time. He taught his disciples and by extension all of us to pray And at this point, in this prayer, this is what he said: nevertheless, not what I will, but what you will. We have to conclude from this that there are things that Christ did not know. He did not know what his father's will was in this. He did not know what would happen if his father answered his prayer as he asked it, or if he didn't answer his prayer as he asked it. But he trusted his father to do what is best. I think this serves as an example for us to follow There are things we should pray, knowing that God has promised a certain result. Those things we pray by faith, expecting God to do exactly what he has said, even though sometimes it looks like there's no evidence that he's going to. He said it, we believe it, that settles it, we cling to that by faith. But if Christ can prayer pray a prayer that says not what I will, but what you will, I think it's very safe for us to do the same thing. There are plenty of things we don't know what God's will is. So let's follow Christ's example and pray anyway. But we must trust God in our prayers to do what is best. So Christ is probably asking for this extreme distress to be taken from him so he can make it to his next appointment with the cross It's not answered. At least we don't see that it is. Also, it's good to note how Christ prays. He uses the word Abba. Abba. This is not as familiar or childish, maybe, as our word daddy, but it's less formal than the word father. It implies tender relationship. Tender relationship, it's like your comment this morning. You can't have a relationship that's just logic. This is tender relationship. And this is the word we can now use with God. We can assume close caring relationship with God. The Jewish people would have rarely assumed such a thing. They could not even say God's name But because of Christ, we can assume this. We can cry out, Abba Father In relationship. So Christ takes a break and he goes to his disciples. Verse 7, then 37. Then he came and found them sleeping and said to Peter, Simon, are you sleeping? Could you not watch one hour? Watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Here is Simon. Here is Simon. Now, this is the guy that will never deny Christ. He'll go to prison for Christ He'll die with Christ. He trusts what flesh will do for Christ. He trusts his bold intentions. And what does he do when Christ tells him to watch for Christ? He falls sound asleep. He should have been getting the point. Flesh isn't all that useful in the kingdom. It's quite likely that Christ singled out Peter because Peter had singled out himself. Peter basically had said earlier, even if everyone else fails you, I won't. With the underlying subtitle reading, I am better than anyone else. Now Christ says, yep, you're doing a dandy job of looking out for my interests. You trust your flesh to die for me, but you can't make your flesh stay awake for one hour. This is likely an indication of how long Christ had been praying, for an hour. So Christ has been experiencing the extreme stress of our sin for one hour. Then Christ gives us, gives these three some very good advice. In fact, these are actually commands, not advice. Christ says, watch and pray. Lest you enter into temptation, the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Maybe Christ is telling them to follow his example Christ is watching and praying, so he does not enter into temptation. And he's the Son of God. Surely if he must watch and pray, the disciples must watch and pray. And if the disciples must watch and pray, Surely we must watch and pray. I think too often we underestimate the danger we're in. We talk about that in uh Sunday school a little bit. We have this idea that we're somehow safe in this world. But nothing we find in Scripture would have us conclude such a thing. This world is a dangerous place, and the prince in the power of the air always seeks about our destruction. That's his job title. Maybe we should find watching and praying is being a lot more needed than we view it. And maybe we've not fallen into so much temptation if we were to do so. It seems almost funny that Jesus tells Peter that the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. Peter has already shown what he thinks of the flesh. He thinks the flesh is strong. He thinks he'll never deny Christ in the flesh. But we know how that's going to work out. Christ is giving Peter the exact lesson that Peter needs to hear. But Peter's about to learn the hard way. Peter has all the evidence Peter needs here to know that he should not trust his flesh, but he trusts it anyway. But before we get too haughty, we do well to listen to what Christ says. How often do we watch and pray? If we don't, why don't we? It's because we think we can handle what life brings us in our own strength, in our own wisdom. We trust the intentions of our inner being to carry us along. We think we've got this. But our resources are wanting. We need to avail ourselves of greater resources. Our good intentions need to appeal to the power that can deliver the goods. Our flesh won't do it. Only our faith in God will avail us to the power that we need to live godly lives. Verse 39. Again he went away and prayed and spoke the same words. Look at this. Christ is still appealing for that which his father is not going to do. We should find comfort in this. We can intend well, intend rightly, but pray wrongly. When we enter the world of that which we do not know, God does not punish us for our ignorance. Sometimes we call out to God in our ignorance. Well, that's always better than not calling out to God at all. Maybe we'll get it right. Maybe the cry of our heart is that which God intends to do Maybe we'll get it wrong. God may have reasons for doing things that we could not predict. Whatever the case, it's always vitally important that we trust God in that process. We should never condemn God because God did not jump to carry out the orders we're barking at. Only a fool would regard prayer in such a fashion. So Jesus goes out to talk to his disciples again in verse 40, and when he returned, he found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. I think that's kind of a Funny quote. They did not know what to answer him. I don't know about you, but I am almost certain I would have been asleep with the disciples. They had parts of four cups of wine and a big meal. They were under a lot of stress due to the things that Christ had been saying. He'd been teaching for a long time that evening. And there's betrayal in their midst. They were told that they were all going to fail Christ, and there is nothing positive in the near future. All of this would lead to the flesh's easy escape. Sleep. Maybe I shouldn't pity him, but I do. It would have been very hard to stay awake under those circumstances. They should have, and if we were there, we should have, but they didn't. This time, when Christ approaches them, they're speechless. Really? What can they say? Yes, Lord, we didn't stay awake because we care more about your sleep than our distress. That would have been the truth. But who wants to tell that truth? So short of saying that, they had nothing to say that they could explain their failure and their lack of love for their master. Plus, it's hard to be reasonable when you're woken out of a sound sleep. So verse 41, then he came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. We find from other sources that God sent an angel to minister to Christ here. Luke 22, 43 tells us this. If anyone at any time ever needed minister to, Jesus did. His fellow humans had failed him miserably in his greatest hour of need. But our Father is so gracious. He provided for Christ when all others failed for him. God sent an angel to help Christ. The disciples here were out of chances. They were not going to get any more. They were done. When Christ said it's enough, nobody knows exactly for sure what he meant here. It could have been in exasperation that he said this. He said, you've failed enough. That's enough. Like we tell to our kids. That's enough. They know what it means. Or the time has been long enough. You know, this this time has been long enough. I've prayed long enough. We've been in the garden long enough. Or I have lasted long enough. Could have meant that. Whatever the case, now the hour has come for something different. Everything is now in motion for Christ to be handed over by Judas to the Jewish leaders. When we read our passage this morning, we may be stricken by the awesome struggle our Savior went through. We may admire his resolve. In the face of uncertainty and suffering. He was certainly facing a more agonizing test than we will ever face, ever. We may look on the disciples with disdain for their failure to stay awake for a few precious hours that Christ needed them most, and they most needed to be on their guard. But what we might easily miss is the victory that was won by Christ. In those few hours in the garden. These hours with our sin upon his shoulders and our punishment to arrive soon to his body. They had to be the hardest hours to face. How easy It would have been after freshly looking at and experiencing The hideousness of our sin to simply say They're not working. Really Isn't that what every one of us would have said? In the face of such duress None of us would have paid that ultimate sacrifice in the light of all the evidence That Christ isn't just knowing about, but is brutally experiencing. Regarding our rebellion and disobedience toward the Father and His Son. The fact that Christ withstood all of that and still was determined to die for us displays a love we know little about. It's a theoretical love to us. It's a love that goes beyond the bonds of our imagination, the bounds of our imagination. Christ's love for us was so absolutely Amazing. And in those In those hours, Christ remained firm in his commitment to carry out this love to its bitter end. We know that it was not because Christ thought we were worthy. He was in the middle of experiencing all the evidence that we were anything but worthy. But ultimately it was Christ's character that carried the weight. God is love. If not for that, we had no chance. I'd like to close by reading this quote from Charles Spurgeon. This is what he says about the event. No claring no clarion blast, nor firing of cannon, nor waving of flags. Nor acclamation of the multitudes ever announced such a victory as our Lord achieved in Gethsemane. He there won the victory over all the griefs that were upon him, and all the griefs that were soon to roll over him, like huge Atlantic billows. He there won the victory over death and over even the wrath of God, which he was about to endure, to the utmost for his people's sake. There is true courage. There is the highest heroism. There is the declaration of the invincible conqueror in that cry, not as I will. That is now with. With Christ's perfect resignation, there was also his strong resolve. He had undertaken the work of his people's redemption. And he would go through with it until he could triumphantly say from the cross, it is finished. And verse forty-two, rise, let us be going. See my betrayer is at hand.