You may have noticed that the uh text was pretty long this morning. And this was on purpose. I've been learning that this passage is not several different topics. It's really several ways of looking at the same topic, the same issue. If your Bible is like mine, it breaks up this passage with several headings, as if there are several topics. And in some ways that's true, but in some ways it's not. Let's take a look at this. What was Jesus talking about before this text? Well, in the beginning of chapter 6, Jesus was talking about charitable deeds. And remember what the discussion consisted of. You pick your reward by the reason that you do the deed. You pick your reward by the reason that you do the deed. He focused primarily on the motives, not the method. Keep it private to keep yourself honest. was was the advice given. But look at the proper motivation to do the right thing for the right way. He gives us motivation. Motivation I assume we need. It's reward. Reward. No one can miss this. There is a very specific focus in what Jesus said. There may be multiple reasons for doing a charitable deed. There are even lots of good reasons for doing it. But the ultimate reason is to be perfect like our Father in heaven is perfect. We want to please him. But Jesus makes sure to emphasize that pleasing God is where we gain our greatest happiness. Pleasing God is where we gain our greatest benefit. Acting spiritual to impress a person has very, very, very limited reward. And it's here today and gone tomorrow. Your reward is impressing that person. That's all you get, if that's why you're doing it. But pleasing God has an eternal reward. It is of tremendous value to us. It's the best thing that we can do for our ultimate happiness is to live to please God. So Christ starts with charitable giving, and then he talks about prayer. Again, he talks about reward. The pretentious prayer. Gets that temporary reward of impressing fellow human beings and nothing more. And again, Christ says there's much greater reward to be had. Proper praying is rewarded by God with that greater reward. Proper praying itself receives that reward, and it's not a questionable venture. When I go fishing, I may or may not catch fish. But when I pray for the right reasons, I will without a doubt be rewarded at some point in some way. How will be rewarded is probably kept vague on purpose. It requires faith But it's a promise. Then Christ teaches us to pray, and we'll come back to this. But then he moves on to fasting. Same thing. Wrong fasting gets faulty temporary rewards. True fasting receives lasting, valuable rewards. Over and over we find our greatest ultimate happiness is found through trusting our Lord and doing what he says. The flesh, the world, and the devil will never tell us that, but our Savior does. The flesh, the world, and the devil all promise happiness It's immediate. You can have this right now. That's why they're so effective. But they never deliver. They never deliver on ultimate happiness. They deliver pleasure, but not on any kind of lasting fulfillment. All of these acts of service that Jesus speaks about are happiness opportunities. We talked about that before. They're happiness opportunities. Every opportunity for service is a happiness opportunity, but it requires trust in God. We have to see him as the kind of God whose end game is to reward us. To give us the greatest happiness humans can experience. And that happiness will never be fully utilized and realized until we are free from the influence. Of the world, the flesh, and the devil. But it's promised to us. And we can take that promise to the bank. When he says he will reward, he will reward. Now back to the Lord's Prayer. How does it start? Our Father. If I counted it right, chapter 6 refers to the Father 11 times. We tend to see this passage as a teaching passage on how to live, and so it is. But it's easy to miss the fact that it is also a teaching passage On how our Father treats his children. We're given insight into the true fatherly nature of God, and the appeal is for us To depend upon him, to trust him, to fully rely upon him. Now look at the Lord's Prayer that our brother Mueller did such an excellent job for. We start the prayer with a focus on our mutual Heavenly Father, our Father, together, our Father in heaven. But then it gets down to our real day-to-day life details. We need food. We need shelter. We need provision. We have needs. And we are specifically directed to run to God for them With the trust that he will provide for them. We're called upon to call on him, knowing that he knows what we need before we ask. He's prone to focus on the needs of his children without being directed to. With God, it's not the squeaky wheel that gets the grease, it's every wheel that gets the grease. All of his children get the grease. He has none of our human limitations. Now, I think we need to have this picture, this overview of our text before we analyze the specifics of it. Look at verse 19. What is Christ talking about? Treasures Treasures. Is that not the very nature of rewards? Treasures. Treasures are an abundance of goods. An abundance that is expected to exceed our needs. It's an abundance of provision Isn't it interesting when we're told this in the context how it how it all works out? This is said right after a statement about receiving rewards from God. And right after we were taught to trust God with our needs. Up until now, we were talking about things we might regard as spiritual things, like prayer, fasting, you know, spiritual things. But aren't we good at arguing? Aren't we likely to say, oh yeah, I agree with those spiritual concepts? It's good to do spiritual things. But now we're talking about how I'm going to eat tomorrow. How I'll pay my bills tomorrow, how I'll take care of my health care tomorrow, how I'm going to pay my insurance tomorrow. We're no longer talking about spiritual things. This is real life. And while I can rely upon God for the buy and buy, aren't we tempted to think that I need to make sure that I can provide for myself in the here and now? Is that not how we're tempted to think? It's certainly how I'm tempted to think. In fact, aren't we even good at justifying our fears? We think, look how rational our arguments are. Mustn't we be prepared? Should we not be financially prepared for every eventuality? Must we not do whatever it takes so we can take care of ourselves no matter what happens? I had an aunt Betty and Uncle Bill. And Bill had a flooring store in Shemokin, Pennsylvania. He did well, but he didn't save much for retirement. Bill retired early, and Betty and Bill would spend a lot of time in their RV staying at campgrounds. And my dad was really concerned about Bill. He was he was my dad knew numbers. He was very concerned about their welfare. He thought many of their financial decisions were unwise. But Betty and Bill were believers. They trusted God. Some of my uh my fondest memories were of my Aunt Betty reading those flannel board stories with the spiritual lessons. I don't know if if any of her I mean, I remember one of a carved uh piece of wood and something breaking and that sort of thing. But you know, I love those stories and her reading On every Wednesday night. Anyway, Betty and Bill outboxed my dad's fears. They both died suddenly, well before their money ran out I'm not trying to make light of my dad's concerns. He too was very spiritual, but my point is, God is greater than our formulas and strategies and calculations. And we are not to depend upon our financial wisdom. We are to depend upon our faithful Heavenly Father while we live in faithful obedience to Him. This means we will do what we must to provide for our families. A man that does less is worse than an infidel , Scripture says. Where that faithful line begins and ends is a matter of faith. But we cannot cross the line where we refuse to do all of this in complete dependence upon God. We can't cross the line where we determine that I must depend more upon my ability to provide for myself and God's ability to provide for me. That is what our whole text is going to be dealing with. And that's why we read the whole thing. And we're going to continue to. So brace yourself, Jared. We're going to continue to read that text for the next several weeks. But we're going to start in verses 19 and 20 for today. Don't lay out for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. But lay out for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. I can think of two reasons for laying up treasures on earth. There certainly may be more, but these are ones obvious to me. The first is a love for this world. Treasure provides pleasure. Some people store up treasure because those treasures provide pleasure here and now. In one of our travels, Carla and I saw, I think it was Steven Spielberg's yacht. Now I'm going by memory, so I could be wrong, but I think it was his. And it was absolutely huge. I mean it was it was amazing. And it probably took a crew of ten full-time people just to run the yacht. It was luxury way beyond what most of us would imagine. But there are people who live for that kind of thing. They live for the treasure for the provision of their wildest pleasure. You know, that's their mentality. If I get a lot of stuff, I can have a lot of fun. Sometimes that pleasure is found in power. They want to walk into a place and have people recognize them and cater to them and flatter them simply because they have great wealth. Sometimes they use their money to change things, like Bill Gates. They can get absorbed with controlling things with their massive wealth, or George Soros, who seems to be heavily involved in trying to move our world into a one-world government or something in that realm. It may also provide the pleasure of feeling important. Rich people tend to be noticed and catered to. And James is a whole book about that issue inside the church when that evil creeps into the church and the church starts treating rich people like uh like they're first class and everybody else some other class We all have a tendency to want to be worshipped, and wealth can give one that illusion of being worshipped. There's much for flesh to desire in having earthly presence. But I think the second reason is far more common. At least it's probably more common for us. The second reason is to have enough resources that we can trust in ourselves and avoid having trust in God. We desire to have treasure so we can trust in ourselves instead of having to trust God. Treasures provide security. That's how we can see it. The pursuit of wealth is often an attempt to control our environment to the point that we have no need to rely upon God. We have it covered. We can trust in ourselves. We have enough resources so that it removes most of the uncertainty. We tend to like that better than trusting in God because really in our heart of hearts, we're not absolutely certain that our God will come through for us. He might leave us out in the cold. He may not meet our needs. He really might not be that trustable. But if we provide for ourselves, well, that's completely trustable. If I have 20 years of food and only hope to live for 10 years, I'm pretty good. I can sleep at night. I have no need to worry. That is fleshly thinking. That's thinking that we often gravitate toward Now look what Jesus says. Does he say, boy, I can understand your concern there? I have no problem with your pursuit of enough wealth so that you no longer need to worry about what you'll eat or drink or where. Now that's not what he says at all. He says this: don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moths and rusts destroy and where thieves break in and steal. Do not, that's what he says. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Jesus also said this, Luke 12, 15 through 21. He says, and he said to them, Take heed and beware of covetousness. For one's life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses. In other words, one's life does not consist of earthly treasure. Then he spoke a parable to them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man yielded plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do since I have no room to store my crops? So he said, I'll do this. I'll pull down my barns and build greater, and there I will store all my crops and my goods. And I'll say to my soul, Soul , You have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul will be required of you. And then whose will those things be which you have provided? So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. Look at this. Here in verse 15, Jesus is talking about identity. Your identity is not made up of what you own. Your value is not made up of your finances. You are not more important if you have more money, and you are not less important if you have less money The world might see you that way, but that is not how it is from God's perspective. Then he gives a parable that lays out what he's saying. Now, like so many things in scripture, I don't think the thing that the farmer did was as much the problem as why he did it. And with Jesus, we've been seeing this all along. There are lots of things. Fast, yeah, that's a good thing. Prayer, yeah, that's a good thing. But if you do it for the wrong reason, you might as well not even do it. Joseph built bigger barns, and that was God ordained. It was the right thing to do, it was God's plan. But this man built bigger barns, and it was the wrong thing to do. It was an evil thing to do, because he had a different reason. This farmer in the parable has his dilemma. He has too many crops. Now, is it a sin to build more barns? Is barn building a sin? You have to have one. You're not allowed to Could he not have done that in an effort to store more so he could have had more time to find people who needed this food? I think he could have. The building of the barn wasn't the problem. But just like the examples Christ gave earlier in the Sermon on the Mount. It's what they think that causes the problem. It's what they say to themselves. It's what they say to their soul And in this case, we find out what the man is thinking, who wants to build the parks, who wants to amass his wealth, who wants to store his treasure or his pleasure. Verse 19, and I will say to my soul, soul, you have many goods layed up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. That is the guy's self-talk. That is just the guy's self-talk. And our self-talk is some of the most important stuff about us. Where is God in any of his self-talk? Does he tell himself self? God has given you great abundance. Maybe you better ask God what he wants done with it. Maybe you might want to ask God, why did he give me this? Maybe you should study his word to find out what he says about goods and love. He could have said this. He said soul, he could have said, Now, soul, now that you have these resources and more financial freedom, how can you better serve the kingdom of God's purpose? What more can you now do to build a kingdom that you could not do before you had all this stuff? What needs can you now meet that you could not meet before? How can these goods be used to serve God? And look at this phrase, take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. This phrase lets us know what the man is living for. He's living for self. He's living for pleasure. And he who lives for pleasure is dead while he lives, Scripture says. Is it wrong to eat, drink, and be merry? No, we know it's not. Not at all. When it's done in relationship with Christ When we are thanking God for his provision and surrendering our lives to his lordship, Proverbs tells us that there is good in finding the simple joys in life when our lives are lived in the fear of the Lord. That's a good thing. The problem is not in the ease or the pleasure. The problem is that this is what this man is living for. There is no thy kingdom come to work God in this man. There is no thy will be done. It's all my kingdom come. It's all my will be done. There's the essence of the problem. I have a challenge for you. I hope to retire in a year and a half If after my retirement you don't see my life is used more for the kingdom of God, I challenge you to come to me and approach me with it. Get in my face about this. Ask me those questions. I'm afraid of this rich man's attitude. And I don't want it to happen to me. I don't want to be the man who says, so you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be married. Look what happened to this guy who stored up treasure for himself. Verse 20: But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will these things be to which you have provided? So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. This guy's life, the one thing the guy could not control, is snatched from him. All of his plans for pleasure, for the enjoyment of his treasure, are taken from him by the things that were out of his control. His focus was this life. His focus was on the few years he had on his planet. There was no concern about eternal reward, about treasure in heaven. Heaven was not even a consideration in this guy's financial plan And look at how it's worded. We see a steep contrast, he who lays up treasure for himself on earth, and he who is rich toward God. He who lives for his own temporary pleasure and he who lives for God's reward and eternal pleasure. That's really the issue. This man in the parable never reached the second half of Jesus' statement in verse 19, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. He didn't even get to that. He died. Are you afraid of what will happen if the economy crashes? If such a thing happens, every penny in your bank account could become worthless or next to worthless overnight. That's the reality of this planet. Are you afraid of that? That's the rust and moth of our present reality. And that is exactly why Christ was saying we should not store up earthly treasures. Bad stuff can happen that'll jerk everything that we've worked for out of our hands. That's what Martin Russ does. That's what he's talking about. That's what thieves take. I got a notice a while ago that I needed to remove my freeze on my Equifax account so that the credit card I applied for could be approved. I didn't apply for a credit card. Somebody got my information. Moth and rust and thieves are not going away as long as we live on this planet. They're ever-present dangers to wealth. And that's why Jesus warned us not to get too attached or dependent upon the stuff that can be taken from our hands. So, what's the point? All of us have a temptation to trust the provisions we provide for ourselves over the provisions that God provides for us. All of us have a temptation to trust the provisions we provide for ourselves over the provisions that God promises to provide for us. And nothing provides truth into what we trust. More than when those resources are threatened. It's easier to trust money in a bank account or money coming from a steady income stream than it is to trust God It's easier to trust what we have than what God promises. Sight is easier than faith It is more of our default position. It's more what we go to if we are not actively fighting the good fight. Jesus is saying that it's a great danger to allow our trust to get focused on worldly resources. It's okay to use those sources. But moth and rust and thieves can wipe it out in the day. So use it, but don't trust it. What a challenge that is. How hard that is. Use it, but don't trust it. If you trust it, you give it the power to derail your life if it's taken from you. You'll allow it to shipwreck your life. Moth, rust, and thieves are constant in this world. There are people running our current economic system that display a much greater concern for their personal well-being than the well-being of the financial system itself. And from God's perspective, that's okay. To a believer, this is not a shock. It's fulfilling his plan. We should expect as much. We should not allow our security to be hooked to anything in this world Our well-being is not tied to a successful financial policy by the current administration. Our jobs are not the source of our security. Our government is not the source of our security. Our health is not the source of our security. Our income stream is not the source of our security. Our God Is the source of our security. As we become more and more people who really believe this, we become dangerous people to this world. No one can jerk our chains. We need not ever live in the fear of what the powers that be are doing. We may need to know about them to help us make decisions, but they do not have the power to remove our security because they didn't give it in the first place. We don't fear moth or rust or thieves. We don't fear what our politicians can do to destroy our economy. Our God is bigger than all of them. Our God is who we trust. Our God is who will provide. Just a couple of quotes. Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to his purpose. Isaiah 41, 10. Fear not, for I'm with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. I think it would be good for us this week to prayerfully answer this question. What do I trust? What do I trust? What would someone listening in on my conversations and watching my use of time conclude about what I trust? For my security. How quickly do I worry when my finances are threatened? Also, what am I depending upon for my ultimate pleasure Is it the stuff and experiences that money can buy? Or is it God? These are the heart issues that Christ is addressing. These are treasure issues We're all putting treasure somewhere. All of us are. Our hearts are prone to fixate on something. Remember, our hearts are always idle factories. We produce them like Like a duck quacks. The question is, where are we laying our treasures up? Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it pierces our hearts, it shows us ourselves, it lights our path, and it uh It allows us to see our self-talk from your perspective Lord, we ask that you would help us to see our lives clearly, to see through all of the The cover that we produce for ourselves to justify ourselves. Show us what is really there, Lord. We ask this. Show us how we can trust you more fully, more glorifyingly to you. To live in such a way that you are our rock solid hope And the moth and the rust and the thieves, they're sort of a expected nuisance. Help us to live in a way that trusts you so much that we fully glorify you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.