The fake work. Does faith in God work? Does faith in Christ work? Does it really do it? Can it really be counted on when our world appears to be crumbling around us? Can our God really be relied upon to save us in the here and now? Every single one of our lives is a test to that very thing. And what it is tempting is what do we really believe? What do we really believe? Who do we really believe? Do we believe what God says, or do we believe what we see, what we feel, what our flesh tells us? I know that I'm hard at at times on this question, and I'm hard because I know this is where I fail. I know this is where my temptations are. And I assume we are alike in this. It seems to be that scripture. Has a lot to say about it. This is where I fail. This is where you fail. This is where we teach the world around us that Christ really cannot be trusted to save us. Oh, we have our creeds, and we have our spiritual statements, we have what we tell fellow church people. And we are well-informed church people. But how do we respond when the things most at our core are challenged? What do we do in our point of desperation? What do we do when we feel like screaming, or we feel like giving up, or we feel like panning? That is us. You look there, and that is what what you see there is what we really believe. That's who we really are. What happened to you this week or maybe this month? Where did you have a desperate moment or a severe temptation or a point where you felt like giving up? What did you do? Did you persevere? Did you tell the devil to hit the road because your God has provided everything that you need, like Jesus did when he was tempted? Did you trust your father to deliver you even though you were pushed to your limit? Like Jesus was? Did you decide to pay a price for those you love, even though it costs you something that was very hard to give up, like Jesus did? What we're going to see in our text in the next several weeks is what is what is open to us. As a believer, it's our option. In fact, it's our command. It is how we are to respond. In fact, what we will see is the response of real Christianity. We'll see how faith responds to crisis. If it doesn't look like our lives, it should. I'm tired of hearing my excuses for behavior that shows I really don't believe what God says. I'm tired of counsel that buys more into psychology books than the Word of God. I'm tired of our belief of the world's so-called sciences outweighing the Word of God in our lives I pray that the Holy Spirit convicts us all this morning by the examples of what God will do in the lives of people who simply believe and trust in God's promises. Isaiah 36 turns a corner in Isaiah. Up until now, Isaiah has been a very poetic book. But in 36 it turns into a history book For a chapter or two. It tells us an inside story of what happened in a political event based on the movements of world power in pursuit of conquest. We see human pride at its truest, and we see behind it the Prince in the power of the air. Government power is unmasked and we see who's pulling the puppet string. Our friend Mr. Ortland gives us a lot of insight into this text, and he says this if you always have to know where and what And when, and how, and so forth, all in advance, before you obey God, then you are not living by faith in God Living by faith in God accepts ambiguity without getting nervous, because God is the one in charge. Not knowing where, I know whom. That's Christianity. However, have you ever had a point where all you had was God? Where the only one you could cry out to is God? You saw that all your other go-tos had failed you. All of your efforts had let you down. Your way of making yourself happy failed. Do you remember what that was like? Or maybe you're in that this morning? Let me ask you when you were in this spot where all you had to trust in was God, where the only one you had to call out to is God. How did that work out for you? Maybe for some of us it's too soon to answer, but if it's been a while, I can pretty well guess what the report's going to be. It's the same as what it always is. God came through for you, didn't he? It was shocking how he provided, wasn't it? He gave him more than you would have expected, didn't he? This story is told over and over and over again by his people. And if we haven't come to that end yet, we will. One way or another, we will. And you know what the most surprising thing is? We seem to always be surprised. We seem to always be amazed. As if we're the first of God's people. To ever be loved by our city. Why is that? We're the densest people in the universe, you know? I think every one of us, if we if we tell the truth, if we look in the mirror, we think you are dense, you know, because of how slow we are to get the point. Again, Mr. Orton says, we come inevitably to those moments in life when nothing will suffice but what is directly and immediately of God After we've done all we can and should, and life demands of us still more, nothing but God Himself will suffice. Whatever your challenge may be right now, God is with you in it. Trust him. Look for him. He will not fail you. We need to keep our heads because other forces cloud our vision of God and complicate our thinking and pressure us not to take him at his word but to shave the radical edge off of our faith. There's always some voice whispering to us that God is not a resource, He is a problem. So the question before us is both profound and urgent Whose voice will we believe? Whose wisdom will we follow? Whose hope will we cherish and live for? In whom do we now trust? This is this was all about to be put put to test in our text. Our text tells us the historical background of this test. We've gone over this section before, and I laid out a lot of the historical background and all that. So you can refer back to that to uh previous sermons. But Hezekiah as a historical figure, the king of Israel, had been in time and space leading for fourteen years, consisting of the earth rotating all the way around the sun. This isn't a myth. It's history. It was then that Sennacherib, a real king in a real country of Assyria, came into Judah and started conquering cities. And he made it look easy. The enemy of God was sweeping the people of God. That is what you would have experienced looking at the news if you were in Jerusalem. And what were the people of God to do? What we see is a real threat. All of the commentators of news shows would have told us exactly what's going to happen. Of course, it has to happen. A Syria show like Hassan. That's what they would have said. No worldly thinking would have had a single doubt about that. It's a matter of numbers, it's a matter of science. Verse 4 gives us the great question for Hezekiah, and it gives up the real question about who we call We who call ourselves Christians, and it's really the the thrust of the sermon this morning. Then Rabshaka said to them, Say now to Hezekiah, thus says the great king, the king of Assyria What confidence is this in which you trust? What confidence is this in which you trust? We've learned from Isaiah that this is the million dollar question in any follower of God. Who do we really trust? Really? There are times when simply ascribing to a certain doctrine will not cut the muscle. There are times when the forces against us, whether internal or external or both, challenge us to really put our money where our mouth is. And those who are closest to us will see the truth, the real truth of our beliefs. They'll see if we really trust God or if we're just believing our own lies about ourselves. In the face of our greatest temptation, our greatest desires, our greatest compulsions, our greatest fears, what really holds up? What do we really, really believe? What confidence is this in which you trust? Great question. This was the first challenge that Rab Shekha gave. He didn't ask, what is your tradition or what is your doctrine? Those are things of the head. He asked, what do you really have confidence in? And he was about to tell these people that their trust was mistaken. That's the devil. It was badly blamed. Isn't that what the devil is always about in our lives? He'll say, look, you trusted God to protect you from such and such. You trusted God to give you such and such a thing. You gave up so much, and for what? Did God make it easy for you? Did God make it pleasurable for you? Did God reward your trust with all the things that your flesh craves? The devil will point to God and say, he is holding out on you. He doesn't want you to have the best. In our text, Rabshach appeared to have the keys of life and death in his hands. If you were any any bystander, you would have said, That team, that team's gonna win, because they have the power. Carla and I recently watched a movie about Churchill, and in it you can see why the leaders wanted to sign a peace treaty with Hitler. Hitler was threatening England with death and destruction, and they did not have the resources to stand up against him. He appeared to hold all the cards. Well in our text, Jerusalem was facing an enemy that was even more threatening than Hitler was to England. To understand the text, we have to put our imaginations to good use. And this is a good use for imagination. Imagine the strain these people were under when they would climb up and look out over their uh their uh walls. And all they could see were enemy troops that had taken over every city that they had gotten to before then. Imagine the threat they were facing. It makes any strain that we're facing look puny. These people would have traded their worst fear for ours in a heartbeat. Verse 5, I say you speak of having plans and power for war, but they are mere words. Now, in whom do you trust that you rebel against me? Ramshack was trying to demoralize these Judeans. He was saying, you've got a theoretical plan. You have ideas. You have your songs and your words on paper, but open your eyes. I have over 150,000 trained troops at the walls. You can have all your songs and beliefs. You have a God that you can't see and can't prove. Well, that's all well and good for fairy tales to tell the kids at bed at bedtime. But open your eyes. This is reality. Are you really going to trust in that which you cannot see to deliver you from the threat right in front of your eyes Isn't that often the threat that we face? Isn't that often the lie we believe, or at least are tempted to? Oh yes, I could trust God to give me a mate, but I look around me and I see what works, and I can accomplish this for myself with the world's methods. So we go about in our way. Or oh yes, God says he will take care of me, but look at everything that could go wrong. I'm going to build up the funds so I'll be safe and secure. Or, oh yes, God says that He will protect me, but I am not sure He'll do it the way I want Him to, so I must worry. The point is, our faith has to be more than words. It has to be more than creeds. We really must trust this God, this dangerous God, we say we believe in to do these actual things that he says he will do. Our creeds and beliefs cannot be mere words to us. Our beliefs cannot be mere doctrines. We must cling to God as if He is our only resource. It's then that we will see God show off in our lives. It is then that God shows off who He is. In our lives. It's then that we will see the amazing happen. If we trust ourselves in our plans, we may actually get some things that flesh can gain. But it'll never be amazing. It'll never be breathtaking. It'll never be satisfying. But when you trust an omnipotent God, all bets are off. You never know how he might show himself off in your life. When the Israelites did it, the neighboring countries told stories about for 40 years. And they would shudder every time they told the story. That's how God likes to show off from time to time Then verse 6, look, you are trusting in the staff of this broken reed Egypt, on which if a man leans it will go into his hands and pierces. So is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to all who trust in him Have you ever, as a Christian, tried to use a worldly strategy to get what you wanted, only to have a non-believer point to you that you are you're just like they are? They look at you and they think you're just like me. You're trying to accomplish the same thing the same way. Have you ever tried an earthly strategy? You get what you want only to be embarrassed by how ineffective it was That's what these Judeans did. Remember? They tried their hand at the end world. And they were just foolish buffoons paying a tremendous price and receiving nothing of value. They did it twice. They went to Egypt for political help, didn't get it. Then they tried to buy off the enemy with their the gold and stuff from their temple. Strike two. Failed again You know what that is when that happens in our lives? It's a blessing. We should all thank God when we fail at the interesting. When we fail at being world. If we were successful, that would be the worst possible thing that could happen to us. But when our Egypts let us down, when our earthly strategy to take care of ourselves falls flat, that is a severe and wonderful mercy. To believers. Think about it. If Egypt would have come through for Jerusalem, what would have happened to Jerusalem? They may have completely abandoned their God because they saw how effective their plans were at covering their own stuff. And if our worldly strategies had worked at giving us what we crave, we may have done the same thing. We may have relied the rest of our life on our worldly strategies. Praise God that our foolishness and faithless strategies fail. And the more horrific they fail, the better. Verse 7 But if you say to me, We trust in the Lord our God, is it not He whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away and said to Judah and Jerusalem, You shall worship before this altar? This is tricky. This is really tricky. Look at this carefully. The world never understands true worship You can pretty well count on that. Their critiques of Christians are very rarely well placed I remember a man who told me that our church does not stand a chance because Mike doesn't stand at the back of the church and shake everyone's hand when they leave. This was a while ago. The criticism is always inaccurate. Ramshaka 's criticism was that Hezekiah had removed the real worship of God. So you better not trust in that God because he's already wiped out the real worship of him. Well, we know that removing the high place was only the removal of false worship. He was strengthening true worship. Our world today does the same thing. When Christians stand for what God says, the world will criticize us as standing against God for so-called hating people. Who cling to the sins that God condemns. And it's the devil who's heading this charge. Nothing else sins. That's the beauty when you see in scriptures over and over again the same thing. Nothing has changed. The devil, after all, was for idol worship. That's what he wanted. Rabch would not have known this. He was just a pathy, but that's how the devil works, and nothing has changed. Hezekiah was calling people to true worship. He was getting it right. And the world was going to attack that at every front. It was going to pin the reason on their hatred to that very thing. They would have loved the church if it wasn't so restricted. And their criticisms ahead sky, you know, you might God might work for you if you if you'd really allow continual worship of them when it was really false worship. Now, there's also something else at work here. Rab Shakka probably knew that not everyone was happy with Hezekiah removing the idol worship. Because you can remove the idols, but that doesn't remove the worship. So you probably have a lot of people there who wanted their idols back. They wanted to continue to worship the way that they were, but it was illegal. They weren't allowed to, you know. All the items were destroyed and they weren't likely to say, Hey, I uh I I make a movement that we uh start that back up again What Ravshaka was likely saying was an attempt to foam some discontent with the idol worshippers that missed their idols Because he's speaking so they can hear him and he's basically saying this, you know, over the wall. Maybe it was a veiled offer to them that things would change if Assyria was in charge. You could have your idols back He was trying to create division in the ranks, very likely. Verse 8. Now, therefore, I urge you, give a pledge to my master, the king of Assyria, and I'll give you two thousand horses If you're able on your part, put writers on them. Here's what the world always offers. You can count on it. You get a tough spot. This is what the world offers: self-salvation. Follow the enemy, and you will get the thing that will save you. Here's the answer right here. You have right now. What is it that you feel you must have in your life? Just surrender yourself to the king of this world and he'll give you your heart's desire. That's the lie. The price for this deal always comes later. It's never advertised in advance. It's in the small print. It's the car payment one can't afford that comes just a few months after one gets the car of their dreams. It's the regret one carries for relationships that should have never been entered. It's the penalty one pays for temporary pleasures of many kinds. Just give in, the enemy says, and all kind of wonders will be yours. You can have what you want right now. Just eat the fruit, the snake says, and you'll have the knowledge of good and evil. Nothing has changed. Just worship me, the devil says to Christ, and I will give you this world. Nothing has changed. What Rabshaka was offering would be the equivalent of fighter jets in our day. He was offering political security. He was appealing to the appetite of the populace And he was doing it where everyone would hear. Now, this was going to put a lot of pressure on the leadership. The people's heads were being filled with a less costly alternative than trusting God. It had the appearance of freedom, but it was not freedom at all. Again, that is so much like the devil continually offers to us. There is no freedom to be found in submitting to the devil. It is always slavery. And it's a slavery that leads to destruction. Believers in Christ are slaves. But it's the slavery that leads to reward and the freedom from sin. Everybody's a slave. It's just who are you slave to? And what are you a slave for? Verse 9, how then will you repel one captain of the least of my master's servants and put your trust in Egypt for chariots and horses? So Rabjack circles around to the idea that the desperate measures of Judea are not panning out. They are not having a good outcome. He is taunting their ineffectiveness of the leadership and the hopelessness of his situation. He's appealing to cite what you can see and touch and reason But he's not taking into consideration the fact that there is a powerful God that we cannot see and cannot touch that is beyond reason. Fleshly speaking, Rabchaka was correct. But speaking in reality, he was completely and utterly and eternally wrong. Verse 10, have I now come up without the Lord against this land to destroy it? The Lord said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it. Now he turns the corner on ignorance and arrogance. He starts talking as if he is God's buddy, like he has God in his pocket. He talks like he has the inside corner on who God is and what God wants. Again, there is nothing new. Our world is telling us all the time about how what we believe isn't representing God so well. Most of us have at least experienced that or seen it or heard it. We believe a Bible that talks about a God who hates sin so much and loves his people so much that destroying a whole community of people is no big deal in comparison. We see a miniature picture of that in the Old Testament. We've talked about that in Sunday school. And how that doesn't settle with people make fun of the God of the Old Testament. A frightening thing to do. But they make fun of this God and they say, you know, God is uh has transformed into a much better God into the New Testament. Same God, same hatred, sin, different circumstances. And we'll see it on steroids on the final judgment day. God will ultimately destroy sin in every single individual who loves it. The world tells us this isn't like God. They form a vision of God that's for humankind and anything that humankind wants to do. They tell us that God would not pronounce judgment on anything that would make humans happy temporarily. And we hear those taunts and we know the speakers have, they know nothing of God. The people over here in Rapshaka and who knew God would have thought the same thing. Anyone can imagine what God should be like, but know what God is like, and it is based on what God Has clearly said about himself. It's quite likely that God inspired the king of Assyria to attack Jerusalem. But it was only so that the God of the universe could show off his power once more. God did not send Rabshak to destroy Jerusalem like Rabchac declared. I know God is no, he sent me, by the way. Well he didn't. He didn't send him to destroy Jerusalem. He sent him to destroy the Assyrian army and to show off. That truth would be displayed just hours from the time that this was spoken. Verse 11. Then Eliakim, Shebnah, and Joah said to the Rabshaka , Please speak to your servants in the Aramaic language, for we understand it, and do not speak it to us in Hebrew in the hearing of the people. Aramaic was evidently the language that was understood in the you know various areas, but Hebrew was only stood understood by um by the the the uh Hebrews, by the Jewish people. So uh Do you remember what David said when he heard the taunts of Goliath? In 1 Samuel 17, 45 through 47. It says, And David said to the Philistines, You come to me with a sword, with a spear, and with a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defiled. This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you and take your head from you, which I may have thought was fairly important. And this day I will give you the carcasses of the camp of the Philistines to the birds of the air and the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. Then all this assembly shall know that the Lord does not save with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. Those who have faith in God do not need to silence the smears of the enemy. Because they don't see them as having any weight. There's his words from impotent worldlings. Those who have faith are content to pronounce what God will do and why he will do it. There are plenty of godless people proclaiming godless ideas, even on our little campus at Europe. Christians don't have to shrink back there or anywhere else. Our God will one day settle that score. For sure. No question. And he will do that because he does exist, and he rewards those who please him and punishes those who reject him. God is not reliant upon the things that the devil offers, and his people should not be either. Why would we need man's horses when Christ will ride a heavenly white horse into battle? Why do we need men's chariots when God has chariots of fire that fly? Why do we want tokens that the devil will throw at us to win our allegiance and steal our attention when God has pleasures that last forever with no regret? Why would we need 2,000 horses when one angel can kill 180,000 men in one evening? Really? Eliakim, Hashibna, and Joah tried to silence the threats of the enemy. That was futile. It actually gave the enemy more credibility than he should have had. David would not have asked him to please be more polite and considerate. David would have told Rabshaka that he'd better prepare to meet his mate. Elikah and Meshidna and Joab gave a political response, but what they needed was a faith response, a spiritual response. We sometimes wish the enemies of God would shut up. That would make us a lot more comfortable, wouldn't it? But God isn't real interested in our temporary comfort. Maybe we have gathered that over time. He is more interested in the mission that he gave his children to do. Maybe the enemy's taunts were given to us so that we would stand up like David and represent our God in those settings. Maybe they are in our lives for a very specific purpose. Don't pray that the taunts will end. Stand up and proclaim what God says as you have opportunity to do so. Stand for Him. That may be what the taunts are there for. God may just want to show off one more time. We're going to take this text up again next week, but this week we really need to answer the question: who am I really trusting in my life? What am I really trusting in my life? When my life looks like it's about to fall apart, when everything I love is threatened. When panic and fear and dread seem to be the logical reaction, where do I look? When you answer that question, you found your operational savior, no matter what your doctrine says, is your operational savior in Egypt? A worldly answer, a worldly strategy, something you can accomplish with your own two hands? Or is it spiritual? Is it God? Is it something you cannot see or feel or touch, but you know it's real and you trust it with your life? That is our real doctrine. We find our real doctrine by what we trust to save us. Who do we trust? It's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you save us. We thank you that you have brought so many of our plans to not to get our attention. That our gland don't work. Our flesh doesn't work. Nothing will save us but you. The salvation we ultimately need comes only from your hand. And the quicker we adjust, the better. We thank you, Lord God, that that is how you are, and that you are so kind to send us the severe mercies of our failures and our frustrations To get us to look to you, to trust in you, and to believe that your reward is coming. We know it's coming, Lord. We thank you. We praise you. We know that's like you. Your reward is coming. We just don't know when or where, except that we know eternally we will experience it. If we're yours, we thank you so much for your word and for its effect in our lives and help us to operationally trust you. And look for your salvation this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.