We're actually going to cover two passages this evening in the uh well that's gonna be hard to get used to. In in the text uh the text that we're in. I drove a good part of the day and I don't always function at my best after that, so you might have to bear with me. Okay, uh Mark, starting with Mark 8. 22. The Bible has a lot to say about blindness. Christ cured physical blindness many times. And it's very encouraging to read. I don't know if if when you read it, you uh it's easy to to get used to the passage to where it it doesn't touch you anymore. But as you think about The ability that Christ has to heal physical blindness. It should be very encouraging to us. What a dreadful curse uh or taste of the curse physical blindness is. To be robbed of experiencing the beauty of creation is a real loss. Yet it's one that a lot of people face. Jason Van Dorsten is looking at that happening to him someday So Scripture prophesies that Christ will actually heal people from blindness. In the Old Testament, it tells us The following passage is probably talking about the millennial reign of Christ, but see what it says here in Isaiah 35, 4 through 6. Isaiah 35, 4 through 6. It says, say to those who are Are fear fearful hearted. Be strong, do not fear. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the rec recompense of God, he will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped, then the lame shall leap like a deer, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing, for waters shall burst forth in the wilderness and streams in the desert Now, isn't this exactly what Christ has been doing in the Gospel of Mark? Other than maybe the streams in the desert, depending on how that's taken. When Christ runs his government one day We're told here this is what it's going to look like. During Christ's ministry on earth, he showed that he has the absolute power over the current effects of sin and the curse. He displays his ability to deliver upon his promises of an eternity where none of these things are going to ever hurt us again. Every miracle is designed to grant us hope that one day we will live in an existence where we experience the full beauty of God and what He's created without a single hindrance or obstacle. There will be no one blind, no one lame, no one deaf. We won't be having the type of prayer requests that we have now. There'll be no illness and no prolonged suffering. And even better still Relationships will not be destroyed or damaged by sin. Our fellowship will be sweet and lasting. We'll no longer need to be suspicious of others or watchful of our own motives or actions. What a sweet thing that will be. We can't even imagine that. We're just so used to it. Oh, bring that day on. We view death as an enemy, and so it is, but Christ has taken away that sting for the one who knows him and is known by him. That's why Scripture can say, Psalms 116-15, precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. We don't find it so precious, but he does, and that's a wonderful thing. We find, like Paul, that there are more considerations than just our benefit when we weigh the virtues of death and resurrection. But every believer can know that when God chooses for us to take that journey, the world that journey ends in is far better than where it originated. We of all people can hope. We have a solid hope. Now back to our text. Verse 22. Then he came to Beth Seda, and they brought out a blind man to him and begged him to touch him. Betheda was a town at the northern tip of the Sea of Galilee. We've been getting a pretty good uh lesson here about about the the geography in this this general area. This was the Jewish area, and we don't know who the they are in this text, but someone brought this man to Jesus and then they begged him to touch the man We see by now the crowds recognized that Christ could do it. They recognized him as being the go-to person for healing. They believed he could do this miracle based on all the things that they've seen him do so far. Now, maybe they thought Christ had to touch the man to heal him, since that's normally how Christ did it. But basically, they bring this man to be healed. And then verse 23, so he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. A good question here is: why did Christ take the man out of the town? The answer is we don't know. We've seen Christ remove people from the crowd before, and normally we're not told why Maybe it's for the sake of Christ's ministry to this individual. He wants to do it in private. That could be. Maybe he led the man out To dri to avoid the dramatics that are stirred up if the crowd sees the miracle, which I think is pretty likely. But in this case this evening, there may have been an additional reason Look at what Christ says about the town that he is currently ministering in in Luke 10, 13 and 14. It says, Woe to you, Beth Seda! So he's addressing the town, the people in it, and says, Woe to you, Beth Seda, for if the miracles had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago. Sitting in sackcloth and ashes. But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you. It could be that for the most part, Christ was fed up with these people. They'd seen his miracles and still found a way to reject Christ. He knew that when he was done with the miracles, these people would just turn right around and reject him again. They would not believe him. Their disbelief was incurable. We need to recognize something about the character of God here. A person cannot keep hearing the good news of Christ. They can't keep hearing how to be right with God. How to incorporate for oneself the sacrifice of Christ without properly responding to it. There's a price to pay for that kind of hardness, that kind of determined blindness, that kind of rejection. This town of Bethsaida had crossed this line. They were never going to respond to God's call on their lives, no matter what Christ did. That's essentially what he's saying. Now how about us? Are we like the people in Bethsaim? Do we see and hear of God's grace and glory over and over and over again, and it has no effect on our beliefs or our behaviors? Or do we quickly bend our knees to God as we find new ways that require our submission? New ways that we are sinning against him, new ways that we're rebelling against God's Holy Spirit, and new ways that we can please him. What kind of children are me? Are we? God is extremely patient with his children, but he doesn't play games with those who choose disbelief. When we talk about the love of God, we've got to keep his love in perspective with his hatred of sin. He said this this what he said to Beth Seda for a reason. And it it it it displays his character. So Christ took the man out of the city, and when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything. And he looked up and he said, I see men like trees walking. We can tell by this man's response that he was probably not born blind. He could recognize shapes. If you were blind, you wouldn't know what a tree looked like. So he probably had lost his sight sometime during his life. We see again that Christ used his spit in the process of healing. Now That's odd. I mean that's just odd. If we saw that happen, we we would I think all of us respond a little bit uh um appalled. But for whatever reason Christ did it. Um I've read that their culture would have understood that spit had something to do with healing. It was conveying something of Christ's to something in the healed party. And so they would have assumed that, you know, he was in the act of healing. But we really don't know, and scripture doesn't tell us. But there's a bigger mystery in the scripture. Why did Christ only partially heal this man at first? I think this is the only place that Christ does such a thing. John Calvin said he did it this way simply because Christ is God and he's showing that he can do what he wants to do, however he wants to do it. Maybe that's it. Maybe that's the point. We can't figure him out. He's beyond figure Some faith healers have used this event to give credence to a gradual healing over time that goes along with supernatural healing So essentially they can say, you're healed, you don't look like you get give me time to get out of town, and it will keep happening, and and you just go by faith. That's that's essentially how they get off the hook. But uh this wasn't like that. This wasn't a week or a year, it was just a few minutes, and when Christ left the guy, the guy could fully see Christ did all things well, remember? So if someone isn't fully healed on the spot, it might be a still be a supernatural healing, but it is not a reflection of the way that Christ did things. Then verse 25. Then he put his hands on his eyes again and made him look up, and he was restored and saw everyone clearly. That's how Christ does the job. The wording here implies that the man could see into the distance clearly. This is better than Lysac. This man can see perfectly now. Verse 26, then he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town nor tell anyone in the town. Here could be another reason that Christ took the man out of the town and dealt with him privately. By being outside of the town to begin with, he could send the man home in such a way as to avoid all contact with the townspeople. That's quite likely a reason too. We see that Christ has given this final instruction, the instruction to keep it all a secret, more and more often. He doesn't want the crowds following for the wrong reasons, and he doesn't want the religious leaders badgering him more fiercely. He has work to do, and he doesn't want any more distraction than he already has. That's what it appears. Now, to the rest of our text. Christ has healed physical blindness. Now we're about to see what spiritual blindness and spiritual sight look like. And it's quite likely that these two texts were put together for that very purpose. It's the theme of blindness. Mark 8, 27 through 30. Now Jesus and his disciples went out of the towns of Caesarea Philippi, and on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. And he said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him. Alright, first let's learn a little bit about Caesarea Philippi. I don't know if I'm saying that right. On uh on a map, if you were to travel from the northern tip of the Sea of Galilee, a lot uh kind of the Sea of Galilee is the central point that you you can picture almost everything from Now we're at the northern tip of the Sea of Galilee and we go 15 to 20 miles north and then uh and then if we were to go west 15 to 20 miles you would get to Tyre If you were uh to go five miles to the east, you would end up at Caesarea Philippi. So It's it's way up there. It the first trip he went was about the same, whatever that is, latitude. But the uh this trip he went right instead of left, sorta Alright, and this is some more from John MacArthur's book about the place. It was located near the ancient town, Israelite town of Dan. about 40 to 50 miles southwest of Damascus, situated at the foot of Mount Hermon, near a large spring that fed the Jordan River. So if you follow the Jordan River up, you end up at this spring Caesarea Philippi was originally named Panaeus after the Greek deity Pan. That's the mythical half-go half-man famed for his flute playing. When Philip the Tetrarch inherited the territory from his father, Herod the Great, he greatly enlarged this city. And then he named it Caesarea in honor of Caesar Augustus. To distinguish it from another city named Caesarea, that was Caesarea Maritima, located west of Jerusalem on the Mediterranean coast. The city became known as Caesarea Panius or Caesarea Philippi, or Philippi, so called in honor of Philip the Tetrarch. The city itself was largely populated by Gentiles and thus filled with pagan idols. By again journeying outside of Galilee, Jesus and the apostles enjoyed a reprieve from the oppressive crowds. The antagonistic religious leaders and the threat posed by Herod Antipas. Mark explains that it was while while they were on their way to that region, so they're walking up this uh This valley. It's while they're on their way that the conversation recorded in these verses took place. So Christ asked, Who do men say that I am? Who do men say that I am? The word that Christ chose for men or people refers to mankind as a group. He was asking, who does the man on the street say that I am? Who do the people in these crowds? What's the general consensus about who I am? This is an objective question. It'll show maybe how in tune the disciples were with public opinion. It might show their attentiveness to the conversations that they've been hearing, to the gossip they've been hearing. So they began to tell Christ what they've heard. We can imagine Peter starting out. We don't know that he did, but he probably did. And as he finishes, each disciple chimes in with what they've heard. It would have been an interesting conversation , allowing the disciples a voice. We would see it as kind of good banter as they walked along in a probably grueling walk. And verse 28. So they answered John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others say the prophets. One of the prophets. We know that Herod Antipas viewed Christ as John the Baptist. We've already gone over that. John the Baptist reincarnated. He saw Christ through his own guilt. We don't know if there were others that regarded Christ as such, but that was the first answer to the question. Who do people say that I am? Well, first one I can recall. is uh John the Baptist. Then after that they mentioned that some people regard Christ as Elijah. Now based on Old Testament scripture, the Jews expected Elijah to show up before Christ. Because it was prophesied that such a thing would happen. Some asked John the Baptist if he was the Elijah. And John said no. Christ said that he was. It's likely that while John was not the Elijah brought back from the dead, that he served the purpose of Elijah and fulfilled that part of prophecy. So yes he was, no he wasn't. That's one of those things in scripture, looks like an apparent contradiction, but it's not So for some to think that Christ is Elijah may have displayed that some people were truly and sincerely trying to figure out how Christ fit into these messianic prophecies. If they only had partial information, thinking of Jesus as Elijah may have been a very good start. It may have been a very honest, sincere effort to say from the Old Testament, what's going on They had to go further, they couldn't stop there, but it may have been as far as they could go, knowing only partial information. Others said that he's one of the prophets. Now we're in the Jewish tradition. And Jewish traditions had arisen that said that one of the prophets would arise and would return with the Ark of the Covenant when the Messiah's kingdom was established No basis for that in the Old Testament, but that's what they said. So the disciples exhaust their information about who the crowds think that Christ is, and that's interesting conversation Everyone can be in on that. It's pretty comfortable. But what they reveal shows the blindness of the masses. Remember we're talking about blindness, the blindness of the masses. They don't mention that any of the masses believes the right answer. They're like the man at the beginning of our text. They're blind, but they're spiritually blind, which is much worse. You and I know all kinds of things about what our society thinks about Christ. We've seen it in the news, we've complained to each other about how how uh unfair and unrealistic and how idiotic much of their views are It makes for interesting conversation. But it reveals very little about us. Then Christ asked the million-dollar question. He said to them Who do you say that I am? Who do you say that I am? You know, it really doesn't matter what anyone else thinks about Christ. At the end of the day, at the end of time It only matters what you believe about Christ. The way this sentence is structured in Greek, the emphasis is on the word you. Who do you say that I am? And we've got to ask that question this morning. Who do we say that Christ is? Who do you say? Ultimately, what you believe about Christ is the most important thing about you. There are a lot of things you can say in answer to this question. There are lots of ways to say what Christ is to us, and there are lots of accurate things that we could add. But it ultimately reduces down to one of two answers. Christ is God and worthy of worship. Or Christ is not God and not worthy of worship. Christ is God, which demands that we respond to his call upon our lives. Or Christ is not God, in which case what we think about him has very little significance to us. Nice teacher, whatever. Which do we believe about Christ? Do we believe Christ is God? If so The next question is obvious. Do we surrender our life to his control as if he is Christ? Have you received from Christ what he has done on the cross is the only thing that can save you from your sins? Have you understood his right? to rule your life. Have you said, yes, Lord, I will follow you. I'll quit trying to rule my own life and I'll submit to your rule of my life, even in the places I'm not real fond about. Do you realize what that when you say that Jesus is God, if you really believe it, those obedient responses are absolutely necessary. You can't truly believe that Jesus is Lord without submitting to Jesus as your Lord. Now think about this. Put yourself in the disciples' shoes. They had grown up with expectations of a political savior to rescue the Jews from the political grasp of Rome. They probably thought of the Jewish leadership that they currently had as being the channel that that future leader would take over. to accomplish his ends. They probably thought, well the Pharisees and Sadducees are going to be the guys that he uses to bring to initiate this. Now he's going to shake things up. There's no doubt about that. He's going to fix those guys. But that's where it's going to come from. They certainly didn't widely believe that the Messiah would be a suffering servant. That was foreign to them. So these disciples are with Christ. And they've watched. They've watched as he has distanced himself from the Jewish leadership, both figuratively and literally. He's done everything to avoid using the crowd's passions for a political end. He's not met their expectation of what a messiah would be. In fact, he seems to be doing everything. to make sure that he won't be one. But on the other hand, they're seeing they're seeing all of this, and they're seeing, on the other hand, they've watched him do the impossible on a regular basis. The waves stop when he says that they should stop. Blind men see. Dead men come to life. Absolutely miraculous things. Things you cannot explain except anyway, but the power of God And he's spoken when he has preached and taught. He has spoken as one with true authority. So what do the disciples believe about Christ after having seen all this? What are they going to say? Peter answered him and said to him, You are the Christ. In Matthew 16, 16, it records Peter's full response, and there Peter says, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. This had to be a high point in Christ's ministry. Oh, he knew who these guys were, just like he knows us. He knew they were going to be idiots at times. He knew that they could not be dependent upon. In fact, he knew that the next encounter with Peter would have Peter giving Christ advice from the devil. That's all true. But they knew and believed that Jesus was the Christ The Messiah, and that he was the Son of God. He was God and man. Oh, they didn't have all the fine points, correct? They were missing a lot of details. We'll see that on and on. But but they got the one point that's most important to get The understand this evening that this is the issue you've got to have right in your life. Get this issue right. Everything else will eventually fall into place. Get this issue right. When I was a little kid, I used to think that I wasn't good enough to be a Christian. I used to think that God didn't want me because I wasn't good enough. And I tried to be good, but I knew I couldn't, and I knew that I kept failing. And I kept thinking that I would never be good enough for God to receive me. And I was right. I never would be. Or will be. Ever. Good enough to win God's favor. But one day I finally got the point. The real turning point in salvation is not found in what we do. It's found in what we believe. Really believe. Gut level believe. With all our heart believe. Jesus had encountered people with the wrong ideas earlier in our story in John 6, 26 through 29. Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs. But because you ate of the loaves and were filled, don't labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you Because God the Father has set his seal on him. Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? Where to come up with that? What should we do to do the works of God? These people are essentially asking, how can we be good enough to deserve salvation? How can we, just as we are, help God out in his plan? How can we join in on this? How can we join up with him to do these spiritual acts? We can see they had the wrong mindset. So Jesus responds to them in a way that instantly addresses the issue Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God. If you're asking me about how to do the work of God, this is the work of God. You believe in the one he sent. Believe in him whom he sent. Many of us have been believers for a long time. But if we aren't careful, wrong thinking always creeps back in. If we're a child of God, what we do matters a whole lot. It matters a whole lot. But it matters a whole lot because actions are an indication of what we really believe. Our actions are revealing what our beliefs are, and what we believe is the most important thing about us. The most important thing in each of us is how we regard Christ. But it's more than our correct creeds, and we say this over and over again, but we need to say it over and over again. It's i in what we really believe. Do we really believe that his blood has completely paid for every sin that we will ever commit? Do we really believe he is all-knowing and all-loving and all-powerful? Do we really believe our lives encounter problems because he has a purpose in us experiencing those problems? How we respond reveals what we believe. When we look at the life decisions in front of us, and all of us. We all have our varied struggles. We all have our varied life decisions in front of us. When we look at them, do we really believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God? Are we acting congruently? Are we acting as if that's true? Are we acting as if we believe it? If we do, if we really believe that, we'll find out what Christ wants And that'll be the primary consideration. If we really believe that Jesus is the true Messiah, the true ruler of the universe, how could we respond any other way? If we really believe it. Any other response would show that we don't believe that Christ is either fit or authorized to rule our lives. What do you in your heart of hearts really believe about Christ? What does your life display about that belief? What do you in your heart of hearts really believe about Christ? What did today show about what you really believe About Christ. Who do you say that I am? Then our last verse. Verse 30. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him The word Christ used for warn here is a very strong word for admonition or rebuke. It would be the kind of thing that when your parents said it, you knew you better not cross it. That's the tone we're looking for. But you know what? This is a command that does not apply to us at all in any way today. Does that please you? We are not told to keep what Christ has done for us a secret. We are not told to keep the truth about Christ's identity a secret from anyone In fact, we're told to share with everyone the good news of Jesus Christ. He is the Messiah. He is the Son of God. He is our Savior. And He has taken our sin upon Himself in order that we can be forgiven from sin and live with him forever. So if you want to disobey a a command in Scripture, here's the one. Disobey this one, because it wasn't given to you. Share with everyone the good news of Christ. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that That you revealed the truth, that you opened the eyes of the apostles And they sh you showed them your glory. You showed them your identity. And that they saw it. And they didn't see it because they were smart or good. But they saw it because you did a miracle in their hearts. We thank you if we're here before you as your children that you've done the same thing in us. But Lord, we revert back so easily to wrong thinking and wrong living. We ask that you would help us to challenge who we say you are Especially with our lives. And that we would say with our lives that which our mouths are so quick to say. Jesus is Lord. fully deserving, worthy of glory and honor and power forever. We ask that you would use this small group of people here. To further glorify yourself and win people to yourself. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.