Some of you might think this is very unusual for our church. A Christmas sermon at Christmas. Cool to thunk it. Well, the topic I originally scheduled for today was the spiritual warfare of a Christian. And I thought just in case we might get any visitors, maybe a different topic would be a little more encouraging. I'll start with a disclaimer. We know that Christ was not actually born on December the 25th. He was probably born sometime in the springtime. The Catholic Church came up with a date for Christ's birth using less than reputable motives. But nonetheless, Christ did come, and most of us celebrate his birth on this arbitrary date. His birth is certainly worth celebrating, even if one never assigns a date to it Now, Christ came. Our text from Matthew says that this baby that is to be named Jesus will save his people from their sins. He will be God with us. And so God came to us, and he will save his people from their sins. That's what's emphasized in the text. Christ came for the salvation from sin. And this isn't the only place that's mentioned as his primary purpose And look at a few other scriptures. We'll be looking this morning primarily at scriptures that use the word come or cane. And primarily the words of Christ about his coming or the words about Christ about his coming Luke 5. 32 says, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repent. I have not come. To call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. So I have come to call sinners to repentance. Luke 19, 10, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. He came To do this, to seek and save the lost. Galatians 3. 24. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came in order that we might be justified by faith. Christ came that we might be justified by faith. 1 Timothy 1. 15 says, the saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the foremost. Now, why is this rescue from sin? So core to Christ's mission. It's not the only thing He came to do. Calling sinners to repentance Saving the lost, justifying people who were not justified, to save sinners. This is all saying the same thing in those verses. It's all saying the same thing. And I think we can understand it like this Suppose I had a very expensive and effective cure for cancer, and you were diagnosed with a lethal fast-acting cancer. Now, I am very rich. So I can give you world travel, I can give you a new house, I can give you an income stream for life, or I can cure cancer If you can pick only one thing, what would you pick? And you'd probably pick the cancer cure, because without it, nothing else has any value to you Your life needs saved before any of the other benefits, no matter how expensive, no matter how extravagant, will be useful to you That's just like us. For us, sin is the big enemy. Sin is the thing that will doom us eternally. Sin will take our lives away. Sin's the enemy we can't beat. Sin is the thing that robs us from ever experiencing the rest of God's gifts. If God were to give us health, wealth, and happiness without saving us from our sin problem, we would be left in a desperate spot. When we see our lives clearly, we would trade every other benefit so that we could finally have a relationship with God without guilt. We would long to be clean of sin experientially and to be free of its guilt legally More than any other gift that God could give us. In fact, we'd sort of feel like if He didn't give us that, no matter what else He gave us, we were ripped off. Because that's what we need Sin is the barrier that keeps us from that which we need most. But we could not appreciate the gift of having our sins forgiven. Until we realize the enormity of the problem that we had. Just like the cancer patient who doesn't know he has cancer, he would have originally gladly chosen any of the other gifts. The cure would not have been significant to him. The cancer cure would have no importance to him until he understood that he had cancer and it was going to kill him without a cure. If Christ left heaven and came to earth as a baby to grow up, minister for three years. To die an agonizing death, to be buried, and to raise on the third day. If Christ did all that primarily to meet the sin need , We have really got to conclude that the sin need is our greatest need, our most primary need, our most desperate need. At some point, every believer has to come to grips with that truth. Maybe God doesn't begin his work of drawing us to himself at that point. But he must get us to that point. And it's not so we can grovel in our sin. The point is really, and grasp this, the the point is really That we need to see the huge chasm between the holiness of God and the sinfulness of sin itself The holiness of God and the sinfulness of sin. The point is not that I am the greatest sinner and the most awful person. The point is really just that I am the sinner. In this relationship with God, I am the sinner. Like the tax collector prayed. The ground truly is level at the foot of the cross. We're all in the same boat at the foot of the cross. When we grasp the goodness of God and the badness of sin , When we grasp the absolute justice it would be to punish our sin forever, when that weight dawns on us and we begin to be desperate for the cure. Then we're ready for Christmas. The songwriter captured it. Years I spent in vanity and pride, caring not what my Lord was crucified. Knowing not it was for me he died on Calvary. By God's word at last I my sin I learned, then I trembled at the law that I spurned, till my guilty soul imploring. Turn to Calvary. Now I've given to Jesus everything. Now I gladly own him as my king Now my raptured soul can only sing of Calvary. O the love that drew salvation's plan Oh, the grace that brought it down to man. Oh, the mighty gulf that God did span at Calvary. That's the Christmas gift held out to us when we fully understand what we really need. That's the cancer cure that sets us free to enjoy all of God's other benefits. Now, after our sin problem is taken care of, now we're freely we are free to fully appreciate all the other gifts that God brings out of his rich storehouse for us. Now it's interesting, as I was redoing this study on words about Jesus coming, what Christ says to the crowd when the crowd had it backwards. The Jewish crowd, for the most part, wanted Christ to come, but he wanted him to bring at bring the gifts. You know, that's what that's what they were wanting. They weren't all that interested in their sin problem. They wanted Christ to come in, kick the Romans out, make the Jews the top dogs again. They wanted Christ to endorse and support their rich family heritages. That's what they wanted. And remember, that's what they expected. Now, again, we're looking at the quotes where Christ says, I came for this and I came for that. And he has a few interesting quotes for this crowd. I sorta wanted to avoid these, but I couldn't. They're very important But they're very different than the ones we just looked at. He says this about why he came, Matthew 10, 34. Don't think that I have come, this is why I came, I have come to bring peace to earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law We also see in Luke a similar quote, in Luke 12, 49, it says, I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled. I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how great is my distress until it's accomplished. Do you think I've come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division. For from now on, in one house, there will be five divided, three against two, and two against three Now, you might be thinking by now, John doesn't even know how to preach a good Christmas sermon. I I just uh I just read these quotes because they're what Christ said about why he came. And I think that we really need to understand the importance of a person grasping the significance of their need for salvation. What Christ said here is very harsh. It was spoken to those who had their understanding backwards. They wanted his gifts, but they did not want his salvation. And that kind of thing does not end well. Christ let these people know in no uncertain terms that he was not going to do what they expected. He did not come for what they thought he came for, or what they wanted him to come for. By coming to save some from their sin, he will alienate those that he saves from their sin From those who just want Christ to come and give his temporal blessings without his salvation, you'll have these people who were touched by God, who were saved by God, who were brought into relationship with God And now, because they're going to stand for the light, the darkness is going to hate them. By him saving these, he divides those. That's what he's talking about. Now, some of you were in the adult Sunday school when I asked the question about what is good and what is bad when people come to Christ for the benefits that Christ offers. Like some people come to him because it he helped them uh they believe that he will help them beat an addiction, or he they come to him because they're lonely, or because you know all these other things. And we talked about that And this is what I was trying to get at. If a person never gets to the place where no gift is greater than salvation, Then their forgiveness of sin, so that they can be brought into a right relationship with God. If that never happens, Christ will eventually be a source of huge disappointment. They will eventually experience Christ as a divisive factor that gets in their way of enjoying life on planet Earth. These people are not yet ready for a savior who came primarily to seek and to save those who were lost. They're looking for Santa Claus to give them some presents, not a doctor to cure them of a terminal disease. And do you see the difference? But to those who are ready, we see more of what happens. This gift of salvation is a very comprehensive gift. John 10, 10, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. That's why the thief comes. He says, I came that they may have life. And have it abundantly. Verse 11, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. Christ didn't come just come to keep his people from going to hell. He did accomplish that, and that's a wonderful thing We need that. But he came to prepare them for eternity. He came to give them the best kind of life, both now and forever. The best kind of life Let me read a quote from John Piper. He's always good about this. If you want to be encouraged, read John Piper. None of us wants to be merely safe. We were not created merely to be safe. The human heart wants infinitely more than safety. Oh, yes, safety is basic and it's necessary. We want to be protected from what can destroy us. We want life, life, but we want more than mere life. We want abundant life, overflowing life, deep life, weighty life, joyful life. We don't just want to survive, we want to thrive at every level of our human being We were made for this. And so Jesus says more. He says, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. Yes, and more, so much more. and will go in and out and find pat posture. The point of s excuse me The point of saying this is that the sheaffold itself represents safety and protection But sheep don't want to stay there. In fact, they'll die if they stay there in the safety of the fold. They want green pastures and still waters. And this is still all John Piper's quote. And I think that when Jesus says in verse 10, I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. He means, I came that they might be saved and go out and come and find pasture, protection and plenty, solid safety, and deep soul satisfaction Abundant life is not about having stuff. It's about having peace, having joy, having God. That's the end of the quote. You and I as Christians have the opportunity to live in a way that those around us who do not know Christ do not have. We have safety and we have pasture. We have soul safety and we have soul pasture. Our environment is often hostile, but in the midst of it, we have the blessings of Christ. Even as we face lives in a hostile environment, we're in the process of experiencing this abundant life. We're in a state of blessing. Our lives involve putting on character qualities that will fit into heaven. It's like putting in clothes. To go to a party and the clothes match the the party's repertoire So our lives involve putting on that character and then enjoying the qualities of heaven while living among the body of Christ. We learn how to live a life that contains a lot of things that enrich this life while we prepare for the next life. Even trials, you know, the worst things that we experience, those things we wouldn't ask for in a million years, even they bring about patient endurance and other qualities that are part of abundant living. Christ promises relationships with other believers that will enrich us in the body of Christ. When those believers are also members of our own flesh and blood family, that's like hitting the jackpot. Christ came to add tremendous benefits to the lives of all those who follow him. Galatians 5. 22 says this: the fruit of the Spirit, what happens when you're a believer? And you're living as a believer, what happens is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law, and those who belong to Jesus Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Who's not going to complain about love, joy, peace, patience, kindness? I mean, that's that's great stuff. That's abundant stuff. That's abundant living That's just one of many descriptions of the benefits of following Jesus. These are an overflow of our lives that we would not have apart from the relationship with Christ and the infusion of the Holy Spirit. These are a benefit both to us and to all those around us. Those around us may not experience them always as a benefit, especially those who do not know Christ, but they are. Christ came to bring us that rich life in Him. It's completely different than the life that the thief had in mind for us. Now we could still ask, why? Why? They were talking about that in Sunday school. Mark was talking about. Why? Why would Christ do this for us? What did he hope to gain by it? What is the underlying purpose for God reaching out to save us? What is the underlying purpose for God doing those things necessary to save his people from their sins and to offer them eternal life in Christ? What's his motivation? And I think we find it in the book of Ephesians that we've been studying in Bible study. Ephesians 1:3 through 7. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him In love. He predestined us. Actually, there should probably be a period there blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Christ Jesus According to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved, in him we have redemption through his blood The forgiveness of dark trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight. Okay. Every believer was granted every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Remember that we are in Christ. We are in Christ. It's like my name and your name are on the back of his name tag. Whereas John, you know, flips over his name tag right here. He has granted us his status of rightness before God. Now, look at the initial plan of God. This initial plan was started before we existed or did anything, much like it talks about Abraham being chosen. We were chosen before the beginning of time to receive this incredible blessing. He chooses us to be holy and blameless before we ever existed. Why? Scripture says, in love. In love. That means that it was simply like God to do such a thing. It was certainly not that we deserved love. That's not the point. It was driven by this quality of God, not a quality in us. And then verse 5, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. Now look what's going on here. He chose us and determined that we would come to Christ and that he would adopt us. He chose this before we existed, before we did anything. Why? According to the purpose of his will. I like how the NKG puts it better. It says, according to the good pleasure of his will. The good pleasure of his will. He saves us for the good pleasure of his will. In other words, you could say Christ determines to save us because it gives him pleasure God certainly did not save us to torture himself. We might think that sometimes When God regenerates us, when he brings us back to right relationship, there is an element of relationship that pleases him. He restores us to that state because it gives him pleasure. That's why I say there are elements of the way that God has designed you that he enjoys, particularly about you. We maximize his pleasure by obedience and trust in him. We grieve his Holy Spirit when we disobey and rebel. But God is pleased by his design of you. You are created to please God in a way that no other human being can, because you are fearfully and wonderfully created uniquely. God likes that. It was his idea to do so. Well, then naturally, this is what we think. Did he then save me because I'm so naturally attracted to god attractive to God that he couldn't resist saving me? And no, that's taking it too far. How attractive to to you are people who hate you? Generally, we try to avoid those people. At least I do. Like maybe some people get a kick out of it. I don't know. But we must remember, no matter what capacity to please God He created with. We were spiritual enemies of his when he brought us to himself. There was no virtue in us that won God's heart toward us. Sometimes I hear messages preached that I cringe over because it makes it seem like God is reacting to the wonderfulness that is us. There is not a point in Scripture for that. God's pleasure with us would come after He saved us, not before. Moving on. I think verse 6 describes the motive behind the whole Christmas story. I think it gives us the why behind the whole story. Verse 6: to the praise of his glorious grace. This salvation is all being accomplished to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has blessed us in the beloved. Do you want to know why God chose you from the beginning of time if you are his? Do you want to know why? Maybe we think it's because he knew that we would choose him, so it was safe for him to choose us. That's not what this implies. Maybe we down deep think it's because we had some inherent virtue that those who are not chosen do not have. I know I want to think that. I used to think that, and I still like the idea of it. I want to think there's something about me that is simply more desirable, more superior than a lost person. Maybe it's just that when given a chance, I would choose God. Maybe that's the only thing. But at least it's something that makes me preferable to the person that God bypasses. But that's not what this verse is saying. It's not what this verse implies. Why did God send Christ to this planet in poverty conditions, knowing that his own creation and even his own chosen people would put Christ to death? Why did God determine from the beginning of time that there were people that he was going to rescue from their sin by sending Christ to this planet on whatever day Christmas really was? Why would he do all this? And verse tells us. To the praise of his glorious grace. If God chose you, it is for at least one reason we know of. He picked you because by picking you, he will best show off his unmerited favor toward you. By picking you, his unmerited favor of you will bring praise to himself. Wow. Not exactly a Christmas lift-me-up sermon. This is essentially saying, Who did not deserve salvation? Well, John didn't deserve salvation. So who will I save in order to show off my grace? I know. I'll save John I'll say a little bit more about this in a bit, but that's all of us. That's how we got the selection process That's really what Ephesians is saying. Do we see ourselves that way? Until we do, we really don't get what this Christmas is all about. Christmas is God's effort to show off his grace to people who did not in any way deserve the gift that they were being given. Verses eleven and twelve say, In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. We are the people who are used on the display floor as the show-off examples of how gracious God is. When people who know us look at our salvation, they can conclude one thing clearly: God is gracious. God gives favor where it isn't deserved. He isn't giving righteousness awards. He isn't giving popularity awards. He's not giving wisdom awards. He's not giv It Cliverness Awards He's not given attractiveness awards. He is showing off his grace. His gifts are intended to benefit us and to display to the world how wonderful his features are. Ephesians 2, 4 through 8. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not of your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one can boast. If you're anything like me, when you read the lists of qualities of Christ, you might blend them all together like salad. You know, you read it and you think, oh, I'm hitting the spot where we're getting all this stuff about God. You see them as this general goodness of Christ. And that's true, and that's not a harmful thing. But it's good for us also to look into those qualities individually and think about them individually. There's a theme in the New Testament. The gift of Christ is consistently referred to as the ultimate display of at least two things. There's probably more, but these are the two that are most frequent, I believe. Love and grace. Christ came, Christ's gift of salvation shows off love and grace, just like the passage I just read Because of the great love with which he loved us, by grace you have been saved. Now, how do you show off extravagant love? Think about it. How would you show that love off? I think one way, maybe the most clear way, love is shown off by the extravagance of the gift. Love is shown off by the extravagance of the gift. I mean you think about it. You want to give a gift to somebody to show them that you really love them, and you buy them a washcloth or something. They're not gonna be impressed. Uh go out and well I thought it was funny, Carla gave me a a gift this Christmas, but she used uh an old box that I had that had, you know, something that I had given her is like a hundred and fifty dollars. You could see the price there and and this thing was sitting there You paid $150 for that. But I thought, now that's extravagant. I would not have purchased it. But that was, well, here it was it was just the old box But anyway, you show off the love by the extravagance of the gift. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Extravagant gift. We know how much God loves us by the size of the gift that He sent to meet our need. But grace, how do you show off grace? That's different. Grace is best showed off by the unworthiness of the recipient. Think about it. How much would it show off God's grace if he gave a great gift to the obedient angels? He wouldn't show off his grace at all. We'd look at it and say, look at those wonderful obedient angels. They have no sin. They've done good behavior. They've never done anything bad. They don't deserve anything bad. It shows off his love, maybe, but it wouldn't show off his grace. How about the fallen angels? Well, they appear unreconcilable, so if a gift were given to them, it would accomplish nothing and it would fail to be appreciated They wouldn't give glory to God's grace. God wouldn't give glory to God's grace. They wouldn't give any glory to God. How about the animals? What if God gave them a great gift? Well, the animals have done nothing wrong, and the animals have no ability to appreciate grace. But humans, that's something different. Humans are born in sin, but they are made in the image of God. We need rescued. We need a great gift. We have the capacity for appreciation. And all we have to offer God in our lost state is our need. That is how you show off grace. You send a savior of inestimable value to save people who are in their current state antagonistic to that savior. That's how you show off grace. Now, is God's grace displayed any greater when he saves a murderer than when he saves a great humanitarian? From our perspective, it might, but from God's perspective, there isn't. We tend to think that degrees matter. We think notorious sins are more evil than cookie stealing sins. But from God's perspective, they're both equally displays of lostness. Every sin is the same by kind, even if it is different by degree Every sin is damnworthy. Every single salvation is an equal display of grace. Now, in our human terms, it may seem like more than others Like when we see somebody who's really down and out doing you know what we regard as those horrible things, uh we might recognize the grace more. But that doesn't mean it took more Christ's coming is so wonderful because God sent his most extravagant gift for the most for the most undeserving recipients. Christ is the greatest display of the love and the grace of God. When we allow this principle, God being motivated to display his grace, When we allow that idea to penetrate our thinking from the beginning to the end, we come to one conclusion. God is astoundingly and overwhelmingly good. He gives from a position of who he is. He is not responding to his stimulus like we so often do. He doesn't respond to the attractiveness of people. If he did, there wouldn't be any. We need never fear that he will reject us if we become unattractive. We started unattractive. We are safe eternally if we are in Christ because our salvation relies upon his attributes. Not ours. The focus on our salvation is always on Christ. It is about Christ from the beginning to the end. So up until now we focused on why Christ said he came, and it's such a wonderful truth that while Christ tells us why he came, now he calls us to come. I'll just read two short verses and then we'll close. He says this, Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all who labor. And are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. That's us he's going to We can try and try and try to meet the requirements of the law, and we will fail We never can. We can labor and labor and labor to no effect, but we can come to Christ and He will do all the heavy lifting in our salvation. What a wonderful Lord we have. That's what we got for Christmas. Then Matthew 19, 14 But Jesus said, Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. Isn't that wonderful? Our Lord is quick to take those who have the least status to himself. The Lord is quick to take those who have the least status. To himself. His criteria is not our criteria. His selection choice is not ours. His love is great. His mercy and grace are great. Let's reread our text in closing. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Lord we thank you so much