Did you know that Jonathan Edwards had a very impressive family tree? He had eleven children. From them came one U. S. Vice President, three U. S. Senators, three governors, thirteen college presidents, thirty judges. Sixty doctors, sixty-five professors, seventy-five military officers, eighty public office holders, A hundred lawyers and a hundred clergymen. It is impressive how many of these children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren were Christians. But that isn't the whole story. Aaron Burr was the vice president that was mentioned. Burr was notorious for being power-hungry and willing to use any dirty political trick to win. He got into a duel with and killed Alexander Hamilton over a perceived insult. He tried to carve out a new empire in Mexico of whom he hoped to be the emperor for which he was accused of treason. And he was accused of manipulating elections, and he was also a ladies' man. What's my point? Lineage doesn't determine what a man will be. Lineage doesn't save a man. And evil is as likely to spring out from a good lineage as a bad one. You may have had the most godly parents of all time. Well I won't say. They may have had you memorize much of the Bible. You may have kept their rules religiously. But that won't save you. Getting under a religious blanket won't do it either. You can be Baptist. Independent, community church, Presbyterian, House Church, or whatever. And that won't save you, no matter how large you sign your name on the membership document And no matter how stellar their doctrine is, salvation comes through faith in Christ alone. It is assigned individually. Not to a group. It has to be an expression of your heart of hearts to Jesus that you trust what He did on the cross to save you, and that is the only thing That could save you. There's no other option. There's no other way. There's no other path. This morning we're going to see an audience that is convinced that there is another way They're convinced that what they find on ancestry. com is what saves them. And they think that physical descent from Abraham provides spiritual descent. From Abraham, as long as they keep a couple rules. And they are in deadly peril. Let's look at the text. Verse 39. They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus is telling these guys that they respond in the way that their father responds. That's how we got here. And the Pharisees are saying, hold on here. Abraham is our father. In other words, we're representing Abraham well. We're of his bloodline, and we're obeying the law, and everything is honky-dory with us in Abraham. And well, Jesus had already said that I know you're the offspring of Abraham. In other words, I know you're correct about your bloodline. I got that. But you're wrong about what saves you. You're wrong about being anything. Like Abraham. Jesus said to them, if you were Abraham's children, you'd be doing the works Abraham did. He'd be doing the works Abraham did. Well, what did Abraham did? What did Abraham do? Here's some things. First, Abraham understood God's intentions. In a Messiah. Abraham understood God's intentions in a Messiah Galatians 3 8 says in the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham Saying, In you all the nations, in you shall all the nations be blessed So first, Abraham knew, understood, and rejoiced in God's plans to win Jew and Gentile alike to himself. Abraham knew that. All nations would one day be blessed by Abraham's seed, not just not just the people of God as they were used to in the Old Testament. And given that Paul uses the word gospel, maybe Abraham was given more details than we know of Over and above the statement, we do know, which is, in you all nations will be blessed. Maybe he knew more about what Jesus was going to do. Maybe Abraham knew what the Messiah would do. Anyway, Abraham would have been for this universal Messiah. Abraham would have been for a Messiah that didn't just come for the Jews. He would not have been critical of the Messiah's mission. He would not have expected it to serve only the Jews' political interests. So strike one, they're not like Abraham that way. Two, Abraham rejoiced in God's designs for a Messiah. Abraham rejoiced. In what he knew that God was going to do. Then in a few verses in our text, Jesus is going to say this in John 8. 56: Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. Abraham rejoiced to see who Christ would be and what Christ would do to save people from sin. He not only knew what it was and wasn't, he was thrilled with what God intended to do. He was thrilled with what the Messiah's mission was. Strike 2. They're not like Abraham in that. 3. Abraham humbly submitted to God's directions. In Hebrews 11:8 it tells us by faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance, and he went out not knowing where he was going. Abraham didn't box God in and tell God how he needed to be if Abraham was going to receive him. Abraham didn't put terms on God No, Abraham trusted God and obeyed God even when he had no way of knowing what God was going to do. He just did what he was told because he trusted in God. The Pharisees show none of that kind of trust in God None of it. If God was not going to free them from the Roman oppression, if God was not going to join them and bless the Pharisee team, the Pharisees wanted nothing to do with them That's the reality. Strike three, they were nothing like Abraham in that. And four, Abraham had a saving faith. Abraham had a saving faith. Romans 4. 3 says, for what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God. And it was counted to him as righteousness. Abraham had a real faith in God. Abraham had a God-inspired faith in God. He had a saving faith in God. He trusted God to the point that he would do what God said and believe what God told him. He was not using a religion about God to serve himself like the Pharisees were doing. He didn't think that he was good enough in himself for God to save him, like the Pharisees did. Abraham had a real faith in God. The Pharisees were posers. They talked about God a lot. They made a profession of God. That's how they got their money. But they did not have a saving faith like Abraham did. Strike four. So basically the Pharisees were nothing like Abraham, and that's what Jesus is telling them. All they shared was biological similarity. They weren't doing any of the most significant things that Jesus did. They didn't understand God's intentions They didn't rejoice in God's designs. They didn't humbly submit to God's instructions, and they did not have a saving faith. Verse 40, but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. That's not what Abraham did. The last thing Abraham would have done would have been to kill the one who would bless all the nations. That's what Abraham rejoiced in seeing, and in and these men, when they see it, it incites them to murder. That's not like Abraham. They have nothing in common with Abraham's walk with God. And Jesus is making it ultra clear. Verse 41, you are doing the works your father did. Now this this had to be hard to hear because they know Jesus is going somewhere they don't want to go. Scripture tells us that we'll be able to discern people's spiritual source by the products of their hearts that they display in their lives. We will either see, like Galatians 5 tells us, the works of the flesh or the fruit of the spirit. We'll see the works of the flesh, things like sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife. Jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy Drunkenness, orgies. Those are what the Pharisees are displaying. Oh not all of them But these come from a heart that has not been changed by God. It's the same old, same old humanity at its worst. Or the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace , patience, kindness Goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. This comes from Abraham people. People who have a real faith in Christ, and Christ has given them a new heart. From the inside out, they're doing different stuff. Now, the source of murder That's pretty easy to track down. That's not a tough one. It's a violation of one of the ten big laws. And all of these Jews would have been familiar with that. The Pharisees are committed to murder. They are committed to doing it. They are all in. Now, who is it that would inspire murder? Somehow they have it twisted around to their view of God just fits right in. Well, obviously that's not they got it all wrong. This accusation brings out the real character of the Pharisees, and it has nothing to do with discovering truth. It has more to do with silencing opposition. Yell loud, throw insults, and stones. That's what they're doing. And that sounds a lot like what passes for protests these days. They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. So they're defending themselves already because they they see what Jesus is implying. These guys know that Jesus is not talking about their physical genealogy now. He's talking about their spiritual source. Look at their response. While the Pharisees don't know where Jesus was born, that's clear, they have evidently heard the gossip about how he was born. the conditions he was born in. And to all onlookers, it would have looked like Christ was conceived out of wedlock. We know the inside story, but to all others the birth would have been highly questionable. So the Pharisees here throw an insult at Christ in their self-righteousness. It has nothing to do with the argument. It's just intended to silence and demean Christ. And then they proudly pronounce that they are card-carrying Jews and God is their father. And they're probably thinking of these verses. In Exodus 4. 22 it says, God says, Israel is my firstborn son. Israel being the nation. And in Jeremiah 31, 9, it says, God says, I am Israel's father. Again, talking about the nation. So the Pharisees are probably reliant on this theology. And they're saying, hey, we have one Father, God, based on these passages. They think that the knowledge of the doctrine gives them the same privilege As the person of Israel, his faith gave to him. Verse 42: Jesus said to them, If God were your father , If if that was your father, if he was your real father, that's who your father was, you'd love me. For I came from God, and I'm here, and I came not on my own accord, but he sent me. If you love God And God sent me. That logic's not hard to follow. Those who love God the Father must logically love Christ the Son of God. And ultimately Christ's Church, the children of God. This is clear all through the New Testament Christ is the exact representation of his Father. You can't meet somebody that is the exact representation of someone you love and not love that person. You can't do it. It's impossible to love God and not love God at the same time. Christ is representing the interests of God. There's nothing of Christ that's counter to God's character or his interests. They're one and the same. And Christ continues, but now he takes his point home. He's about to leave anyone watching, mystified. As to why these staunch religious leaders won't recognize Christ as God's Son, he's not going to allow that to happen. He's not going to allow them to remain mystified. He's going to cut right through and tell them, this is why This is why these people hate me. We've been pushing this point strongly for the last several weeks. And here's the difference between what you can do in the flesh and what you can do in the spirit. Verse 43, why do you not understand what I say? It's because you cannot bear to hear my word. And why? You are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. Jesus is saying, your nature determines your behavior. Your nature determines your behavior. Whose you are determines what you hear and what you respond to. God 's people hear God's word and do God's word. That's clear in Scripture. Children of the devil cannot bear to listen and incorporate God's word into their lives when it counters their deepest love. There's not room for two people on the throne of your life. There's room for Jesus or there's room for you, but there can't be room for both The devil's children do the devil's work. Now don't get the idea that the devil's work is always devil witch worship and witchcraft and you know Mass murder and that sort of thing. The Pharisees were doing the devil's work just fine. They were preaching and believing in self-righteousness. That's the devil's work. Anytime that you're putting out a doctrine of demons, that's the devil's work. Living for yourself, that's the devil's work. They've probably lived very good moral lives, but here they are when push comes to shove and everything they love is being threatened, that they resort to murder as a solution. We need to take this very seriously. If you're not in Christ this morning, Scripture tells you something about yourself that you don't know. It tells you the source of your spirituality. It explains why it's so hard to do good. 1 John 3 9 and 10 says, No one born of God makes a practice of sinning For God's seed abides in him, and he can't keep sinning because he has been born of God. Who he knows, who he's from, has changed. By this it's evident who are the children of God And who are the children of the devil? Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. So the children of God hear God and obey God. Not perfectly, and we we always have to say that. Not perfectly, but substantially. Children of the devil go by their own rules They can do whatever they want. They rule themselves. They do what they desire to do. They are not submitted to Christ. But now Jesus goes on. He, the devil, was a murderer from the beginning. And does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in the devil. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Jesus points out two qualities of the devil, and they're the same traits that these children of the devil that he's talking to have. The devil murders and the devil lies. Even in the Garden of Eden, the devil, through the snake, lied and by lying committed murder. God says, sin and you will die. The devil says, sin and you will not die. In one stroke, the devil murders and the devil lies. When he believed the serpent and ate, death came to this planet. As a result of the lie, death came. We need to realize that Jesus is again opening the spiritual curtain for us. He keeps doing this. And it's so wonderful because we wouldn't want it. If Jesus didn't do this for us, we wouldn't know what the real truth, the reality behind that we can see. So he opens the spiritual curtain for us to be able to see how life on planet Earth really is. The devil truly is the prince and power of this air. He has temporary, limited authority over those who are not in Christ. And what we see in this world is best explained by this truth. The behavior of people around us has a spiritual source. In fact, everyone's behavior has a spiritual source. Everyone is serving a spiritual master. Like Bob Dylan said. It might be the devil or it might be the Lord, but you're going to serve somebody. You got that right The people on the left and the people on the right politically, they're all serving somebody. If they believe in Christ, they're serving Christ's interests. If they're not in Christ, if they have not received Christ as King and Savior, they are serving the devil's interests. We can't lose sight of that Even when they stand for things that we once stood for, we need to keep in mind this greater reality that Christ reveals to us. Jesus focuses on the devil's attribute of lying here. The devil was telling these Pharisees that Jesus is not the Messiah. The Pharisees themselves were lying about their motives. They were lying about their hatred, they were lying about their selfishness, and they were lying about their greed, and they were lying about their lust for power. There was no truth in what was going on. And Jesus is saying, like father, like son. That would really be a good heading over this section Like father, like son. You can tell when the devil is lying. If he's talking, he's lying. Or at least he's setting up a deception to come If he's talking, he's lying. When the devil whispers stuff to you, you can rest assured. It is a lie and it is designed for your destruction. He wants to hurt you. The devil to a Christian only has influence. He can only whisper in our ear. He has no power over us to make us do anything. But but he sure can put some tempting stuff in front of us. If he's talking, he's lying. Whatever you're being tempted with You can know there's a lie in it. It's not for your good. It's not going to help you. It's not going to get you the happiness that you're seeking for. It's not going to do it. We believers are to be truth tellers and truth believers. Completely contrary to the devil because who's our father? I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. That's who our source is. Verse 45. But because I tell the truth, you don't believe me. Now listen to this. Look at that one closely. But because I tell the truth, you don't believe me. That's interesting. Jesus isn't saying, even though I'm telling you the truth You don't believe me. Jesus is making the point that the reason you don't believe me is because I'm telling you the truth It's as if any other crazy thing could be believed. It's only the truth that can't be believed by you. I find it curious that many very intelligent people will not even consider. They won't even consider That there is a pre-existent creator God that designed and made a universe that runs in a remarkable order. No. That truth can't be seriously considered by them. They won't do it. It can't be considered because it is the truth. And that truth would have implications that the common man is spiritually allergic to. But what truth can they believe? They can believe that we were put here by people from another planet. They can believe that everything came out of nothing. They can believe that there is no cause that costs stuff. They can believe that. The point is that when you serve the devil, you believe what he wants you to believe. And Christ being the Savior of the world is not one of those things He wants you to believe. That's the truth. And you can't believe it. Why? Because it is the truth. Christ continues, which one of you convicts me of sin? This is an appeal to reason and to justice with these guys. It's going to fall on deaf ears, but it's logical. The Pharisees want to kill Christ. For what? What sin did Christ commit that justifies death? That's really his question. What's uh what's the uh what are you charging me with? There are plenty of them in the Old Testament, but Christ committed none of them. They could not convict Christ of a single sin worthy of death. They couldn't convict Christ in their own courts for any sin, actually. Because he didn't commit any sin. So Christ has proven that all their posturing is a sham. They don't care about God's law. They only care about their own agendas. And he goes on: if I tell the truth, why don't you believe me? If you and I witness for Christ, why do people we witness to not believe the gospel? If we tell the truth about Christ to them, why don't they believe us? Check Scripture out. What's the answer to that question scripturally? We've come up with a bunch of bunch of answers to that. Like we can uh we can theorize and come well, they don't believe because of this, they don't believe because of that. And and as you talk to them, there's gonna be reasons that come out and all that. But this unveils again uh what's really going on. In Paul and 1 Corinthians, listen closely. Who figures out the gospel? Where does the credit go for those who respond to the gospel? Listen to this text and be asking those questions. In 1 Corinthians 1, 21, for since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews, and folly to the Gentiles. Are you hearing this? The gospel doesn't make sense to the unspiritual man. For varying reasons, they think it's stupid. It doesn't meet their criteria for belief. Verse twenty four, but to those who are called Hmm. So those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. What's the difference between those who think the gospel is folly and those who don't? Is it their smarts? Is it their innate sense of what is true and what's false? Is it their perfect logic? It's not what Scripture says. The difference between the gospel being smart and the gospel being stupid is the calling of God The difference between the gospel being smart and the gospel being stupid is the calling of God. Verse 25, for the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For consider your calling, brothers. How'd you get here, he's asking him. Think about your your journey. Not many of you were wise according to the world standards. You weren't the smart guys. Not many were powerful, not many of you were of noble birth, but God chose. God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is the stress. What is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are. So that what is the so that? No human being might boast in the presence of God. If you choose Christ because you're more logical than most, could you boast? Yeah, you'd say, well, I'm smarter than that guy over there. You know, at least I had a good sense to say yes to Jesus. If you chose Christ because of your wonderful education, could you boast? You say, yeah. I got a good education. I learned stuff that these other people didn't know, and that's why I decided what I decided. Yeah, I could boast about that. If it came from your lineage, could you boast? Well yeah, I could say, well, I'm a Ziggler or something, you know, whatever whatever it is you happen to be. And so, well yeah, I that's I'm special. Yeah I could boast. What's the only way you can't boast about your salvation? What's the only way you can't draw a positive distinction between you and those who have not believed? The only way that's possible is that there was nothing in you that determined you would believe. It was a choice outside of yourself. Again, what is the difference to Paul in those who came to Christ and those who did not? God chose. God chose. God chose. He can't make it any more clear. Look at the because in the next verse. Because of what? Because of why? Verse 30, and because of him. Because of him, you are in Christ Jesus. Because of God, the Father, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption, so that as it is written. And let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. God chose. Christ doesn't expect the Pharisees to hear and respond rationally to what he says. The question he asks is only setting up the next thing Christ has to say. The people he asked the question to don't know the answer to the question. They are blind to the answer. They believe lies about themselves. But Christ isn't mystified. He knows the answer, and it's simpler than what they would like it to be. Verse 47: Whoever is of God, hears the words of God. The reason why you don't hear them Is because you are not of God. Let's think about this. Why does Christ not say the reason you don't hear what I say is because this is not what you want? Why doesn't he point to the human will of the listeners? He could have. He could have said that you don't hear these things because you have yet to reach a point of rationality. Because if you were rational, you would believe this stuff You're struggling with your own selfishness, he could have said. If only you would decide differently, he could have said. If only you would put your selfishness aside, then you would hear me, then you could decide for me But Christ approaches this problem very differently. He says this explains everything. You are not of God. He doesn't say you've not made the right choice. He doesn't say you have chosen against God. No, he says you are not of God. What does hear the words of God in a way that they believe and adjust to them? Whoever is of God. You see the significance here This is the Son of God explaining the problem of unbelief. The problem is bigger than our thinking. The problem is bigger than our choosing. The problem goes back to who we are of. And how do we fix that problem? That problem needs someone bigger than us to fix it. We need God to make some changes. We need God to choose. But the strangest, the very strangest thing of all of this, is that if you want to be saved You can be. If you want to be saved, you can be. If you want to come to Christ, He won't hold anyone back. If you want to be chosen, you probably have been. There is no one who wants to come to Christ who cannot come to Christ. If you want salvation, call upon Christ to save you and He Sovereign election is not a doctrine to encourage people not to call upon Christ. It is simply a doctrine that tells us who deserves the credit when we do. Christ will save anyone, anyone who calls upon him by faith. And if you want to call out to him for salvation, praise God, He will save you. It is one hundred percent certainty. But if you want to be biblically accurate when someone asks you why you came to Christ, the real answer behind the experienced event is God chose. And then I chose. Let's pray.