I was thinking as of we were going through the service this morning that a something H. B. Charles said. I think we may have watched him one time as a special speaker. But h the first time he was given the opportunity to preach and he got paid. He just couldn't believe I get paid for doing this Yeah. And uh sometimes how I feel just the opportunity that you grant me to uh to do this, it's it's just a blessing to me. Hopefully it's a blessing to you too. So if you're following along in the text, and I hope you are, you may have noticed that we skipped chapter 8, verses 1 through 11. And I really hate doing that because I love the story, and there's so many good sermons that can be preached from it, but the story was clearly not in the earliest transcripts. The style of writing is not John 's. So it was probably written down by a scribe and then added to the text later. Some manuscripts have it at one place, other manuscripts have it somewhere else, and we can't know if the story is true or not. So since we've complete so since we completely rely upon the authority of Scripture, we're not going to preach through something that we can't be certain was originally Scripture. Can't be sure that it holds authority. I love the story and there are some wonderful applications, but fortunately the applications that can be made can also be made from other texts. So we're skipping the w over the woman pot and adultery. Now we jump right into this continued conversation, which I believe is the real context of this mixed crowd. Remember we talked about all the various components of the crowd. And although this time it seems like the conversation seems to be dominated by the hateful Jewish leadership. You know, we had looked at all the various groups of people, well now it's kind of honing down into the leaders. When we began this study, I shared my difficulty with John's writing. He quotes Jesus accurately, I'm sure, but I'm not always sure what the main points are that Jesus is making to the crowds. Jesus seems to skip around. And uh I don't think the crowd would have felt that way as they were listening, but I do. And if you do, um Don't feel lonely. We're all in this together. Well, we'll do our best to bring out the flow of the text while pointing to the obvious points that Jesus was making. There's also something that's becoming more and more clear to me as we study through this book of John. When Jesus speaks to the leadership, I don't get the feeling that Jesus thinks that these men are suddenly going to have some aha moment based on something that Christ says that makes everything click in their minds. In fact, Christ doesn't point to the problem of their continual rejection of Christ as being a mental processing problem. He's telling them He isn't he isn't telling them. He isn't focusing on telling them that you're thinking incorrectly. And if you'll just think correctly, suddenly everything will make sense to you. He doesn't say those things. Let's jump a little ahead to what he is saying. Chapter 8, verses 37 through 44. It says, I know that you're the offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my My word finds no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your Father They answered, Abraham's our father. And Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you'd be doing the works that Abraham did, but now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You're doing the works your father did. And they said to him, we were not born in sexual immorality. We have one father, even God, and Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. For I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? It's because you can't bear to hear my word. You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Look at that conversation carefully. Take a look at it this week. What does Christ point to as being the cause as to why the leadership is trying to kill him? Does he point out some misunderstanding? Does he seek to reason anything out with them? Does he assume this difference can be resolved with words? No, he says you don't hear because you can't bear to listen. And you can't bear to listen because of your family tree. The problem here is reduced down to a single core problem, and everything else stems from it. You are a spiritual spiritually satanic. You are ruled by the devil and your desires come from the devil. That is your problem. That is the communication problem we are having. That's what he's saying Well, what's the answer to that? What must a man do if he can't do anything? What can a man do if a man is the devil's child? If that's the reason that's holding him back from even wanting to come to Christ? What's he to do? And that's exactly why Christ keeps saying things like this, you must be born again, in chapter 3. That's clearly something you can't do yourself. Uh John 6, 37 through 39. He says, All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I'll never cast out. For I've come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me, and this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up at the last day The point I'm trying to make, and I hope you're following me, is that when Jesus talks to the leaders and to the people, Jesus clearly called the people to have faith in him. That was his message. He was calling on everyone to have faith in it. He preached it, he commanded it, and he at the same time knew why some would and why some would not. He commanded all to come to him, but when they wouldn't, he never believed that if he could just say one more thing it would change their minds. Because clearly Jesus' whole ministry was reliant upon a heart change that no one but God Can do. Jesus was like we should be, proclaiming the word of God and counting on God to do a miracle in some of the listeners. That, friends, is evangelism. Keep proclaiming, keep proclaiming, keep proclaiming, and keep watching. Keep watching. God will do a miracle in some. God is gonna spark that flame in some. God loves saving people. And watch as we go forward in John. Look at what Jesus reveals as the cause for unbelief. He pulls no punches. So keep that as a theme as we're reading through this. Okay, let's look at our text Now the context is that during the Feast of Tabernacles, which is what was happening at this time, there was a lamp lighting ceremony. Now, a modern-day equivalent might be a spiritualized New Year's Eve dropping of the ball at midnight. It's that kind of event It's like the kind everyone stood around and watched for this thing to happen. It happened in the court of the women, which was the second outermost court that everyone could come to and see. There were four huge candelabra that were lit. Now, in my mind, that's like a friendly setting in somebody's living room, but it's nothing of the kind back then. This light, I don't know what it's made of, but it must have been pretty impressive. Historical reports say it acted something like a searchlight in the sky. You know how you can see, you know, Oakland from the distance uh and when you're driving at night? Well it would have been a little bit like that. You know, this is a big light somehow. And the light served as a reminder of the pillar by fire that God used to guide the Canaanites through the wilderness. That's why it was part of the f the festival. And the people would dance around the candelabra holding blazing torches and singing songs of praise. So it's a fun time, an exciting time. And that's the backdrop in which Jesus says what he says this morning. Verse 12. Again Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. I'm the big candelabra. I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me Won't walk in darkness anymore, but we'll have the light of life. We'll not walk in darkness, but we'll have the light of life. Now, first off, the listeners would have picked up on Jesus saying, I am, when he says, I am the light of the world, because that's the same way that God says, I am who I am. Jesus was equating himself with God by the way that he said this, and he wasn't subtle about it. Now, this isn't the first time that John had referred to Christ as light. And light was often used in the Old Testament in regard to God's revelation to his people. He would describe it as being light to the generations. Most of Christ's listeners would have understood what Christ was claiming here, that he was claiming to be their Messiah. What does it mean that Jesus is the light of the world? Well, we know that light exposes truth. It also allows us to discern what is real and what is false. It reveals that which is hidden by darkness. It allows us to see physical things as well as spiritual things for what they truly are. So we're not mystified anymore. When you shine light on something, you see what it really is. Jesus is the definitive standard of good. If you want to know what good is, you look at Jesus If you want to know what good is, listen to Jesus. The whole New Testament teaching, all of it, traces its way back to the teachings of Jesus Everything Paul says traces back to what Jesus said. Jesus is this amazing spotlight light. That removes the darkness and reveals the truth, even when night is wholly at hand Light also serves to show us what direction to take. Psalms 119:105 tells us that your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Light shows us the right way to go. In the wilderness, God provided a pillar of light to lead the Israelites Now God was providing Christ to lead them out of their slavery and into the spiritual promised land He's providing Christ to be that light to lead them out of their slavery of sin, like the slaves in Egypt were slaves to the Egyptians. To lead us out of that and into the spiritual promised land, into life in Christ. When believed, this statement by Christ would have been a tremendous joy to the people Wow. We have been given this light from God in a person. The surrounding atmosphere of the celebration and the jubilation would have just elevated that elation that these people would have had at how Having it, knowing we have the light of God with us. The light of God is here. That would have been a the proper response. That would be the the right response. It would be the uh spiritually normal response. And then he goes on to say, Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life We've got to see that Jesus just being the light is not what will turn the corner for these Israelites. Jesus will only be helpful light to those who follow him. The usefulness of this life is limited to those who would commit their lives to Christ, to those who would follow him. Walk in him. And the follow and following him is a serious kind of following. Those who commit their lives to Christ by faith in Christ as Savior and Lord. Those are the people who will gain the benefit. From the light of Christ. And look at the benefit. We who are in Christ no longer need to live. We no longer need to dwell. In darkness anymore. Sometimes I think of those of us who have been Christians for a long time lose the enormity of this truth. In fact, some of us might not have a clear memory of living in darkness. Oh, we know what darkness is, but we might not have a clear memory of what it was like to be enveloped in darkness. It's always refreshing to hear the testimonies of those who have come to Christ from very unchristian backgrounds, very unchristian environments, because they can remember and they can tell you how they fought and how they lived. and how it was dark. It was just dark. Ephesians describes that effect as as having no hope and without God in the world. That is how Ephesians describes everyone who does not know Christ, having no hope and without God in the world. That's depressing. That's darkness. Now you and I run into people in the world all the time, and they can reason, they can hold conversations about all kinds of things. We might even share political views We may share childering techniques. We may share many moral points of view that they have, but they don't have faith in Christ. Any hope of life after death is a false hope to them. They awake to darkness and they go to sleep in darkness, and they don't know anything else. But if we follow Christ, we aren't living in that world. We wake up to light and we go to sleep in light. We have hope and we have God in the world. How wonderful it is to have the light of the world in our lives. How good it is to trust Him. And what compassion we should have on those who do not know him. If we care at all, we must share the light. We need to share Christ with them. Now again, this should have been celebration words. Okay? Christ is with them. Christ is offering them life. He's saying, I'm here, I'm the light. You know, that the light that this celebration pointed to, hey, I'm it. I'm here. For you. How wonderful is that? So how does the Pharisees respond? So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony isn't true. Christ holds out the most wonderful offer these popes have ever heard and the Pharisees pull out the rule books What an improper response. What the w I mean you can think of worse response maybe, but you'd have to dig pretty deep. I don't think I'd have wanted to have these guys at my birthday party. You know? They're just not those kind of people. This is their response. You need to have two witnesses if you hope to verify this Jesus. You don't, so what you're saying isn't verifiably true. They're telling the light of the world that he's not true. Not a good position to be in. Do you ever watch the news after President Trump accomplishes something that's truly beneficial and you wait to see how the media is gonna report it? You know, how they're going to focus on the most insignificant detail in an effort to downplay his accomplishment. That's similar to what's happening here. Jesus offers it offers these people eternal life and the Pharisees say, You didn't offer it correctly. You didn't go by the correct rules here. Can you imagine being offered a million dollars from someone and you complain about their sentence structure and their grammar? You know, that is the absurdity that we're looking at this morning. Not all conversations about biblical things are inspired by sincere motives and are really trying to get at truth. Sometimes there are technicalities by people who don't want to obey. That's what we have this morning. Verse 14, Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I'm going, but you don't know where I come from or where I'm going. Is anyone in this world more positively biased toward yourself than you are? Does anyone want you to have the things you deeply want more than you do? Who is most likely to present things about yourself in the most positive light? Normally, it's you that's the most biased toward your own welfare. That's why Jesus can tell us to love others like we love ourselves. We have that bias in us. Well, the requirement for two witnesses is based on that truth. And it is a part of the That's a good part of their law. To verify things, it's safest if we use witnesses outside of ourselves. The law required two witnesses when deciding legal disputes, and that makes sense. At the same time, who knows more of your personal history than you do? Who is an expert in knowing what happened during your life? Well, you are So Jesus isn't saying for legal purposes there doesn't need to be an outside witness. That's not his point. That's not the argument he's making. He is saying that even when Jesus speaks without an outside witness, he is still speaking as an expert witness. Jesus is in his skin. And Jesus was with his father in heaven prior to being in his skin. So he is an expert. Now it's interesting here that the Pharisees did not know Jesus' original origins or his earthly origins. They didn't know where he came from spiritually, and they didn't know where he came from on planet Earth. They should have done their homework. We pointed out that several times. They didn't know he was born in Bethlehem, they should have known he was. They should have at least known where Christ was born, but they didn't even know. Know that. And they couldn't know where Jesus was going unless they were willing to actually listen to Jesus and what he's saying. But they wouldn't allow themselves to listen to him, primarily because they hated him. Now Jesus is saying, I do know where I came from. I do know where I'm going. I'm the expert witness on this, but you don't know these things. Why? Verse 15 tells us, you judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. Why do you and I get so many things wrong? Hopefully we get a lot of things right. But why do we get so many things wrong? Think about how we treat our kids, or how we treat our spouses, or how we treat our friends, or how we treat our enemies, or how we deal with conflict with the ones who we love. how we sometimes choose to sin. We could go on and on. But why do we do that? Why do we get that wrong? Well, we get into trouble because often we judge according to the flesh. which is what the um Pharisees were accused of. We trust our Seamers And you might be sitting there thinking, here he goes again. This seamer thing he keeps talking about. But I don't think it can be avoided. I think it's safe to say that trusting our seemers, trusting that which arises within us is our first response, trusting the messages that come from our flesh. And again, the flesh is not simply our body. The flesh is the holdover of our old sin nature. Alright. Trusting the messages that come from our flesh and its impressions and its intuitions, and its desire for survival, and its self-protection, and its self-advancement. Trusting our steamers gets us in more trouble than anything else in our lives. If I get in a heated argument, what do I go by? Do I make my choices based on desiring the best for the person that I'm arguing with? Like what's good for you? Let's talk in such a way that I'm looking out for your interest here. Am I asking what truth is this person telling me about myself that I don't want to hear but I need to? What can I give this person that would show them that they are loved? How can I speak any harsh truths that need might need to be said in the most loving way that they can be said Is that what we're thinking? Or are we thinking, I want this pain to stop and I'll do anything I can to make it stop. I want this person to do what I want them to do. I want to be treated this way or this way or this way and uh and And I'm not being in, it bothers me and I'm gonna I'm gonna get even. I wanna protect myself because this person is hurting me. Who did they think they are to stand up and and do that to me? You know, those kind of things, you have to train yourself. They're in there. You know, you see what I mean? All the Pharisees needed to do to reject Christ was to trust their seemers. And that's what they were doing. They just needed to go down the natural reactions that their flesh had taken them down a thousand times before. And a rule of thumb could be in our lives if Scripture isn't intentionally being called up in our minds We are probably responding by flesh. That's not an absolute truth, but it's a pretty good rule of thumb. If Scripture isn't intentionally being called up in our minds, like God, what should I do here? We're probably responding by the flesh. Our Seamer is probably in charge. The Holy Spirit empowers Christians to break the patterns. But first we have to admit admit we have a problem that my internal settings aren't right. They need adjusted often Only then will the solutions be called upon. We don't have to respond the way we have always responded. We can allow the Word of God to direct us. It'll look different. My prayer as a retired person is that I will experience more change toward godliness in my last years than I have all the others. You can tell me how that goes after a couple of years. Let's see. But anyway, we can all change. Age is not a deterrent to change. The Holy Spirit is in a Christian. We can do it because he empowers it. The Pharisees judged according to the flesh. Christ, on the other hand, didn't. Now Christ did not come to judge, he says. That was not the ministry that he came for. He will come back for it. There is a time when he is coming to judge, but this isn't it yet. That's not his intent now. So while the Pharisees were wrongly judging Christ, Christ was not ultimately judging them yet. But it's not because Christ is not capable of judging. And it's not because he's not competent to judge. Verse 16, yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me Have you ever found yourself praying because you know you've been misunderstood? Maybe your friends around you, they didn't understand what you did, they read it wrong. And uh people think something of you that's untrue. And you really want the truth to be revealed, but you don't have an opportunity yet at that moment. Where do you go We go to Jesus. I think most of us probably have had that experience where it's the only place you can go sometimes. So you go to the Father. Why? Why do we go there? Because God knows the truth. God knows the truth about us, even the part that's been misunderstood. And God loves us God loves us intimately and intensively, and every little every little bitty part of us, like Ruth was sharing in Sunday school this morning. There is no better judge. God cannot be swayed by popular opinion. God will not believe slander even when it's very convincing and fits some of the facts. We can go to God because we are safe with God. Jesus here is telling the Pharisees, while my job on earth this time is not as judge. I am perfectly capable, more so than any other human. Because my father and I share all information and we have perfect agreement in all of our conclusions. We know everything No matter how you might be reading your law, my father and I are perfect judges, and we require no outside witnesses to confirm that. Verse 17: In your law it's written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me. Now, isn't it interesting here that Jesus refers to the law as your law? In your law it is written. D. A. Carson believes that Jesus worded it this way in order to contrast himself with As being superior to Moses, to the law of Moses. It's as if Jesus is rubbing it in, that the source of the law stands in front of you And you're busy referring to the document. It'd be like receiving a letter from President Trump. I don't know why he came to mind so often as I was preparing this sermon, but Um we received a letter from President Trump saying he's going to visit our church on Wednesday at seven o'clock. And the letter tells us what he's going to speak about. So when the president arrives, before he speaks, we pull out the letter and tell him what he must do now, because of what he said. If we did that, we would have it all backwards. The writer of the letter is more important than the letter itself. The president would be in his rights to say the writer of your letter is here, so you can listen to me and put your letter down. I'm here. The contrast is between your law and my witnesses in this text. My witness in our text is superior to your law. That's the point. They said to him, wherefore where they said to him, therefore, where is your father? Have you ever tried to have a conversation with someone who you know does not want to seriously consider anything you have to say? So at every point they take something you said and they go off on it and make stupid uh stupid statements about it. They do this to the point where you knew that what you're saying would never be heard Many teenagers that are particularly good at this. And they think that they're arguing well and arguing productively when they're really just avoiding real communication that's necessary. In our text, the Pharisees go off on Jesus' father. They ask, Well, where is he? And Jesus never answers their question. Sometimes we should follow his lead on this. Jesus doesn't focus on the technical question that has its source in fleshly judging. He's not interested in having that conversation because he knows where it's going. He moves right to the spiritual problem. The problem, Pharisees, is not that you don't know where he is. The problem is you don't know him at all. You don't know God at all. Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. Jesus is not going to cater to all the Pharisees' irrelevant questions. It would lead to a waste of time for Jesus. He knows that even if he answers every single question truthfully and logically, it will make no change to their hearts. of the people he's talking to. So he jumps right to the problem. You are not spiritually attuned to who God is You're his spokespeople, you are paid for this job, you are the people everyone looks to for spiritual leadership, and you don't know God How do I know? Because you don't know who I am. If you knew the Father, you would know me. If you knew me, you would know the Father. The problem is not with what you know or what you don't know. It isn't with information or the lack of information. The problem is that you are lost and you in your heart of hearts hate God. That's the problem. You don't know God and you really have no interest in knowing God. Christ and the Father are one. What do you do with one? What you do with one, you do with the other. That's his reasoning here. Verse 20 These words he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple, but no one arrested him, because his hour had not yet come. Alright, Jesus was speaking where the money boxes were in the court of women. We talked about that before. That's where the the lights were, too. He was doing it clearly and he was doing it openly. Now why did the court officers not pick Christ up and take him in? The court officers might give all kinds of reasons from their experiences. Maybe the crowd seemed too hostile. Maybe there were too many people close to Christ. But what John tells us is the truth behind the truth You know, and we get a lot of that from Scripture. You know, a lot of things, like even how we would describe how we were saved, we would tell it from one perspective, which is absolutely true, God tells it from another. Well, here we're we're getting the inside scoop. About about why John didn't get or why Jesus didn't get arrested. All of Christ's circumstances were under the Father's control. No one arrested Christ because God wasn't ready yet. God wasn't ready yet. It wasn't the time. Stonewall Jackson said this: My religious beliefs teach me to feel as safe in battle as in bed. God has fixed the time of my death. I do not concern myself with that, but to be always ready, no matter when it may overtake me. That's the spirit. That's the way to look at it. When we worry, we're proclaiming to the world that our God is either not good or not powerful. When we trust, we proclaim to the world that our God is both good and powerful. Nothing will happen to a Christian that is outside of God's time. What reason you and I have to rejoice. What confidence we have when we face life to know if our hour hasn't come It's not gonna happen. If our hour has come, it will happen in whatever circumstance, whatever we're dealing with. Verse 21, so he said to them again, I'm going away and you'll seek me and you'll die in your sin. Where I'm going, you can't come. We're gonna be stopping mid-conversation this morning. There's a real good place to stop here, and I didn't figure another hour was something that you really wanted to uh try to uh Track. So here Jesus announces to those who hate him what his agenda is. He's already told them that he came from his Father, who is clearly God the Father. That's where Christ came from. And had the Pharisees done their job, they would know that Christ was born in Bethlehem. They don't know it, but they should. Now Christ is telling them what will happen in the future. He's laying it out cryptically, since it doesn't matter how Christ tells him, it'll make no difference to him anyway. I am going away. Now, we know that Christ is talking about dying The Pharisees are going to be mystified and treat this like some kind of intellectual puzzle that they're curious about, but they won't understand. Then he says, You will seek me The Jewish people will keep on looking for a Messiah, is what Jesus is saying. I'm going away, but you're going to keep looking. You're going to keep looking for a Messiah. You're going to keep looking for me. But I'm not here anymore. It's so sad to wait for someone to arrive who is never coming. That's futility at its finest. But that is where the Jewish religion is stuck. Oh what a sad thing. What a sad, sad thing. They're looking for a Messiah who already came. And he goes on, and you will die in your sins. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. There's only one way. These leaders rejected Christ. And he's saying, if they don't repent, if they keep looking for a different Messiah, if they will not believe in Christ, all these leaders are destined to die in their sins. Because there's only one way out, and they're looking at it. They won't receive the light of the world and the light of light. They will not have their darkness removed. They'll only know darkness. And they'll go from spiritual darkness to eternal punishment. Christ is the only way anyone can avoid dying in their sin. Dying in our sin is the default setting of a human being. We are born destined to die in our sin if God does not move on our behalf. And if we do not call out to God for salvation. Are you certain of your salvation this morning? Are you sure that you have trusted Christ as your Savior and Lord? Don't let a day go by without making sure Of that. If you are not in Christ, you will die in your sin Where I'm going, you can't come. Jesus is talking to those who rejected him. If a person dies in their sin, they'll never be with Christ in eternity. They can't come. They'll never dwell with Christ. They'll be experiencing the punishment for their sins. No, if we're outside of Christ, we will not pass the entrance exam where all of our sin is being seen as Covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. We will have missed our ticket. Now Jesus also told his true disciples something similar, but this is a beautiful thing, and we're going to end with this idea. John 13, 33 and 36 says, Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, where I am going, you can't come. And Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? And Jesus answered him, Where I'm going, you can't follow me now, but you will follow afterward. So Jesus refers back to this conversation in John 13, and Christ tells him the same thing, almost. Christ was saying he was going to die, and when he did, and then ascended to his father, they weren't going to immediately go with him But Peter, ever the qu person to ask the question everyone was thinking of, says, Where are you going, Lord? And it is there that we receive The rest of the story for Christians. You can't follow me now, but you will. Oh, you will Right there is the reason we keep on keeping on. It's the promise that one day we will receive our reward. We will have the new environment that our new hearts long for. You know, our hearts are a little displaced here. We have a new heart, it's mixed with You know, we got other stuff going on. But we long for something that we don't find in this earth. We have find it in faith in Christ. And we get traces of it as we hang out with other Christians and all that. It's beautiful and wonderful. But this new environment, our hearts will match the environment. pure hearts in a pure place. We'll experience everything in life that we long for because of Christ being in our lives. So keep hanging in there. No matter what you're facing, we can't be where Christ is yet. But we will. Oh, we will. Just a little longer, brothers and sisters. Just a little longer. It's closing prayer.