Why pray if God has already promised something? Why pray if God has already prone something? Our passage this morning focused us to look at some questions we might have. Good questions. Why study? Even if God is using you to create scripture, now obviously that's not us in the audience, but if theoretically God were using us to create scripture, why study? Why pray if God has already promised to do the thing that you're praying for? Why repent if you're already in a right relationship with Christ? In the first year of Darius, the son of Ahasurus, I think, by descent Amade who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans in the first year of his reign, I Daniel perceived in the books the number of years that according to the word of the Lord To Jeremiah the prophet must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely seventy years. Daniel's been given several visions, and he has interpreted other visions. And in them, he has seen things that have shocked him. He's seen things that have made him sick. He's seen things that have deeply puzzled him. One of the things he's learned is that Babylon is going to be punished by God. He already knew this prior to this morning. Well, seeing that, he is now in the first year of Darius. That means Babylon has been conquered. Daniel is telling us that Babylon the Great has fallen. Belshezar was defeated. The city was captured. The king was killed. So he's seeing this prophecy being fulfilled. And this inspires Daniel to what? To study. To study of all things. Now think about this. Here's Daniel, who the Lord reveals stuff to directly. I mean he has dreams and stuff. And he sends him visions and he sends him angels and he allows him to interpret dreams. Why does Daniel not calculate it something like this? Why does Daniel not think, well, if God wants me to know something, he'll just tell me? Because I know he can do it, and he's done it in the past, so I'll just rely on that. Daniel doesn't leave it at that. Daniel clearly feels the need here to study Scripture. And if Daniel felt that he needed to study Scripture, surely we need to study even more. God has never used any of us to write scripture. Daniel read the book of Jeremiah It's important to note how Daniel referred to Jeremiah's writing, according to the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet. That's important. Daniel saw Jeremiah's writing as authoritative scripture This is an encouragement to us to know that even back then, men of God were recognizing their contemporaries as providing scripture that they could rely upon. Daniel banked on the fact that what Jeremiah wrote was from God, it was authoritative, and it would happen. Now, Daniel knows that from the time that the Jewish people leave Jerusalem to when they appear again, it's going to take 70 years. How did he know that? Well, God made it really clear in Jeremiah. Jeremiah 25, 10 through 14 says, moreover , I will banish from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the grinding of the millstones and the light of the lamp. This whole land shall become a ruin and a waste. And these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. There it is. Then after seventy years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, the land of the Chaldeans, for their iniquity, declares the Lord, making the land an everlasting waste. I will bring upon that land all the words that I have uttered against it, everything written in this book, which Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations. For many nations and great kings shall make slaves even of them, and I will recompense them according to their deeds and the work of their hands. Now re we've seen this before. The God chose to use uh the Babylonians to punish his people. But then again, they better not like it too much, because God punishes the Babylonians for the cruelty that they showed while they were carrying out. God's decree. So we need to keep that in mind. We're always responsible for our behavior. Jeremiah 29, 10 through 14 says this, for thus says the Lord, when seventy years are completed for Babylon, I'll visit you and I'll fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. Then you'll call upon me and come and pray to me and I will hear you. You will seek me and you will find me when you seek me with all your heart. I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I have driven you. declares the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you into exile. Now notice here that Jeremiah does not just tell us what God will do He tells us what the attitude of God's people will be before he does it. He tells us what the people should be and will be doing. They will be seeking him. They will be calling upon him. Now, not only did Jeremiah reveal the timing, Isaiah revealed that the name of the person who's going to do it. He named the name of the person who is going to ultimately give the decree to send uh the Israelites back home. He named the king that would do this maybe before the king was even born. Daniel probably had access to the writings of Isaiah as well. So here would have been another place piece of the puzzle for him, as he's studying, as he's reading. Cyrus was the person who would allow all of this. We find that in Isaiah 44, 26 through 28. It says, Who confirms the word of his servant and fulfills the counsel of his messengers? Who says to Jerusalem, She shall be inhabited, and of the cities of Judah, they shall be built, and I will rise up their ruins, raise up their ruins? Who says to the deep, Be dry, I will dry up your rivers? Who says of Cyrus, he is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purpose? saying, of Jerusalem she shall be built, and of the temple your foundation shall be laid. I am the Lord. And then more in the following chapter in Isaiah 45, 1 and 2, it says, Thus says the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have grasped. to subdue nations before him and to loose the belts of kings, to open doors before him that gates may not be closed. I will go before you and level the exalted places. I will bring in pieces The doors of bronze, break-in pieces, the doors of bronze, and cut through the bars of iron. It's no wonder that Daniel knew it was time to get ready. It was time to prepare. Daniel serves as a very good example for us about how to prepare for the future. Study the Word of God. Study the Word of God. No matter how much truth you received in the past, we all need to keep pressing on Daniel's response to being given supernatural truth is to study God's word more diligently. He wanted to find out everything. Everything that he could that would reveal God's will about these events. And then once he knew it, he was driven to action. Isn't it interesting that Daniel takes more constructive action after reading the Word of God? Than he did from receiving all of the supernatural experiences that he received. That's not a principle, but it's interesting Even prophets are moved to action by reading simple words on a simple page without all the mystical revelations. You and I are not being short-changed when we are given just the Bible to read. You know, we're not, Gabriel's not showing. We're not given words from the Lord that we can pass on as scripture. But we are not being shortchanged When we are given God's already revealed word written down. It's truly all we need. Even if God were speaking to us directly, we would still drastically need that written word of God. Daniel did. So Daniel knows it'll be 70 years in captivity, and then the people will be allowed to return to Jerusalem. By this time, Daniel had been in captivity about 67 years. So the time has drawn near He even knows that Cyrus is the main power that was prophesied to overcome Babylon, and he'll be the one that decrees the Jewish people free to return to their homeland. Now technically Darius was the king, but Cyrus was the powerhouse that was behind the Medes and the Persians. So he knows this. So Daniel saw that that happened just like Isaiah and Jeremiah said. He's seeing this Everything is set for Cyrus to make his decree. Isn't that interesting? Daniel would be sitting there knowing the next move that Cyrus is going to make. He's not going to know when, but he's going to know it soon. He probably knows it even when Cyrus doesn't know it. So Daniel was probably in his mid-80s by now, so he's not going to be making this journey. But it might it might be, and he's probably thinking it will be while I live. Prophecy is being fulfilled right in front of his very eyes Wow. Many believe we're seeing the same sorts of things in our life, in our world, in our news. And so could be. So Daniel knows his decree. He has perfect trust in the sovereignty of God. So how does Daniel respond to this new understanding that God is going to do this thing very soon? Verse 3: Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. That's odd. He knows that this is going to happen. He knows God will do what God says. He trusts that God never lies. Why does he not go rejoicing into the Jewish communities? Why does he respond as he does? We need to remember what Jeremiah said earlier. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. I'll be found by you, declares the Lord. Then I'll restore Your fortunes and gather you from all nations and all the places I've driven you. This not only describes what God is going to do, it describes what God's people will do. It describes what God is going to do. It describes what God's people are going to do. We need to remember why God sent the Jews into exile in the first place. They were sent as punishment. They were disobedient. They were rebellious Now the people must call out to God in repentance. That's the condition of the people that God brings back into captivity, or from captivity. I think it was Spurgeon who once was asked how he reconciles God's sovereignty and man's responsibility. And he replied, I never have to reconcile friends. Both of these things function perfectly. Here we see God is going to bring these people back. Here we see that it is man's responsibility to repent. Daniel got this right. When God showed Daniel what God was going to do, Daniel had an even greater desire to do what God told his people to do. If Daniel were to have been asked, why did you respond by praying and repentant repenting, Daniel would likely have said, In view of God's goodness, what else could I do but that which He commands me? If we want to understand why we pray, why we evangelize, why we obey, we must understand this. Good theology never confuses what God says He will do. With what God tells men they must do. Good theology never confuses what God says he will do with what God tells men they must do God tells us that He's the one who will awaken a spiritually dead man from the dead when he saves somebody. God commands every man everywhere to repent. God tells us that God has chosen every person who will come to Him from the beginning of time. He's already chosen. God commands us to preach the gospel to every person we have an opportunity to. God tells us, He has chosen people from every tribe and nation. God commands us to get the gospel to all those people. God told Jeremiah he was going to bring people back to Jerusalem in 70 years after they left. God commanded that the people repent after they were taken captive. Good theology never confuses what God says he will do with what God tells men they must do. The first we are to understand. The second we are to do. Daniel applies himself to the greatest need of God's people at that moment in time. They needed to be a repentant people before God would take them back to their homeland. So Daniel aligned himself with that which God was about to do. Seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. This is some serious repenting he's doing here It's not hard at all to see what kinds of prayers Daniel was praying. Daniel knows the state of his own heart and the state of the hearts and the lives of his Jewish compatriots. They've had nearly 70 years to prepare for this moment, but they still weren't ready. Daniel enters a state of severe repentance. He is committed to repenting He's willing to put his money where his mouth is. Here's Daniel, over 80 years old, walking around in sackcloth and ashes. He's fasting. He don't care what anybody thinks. He's doing business with God. Verse 4: I prayed to the Lord my God and made confessions, saying, O Lord, the great and awesome God who keeps covenants and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments. Many of God's promises are conditional promises. Sometimes in one place you may find a promise, and no conditions are mentioned in the Old Testament. But then when you read that same promise in another setting, you find that there is a condition. And sometimes God promises to do something unconditionally, no matter what anybody does. Sometimes He promises to do something if and when, or if or when a person or group meets his conditions. Daniel knows what his God is like, and he addresses God in worship. He says, this is a great and awesome God This is a covenant-keeping God. This God has a steadfast love toward those who are his. But those who are his spiritually are those who love him and keep his commandments Those who are his eternally are an obedient people. But there is a problem that Daniel is too keenly aware of. In verse 5, we say, we have sinned. And done wrong, and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandment and rules Notice how Daniel prays here. He says we. We. Man, when we read about Daniel, I'm not aware of a single detail of his sin that we are ever given. That's really unusual in Scripture Usually you get the full the full details, or at least you get an idea that yeah, he had his bad days. But Daniel looks like a super Christian, a stellar believer. He continually was willing to sacrifice his life for God. It's like there's no question. Think about that. Daniel could have said I've been faithful to God when few else were. That would have been true. I was willing to risk my life continually for God. That was true. I have special gifts that God gave me. No one else is really quite like me, quite singled out by God for his use as I am. And that would be true. And I've been doing this all my life. That would be true. He may have thought, I wish these other people would get on the ball. I wish everyone else were like me. I wish they'd follow my example. I wish they would straighten out. Daniel could have responded that way, but he didn't. Because at the end of the day, God deserves to be loved with all our heart, all our soul, all our mind, and all of our strength. Who does that? Daniel, nor anyone else, has ever done that, ever will do that. Christ is the only one. No one ever lives up to that which God deserves. When dealing with God, our failures loom large, and his grace is like gold to us. Have you ever felt superior to another believer? Have you ever wished they'd get on the ball and be as faithful as you? Have you ever despised their failures? I would guess that we all at times have done that. It's like our flesh, especially when somebody's getting away with something that we'd like to get away with. Well, I think none of us could hold a candle to Daniel. And yet he identified most, not with his people's successes, but with his people's failures. He shared with them their absolute need for grace and mercy. The honest prayer of every true believer mirrors the prayer of the tax collector that Jesus pointed out to his disciples When he prayed, God forgive me, the sinner. That's the point of reference with every believer. Our fellow believers may sin differently than we do. Their sins may be more noticeable, more notorious, more disliked by us. But we don't know how much they were given in comparison to how much we were given. And to whom much is given, much is required. We're not in a position to ever evaluate the degree of sin another person is guilty of. We may be guilty of more by degree than they are. Paul saw himself as the greatest of sinners. That's the one place in his ministry where I think each of us would probably like to argue with him. You know, he's got all of his other good doctrine down, but he's wrong at that point. Because I'm the chief. It's because I know me. And I don't know any of you like I know me, and I know how bad that is. Look at what I know, look at what I have been given, and look at what I've done with it. I'm surely worse than Paul. That's where Daniel was coming from. That's this kind of attitude he had. Daniel serves as a wonderful example of humility for us. He was just one more of the sinners that he was identifying with. But notice another thing, he's not just praying for himself. He takes on a Christ-like attitude here, a Christ-like quality, sort of the one you were talking about in our Bible studies. He's including his countrymen in his prayer. He is, in a small sense, taking upon himself their sin and calling out to God for forgiveness of their sin. Now naturally, Daniel could not provide atonement for those people's sin. But he could appeal to God for forgiveness, and that's what he did. When we see a brother or sister in sin, do we pray with that attitude? Oh God, please rescue them from their sin. It's ruining their lives. Please put them in the spot where they confess your sin so that you will restore your fellowship with them. Or do we pray, God, please make them stop sinner? Because it creates such a problem in my life. Oh, if only he would stop doing that, or if only she would stop doing that. You see the difference. Daniel models how we should think and how we should pray. And what is it that Daniel's confessing? In verse 5, it says, We turned aside from your commandments and rules. Here's confession that we knew what God said and we did the opposite. Sometimes it's from selfishness, sometimes from rebellion. There are lots of motives. We have our own styles at sinning, and we cross styles from time to time. We tend to be adept at it. But at the end of the day, we didn't do what you said, God. But Daniel expands this confession in verse 6, and he says, We have not listened to your servants, the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. Well, that about covers it. Sometimes there are sins we didn't know about. But that doesn't provide us an excuse. Sometimes we don't know because, like Israel, we have not listened to the prophets. The prophets spoke, but we didn't pay attention to what they said. We didn't seek out the sources of truth that were available to us. We were too busy following our hearts and doing what seemed best to us. How many times have we chosen the wrong path, chosen the wrong response? Trusted our own instincts and our perceptions. We do this in relationships all the time. We get into a circumstance and we react from who we are without considering what does God say Because we simply would not choose to read and think about what God has said. Try to imagine how our excuses will hold up before God. It might go like this and be. Lord, I did this wrong thing because I didn't know it was wrong. I didn't know the right thing to do. Jesus. Why is that, John? Me. Well, I had never read it or heard it. Jesus. Why not, John? Did you not have access to a Bible or the people who believed were you believed were wise seasoned Christians? Well Yeah, I did have a Bible, and I could have easily asked someone, but that research would have taken work and learned how to do it and asking questions, well, that would be awkward Jesus. So John, you preferred doing what was convenient and easy and that you wanted to do above the simple things you could have done to find out what would have pleased me. Do you really expect me to accept the same excuses you tell yourself? Really, John, what was my sacrifice for you worth to you? That's what worship is. Would it not be worth a few minutes of awkwardness or study to know what my opinion about how you should live your life? Me. Well, when you put it that way, Lord, please forgive me of my sin. I see now I have no excuse. I have not listened to your word. I have not listened to your prophets. I have not sought out your advice. I have not sought out your guidance. Now listening to the prophet's message was no excuse for Daniel's generation any more than it is for ours. God has spoken in his word. God has seen many of his best servants give their lives, shed their blood to keep that word in print. He has placed godly people in our lives. We should think carefully before we accept our own excuses for our sin. We're going to stop here this morning and let's review what we've seen. Daniel read God's word to understand God's will. Daniel, who had been getting dreams and inside information, almost like postcards in the mail from God, is now reading God's word to understand God's will. Daniel understood what God will do and what man must do. Daniel devoted himself to repentance for both himself and for God's people. A possible application for us this week could be to look at how we view others. Can we really identify with them in our common need for repentance? Are we really as bad as they are? Do we see that we all together are equally needing of the grace of God? Do we pray for and desire God's forgiveness for ourselves like we crave it for others as well? Do we truly think in our heart of hearts that we need grace every bit as much as every Christian we will ever meet? Are we willing to put ourselves in Daniel's place and let our prayers represent both our own need and our church's need and our world's need for forgiveness? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much. You give us so much