This morning is one of those mornings that I am thankful that I've never written a book. because uh I've learned some things and I'm going to be explaining them this morning. Um things that I was surprised to find, but uh glad for it. I'm at this spot this morning due to several factors. First, the Sabbath day raised some questions that the seventh day study that I was not sure about the answers. I'd even mentioned that in the process of doing it. I'm confident that I arrived at a good conclusion, but I think I missed something important on the way. I'm also At this point, because of all the conversations that I've had with our f my fellow pastors, this wonderful meeting that we have once a month where I I get to talk to them. And then Wally Weeks gave me a book that that pretty much rocked my world in terms of theology. And along with this, next week we're entering a study in the Gospel of John. So this topic became even more important. And the question comes down to this. How should the Christian view and treat the Old Testament? How should a Christian view and treat The Old Testament. What place do the Old Testament commandments still hold? And how do we decide How we should treat them. How do we make that decision? Well, to answer those questions, I think we need to start with Jesus. This is the million-dollar question. Was Jesus given greater authority than the written word of the Old Testament? That's an important question. Was he given the power to change how people should live after his death, burial, and resurrection? Did Jesus need to submit to the Old Testament law, or did he have authority to change the Old Testament law? Was Jesus Lord over the law? Or did Jesus need to submit to that law? In our Sabbath study, two verses came up that are very revealing. In Matthew 128, it says, The Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. Now let's look at that in context. How is Jesus arguing about the permissibility of what the disciples are doing? How is his argument? Verse 1 in chapter 12 of Matthew. At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck grains of head and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your disciples are doing what's not lawful to do on the Sabbath. And he said to them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry and those who were with him How he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who are with him, but only for the priests. Or have you not read in the law how on the Sabbath the peace in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you Something greater than the temple is here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless For the Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. So Jesus' argument goes like this. It does not say my disciples were not technically breaking the Sabbath. That's not his argument. First, based on what David did, there are higher priorities than a specific law at times. Sometimes there's a higher priority than a specific law Part A of this argument is what David did by taking the consecrated bread, who in a sense he had no business taking. breaking the law about its use. And then part B of the argument is how the priests in the temple technically break the Sabbath by working. So there are clearly a hierarchy of priorities. Second, the priority of Jesus is more important than any other thing. That's the second main point. The third main point is Jesus has the ability to prioritize properly. Had they understood the intent of God better in the law, they would have responded properly, but they weren't getting it. And fourth, in the argument, and probably the thing they least understood, Jesus does not need to submit to the Sabbath laws. Why? He is the maker of the law, and the maker of the law does not need to submit to the laws he created. He is superior to them by nature. The implications of Jesus being the Lord of the Sabbath are all-reaching. This would have been like a bomb going off in their picnic. Jesus was telling the lawyers that he was beyond their reach. The law is his to do with as he pleases. Their interpretations and their priorities are wrong. But even if they were correct Jesus can still do exactly what he wants to do because the laws have zero authority over him. Then John Five sixteen says and this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. Here again, Jesus does not justify himself and his disciples based on a legal argument from the words of Scripture. His argument goes more like this: these laws don't apply to me. I do what I want when I want, and it's right because I do it. The law has no authority over the lawgiver. The Father works on Saturdays, I work on Saturdays, get over it. That's kind of the argument that he's laying out here. Both of these statements were used in the context where people were challenging Jesus' authority to do what he did and to teach what he did. Jesus doesn't argue that he was keeping the law. His argument was that he had authority over the law. The teachers of the law had no authority to question Jesus because Jesus had authority over the law. He was not under it, he was over it. And this is not the only place where we see statements of Jesus' authority. In Matthew 28, 16, it says, Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. I think that's far more important than I've ever understood that before. All that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Jesus here states in no uncertain terms that he has ultimate authority. He is not submissive to the law, but he is over the law as well as everything else. Now, when we read scripture, is that how we read it? When we read scripture, do we believe that? Do we calculate that in? That's how we should see it. Jesus had the freedom to make any change he wanted because every change would have been in line with his Father's will. Jesus would not, could not have done it imperfectly. How do you think the Jews would have responded to this after having to obey all those rules for all those years? How do you think they responded when the teachings about the kingdom freed Gentiles from circumcision, tithing, food laws, Sabbath keeping, and on and on? Is it not a fleshly response to say, hey, I had to pay those dues, so so should you? Think how hard that would be to overcome For that generation. They would want to rob Christ of that right. They would want to condemn Christ for exercising that right. But Christ makes it very clear. This is my right, and I will exercise it exactly as I see fit with no apology It's a very dangerous thing to believe that God is not free to change how he deals with his people. He does not change, and God the Father is unchangeable. But he has over over time shown us various ways in his word that he has changed how he the deals that he has with his people It's very dangerous for us to think that we can determine, apart from his word, what God and got God can and cannot change. If the Lord is the Lord of the law, we've got to pay careful attention to what he says. Now, notice what Jesus tells the apostles to teach. Teaching them to observe not all that the law commands, he says, teaching all that I have commanded you. Did he mean all the law and what Jesus said? Well, no one believes that the New Testament believers are to keep all the Old Testament law. No one believes. At least no one I have ever read believes that. Because the New Testament clearly says it's not correct. It's never recorded that Jesus taught not to have Gentiles circumcised. We never see that. We never see Jesus teaching about teaching his his disciples uh the Gentiles don't need to be uh Circumcised. So how did the gospels how did the the this the apostles know not to do it? Could it be that Jesus did not need to teach against it because he never taught for it? Is it possible that Jesus actually expected that his disciples were being taught by Christ everything that they needed to be a follower of Christ? And if Christ left something out It's because it wasn't important. The disciples could follow Jesus' lead in his ministry to Gentiles. From here on in, they were to go by what Jesus taught and did. What Jesus taught and did had more authority than the Old Testament law. So if Jesus did not command circumcision, then the disciples knew not to command circumcision. The Old Testament was helpful in as much as Jesus explained how to apply the Old Testament. But largely the marching orders for a Christian came from Christ's own mouth. In John, we find that Jesus uses the words my words and my commands interchangeably, and that is important. In in John twelve forty-four, uses my words and my commands interchangeably. John 12, 44, and Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I've come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, there's a word coming out of his mouth. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day, for I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who has sent me himself given me a commandment what to say and what to speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say therefore, I say as the Father told me. And then skipping down to John Or John 13, 34, he says, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. My words and my commandments. Are synonyms. So when Jesus says, obey my words or obey my commandments, he is saying the same thing. He's talking about words that he spoke to his disciples. There's no reason to assume that he's referring to the Old Testament when he says my commands. If you assume in anything that Christ says about his commandments that what he's referring to are the Old Testament commandments, you've got to grant that it's your assumption that's being carried into your Bible understanding, unless you can prove otherwise. Where does Christ refer to Old Testament commandments as my words or my commandments? There's something very instructive in the transfiguration that I never noticed before. But it's very helpful in our understanding of the place of the law in the New Testament believer's life. In Matthew 17:1 it says, And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John his brother and led them up. And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with him And Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it's good that we're here. If you wish, I'll make three tents here. One for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah Which always seemed a bit odd the request, but he was still speaking when behold a bright cloud overshadowed them and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased Listen to him. I never caught that. I never really emphasized that before. I didn't see the significance before. Listen to him. When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified, but Jesus came and touched them, saying, Rise and have no fear. And when they lifted their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus. Now look at this closely. God the Father spoke. Christ was with the writer of the Old Testament, law. Moses. Moses wrote those books. He was with Elijah the prophet, probably the greatest prophet in the Old Testament. And what did God say? Listen to Christ. Listen to Christ. That's what God the Father said. I think if you emphasize the hymn , Christ, in contrast to the two, we best get the point. Christ is above the other two. His words are more important. They supersede all the others. He has the right to change them or adapt them as he sees fit. With this in mind, let's look at our text, Matthew 5, 17. Don't think that I've come to abolish the law or the prophets. I've not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. For truly I say to you Until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do so will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever teaches them, who does them and teaches them, will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. So, Christ did not come to abolish the law of the prophets, but to fulfill them. Let's look at this. What does abolish mean? What does fulfill mean? We need to understand these two in direct contradiction. Abolish is the opposite of fulfill. The word for abolish means to annul, to destroy, to demolish, to come to naught. It's the word used for the destruction of the temple. It means to bring to the ground. So Christ did not come to bring to the ground the law. Christ did not come to destroy the law. So what did Christ come for? To fulfill. The law. The word is almost always used in the New Testament to talk about Christ fulfilling an Old Testament prophecy. Said Christ is going to do this, Christ did it, he fulfilled that prophecy. It means to fill to the full, to cause to abound, to render full, to fill to the top, to make complete In every particular. Now, when I preached this on this last time, I broke out Christ's fulfilling of the law in three ways I talked about how Christ fulfilled the moral law, the ceremonial law, and the civil law. And I've always been troubled about this breakdown. Of the law. The problem I have with it is there's no biblical precedent for doing it. And I never, you know, that always caused me to be ill at ease. But I could not see another way of thinking about it. I think I was wrong to depend upon that breakdown of the law, even though there are a whole lot of people, a lot smarter than me, who who uh agree with it. In fact, most of the scholars that I I trust agree with it. I think Christ's fulfillment doesn't need to be broken down into those distinctions. I now think that Christ fulfilled everything, the whole kit and caboodle by who he was and by what he set into place. He fulfilled the whole thing and is fulfilling and will fulfill the whole thing. Everything about the law and the prophets was looking for its fulfillment in Christ. The festivals pointed toward him, the civil law pointed toward him, and the law portrayed his character and his worth I don't think we're told exactly how. And that's probably part of the problem. We're just told that they did Christ told this to some disciples after he resurrected in Luke 24, 44. Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was with you. And again, this is what I said, Christ is saying. That everything written about me in the law and Moses, the law of Moses and prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. That's why he came to fulfill Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures and says, Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer and the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance for the forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these, and behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you, but stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. what it is that he said he would fulfill. So Christ didn't come to destroy the law, neither did Christ come to re-establish the law or to continue the law. That's not what the words he said meant. Think about it. Why talk about abolishing and fulfilling the law at all if all he wanted to do was clarify what the law really meant? The Old Testament law and the prophets all pointed to Christ. And Christ was fully what it pointed to. He did not destroy it, he did not re-establish it, he was going to fulfill it. All of it. Commandments, ceremonial pieces, civil, all of it. So at this point we wait. We wait at the master's feet to hear what's next. How are we now to think about the law and the prophets? Verse 18: For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law, until all is accomplished. Okay, this fulfillment by Christ has to happen. This fulfillment by Christ will happen, and it has happened to some degree, and it will continue to happen In Christ. It's a certainty that the law is fulfilled completely in Christ. Now, with this being true, and Christ having fulfilled the law, and now the lawgiver being in our presence We have our ears open for what we should do. What should we obey? How are we to live? With the law fulfilled, what comes next? Well, interestingly enough, Christ is just about to tell us how we're to understand and interpret the now fulfilled law. Verse 19: Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. So what commandments is Christ talking about? That's the billion-dollar question here. What commandments is Christ talking about? Is he talking about all the Old Testament commandments that he said he just fulfilled? There's three options here that I can think of. First, we can take this most literally. The New Testament believers are required to keep every part of the Old Testament law. Like I said, I know of no New Testament believer who interprets it this way. We can't because Paul strictly prohibits the requirement of circumcision, which the law clearly requires. So option one is out. Section 2nd, it could mean that the moral law in general, or the Ten Commandments in specific, are to be kept exactly as prescribed in the Old Testament. But there's a problem here. Think with me. Jesus said, therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments. So Jesus is applying this to all of something, and then to the least of something. Jesus gives us no hint here where to make the division regarding a moral law. For instance, is the mixing of fabrics part of the moral law? Is the boiling a goat in its mother's milk part of the moral law? What believer do you know that will not buy a tweed fabric? There there may be some, there may be some that go by that. I don't know. But wouldn't that be one of the least commandments Suppose we limit it to the Ten Commandments. Well, first, there's no clue anywhere in Scripture that Jesus is limiting what he's saying to the Ten Commandments, at least none that I have found. We have to come up with that conclusion or assumption on our own. It's not in the text. We've got to say Jesus is talking about the Ten Commandments because I think he has to be But suppose we conclude that he is talking about the Ten Commandments. Since when has anyone regarded the Ten Commandments as being in a least of these categories? Jesus would essentially be saying, if anyone relaxes one of the least or the most fundamental commandments of the law. Which doesn't make much sense. Jesus appears in context to be talking about a part of the law that people might easily mistake for being inconsequential. Okay, what's another way of looking at this? What's another option here? Remember, we're talking about abolished versus fulfilled law. And who's fulfilling it? Christ is fulfilling it. And who has authority over the law? Christ has authority over the law. The question comes down to in what sense can every jot and tittle of the law be obeyed and taught and still be in conformity to what the New Testament says? And I think there's only one way. We obey all of the law as it is fulfilled in Christ We obey all of the law as it is fulfilled in Christ. It's likely that some of the way that Jesus fulfills the law is in his teaching. When he teaches us what we're to obey in the Sermon on the Mount, he is fulfilling the law. When he lays out his teaching in other places, he is fulfilling the law. Both what he did and what he said fulfilled the law. Now, we obey Moses ' law as it is given to the church at the hands of Christ. We obey it the way Jesus and then the apostles teach us to obey it. What does that result in? Is it a formal obedience to the law of Moses as written in the Old Testament? Well, who were the experts at obeying the Old Testament law as it was written in the Old Testament? Who, for example, best kept the Sabbath? Look at Jesus' application of what he just said. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whatever is true of these commandments, it will result in a righteousness that is greater than that of the scribes and the Pharisees. I've changed my mind about this. I hate that. Unfortunately, there aren't so many thousands and thousands of people who are listening to this sermon. that it it's likely to do much harm. But I used to think that Jesus was primarily addressing the Pharisees' wrong interpretation of the law In the rest of the verses in this chapter, in the Sermon on the Mount. I thought that Jesus was further explaining the law that was written That he was correcting how they interpreted it. But I think now I missed a point from some obvious clues. I think now that Christ up the ante on the commands. Those were his commands. I think he raised them to a level that no one in the Old Testament could have lived by, that only New Testament believers with an indwelling Holy Spirit could keep. While the commands are not completely new, they are reinitiated with a greater requirement. Requirements far greater than the Pharisees could keep. So when Jesus says these commands, I think he's talking about Moses as reworked and redefined by Jesus. He's talking about Christ's commands. The Old Testament laws as fulfilled and redirected and reshaped by Christ. Verse 19 again. Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of God. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. So now, who are the least in the kingdom of heaven? What's he talking about here? Who are the least? Notice they're still in the kingdom of heaven. So it's not like they're not a believer. Who is it? The least are those, this is my conviction, the least are those who try to reduce Christ's commands to the limit of the Old Testament commands It's those who say if you teach that people can have any evil motive toward others that they might not naturally have, they're okay as long as they don't cross the line of murder. Or it's those who teach an outward compliance to the Old Testament instead of focusing on the complete change of attitude that Christ requires when he lays out his commandments. Those are the least. The least are those who limit our carrying out of Christ's commands to the Old Testament law. People who would have been heroes in the Old Testament are the least in the New Testament. We're not to relax the internal targets of Christ's commands that he's just laid out or he's about to lay out in in the uh A Sermon on the Mount. We can't do anything to shelter or defend our inner self from the workings of the Word of God. The great in the kingdom of heaven are those who get it right. It's those who understand and teach that the attitudes we have and the motives we have are the target of sanctification. That is what God is changing in us. We're not to just avoid the exit stations of murder and adultery and the like on the murder train and the and uh adultery train. We're not even to Get on the train. That's what Christ was saying. And when our minds enter that train, we have violated that law in ways that they would have not even considered in the Old Testament. We need to call it what it is and exit at the first exit. Oddly enough, it's those who focus on external conformity to the law of Moses who are the least in the kingdom. This is very different from the Old Testament expectations. Those who do so are also said to have the weakest positions and be the weakest brothers. Then it makes sense. So how do we regard the Old Testament as New Testament believers? I find that for me, for information to be truly helpful, I need to reduce it down to something I'm familiar with. Something I've encountered. I've worked for three businesses whose primary business was to sell insurance. Each of those businesses was bought out by another business. And each of them had handbooks telling us about ethics and how to handle their computer equipment benefits and all that kind of stuff Some of the handbooks actually explain the benefits better than others. Some of them explained the history of insurance and things we needed to know about insurance better than others did. They were all true and authoritative as long as we worked for the company that handed out the handbook. When we would get bought out, I would sometimes keep the old handbook. I could then refer to it to help understand some things that the new handbook might not be clear about. But I no longer viewed it as being authoritative. Unless the new handbook stated that it was. Let me give you an example. We often were covered with a short term disability policy. That's the policy that pays you half your pay if you're disabled while you're employed. Now, some of the old handbooks have better explanations of what a short-term disability policy really is and how it works. And what the new limits are. But the new handbook would tell us if the new company actually offers that benefit to the employees or not. So I'd check the new handbook to see if the benefits offered and if it's still binding with the new company any specifics about the policy. I would look at the new. Then I would go to the old handbook to understand it better, to know how it applies. And that's a very, very rough illustration. It falls apart a lot of places, but it's a rough illustration of how I'm now looking more at the Old Testament. The new covenant with believers truly goes by a different set of rules than the old covenant with the Hebrew people. Christ, in a sense, bought out that company by fulfilling all of its demands and predictions. Some rules are similar. But of any Old Testament law still in place, most of the time the rules are expanded in the New Testament. If adultery is forbidden in the Old Testament, lust is forbidden in the New Testament. Murder is forbidden in the Old Testament, hatred is forbidden in the New Testament We're no longer under the Old Testament law except how the New Testament tells us we are. And it's not always simplistic. If it were, we probably wouldn't be having this conversation this morning. And it's evidently not supposed to be. It's not as simple as saying everything in the Old Testament is still valid unless the New Testament specifically says that it's not. It's not as simple as saying nothing in the Old Testament is still valid unless the New Testament specifically says that it is. We need to read carefully to understand what stands and what does not. But we're given some very helpful insights. One of them is that in Scripture, those who cling most tightly to the Old Testament rules, for which there is little said in the New Testament about Are said to hold the weaker position. Those who see themselves free of those rules are said to hold the stronger position. And the clearest example is food sacrificed to idols. Also, how one regards days of the weeks falls under that category. If this is really how Paul saw the old and new covenants It's no wonder that he was so frustrated with Judaizers. It's like they kept applying the old handbook to the new employees. They had no authority and they refused to grant Christ the proper place that he should have. They did not recognize his significance. Paul was forced to emphasize how little authority the Old Testament had. Some now read Paul's words about the law and arrive at bad conclusions, as if there's nothing of value in the Old Testament. And that is not true. That's not what Paul is saying. But what he is saying is that we've got to read the Old Testament through the New Testament lens. The New Testament believer is not under the Old Testament law like the Old Testament believer was. There may be parts that apply to us. And we learn about them from the commands and the words of Christ, along with the words of the apostles. But we've got to first go to Christ. We've got to go to the one who was given all authority in heaven and earth. We must not trust our sense or reason when it is not submitted to the Lord Christ. I want to make one more observation in closing. Christ said essentially, I've come to fulfill the law and the prophets. The implications here are staggering Every time that Christ makes an I came to do this or I come to do this, he's telling us about something that is core to his mission. I came to seek and to save those who are lost. I came that believers may have life and have it more abundantly. We could go on and on. Christ tells us about the core of his mission. But we know how important those statements are. Well, this is one of them. Christ came to fulfill the law and the prophets Notice he does not say that he came to affirm the law as it stands. He does not say he came to more excellently explain the law. He came to fulfill the law. You know what this statement of Christ does? This changes how we view and interpret and apply the Old Testament. If we're to take Christ's word seriously from the time of Christ on, the first question the believer needs to ask every time they open their Bible to the Old Testament passage is: how did Christ fulfill this? Then we go to the New Testament to find out some things we may be left guessing about. I think there are a bunch of those things. But many things we don't need to guess. We're told. And when we're told, we've got to allow Christ and the apostles to have greater authority than Moses does Hebrews 3:3 says, For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses. As much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself. And Moses isn't just a person here in this passage. He also represents the giver of the law. And remember what we covered earlier. When Christ was with Moses, the lawgiver and Elijah, the ultimate prophet, God the Father said, listen to Christ. When we interpret the Old Testament in a way that holds Christ under its authority, we have not applied this principle. Our first question is not, how did the law control Jesus? It's not how did Jesus keep this commandment? It is how did the maker of the law fulfill the law? What new thing did he tell us that we could not have expected? How did the law point to Christ? How was it changed after he came, and for what purpose did he change it? The law served a purpose that was subservient to Christ's purpose. The law appointed to Christ. The law was the schoolmaster to hold our hand while it brought us to Christ. But once we are in Christ's hand, the law serves a different purpose. And the million-dollar question is: what purpose? And only Christ can tell us that. Only the New Testament can tell us that. And it's as we study the Old and New Testament with this understanding that we see it better for what it really is. From now on, I challenge all of us, when we open the Old Testament, ask this question before you ask any other: how did Christ fulfill this? How did Christ fulfill this? I realized that this sermon just touches on the surface of this talk topic, and I I don't it dawned on me halfway through I haven't really described what New Covenant theology is But this is what I've been talking about. It's the way of seeing the new covenant as being superior to the old, and that the old now is seen through the new. So it just touches on the surface, but I hope it opens our eyes to see with even greater clarity the supremacy of Christ in all of time and eternity. May the Lord impress upon us how His Word tells us to interpret His Word. And next week, Lord willing, we'll hear about the Word. Arriving on our planet in the person of Jesus in our introduction to the Gospel of John that Brad's going to be bringing to us. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we we would have liked this simpler.