Well, we have a man writing to us this morning under the inspiration of God. John grew up as a fisherman. I like that. He's probably not poor since his father was also, he also employed other fishermen. To work with his family business. So he had a fishing industry. So he was the sons of a businessman, and James was his older brother. John had first followed John the Baptist. We see that in John 1:35 through 40 So he had started there. And when John the Baptist pointed to Christ and said, He's the one, John immediately followed Christ. This tells us something about John right off the bat. God was preparing his heart for Christ. John was hungry. for the Lord. He was looking. He was willing to sacrifice his comfort to learn about God. Hanging out with John the Baptist was no easy thing. That was an extended camping trip be something that maybe Caleb would like to do. He had uh he had a special sensitivity. It's likely that Jesus gravitated toward John because John was humbly real He was the youngest disciple, so he probably didn't see himself as being all that impressive. He was kind of the rookie. But he did have a fiery temper. He was one of the sons of thunder, one of those people who disrespected Jesus to immediately be annihilated It's likely that Jesus had a special love for John because John had a heart that connected with Christ. He may have been drawn to Christ more purely than the rest of the disciples. with less of those motives. He wasn't loud spoken like Peter. He wasn't impressive like his older brother might have been. He was the kid of the group, probably thrilled to be learning at the feet of Christ Whatever the case, Christ seemed to especially be close to John. And here's John later in life. Like uh Brad said, uh the last one's standing. Here's here's John, and he's writing a book to us. Now the great thing about this book is we know exactly why John wrote it, and and Brad bought brought this out last week. In John 2031, and it's nice because not all the other gospels tell us this specifically. John 2031 says, But these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ. The Son of God, and that believing you might have light through his name. As we're reading the book of John, And hopefully you are. Hopefully you're reading the whole book in context so you can get the gist of it. If we want to get the heart of the message of the book of John , We should ask first this question as we're reading through it. How is John in this text helping us believe that Christ is the Son of God? It's a simple question. How can this text help us to believe even more deeply in the true Christ? Because that's why John wrote it. Now, let's think about how John begins this book. If we go to Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we get the Christmas story. We get the story of what it looked like in human history when Jesus was born as a baby. We see the main characters and we see the supporting cast and we see what was happening in life as we know it, as as can be seen on planet Earth, and it's a wonderful story. My grandmother would read it each year on Christmas Eve. And it was a meaningful time for the family. John has the benefit of these other gospels already being in circulation. He probably trusts that his readers have access to these details by reading one of the other gospels. So he knows, hey, when I'm talking, when I'm writing this book, I don't have to cover that material anymore So John doesn't feel the need to repeat it from an earthly perspective. He doesn't need to say all the things that were happening on planet Earth. John takes us behind the curtain. of this story. Here is the wonder of the Christmas story from the perspective of heaven. None of this could have been seen by human observation. We would not know it if it was not revealed to us from heaven. The other gospels tell us that Jesus was born. This gospel tells us that the eternal Son of God was made flesh. It was the same event from two different perspectives. Now, John does an incredible job of cramming books full of theology in five verses. He lays a theological base that our salvation is based on in the first five verses. We could easily spend months expanding upon those verses. And that's just the beginning of the book. We could, but we're not gonna. Okay, let's look at verse one again. This book is written so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ. If you were trying to help someone believe And you knew that they believed the Old Testament, but you want them to believe in Christ, what would be a great way to start? Well, where does the Old Testament start? That would be a good place. In the beginning. When the world and mankind came and everything that was made came into existence, that's where you start. Let's start there. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth Then in Genesis 1. 26, God says, and God said, Let us make man in our image. Wow, that's a mystery already. Who's the us? God and who else? Us is plural. It means two. I often kid my wife that when she's talking about a chore around the house that we need to do, it's often not plural. It's singular. Her her we sometimes means me. But here in Genesis, it's clearly plural. John starts the first sentence of his book to begin to reveal the mystery of the we. In Genesis. In Genesis, in the beginning, we see God creating. In Genesis, in the beginning, we see a God who refers to himself in a plural fashion. Now John goes back to the beginning. And he tells us who the we is. He tells us about the second character, a second member of the godhood. He tells us who the we is. Now, here is the word. In the beginning was the word. The way this is worded, it means that the word was in a continued state of existence prior to the event described. The Greek word was is a continuous verb. So this word, this word, this person, this word, this being, preexisted creation. This means that he was not a created being. He was a pre-existent being. Christ existed prior to all things being created. Okay, so as we zoom into the event of life as we know it being created, as matter coming from nothing to something For light appearing, as this event is about to happen, we have the Father and Son in coexistence already in the beginning. Now, the next question is the hardest to answer, and it's going to take the rest of the sermon to do it. Why does John call Jesus the word? Why does he call him the Word? He could have called him like Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. He could have used any of those, but he doesn't. He calls him the Word. Well, let's start with what this is not talking about. The Greek has a word I don't believe is used in Scripture It's lexi, like lexicon, uh that sort of thing. The Greek word lexi means a word, like cabbage is a word, or banana is a word. It's a word made up of letters. It refers to that specific word. And this specific word refers to a specific thing. It's the foundation of language. When we read Scripture, it's easy to confuse the idea of a specific word with the way that Scripture refers to words. In Scripture, when it says the word, it's always referring to the concept that is being conveyed by the words. Not that actual word itself. And that's sometimes important in interpreting New Testament passages But anyway, that's it's important to remember. It's not the singular word, but the meaning carried by a series of words. It's a meaning. Now we're going to see straight away That the word became flesh. That comes a little bit later in our text. The word became flesh. So we all understand that this is talking about Jesus So we left with a question. Why did he choose the word word to describe Christ? Now think about this a little. What would our lives be like? Without being able to communicate meanings conveyed by words Imagine us all here in this room this morning, but we can't use words. I mean all the time we hear mothers telling little kids, use your words. What if you couldn't? You had no words to convey meanings. It's almost impossible for us to even imagine it, isn't it? We would be locked into our own little world without any outside perspective. There'd be no way for that outside the perspective to get to us. We would have no connection with other people. Our ability to think would be severely hampered because vocabulary is necessary for complex thought When we're able to communicate with each other by words, we can connect with people outside of ourselves. We can develop thought, we can get to know someone else. With words without words, we'll never know them. It is impossible to know them without words. Well, I think that's a good start in understanding why John called Christ a word. Christ was the communication of God to man. We could not know who God was without Christ communicating himself to us. And this is far more than just speaking. Christ was the full deal. When we see Christ, we see an exact representation of the Father. In John 14:9, it says, Jesus said to him, Have I been with you? you so long and you still don't know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Hebrews tells us more. Hebrews 1, 1 through 3 says, Long ago, at many times, and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Jesus is the exact imprint of the nature of the Father. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purifications for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Look at this. The Father has spoken to us by the Son. This is not saying that the Father spoke to us just by what his son said. He spoke by sending his son. His son is the word. It is the exact representation of the Father. It is the communication of who the Father is. This word is an exact imprint of the nature of God. Linir and I meet nearly every Wednesday morning on WhatsApp. And I'm taking them through the same training that Serva India uses. It's called build V I L D and it it takes you through uh the Bible uh with a um biblical theology slant where the Bible tells you about the Bible instead of systematic theology which is lumping everything into categories So anyway, he's usually waiting for supper, and I've just finished breakfast. He would like to learn as much from me as he can, which is quite an honor, and sometimes I scratch my head, but he does. And I used to send them emails, and that was good for what it was, but it wasn't very immediate. And then we used chat. And while chat is nearly immediate, it doesn't allow for a good back and forth flow of communication. There's a delay and ideas get lost and they get overlapped. So we moved to uh face to face over WhatsApp. Now that's better than the other form of communication when it works. But what Munir would probably prefer is if I could clone myself and then send myself over there. That might be more than he bargained for, but uh that form of communication would be as good as it could possibly get. That's a rough example of one of the ways that Christ is the Word. He is the accurate and complete communication of who the Father is to the world that the Father sent the Son to. Christ is that ultimate accurate communication from God about God. And more than that, this word upholds the universe by the word of his power. His power is conveyed by his speech. God's power is conveyed by God's speech. When we talk about speech being powerful You think about it, you know, that was a powerful sermon, or that was a powerful speech. We usually mean it's persuasive. It's conveying ideas in a way that move us. That's not what this is talking about. This is the speech that says, let there be light, and the speech conveys the very power of the one speaking it. It would be the difference between a military leader speaking and his troops being motivated to take the hill, or another military leader speaking and the hill disappears. That's the difference when the word carries the power. That's like the power of the word of God. The word is the expression of his power and is a vehicle of his power, and that is different. Jesus didn't just say true things, his life accomplished powerful things. In Genesis 1:3, we see that God said God spoke the word. God said, let there be light. And there was. So we see God's word was active in creation. And then Psalms 33, 6 says, By the word of the Lord the heavens were made. Those are powerful words. And all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. By the breath of his mouth. We immediately see that the Word of God conveyed the creative power of God. It executed the authoritative will of God. It represented the power of God, God's word and God's person. Are congruent. So up to this point, the word was understood as God's communication of Himself And the word was often used as the vehicle of God's own power. We covered those two things. The word was understood as God's communication of Himself. The Word was the vehicle of God's own power. Now let's think about this some more. Think about this from John's perspective. What did Jesus say about himself and his word? What did he say? How did he convey that? John Piper says this, and it's very helpful. John recognized the words of Jesus as the truth of God and the person of Jesus as the truth of God in such a unified way that Jesus himself in his coming and working and teaching and dying and And rising was the final decisive message from God. His person and word were so unified was Message from God. What God had to say to us in the fullness of time was not only or mainly as what Jesus said, but who Jesus was and what he did. His words clarified himself and his work. But himself and his work was the main truth that God was revealing. We see the seeds of this thinking in these passages of John, where he says in John 14, 6, Jesus said to them, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. I am these things. I'm not doing these things. I am these things. I am the truth. And then John ten twenty five says Jesus answered and told Jesus answered them, I told you and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me So Christ is the truth, and his life bears witness to the truth. His person and his life are congruent truths A congruent message. And then Christ says in John 8:31, So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him , If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. So if you abide in my word, And compare that with John fifteen, six, where he says, if anyone does not abide in me is thrown away like a branch and withers, and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. So if you abide in my word, you are my disciple. If you do not abide in me, You are not my disciple. So again, Christ's word and his person are unified. They're synonyms. When we abide in Christ and we abide in Christ's word, we're doing the same thing. John called Christ the Word partly because his life was the message from God to us. What he said, his word, was what his life was saying. Psalms 138, verse 2 says, I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word. We see again that who God is and what God communicates have the same importance to us. They're congruent. When God communicates, it's always an accurate representation of who God is. We're not always that good with our communication, right? discovered more and more of that this week. There is there is never a uh disconnect with God and there often are we often misunderstand or misstate things in in our lives John MacArthur helped me in my study here as well. He tends to know a great deal about the Greek words and the Greek culture. He brought out some of the historical truth that I didn't see anywhere else. This Greek word logos was pregnant with meaning in both the Greek culture and the Jewish culture. And the interesting thing is that both emphasize different features of the word. So he uses a word that meet powerfully means two different things to two different people, and he means both of them. To the Greeks, the word logos embodied the creative force of the universe. Isn't that interesting? Logos Embodied the creative force of the universe. They weren't so different from our culture. They could look at the cosmos and they could see that it could not have happened by itself So to be true to their reason, they had to ascribe it to something. But they were careful not to ascribe it to someone. They ascribed it to something. If there is some impersonal force out there, some mysterious entity, that works works out well for self-centered mankind. But if God is personal and has a will, and it communicates that will to his creation , Now we are faced with an obligation. And it's the human disease to avoid an obligation to a god like the plague. So to Greece, the Lobos is like the force in Star Wars. It gets stuff done, but it's impersonal. It's powerful, but it's impersonal. This logos created all that was created. This logos was in charge of all design. That's the Greek thought. And John starts his book by saying, you know what, Greeks? This logos He was a person. This logos was a person. He became flesh. That concept would have been mind-blowing to them. But then again, what concept is there in Scripture that is not mind-blowing? Now, to the Jews, a logos would have had a very different meaning. How many times have we read about the word of the Lord coming to a person? What was happening when that was said? Well, it was God was conveying a message. He was communicating his will. Supernaturally, in a mystical way, he was communicating his will. He was revealing something that no man could know without God supernaturally revealing it. So to the Hebrew, the Word of God telling us who uh so to the Hebrew the Word of God was God telling us who God is. Now here is Jesus. He is personal. He embodies truth. He is a person gram. Hebrews 12, or Hebrews 1:2 again says this: long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the Prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. So this is more than just Jesus speaking the words of God. This is Jesus being the Word of God. I I'm finding it and I don't know, I I hope I hope that you're gathering something by this, but I'm finding it a little hard to put this into succinct words. I have a feeling I'll have this difficulty a lot in the book of John. But I think we can see there are lots of reasons that John would have chosen the word word To encapsulate Jesus. Evidently, many have had a problem understanding what Scripture means by this word, why it was chosen. In fact, one of the early translators wanted to translate. This uh sermon instead of him being the word But Jesus being the sermon. In the beginning was the sermon. That would be different, wouldn't it? Ultimately, Jesus was the message of God the Father, sent not in a message, but in a package, in a person. He was like And I I use that strongly. He was like a clone of the Father. Jesus did not just bring the word Jesus was the Word, and he represented all the power of the Godhead who spoke the cosmos into existence. After studying it to this point, that's why I believe John called Jesus the Word Jesus was the Godhead's most powerful, accurate, effective, and understandable communication of himself to humanity It's through this word that we will not only learn who God is, but will gain the possibility of truly knowing this God. We will gain all of this through Himself. Okay, and there's one more thing I'd like to emphasize here in this passage. The world is personal. The world is personal. Think about the implications of what John is saying. He is soon to tell us just a few sentences from here Uh I'm sorry. He's soon to tell us just a few sentences with a boatload of meaning about the characteristics of this one he names the word But think about the name, the word, the message, the idea, the concept. These are personal words. The word and is personal. They imply relationship. Communication is between parties. It had to be from one to another. The word was the creator. The word 's intention had to be a creation he would communicate with. Otherwise, the word would not be the best word to use here. If communication, if communion wasn't the desire. Word would be completely inappropriate. I grew up with the idea that there was a God and this world is his creation. I grew up with the idea that I owe it to my life. uh to live for that creator and he has the right to demand my obedience. It's his right. I grew up knowing that this world is personal. Most of you here in in this room probably grew up with this similar idea. I have difficulty imagining a different world view. But many in the world around us don't have the same view of the creation and the creator. They don't have it at all. I was listening to uh uh uh uh some people who were ministering at the Olympics and they were talking about sharing Jesus with people and all they were shocked at all the people that they would begin to try to talk to about Jesus and they The answer was, Who is Jesus? Who is Jesus? They've grown up absorbing the message of their age. Their doctrine by default is like Isaiah says I am, and there is none besides me. This is all there is. We should have compassion on these fellow human beings. They're deceived about the most phenomenal truths. Many have never occurred a serious presentation of real truth They've never heard the word. They only have misconceptions of Jesus and the truth of the Bible if they know any at all. They have no foundation in their thinking. Their creation has no meaning. And their life has no ultimate purpose. It's all wishful thinking. There's no sovereign force that they can orient to. They have no one to run to with the troubles of their existence. Sure, the worldview allows them to live without restraints, but it doesn't free them from the futility and the meaninglessness that comes with a creator-less creation. Praise God that in the Beginning was the word. In the beginning was the willingness and the intention and the desire to have relationship with the creation. We were certainly created for God's glory. But given the nature of our Creator, we can't escape the fact that part of God's design for me and you Is that he would enjoy our communion with him. Part of God's design for me and you is that God would enjoy our communion with Him. Never allow yourself to get the idea that your primary value to God is the work that you can do for Him. Like if I do a lot, I have great value to Him, and if I don't seem to accomplish much, I have little value. That's the wrong way of looking at this. We can't go by the Martha formula. We need to go by the Mary formula. Communion is more important than production In your Christian life, communion is more important than production. Do you believe that down deep in your heart? Do you believe that one of the most important things that God wants from you is communion? Communication implies communion. The communication is to be warmly received by humans. Why else have the communication? Why else be the word? Why be the word if there's no one to hear and love the word? The very word communicates God's intention for his creation John did not emphasize that in the beginning was the builder, or in the beginning was the master, or in the beginning was the administrator. He could have, and they're all true, but that's not what he said. God did not create us because he had stuff needing done that he needed some poor suckers to get done for That's not the word chosen here. God wanted to have relationship with his creation. Here's another idea for something on your mirror If I ever go in one of your houses and I can't see myself in the mirror, I'll know you were taking what I said very seriously. Put this on a sticky note. God created you in order to have communion with you. God created you to have in order to have communion with you. Communication was the target of his creation. He was the communication prior to the creation of those he would communicate with. He was the word before there was anyone to speak to. The word is personal Because the Creator is the Word. Well, now we've covered the first six words of the Gospel of John, and at this rate we can expect to be done in John in about 20 years. And even then we'd be scratching the surface. But anyway, I'd like to finish it before I die. I think one good application this week would be to look at what we really think about God's intention toward us. It is true that we must trust and obey, like we sang earlier. That's an absolute truth. But it's very important that we get the why correct. Paul spent more time explaining the why than he did the what. in his in his uh gospels or in his uh his epistles. Our God longs for our good Our God desires relationship and communication. Our God created his children for that primary purpose. The more we understand that and integrate that in our heart-of-hearts kind of thinking, the more willing that makes our hearts to desire to live in submission under His leadership. Because we have a God who wants to know us. A God who wants us to know him. And you know, obviously God knows us. But he wants that fellowship. He wants that communion. What do your reactions in life say about what you believe, about why God created you? Really? Is it for communion? He sent us his word. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. And we thank you so much for