Think about the safety of all of us while we're gathered together and that's why we're making some of the changes that we are. Um my my other pastor friends have all pretty well done the same thing at their churches and Seems to us like it was a good idea. Just so you know. What do you do when Jesus does not live up to your expectations? Do you know what I mean? Something happens in your life. It's the last thing you wanted. It involves heartbreak or mental suffering or physical suffering. It looks to you like something you cannot handle. It's too severe, it's too devastating. Yet you have good theology. When you talk about the sovereignty of God, it's not sovereignty up to the point of decisions made by human beings and then God has his hands tied. No, no, we don't have that theology. We have good theology. We believe that God controls everything. God has the power over everything. He can allow its cause or he can stop it from happening at any time. Our good theology leaves us in the throes of a dilemma. God could have stopped us, but he didn't. Christ could have changed the landscape, so I would not have had to face this. But he didn't. And this leads us to a point of decision. And that decision is crucial. What happens in that decision determines whether we will grow in our faith or backslide in our faith. It determines if we find a way to joy or a path to misery. We look at our pain and look at Christ and say, Christ, if you truly loved me, you would not have allowed this to happen. Is that what we're going to do? Or when we say, I hurt. It's real hurt. But I'm confused. And it's real confusion. And I don't know how to go on doing this. But I do trust you. I know you love me. I'll not allow this circumstance to inform me about your goodness. I know you are good. I know you love me. I will focus on that which I can be thankful for. Have you ever faced this kind of thing in your life? I suspect we all have. To varying degrees and various circumstances. Are you facing it now? A. W. Foser said that what you believe about God is the most important thing about you. And every day I live, I believe that more and more. And this is the point where what you truly believe about God becomes most evident. Our Sunday school answers or our answers on a multiple choice test mean very little at this point. What's stored as fact in our brain means very little at this point. What do you believe in your heart of hearts? That's what comes out. This is where Mary and Martha are this morning. This is the struggle that they're going through. And I think they passed the test. They show in our text that they do not understand, but they show in our text that they trust Jesus. They're like us in that they display that they're not happy with the circumstance. They don't know why Jesus allowed it. They're confused. They know he could have fixed it. They know he chose not to. But they still run to him. Well, you and I run to Christ when our Lord takes us through those valleys of the shadow of death. Will we trust that this event happened so that the Son of God may be glorified through this event? Like verse 4 says. Let's look at our text. Verse 17. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. Okay, we need to remember the context. Jesus receives a message. Lazarus is very ill. Jesus sends back a message to them, says, This illness does not lead to death. It's for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be. glorified through it. And by the time that message would have been would have made it back to Mary and Martha, they are looking at the corpse of Lazarus Jesus remains where he is purposely for three more days. And then he travels to Bethany to Lazarus' home, knowing that Lazarus is dead. When Christ gets there, he's told that Lazarus was dead for four days. Jesus knows that's what he is walking into, and he chooses to do it. He is walking into a situation of intense sorrow. There's a fact that that is very helpful to know here. According to some of the historical documents Some Jews, maybe most Jews, believed that the soul hovered around the body for three days hoping to re-enter it. That's a bit odd, I'll grant, but that's what they thought. And on the fourth day, seeing that it's hopeless, And that they they don't want a decomposed body, the spirit leaves. Like I said, a bit weird, but that's what that's what they thought. So in the Jewish mindset, death was irreversible on the fourth day. Now John gives us a little more information about the backdrop. Verse 18: Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off. And many of the Jews had come to Mary and Martha, Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So there are several things that we can gather in that verse. Martha's home was an easy walk from Jerusalem. Two miles back then to them to nothing. So this would be good real estate. Also, you know, location, location. They were close to Jerusalem, but they weren't in the heart of it. And the fact that Lazarus has a tomb is a sign that he is somewhat wealthy. Not everybody had tombs. And I'm sure that having a tomb was extremely important to Jesus' future plans. to raise Lazarus. I can't imagine how the story would have gone if they had buried him instead. Um We all know. But the fact that Mary had the ointment also that she poured on Jesus was also an indicator of wealth. We also see that Lazarus knew many people, and those people valued him enough to come here. to his house to mourn. So they had to walk the two miles at least to get there. And where it says many of the Jews, it's difficult. We've been talking about how the word Jews is normally used for the religious leaders who are against Christ. Well We can't really pen that down in this passage, that in this context, because later we see that some of these people go back and report what happens to the Pharisees. So I'm not sure it's safe to conclude that all of these people were Jesus' enemies. I don't think they were. What is sure is that Jesus made sure that there were a lot of witnesses to this event that he is going to do. Okay, now we get to see the responses of Martha and Mary. Let's see how they do. Verse 20 So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Alright? This isn't a huge surprise. I see Mary or I see Martha as a get it done kind of person. She's an active person. She's on a veto lot. And we know that Martha didn't do great in the first story. We talked about that a little bit in Sunday school as well. But we need to be really careful here God made the get-it-done Marthas of this world as much as He made the relational, empathetic Marys in the world. And we do well not to make boxes of what personalities are Christian or what personalities Christians ought to have. They have what they have. And that's good. God made it that way. There are needs in the body for all kinds of strengths. And those strengths always bring with them weaknesses. Their own unique wit weaknesses, and that's how it is, and that's how God wants it. So that's all good. Now it's not a surprise that Martha got up and went to meet Jesus and Mary didn't All we know for sure is that's what what's happened. We don't really you know, we don't know what. Now, we need to put ourselves in this theme. Mary and Martha had sent a message to Jesus. They sent it in time that Jesus could have healed Lazarus or raised him from the dead, but he would have been shortly dead, not nearly like it is now. That was four days ago, and there was no Jesus. What would you say to Jesus as the first thing that you say when you meet him? Maybe the old Martha would have said, Jesus, you should have been here. She's pretty good on the shoulds back then. Just like she thought Mary should have been helping. But praise God, that is not what she said. Maybe this is growth. I think it is. And We should always celebrate growth in each other, even when it seems minuscule, because it's always beautiful. It's what God is doing in our lives. Verse 21, Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Look at that face. Isn't it beautiful? While the religious leaders are ignoring Jesus' miracles, Martha is counting on them. She knows Jesus could have healed her brother There's no doubt at all. There's no hesitancy. Now technically the statement may not be accurate. It's good that Martha knew that Jesus could heal Lazarus, but it's presumptive to think that Christ would have healed Lazarus. We've got to learn to leave room for God's purposes. And they're often different than ours. Remember, Martha said my brother would not have died. She doesn't know that. But in all of the things that we do not understand about our situation, it is wonderful to start with the knowledge that God is sovereign, God is good, and God loves us. If you had been here, Jesus, he says, you could have cured him. Okay , but Christ wasn't, and he didn't. Now what? Verse 22. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give to you. That's a wonderful faith. That's beautiful. Great thinking. She doesn't tell Jesus what he ought to be doing. She's learned. She doesn't arrogantly read into this situation to say, Jesus, if you really love me, if you really cared about how I feel, you would have healed my brother. She doesn't pull that. None of it. She just said, God 'll do what you asked, so you can do whatever you want here. What wonderful faith. Beautiful. But Jesus isn't going to stop there. And he 's like that with us. You know. We get a couple steps forward and he puts the next challenge in our face and we we've got to rise up to it. He's going to maximize this opportunity with Martha. He's going to teach her another spiritual lesson here. Verse 23, Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Oh, what a wonderful truth that is. Every person you know or you ever knew who was in Christ, every person who had a saving relationship with Christ, every single one of them will rise. Jesus is telling her this to draw her out into further discussion. He's kind of baiting her, you know. It's kind of neat. But what will Martha say? Verse 24, Martha said to him I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Alright? So she knows some things that even the Sadducees don't know. She knows about a resurrection. But remember the setting Martha had gotten the message from Christ that the illness does not end in death. Martha was by that time looking at a corpse that should have looked dead. So she would have had to do business with that. Christ had said one thing, she's looking at another thing. She would have had to either think Jesus doesn't know everything, and we'll cut him a break here, or Jesus is telling me a truth different than what I was expecting. Then the question is always, how is this true even when it doesn't look true? How is this true even when it doesn't look true? Isn't that a constant struggle that we have? We look at our life, we look at circumstances, we look at the struggles we go through, and we look at God's promises, and we say, there's kind of a gap there. I have trouble understanding that. How do I understand what God says is true when it doesn't look true now? I believe Martha did a wonderful thing when looking at her brother's corpse. Martha, upon hearing the message that Jesus sent that this would not end in death, had done her faithful figuring. She had already reconciled the difficulty before Jesus got there. That's what I believe. She figured that Jesus was saying that Lazarus will one day be resurrected from the dead. So what Jesus said is true. That's how she calculated it. And that's exceedingly good thinking. She's wrong this time, but still it's wonderful thinking Now, Martha, you know, we want to look at it and say, you are doing great. You are doing great. Keep going. Verse 25, Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? There's a little aside here. Christ is quoting scriptural truths to those who are grieving In the middle of their grieving process. And while most of the time we are best to remain silent, to just be there, to mourn with those who mourn, there are times for scriptural truths to be said, evidently. At least our master thinks so. So for those times we do best to follow the Spirit's leading. Don't go into it with a sermon. I've learned that. So here is our master evangelist. This is his fifth I am statement, of which there are seven in the book of John. It's not enough to believe that Lazarus will raise again. Jesus wants Martha to confess. That Christ is the central figure in everyone's salvation. That's the point he's making I am it. I am the only way that people get to eternity in God. If a person is to resurrect, they have to believe in Christ. Christ is the source of resurrection. Christ is the source of this life. It will not come to anyone apart from Christ and it will not be spared from anyone who comes to Christ. It's not enough to believe that Jesus will specifically resurrect Lazarus because Jesus said he would She has to believe that Christ is the truly the one and only Savior of the world. That's the question. How does she respond to this? That's the vital point in her life. What will she say to this? How wonderfully she passes the test. Like Martha is really killing it this morning. This is one of the best professions of faith in Christ's whole ministry so far. Don't give up on the Marthas. Even if they might be task-oriented and goal-oriented, Jesus was patient. Jesus loved her Verse 27, she said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. Yes. Test passed. And keep this in mind. She passed that test before Jesus gave her the desire of her heart. She passed the test before Christ answered her request the way she wanted it answered. She trusted Christ even before Christ gave her what she most wanted. What an example to follow. She's sitting on all cylinders. Have you ever professed Christ? Have you ever called upon Christ believing that Jesus is truly God's Son? God in the flesh He came into the world to save sinners by taking upon himself all the sin that any believer would ever commit He took that guilt upon himself and he took that hit upon himself the wrath of God against our sin on that cross. And by doing that, he paid the full penalty for any sin that we would commit. Then he laid in a tomb and he was resurrected on the third day. And now it comes to us to repent of our sin and trust in Christ with all that we have to save us from our sin and to enable us to live for Him from now and forever. That's the kind of confession that Martha had. It was implied in what she said. And we've got to have it too. Only Christ is the resurrection and the life. There is no other. Verse 28. When she had said this, when she had passed her test, I think, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, the teacher's here, and he's calling for you. So she wants it to be a private thing. And uh Mary when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him, and that's going to cause a stir. Now we don't know why Mary didn't respond sooner But when she knows that Jesus wants to talk to her, she's gone in a flash. We see that whatever her delay, it wasn't due to her not wanting to talk to the Lord. John gives us a little more of the backdrop when he goes in verse 30. He says how Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in a place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. I think that tells us a little bit about it. Mary probably too, but you didn't always know exactly what she was going to do next. I think this following was necessary because Christ wanted plenty of witnesses. So whoever was in the house is now headed to the tomb. Verse 32. Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. I love the difference between Mary and Martha. I doubt that they enjoyed those differences a whole lot growing up. You know what I mean? They lived in the same family, these two sisters living in the same house, and they're so different in how they look at life. And that's all good. How they stand is probably very different, but one isn't better than the other. They're just different. Mary comes to Christ and words are not enough. And you could you you'd expect that from Mary. She needs to display how she feels. She's very demonstrative. And while Martha goes and gets the facts, and she has a very cognitive discussion with Jesus, Mary is pouring out her heart. I can't imagine Martha writing a song. And I can't imagine Mary organizing an event. You know what I mean? They're just those kind of people. But here they are loving Jesus. In their own way. Isn't it interesting that the first thing that both of them said was nearly identical Here's the rub, Jesus. We know that this didn't have to happen. We know you could have fixed this. Lazarus did not have to die. If you were here, you would have healed him. And technically, like I said, Mary and Martha do not know that. They think they know that. They can't envision Christ allowing people he loves die due to sickness because they they project too much of themselves probably in Christ Their understanding of Christ's will has room to grow, and whose doesn't? And there are plenty of so-called teachers who say that it's never Christ's will for a person to be sick And that is a lie. But all Mary and Martha had probably experienced is Christ healing people. So they probably assume that's always his will. We know that this is not always the case now, based on New Testament Scripture, but whatever the case, Jesus did not respond the same way to Mary as he did to Martha. We need to note that. Maybe Martha was built better to deal with rational thoughts. She was more objective, less subjective. Maybe Mary was in a reaction mode, blind to thoughts by the depth of her emotion. We don't know. But it's good to note that in our ministry to people, there should be some degree of catering to the individual that we're speaking to. With some we can be bold and blunt, maybe even ourselves. And with others, we need to be more gentle and tactful and loving. But back to the text, verse 33. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. Deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled Now, before we think we understand this verse, we really need to look at the words that are used. And this is what I was referring to in Sunday school as well. Deeply moved in spirit. Does not exactly capture the emotion of this Greek word. I don't think it's a good translation at all. The translation is way softer than the actual words that were chosen. The Greek word used for here for deeply moved means to snort like a horse. It's odd, but it invariably suggests anger, outrage. or emotional indignation. The Greek word for greatly troubled means riled up, like when the sea is all worked up and stormy. It's probably similar to Jesus riled up about the buyers and the sellers in the temple. Jesus is is at this location and he is getting worked up. And it's not the way you would think. The million-dollar question is, what was Jesus angry about and worked up about? And it's not just empathy. It could include empathy, but it's more than that. There are several options. At least that I can think of. First, it could be anger and indignation regarding what sin has done to creation. That's usually how I've understood it. That's what Piper and many others say. And that's what I thought coming into this study. In fact, as usual, I had a better point to make. from the sermon than I'm able to make because of what the scripture says. But I really wanted to focus on Christ's compassion. And surely there are plenty of passages we can go to to show that Christ is more compassionate than anyone will ever know. So Christ's response could be anger toward the forces of evil and the ravages of what sin has done to the planet. If it is this, as Jesus is looking on, anger is doing in him about all the havoc that sin has wrought, especially in those Christ loves. Okay, it could be that. Certainly the case could be made, and is made by many scholars that I trust. But there are no clues from the context that that's the case. Second, this crowd would have been partly made up of paid mourners. Now, these are people, they would probably usually be women, who would be paid to wail loudly. At funerals. Now we think that's absurd. Like if somebody showed up like that at one of our funerals, we would you know, we would issue them to the door, tell them to shut up and get out But the effect of these women would be something like a laugh track used in comedy shows. You know, it expresses the emotion that you're expected to have that you're supposed to follow. You're supposed to follow their lead. It's fake mourning, a farce in light of the true suffering that those who loved Lazarus would have been experiencing. And that in itself would be irritating If you walked into a funeral and all of it was fake and loud, I think all of us would be indignant Maybe that's why riled Christ up. But again, there are no clues in the text. There's nothing in the text that separates the crying of Mary and the crying of the Jewish crowd. They're in the same sins. So let's keep looking at this. Now we need to keep in mind Jesus is very close to the cross. You don't get that when you read it. Like you don't realize he's got a week left. He is right at the threshold of uh of of the crucifixion. So we need to try and put ourselves in his shoes because his perspective, given this point in his life, would be very different. From everybody else's. Christ says preach. You think about it. Christ says preach. over and over and over again, the kingdom of God and the eternal life that He gives those who who believe in Him. He knows He has very little time left. His followers have very little uh time left with with Christ, Mary and Martha, are two of those rare followers. They're prime examples. They're wonderful. They believe Jesus. They've responded very well in this situation from our perspective. But Christ watches them more. And this is the third possibility, and I think it best fits our context. I don't particularly like it. In fact, I don't like it at all. But I think understanding it helps us better understand not only this incident, but Christ's whole last week. I believe that Christ was worked up about the effects of sin on his creation, but I think it was more than that. Jesus is also stirred up by the crowd's unbelief of Christ. That's also an effect of sin. Calvin Gill and a bunch of Puritans interpreted this into the understanding of the text as well. I wasn't aware of that, but they did. So if that's so, this is a response that only Jesus would be entitled to Only Jesus would have in this circumstance. He'd be the only one who would have had this perspective in a lost and fallen world. The word used for Mary and others weeping, the word used for weeping is actually wailing Wailing. It's crying very loudly. It's one of those gut cries where you weep uncontrollably. Most of us have probably had experiences like that where we cried until we could cry no more. It came from the core of who we are. We do that when we're facing tremendous loss or tremendous pain. We accept that as part of life on planet Earth. And it it really it really is unfortunate. But put yourself in Christ's shoes. How would you respond if you had been teaching the hope of the resurrection over and over and over to these people? Yet no one seems to really be hanging on to it for hope. They believe it as a doctrine. But it provides them no real benefit in day-to-day life. When someone dies, it's as if Christ has never said anything about it, as if he has never taught them how to process it They are mourning as if Jesus isn't even there, as if he is powerless to do anything about it. Not all mourning is proper mourning. Not all mourning is faithful mourning. We need to understand this. There is a Christian element that has to be present in a believer's mourning. The difference may not be readily visible, and we certainly can't be overly critical thinking that somehow we have the secret of when a person crosses that line. It may take time to show itself, but Scripture says this in 1 Thessalonians 4. thirteen and fourteen. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others who do not have hope. You see the difference there? It's a huge difference. Both grieve. Both grieve. That 's expected. But Christians hope. Then verse 14 in that same text: for since we believe that Jesus died and rose again. Even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. A resurrection matters about everything. If Jesus saw that these people were mourning like pagans, like people who 1 Thessalonians 4 13 says, have no hope. How might you think Christ would respond? And then on top of this, he knows in just a few days he is going to die. He is going to pay the horrendous price for this eternal life for his children. And he knows that many, even in this crowd, are going to reject him. And never believe in him at all. How might Christ respond in that setting? D. A. Carson says this, profound grief at such bereavement is natural enough. But grief that degenerates to despair, that pours out its loss as if there were no resurrection, is an implicit denial of that resurrection. If sin, illness, and death, all devastating features of this fallen world, excite Christ's wrath, It's hard to see how unbelief would be excluded. Could it be that this whole picture combined in Christ's mind and had a very different effect on Christ than one might guess This doesn't appear to me to be driven primarily by empathy. Christ is looking at this from his unique perspective. He looks at the whole scene in a different way than the participants look at it. Christ knows that he's going to be in a tomb in a few days, and he doesn't want to have mourners surrounding his tomb. He doesn't want the wailing and the sadness. He wants to see belief. He wants people clinging to his promises that they forget. He wants people to say Jesus said he will rise again in three days. We're on the verge of the greatest blessing that humans have ever known. Christ wants to see belief. Christ wants to see his followers having faith in him. But Christ knows that even though Christ told them what would happen over and over again, that is not how they are going to respond. They would all respond like Mary and Martha in the crowd. How frustrating that would be. How much that would work you up How much that would cause you to have a different response than every single human in that crowd. Christ was calling them to mourn in a way that is filled with hope. Here he is. He's the resurrection and the life and he's standing right here. He just emphasized that. He said he would raise Lazarus, even though they didn't know what that what he meant by that right now. That's the context. But these humans, both followers and unbelievers, were stuck in the rut of only seeing death as lost, no matter what the doctrine in their head said. So Christ is looking on, and he sees these people being hammered by the consequences of sin And not clinging to the hope that Christ is providing to them. And the longer Christ watches, the more worked up about it he gets. That's the picture that I think the Greek words paint. There's verse 34, and he said, Where have you laid him? I think Jesus has seen enough. He wants to end this right now. He'll show them one more time just how powerless. Christ will destroy death's power and death's king. It's no longer the final enemy. There is hope. So they said to him, Lord, come and see. And it's here we find the shortest verse in the Bible. I actually have this one memorized. Jesus wept. Jesus wept. As I studied this, I was not aware of this either. The word for wept that Jesus did is a different word from what Mary and the crowd were doing. The word is usually used as tears in lament prior to a calamity. Tears of lament prior to a calamity. Which is very interesting. A lament involves sorrow and tears. But it's for something in the future. Well, you think about that. Jesus certainly wasn't mourning over Lazarus. He knows that Lazarus is about to be up and about in a few minutes. And that's going to be a praiseworthy, happy time. Surely he shared in the sadness that Mary and Martha were feeling, surely, but I think there's more than that. He was lamenting over an upcoming calamity. He's not crying about bringing Lazarus from the dead. He's not crying about himself being raised from the dead. But he may have been crying about the cost that only he knew he would be paying in the Garden of Gethsemane. He would be taking on the sin of the world, the sin that brought on all this death. All that he was facing at that tomb, the sadness, the loss, the unbelief of the crowd, the hatred by his enemies, the interference that sin brings into response. Relationships. Christ is seeing all of this. No one else. Only him. And he was responding to this event differently than everyone else. He dreads the price that he himself will soon pay to remedy this whole circus of humanity. And there's nobody he can share that with. God had to send angels. So I think Christ here is more than likely, foreseeing the death that he himself will experience, and not only the death that he will experience, but the fruitlessness of it. For so many of his countrymen. Verse thirty-six. So the Jews said, See how he loves them. In the context of John, most of the things that the Jews say miss the mark. They're normally bad guesses. And I think this too is one of their bad guesses. Everyone wants to think they understand Jesus. But Jesus is living in a different plane from them. We by nature want to make Jesus like us. And we grow most when we realize he is radically different from us, and that his goal is to make us like him. Christ was not mourning Lazarus at all. Why would he? Lazarus would be walking around in his ghost costume in a couple of minutes. If anything, Christ was mourning all those who had never received Christ. We'll discuss this next week in Sunday school, so you got your homework. Study the text. Look at the Greek words. You can find them in Blue Letter Bible online if you want. BlueLetterBible. org. No spaces. Ask for yourself, what do those words convey? And would Christ have chosen those same words if the passage was intended to convey the meaning that we assume it conveys? Check it out. Bible study often results in the Word of God staying the same, but our understanding changing So put some time in this week. Check it out. Then verse 37, but some of them said, Could he could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? Well that's not terrible logic, but it conveys the wrong assumption. The wrong assumption is that Christ only has the power over sickness. It assumes he doesn't have the power over death There was a song in the seventies, uh it's not a good song, but the chorus was memorable. You ain't seen nothin' yet. Well these Jewish folks ain't seen nothin' yet. We should learn something here. When we think to criticize God, evaluating God's work And how God's doing his work and what he's doing is way above our pay grade. We have no idea what our God is capable of. Okay , let's pray. Oh Lord How you've suffered at all