Reason. Maybe many reasons. Maybe we're coming because it's a discipline of ours, and this is what you do on a Sunday, and it's the right thing to do. So maybe we do it because of that. Maybe we want to please God by presenting our worship to us. We we view Sunday mornings as a time when we could come together and Give our worship to God. Please Him in that way. Maybe we're coming because we want to hear from God. You feel your need of God in your life and you want to hear a message That God has for you this morning. There could be lots of other reasons as well, but we're all here, and what I'm certain of is that Jesus' desire for us is to do business with worry about stuff. And he wants us to more completely trust him. At the end of this day, I am certain that that is what God intends for us, what God wants for us. Last week we got this far. Verse 25. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life. And I spoke about the fact that this is a command. It's a command coming from God, and this means it is something that must be obeyed and that can be obeyed. And then we looked at worry, what it is, and how it divides our mind. It gets us going in two different directions and it distracts us. I quoted lots of quotes about how useless worry is, and no matter how compelling it seems to be to us at the time, it's useless. And I talked about this great opportunity that Jesus is giving us to get this monkey off of our back. If worry is something that troubles us. He's going to tell us how. And he's going to tell us why to refuse to worry. He's going to tell us how to refuse to worry, and he's going to tell us why to refuse to worry. So this brings us up to this morning You and I are here this morning, and more listening from home due to this uh COVID virus. Um We're beginning to accept it as part of our family just about as often as it's lasting. So no matter how we're attending this morning, Christ desires that we hear what he has to say. Okay, let's look at an outline of sorts. Verse 25A is command one. Remember, there's there's four commands and six reasons. Command one Do not worry about your life, your food, drink, and clothing. Command one. Reason one is in 25b, life is more than food and clothes. Reason two, in verse twenty-six, God cares for the lower creation, the birds, and you're more valuable than they are. Verse 27, reason 3, worry changes nothing. And then 28 through 30, reason 4. God cares for the lower creation, even lilies and grass, short-lived as they are, we're more valuable, as even men of little faith should know. Then verse 31 is command to, do not worry about what you will eat, drink, and wear. 32. Reason number five, the pagans sensibly chase these things since they're godless, but your father knows your needs, so that you do not need to chase them Then command 3 in verse 33a, and I'll put all this on Facebook for you as well. Command 3: seek first God's kingdom and his righteousness. It's another command. And then 33B through 34, reason six, all the things the Gentiles chase will be given to you. And then 34, command 4, therefore do not worry. So he's given us a command four times, and three of those are do not worry. My uh my brother used to get very irritated with me and mostly because, well I was irritating. But his responses weren't always exceedingly helpful. I remember him telling me, John, think, or John, grow up. Which was very good advice and surely what I needed to do, and I was quite eager to do so, but he did not mention how. How do you do this? Well, isn't it wonderful that King Jesus doesn't tell us just to stop worrying? Like we know we should stop worrying, but he doesn't stop there. He tells us how. He tells us what to focus on. He tells us how to think. And if we're ever to stop worrying, it will only be by changing how we think. If you have trouble with worrying and you want God's help, it's always good to pray. But it's never good to pray instead of obey. Christ is going to tell us what to think. And if we stubbornly refuse to think correctly, we cannot expect that God will answer our prayer for deliverance. But if we obey and pray, we will find that He will deliver us from this evil of work. Okay, let's go back to the first verse in today's text, verse 25. Therefore I say to you, don't worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Okay, so Jesus starts by saying, don't worry about your life. He starts very broadly, your life. That's essentially everything about us. That includes everything in our lives. It includes our futures, our present, our relationships, our health, and we can go on and on. It's everything about our lives. Don't worry about that. But it might be easiest for for us to think, well, I don't I don't worry about my life. Not really, I don't I don't worry about my life. No, I'm good So Jesus puts it in terms that we understand. He puts it in terms that will grab our imaginations if we allow ourselves just a few minutes to reflect on them. He gives examples of things we might worry about having. And they're examples of what we would be prone to worry about if we did not have them. For us, we may have to use our imagination. We've talked about this a lot of times. For those who are persecuted, for those who are living in poverty, no imagination here would be required. But he first off, he says, what you will eat. Don't worry about what you will eat. I know sometimes I may appear to be more negative than I need to be, and that may be a valid criticism But I think for us to really get this, we have to imagine bad things. For right now, no one in our church is going to go hungry except by choice. As long as some of us have income, I believe all of us will share a responsibility to share a food with those who need it. So, living in hunger, except for intentional dieting, is not a likelihood for us in this church at this present time. So it's difficult to take this admonition seriously, to take it to heart. But from what I understand, a condition on the sun could easily send out electrical disturbances that would wipe out all the unprotected electronics in our whole country. Like that It's called an EMP , electrical magnetic impulse, I think. And Monica might want to tune out here. If that were to happen, there would be no food in grocery stores in a couple of days Gone. All of it. Everything that we depend on. All vehicles and electrical devices would not operate. In that circumstance, we could find out what we really think of Christ's command. We would see how much we really believe his promises, how much we really trust his character in this specific regard. Food, water, and clothing are really survival commodities And I believe Jesus picked these examples because of that. No one survives if they lack food. No one survives if they lack water. No one survives if they lack protection from the elements. When we think of our clothes, you know, when we think of clothes and we read this, we tend to think of style. At least I do. You know, I You don't even imagine not having clothes. What we're talking about now is, you know, we're dickering about what kind. But not having clothes to us would be embarrassing. I think it would be more accurate to think of it as not having a coat or a blanket. or any way to protect yourself. That's how they would have understood it because that is how they use their clothes. And having to live through a Garrett County winter without protection, that's essentially the essence that these people would have got. That's the kind of impression The listener probably got when they heard Jesus talk about a coat. The examples that Jesus gave were not just things in our life that we would prefer over something else. Like we would prefer a nice spouse over a nasty one, or a caring child over an inconsiderate child. or a good job over a bad job, or good health over bad health. Jesus is saying, don't worry about the things that keep your heart ticking. Don't worry about the things that keep you in the land of the living. He's essentially saying, don't worry about those things that enable your survival. How can that be? How can he even say that? How can a human even do that? Our instincts are to survive How can what he is commanding not devastate our world, just contemplating doing it? How can that not become the only thing we focus on when we don't have it? That's our life. And that is exactly Jesus' point. Don't worry about your own physical survival or the means to that survival. It's not saying don't think about it. He's saying, don't worry about it. Again, I welcome discussion on that in Sunday school or Bible study or whatever. Show me how that is not what Christ means. Because I'm confident you can't. Christ is saying, don't worry about the things you need to survive. Okay then, why? Why should we not worry about those things that allow our survival on planet Earth? What could Jesus possibly say that would give us enough reasons to stop worrying? Let's look. He says, is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Let me ask you this. Do you remember the day that you asked God to allow you to be conceived and eventually be born by your mother? Do you remember when you asked God to have you born in the location you were born in? Or how about your hair color? How about your intellect? How about your looks? Do you remember asking God to make you pretty or handsome? Mark, do you remember asking God to make you the kind of person who can move houses with a tracker and roller skate them into position? Or Ruth, do you remember asking God to make you like Dickens humor? We might laugh because it's absurd. Our lives did not come from our efforts. Our lives did not even come from our suggestions. They happened to us completely devoid of our decisions. We had no choice. We weren't given a choice. We weren't offered a choice. They were given to us by God as He declared, as He determined. Now, why would we suddenly think that our lives were something other than that? Why would we think now that my life is solely dependent upon my choice, my ability to provide My use of the assets that I had no part in creating. No, Jesus' point is our lives are bigger than that. Our lives are bigger than that stuff. Now, I would have thought that Jesus would immediately appeal to the fact that even if we lose our lives, we keep them if we are in Christ. I would have thought that that would have been the reasoning that he would have used in this instance, and it is not. I would have thought he would have said our lives are more because they last forever. I would have thought he would appeal to our eternal destiny here. And while that is true, that is not the argument that Jesus makes And that is actually quite wonderful. His argument is for the here and now, in the day that we live. Our brother Jones says it very clearly. He says, if God has given you the gift of life, the greater gift Do you think he is now suddenly going to deny himself and his own methods and not see to it that life is sustained and enabled to continue? God has his own ways of doing that, but the argument is that I need never become anxious about it. Essentially, there is more about our lives that is true than what the natural materialists say. Life is more than surviving and mating. We are not like the animals. And even the animals have more meaning than the naturalist materialist gives to them Even the animals were intentionally created and placed here. Even their lives are more than food and water and survival. In order to not worry, our first action would be to refuse to accept what the bad eye sees. We've talked about that before. The bad eye takes in what it sees in its surroundings without running it through the revelation of God. We need to refuse to allow our first impulse as being received as truth. We have to climb Jacob's ladder and see our lives from God's perspective. Our natural perspective will deceive us. Our natural perspective will fill us with darkness, Jesus says. God's perspective will not. It will fill us with light. And light is what we need in order not to worry. We need to see that if God has given us life, He has kept it going until now, and He will keep it going as long as He sees fit. It never was dependent primarily on our efforts, and it never will be. Our efforts are necessary, but they are brought on first by what God wills. We must see our lives as being bigger than ourselves, bigger than our talents, bigger than our abilities, bigger than our provisions. We're a creature created by God, sustained by God, and loved by God. And we live in bodies that God created, and he knows If we are to survive on this earth, those bodies need provided for. That's how our life is bigger than food and clothes. It may be good for us to stop here and consider this truth. What are you good at? What are you good at? How hard did you work at being good at it? Isn't it hardwired into us to slap ourselves on the back as if all the credit goes to us for that thing that we worked so hard to become or do and all that? But when we reduce it all, We only worked within the realm of a latitude that we were given. There are so many people that God did not have born in a prosperous country. with healthy bodies to some degree and with a decent education of some sort. Whatever we have, we were blessed by God with it It is very good when we are giving thanks to God that we acknowledge this truth about our lives, that we see it from His perspective. Because of God, our lives are way bigger than those meager things that keep us alive. In God we live and move and have our being, Scripture says. God had a purpose for putting us here, and his purpose cannot be thwarted. Even if the whole world around us were to starve, if God has a purpose for us to continue breathing, He will provide food, even if it is just for us. He fed a whole nation of people For years, impossibly, in a way that can't happen. Food doesn't just come from the sky, but does when God says so Why do you think he is now not able or not willing to sustain us? Why do we allow that suspicion? Because that's the suspicion behind our worry. And do any of us want to live longer than the purpose that God has for us? If this week is our week to die, so be it. Faith is always hoping. It's always looking for that which cannot be seen. And even though we have a sentimental attachment to this life, We as believers know the truth. We know the truth deep in our hearts that dying is better. It might not seem like it's better for everybody else around us, but it's for sure better for us. So our bodies are more than food and clothing. Now let's look at verse 26. Verse 26. Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns Yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Our world can't answer that question. Our world is in deep confusion about animals. It has more scientific tools and facts than it's ever had, but it's more confused about living things than it's ever been At least our world isn't yet confused about the sexuality of animals. We reserve that confusion for human beings. But we still depend on science to determine that so far. But as for the importance of animals Our culture is moving in the direction of missing it by a mile. Listen to this from the PETA website. This is precious in its most sarcastic manner. Ethical treatment, the golden rule, must be extended to all living beings: reptiles, mammals, fish, insects, birds, amphibians, and crustaceans Which includes spiders and wasps. We would imprison our children in cage or would we imprison our children in cages too small for them to move? Would we violate our sisters and steal their babies Would we deliberately infect our friends with diseases and leave them untreated? Of course not. So why should we do the same to other beings? We must abandon the archaic. Interesting. An incorrect boundary of human , I wonder who set that up, which we use to justify the ongoing massacre of billions of beings. More than a century, it goes on. More than a century ago, Charles Darwin, God, I guess, showed that all beings had the same common ancestor. All beings share the desire to live. We all feel pain, joy, grief, and pleasure. We all have worth So these people at PETA are saying, love the slug in your garden like you loved yourself. And implied is not only do all have worth , But all have equal worth. They believe that laws should equally apply to a beast or a person. Now they leave out some very clear exceptions in humans, but that's another story. I wonder if God sees that and laughs. Only people without a concept of the true God could believe such ridiculous ideas. If I had a moment with one of the leaders, I would ask one question. Who says? I mean, you're forming a whole reality here of all of our existence. Who says? And I guess they would say, well, Darwin. Oh, a guy with an idea, an unproven idea. The next question might be: what do you think of Jesus? If they think nothing of Jesus, that would be consistent. At least they'd be consistent there. But they'd say, well, Jesus didn't exist or he was nobody or he didn't matter or he was evil. That'd be alright. But if they say anything good about him, we could ask him what it means when Jesus says Are you people of mine not of more value than the birds? Godlessness is driving our culture mad. And that's not a surprise. Romans 1 tells us that is exactly what will happen. It has to happen if we keep to this course. The point that birds are not as valuable to God as humans is the basis for the argument that Jesus is making here. So it's very good that we establish that right from the start. Although I don't think that we have any dissenters in this crowd. Verse 26: Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Okay, here's reason two not to worry. It has two parts. Notice first that we're to look at the birds of the air. We're to look at the birds of the air. When I was a kid, I used to go out into the woods with the bird book and binoculars. Yeah, I did. And I don't know if that was the cause or the effect of me not understanding people too well. But I would look at the birds and it had very little spiritual effect on me. The effect comes in how we look at the birds. How we look at the birds. And Jesus is telling us how to look. He's telling us what to think about when we look. When you look at the birds, think about how they're kept alive. All these birds, and somehow they're living. Have you ever seen a sparrow's barn? Have you ever seen a cardinal reading the garden? That's silly, as Katrina would say. So the birds eat what God provides for them. That's the point. Or another way to see that is God provides what the birds eat. God created the birds. He had a purpose for the birds, and it is he alone who sustains them. But that's not enough fuel to help us stop worrying. Our Savior goes farther than that He gives us more mental health than that. He helps us even further. He inspires us more. Look at the that first sentence in verse 26 again Notice whose father feeds them. Notice that it is not their father that feeds them. God does not claim to be the father to the animals. That would actually be degrading for God. He is their creator, for sure. He is their sovereign God, certainly, but he provides them For them in his general grace. His general grace. That's the same kind of grace that provides rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. It's just good stuff that God does because God's good. They're not singled out. He's just good. While he may do it because it pleases him to do so, he does not do it because he's in intimate relationship with them. They're not the dearly loved children that he gave his life to save. No, God is kind to the creatures he created because he's that kind of God. But they do not have the status of relationship with God that we do. That's the first point, the first encouraging emphasis. If God feeds animals that are simply animals and they are not beloved children, Why would we ever think that he will fail to feed those who are dearly beloved children that he bought with the price of his son? It is utterly illogical to think that way, that he'll take care of the birds, but I don't know if we can trust him to take care of us. You have to ignore facts that you can see in order to do that, in order to think that. Who of us has not seen a bird eat? Consider all the things that has to be in place for that bird to eat. Even the fact that earthworms surface in our yard so robins can eat them. God created that whole process. When we watch that process, we should say to ourselves, see? I don't have any reason to worry. If he does this much for them, I got no worry God loves me more than he loves that bird. So if he takes care of that bird, I even have even greater assurance he's going to take care of me because he cares for me. He never promised that bird that he would feed them. He just does so out of his own goodness. But he promised me to provide for everything that I need. So I have greater reason not to worry than the bird does. Now there are exceptions where God has it in His will for us to suffer with persecution or whatever But all of it is coming from his loving hand. God intimately cares about my welfare. Because I am his child, if we are in Christ. And then we see that: are you not of more value than they? He says, are you not of more value than they? We started this verse talking about evil views of nature, false views. And this comes from the idea that we exist due to time and chance, Darwinianism. Logically, then, they must believe that everything that exists is of equal importance. That is sort of logical if you buy into their premise. I would argue that it's extremely hypocritical, and the proponents of this animal love would not largely volunteer to kill themselves so that the animals have more resources. They may volunteer your life, but they're not likely to volunteer their own. But nonetheless, they believe that w they believe it. They believe that they believe it. But Scripture reveals this wonderful truth. We are of more value than the animals. In the Garden of Eden, it was Adam who named the creatures, that displayed his superiority over them. Then they were told to take dominion over the earth, and that is man's rightful place. Being made in the image of God makes us special on this earth. We by nature have more value than the animals. There is no crime in killing a cow for selfish reasons. Or even out of anger, I guess. But there is great evil in killing a human for selfish reasons. You start killing humans, you've crossed that line. Completely different than killing an animal. Let's look at what the Psalms say. And this is one of my favorite Psalms. We've often read it, and we probably will continue to, but Psalms 8. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth, who have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants you have ordained strength. Because of your enemies, that you may silence the enemy and the Avenger. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained. What is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him? For you have made him a little lower than the angels. And you have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet All sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that passes through the paths of the sea. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth Humans are special of all God's creation. And those who were bought by the blood of Christ are even specialer. We are not only humans who are of more value than the birds, we are born-again humans in the apple of God's eye. Are you wrestling with worry? Put up a bird feeder. And then consider the effort that God has placed in keeping those birds alive. Those birds that have, what, a two-year lifespan? Given the number of birds, we've got to conclude that God is pretty good at his job. Even with all the things that have to come together to feed them. But Scripture, to my knowledge, never says he loves them. It does, however, tell us he loves us. Over and over again. Now try to come up with an argument for why God is unlikely to provide for your needs, whom he loves. When he's feeding the birds in that feeder that have no relational importance to him. Isn't it just wonderful, this lesson that he gives to us, that Christ gives to us in day-to-day life? We look out our windows to watch birds feed, and it doesn't really matter much where you are. You can be in the middle of New York City, and you're going to see birds out your window eating something. Birds are nearly everywhere. I remember being at the ocean just recently and thinking, what do all these seagulls eat? They must be hungry all the time. I don't know. I I how are there so many? How do they stay alive? But I didn't really consider it is our the goodness of our God that keeps them alive I think the safe bet is that God will do even better for us. That's Jesus reasoning. And that's our fuel for thought this week. This is our worry remedy lesson. Our worry remedy lesson from Jesus Himself. And he is so very, very good toward us. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much that you give us such an obvious evidence