When you hear about how Muslim extremists torture and name and kill our brothers and sisters in Christ, does it make you angry? Do you wonder sometimes what our God is thinking? Do you wish he would just extinguish them completely so that they could quit harming the weak and the powerless? and the people that we care about. I know I often have. And it has seemed at times that things are out of control. It seems like evil is having its way. I wish that the human political forces would come to their rescue. I wish that the media would tell the truth about what's happening and why. I wish the forces on earth would be used to fix this injustice. But this morning we're going to learn some things from God's perspective. We'll see how our ways are not God's ways, like that's a big surprise to us. He goes about things in ways that seem completely backwards to us. And we find at the end of the day we can be very thankful that he does The first four verses are the first of the servant songs in Isaiah that are fulfilled by Christ. There are four of these in Isaiah. They're found in Isaiah 42, 1 through 7. Isaiah forty-nine, one through nine, Isaiah fifty, four through nine And Isaiah fifty-two, thirteen, through fifty-three, twelve. That's fifty-two, thirteen, through fifty-three, twelve. We find this same passage quoted by Matthew as a fulfillment by Christ of this morning's message. This passage. Matthew 12. 15 to 21 says this. But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew from there. And great multitudes followed him, and he hailed them all. Yet he warned them not to make him known, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, and here's our text. Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he will declare justice to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised greed he will not break, and a smoking flax he will not quench, till he sends forth justice to victory. And in his name Gentiles will trust. So we know here, it's always nice when in scripture, in separate scripture, we know here that our passage in Isaiah is talking about Christ. And what we see is the difference between how God does things and how man does things. Verse 1. Behold my servant whom I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. Now, this is the prophecy of Christ. It's interesting that Christ is the perfect elect one in whom the Father delights Then we follow along on our big brother's coattails, and we gain the advantages that Christ has won for us. We too are the elect ones in whom God delights And God puts his spirit upon us, but only because of what Christ did. He deserved it, we did not. But we get it by faith in Christ. How much better can you ask for? Notice that even Christ was God's servant. Focus in on the word servant. Christ was serving his Father. He was doing what he was told. If we hope to escape serving God and serving God's people, we're making a huge mistake if we're going to call ourselves Christians. If Christ came as a servant, how much more should we be servants? Can you imagine what would happen in our little body if we all the time actually viewed ourselves primarily as servants of God and secondarily as anything else? How many of the things that irritate us about each other would become insignificant? Our focus would be more on what we can do for others than what others can can do for us. do. Any group of believers who have their attentions mainly focused on what others are doing is is that they have no idea what servants Servanthood is always looking out for that need, the need that we can meet, the need that we can be useful in, doing that thing that our Father tells us to do for the benefit of the brothers and sisters and non-believers around us. Sometimes we have no idea what it is to take up the tub and the town to do the ugly work that must be done for our brothers and sisters' welfare. Servants of Christ do not have the time or the proclivity to evaluate what others may or may not be doing for them. They're observed with the needs that they are addressing. That's what Christ did. He was never distracted from his mission by the failures of those around him, even in his greatest need. He told the truth about the failures. He didn't mince words about them. He didn't pretend it wasn't so. But he did not let those failures affect his supervision. He kept doing it Notice here that we're told that God upholds his servant. We were told the same thing about how he upholds his people. I think it was in last week's sermon. He delights in his son and he delights in us. He put his spirit upon his son and he puts his spirit upon us. So we have a lot going for us in the first verse, following in our brother's footsteps. Then it says, he will bring forth justice to the Gentiles. Now the first thing we need to notice is the word justice. Justice is very often used in a legal sense In that sense, justice is seeing to it that the right thing is accomplished. If a penalty needs to be paid, then the proper penalty needs to be enforced. If a reward is due, then the proper reward needs to be granted. And that's all good. That's all good for the word justice. But that's not the only way that the word justice is used in Scripture. The word is also used for plans. Or instructions. In Exodus 26, 30 it says that you shall raise up the tabernacle according to its pattern, which you were shown on the mountain. The word for pattern here is the same as the word for justice. Not what you would likely think. It's likely that our text is using the word justice in this sense. We can understand it like this. The Lord will bring forth God's pattern of how things were always intended to be to the Gentiles. That's what it's saying. This puts the text in a little different light. The Lord is going to set the record straight. He's going to communicate to the elect Gentiles how to live life. He's going to show us the pattern of how God wants human beings to live, how he has designed us to live. And if God, he is not going to make them do it. He will call them to it and they will respond. And in that way, he will bring forth justice. His pattern. He will bring forth the pattern of how we are to live. Now let's think about this for a minute. Do we have confidence that God knows how human beings are to live? Do we really have confidence that our Maker knows exactly how we are to live? Do you really think that God's way to do things is the best way to do things? Who of us believes that? You don't have to raise your hand. I'm I'm assuming most of us are gonna say, well, yeah, I I think I that's what I would put on a multiple choice question Yes, our Maker knows how his creation is supposed to live. But when light throws something at us that we cannot understand Something we don't think we can handle, something that is most unpleasant to how we're wired, then what do we do? What do we do? How do we respond? How do we react? Well, it is at that point that we show what we really think. That's what we really believe. When God tells us we cannot have that thing we long for, do we go after it anyway? Or do we trust Him and say no to ourselves? That's where we show what we really believe. When strong urges arise in us, do we exercise self-control or do we give way to raging emotions? That's really what we believe down deep. How do we arrange life By God's blueprint? By God's design? Or do we feel we must go outside of those lines like Adam and Eve did to really have life? To really have life most abundantly. Injustice isn't just not giving the proper penalties as a correct crime. This justice that we're talking about is life lived as God designed it. And that's what he calls the Gentiles too. Life lived as God designed it. Everything apart from that is wrong. We're surrounded by wrong. It's wrong when people do everything they can but still starve. It's wrong when violent people exploit those without defenses. It's wrong when the rich take advantage of the poor When you look at the news headlines, you see this kind of injustice, this kind of messed up life that happens when the world could care less about their Creator, God, and the design that he has for our lives. And every attempt of humans just creates more injustice. We have never and will never get it right through human effort and human leadership. It will not happen. There's only one source that can fix this mess for good. There is only one who can make what is wrong right. And the source is very, very unlikely. Our only hope is in the gentle servant of the Lord. That's what's so odd about this text. Do you want to see how good life can be You'll only taste it by following the flawless design of the Savior, the just path of God. We need to trust God enough to allow Him to control our passions, our time, our money, our energy, our hopes, our fears, our everything. Look how our world hopes to create its utopia. It creates new law. It establishes more controls, and then it forces people to submit to them by the might of the authority. It always involves oppression of someone. It always needs to silence the voices of the dissenters. But Jesus comes in a completely different fashion. He comes sacrificing himself, spending himself for our best interest. He comes offering himself for our good. He comes calling on us to follow him. He doesn't wield a sword. He strikes no one except possibly those who were exploiting his children in the temple. He doesn't even appeal to a political situation solution at all. Never does he appeal to a political solution. He calls people into the justice of God. He calls people into the plan of God, into the kingdom of God. Look at the list of things our Lord didn't do. It says he doesn't cry out. No politician is ever elected that way. No products are ever sold that way. When I think of somebody trying out, I can't help but think of the guy at the ball game that would get eliminated in his effort to sell his product. I mean everybody remembers that if they've ever gone to one of those games. Calling out is what you need to do to get the world to pay attention to you. That's what marketing is all about. Maybe this yelling here is to intimidate people, not to influence them. Maybe it's to steal their attention. I think here it's to get something from people against their will. Loud people are calling attention to themselves. Our Savior did not need that to call attention to himself. And he didn't use it to call attention to himself. He didn't use it to post. prominent marketing uh packages that you would hope to use to sell himself. He didn't take people's attention by force. He just did true and powerful ministry. And then even in our text today, uh, when it was quoted, he even told people not to tell their friends. What kind of marketing is he doing? You know, it's backwards. His substance was such that his greatness was heralded, but not because he orchestrated it or desired it. Even now the Holy Spirit speaks to us in a still small voice. You'll find God doesn't compete much in our world. God does not force our worship of Him He woos it, he wins it, he evokes it, he inspires it, he does not need to yell to get our attention. Sometimes he disciplines us to get our attention But those who are just, those who are owning that God's plan is the best plan for my life. We just give it to him. We give them that attention because we have learned over time that that is the source of true life. We've experienced his work, and it's a built-in reaction to God's grace. To us, for us to give him glory. And it goes on, bruising breeds you will not break, and smoking flax you will not quench. Human systems of power look to build themselves on the weak. They squash the weak, they climb over the weak, they exploit the weak, they hope for weak people that they can use and they can manipulate. But the lover of our soul is just the opposite. His kingdom is built upon the weak. He comes to those whose flame is almost extinguished and appeals to a greater kingdom, a greater existence, a different source of power. The powerful in this world are often deluded. They think far too much of themselves and their own potential. They think they can accomplish great things, eternal things. The week know that. The week know that. They've seen what they are. And we know what we're in law. We cannot accomplish those wonderful things. So we're more open to the Word of God coming to us and telling us about the strength of God. The strength of God that will stand in our stead, the strength of God that will look out for us, will make of us what we cannot make of ourselves. Now, this is not to say that we never have harsh words for those in willful disobedience. Paul certainly did it, but we don't exploit human weakness We are not careless about the fragility of people. That's the example that Christ led. We don't rebuke them when a simple offer of help would see them through. Broken people don't need more breaking. They need hope. They need a reason to believe. They need to see that there is something more for them than what they have. And that's what Jesus did. Matthew 9. 2, Jesus said, Have courage, son, your sins are forgiven. To the paralyzed man. In 9. 22, Jesus said, Have courage, daughter, your faith has saved you. To the bleeding woman. Luke 7. 13, Jesus said, don't meet to the woman who had lost her son right before he raised him from the dead. Any church leadership that uses bullying tactics or manipulation on weak and hurting people to accomplish their ends do not understand human ministry. They don't understand their savior. They don't understand the kingdom. Leadership must stand up strong against worldly influences coming into the body through its members. Sometimes the insidious influences of hypocrisy, duplicity, critique, arrogance, exploitation, disobedience, rebellion, and the like, that has to be exposed and helped reforcibly by the leadership. We see this in the Gospels, in the Book of Acts, and in the epistles. But those sincere worshippers needing help with all kinds of problems need to be ministered to in kindness and gentleness as much as the apostles. But sometimes we get that mixed up. Sometimes we make mistakes. Sometimes we apply things at the wrong places. But love is supposed to cover that. Christ appealed to people in their need. He came next to them and met them where they were. And those who wanted his style of deliverance, Christ gave it to them. Isaiah is showing us, Isaiah is showing the Christ as the alternative to idols and the great contrast. To leaders like Cyrus, who he's also talking about in this text. What Christ did was counterintuitive to any worldly strategy By all accounts, he could win nothing of earthly valued by going about things the way he went about them. Think about it. What did he ever gain by any person he ever sent? Who did he ever exploit after he saved them? Who did he ever sit around him and say, okay, now you're gonna serve me? Yeah. Yeah, I got twelve guys now. I I should be able to get a pretty nice spot here if all twelve of you guys go out and take care of all my business. Now I'm going to be a big shot and you'll go out, do my bidding, and make my life better. What request did he ever make primarily for his own comfort? His life was being laid down for those he served. He never exploited those who followed him. Sometimes he gave him necessary tasks that had an effect on him. But he never exploited him. He would build his church by these methods. And that's how the church is still being built, in an unlikely backwards manner that makes no sense except when we see it from God's perspective. Verse 4. He will not fail nor be discouraged. He's still talking about the Savior. He will not fail nor be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands shall wait for his law. So do you do we see the end result here that the savior, that this uh lowly savior is uh and servant is shooting for? Our Savior will establish his design, his pattern for the world on the earth. One day everything will be run the way it's supposed to be run. What a glorious day that's going to be. For once, everything will be right. It'll be run in the perfection of God's design. And it will not be the kingdom of Cyrus. It will not be the kingdom of Nebuchadnezzar. It will not be the kingdom of Russia. It will not be the kingdom of China. It will not be the Kingdom of the United States No, it will be this unlikely kingdom that was formed through unlikely methods by an unlikely leader There will be no military might used in its formation, and there'll be no military might needed to maintain it. It will be perfect And there'll be no more misery caused by sickness or cruelty or thoughtlessness or any other kind of evil. Because it will be run completely by God's pattern. The Savior will establish justice. Mankind has had many visions of utopia that they they would create, and they have tried and failed every single time, and that will never change. There are no utopias, but this time there will be And finally, there will be a leader worth following and a people who are no longer driven by sin. And that will make the difference. The Savior will conquer the world, he will save by his kingdom. Verse 5. Thus says God the Lord who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread forth the earth and that which comes from it, who gives breath to the people in it, and spirit to those who walk on it. I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness and will hold your hand. I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the Gentiles. To open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the prison, those who sit in darkness from the prison house. This is still talking about Jesus. Look how the father stakes his reputation on the success of his son. The father lets it be known that he is not like the idols. He and he alone created everything He had no helper or any contemporary. He then created people and gave them life. He's the source of the life of every human being. Then in verse 6, the Father says that he called Christ in righteousness. And the Father would hold the Son's hand to assure that he will accomplish what he came to accomplish. God would keep him in a way that nothing could dissuade him from his past. And remember we were told God holds our hand the same way. The same way. He holds our hand in his left hand and keeps his right hand free to do business with our enemies. And Christ himself has given us a promise to his people for what he will accomplish But it's only for the chosen people of the Jews. Christ will also bring truth, bring light. But it's not only for the chosen people of the Jews. Christ will also bring truth, bring light to the lost Gentiles. Now, what happens when Christ is given as a covenant to the chosen Jewish people and as a light to the Gentile chosen people? Verse 7: blind eyes are open. And what happens when blind eyes are open? People are delivered from prisons. Doesn't this imagery often capture how we feel about life? Doesn't it sometimes feel like a prison we're trapped in? Do you sometimes feel like, will I never, ever break free? Will I ever break free of this? Will I never improve? Will I never overcome this thing? Will it never get better? Well, hang in there because it'll get better. There'll be an eternal prison break where we are freed from these bodies of sin. It will no longer be a struggle to do the right thing. This is coming. It is promised by God as a purpose for Christ. This is what He will accomplish. You and I have been freed from sin's power, but a day's coming when we'll be freed from its presence. It'll all be behind us like the bars are for somebody who has just broken out of prison. That's the imagery. Used here. Verse 8, I am the Lord, and that is in my name. And my glory I will not give to another, nor my praise to carved images. This was the prison people were being set free from in our context. And this is the prison we're set free from. The prison of believing that our idols will deliver what we need most. The idea that we will get what we need most from our alternative gods. We were blind. We thought that these things could provide us what only God could provide us. Maybe we had hoped to hang on to both our idols and God. But God's having none of it. It would be like a man thinking nothing of sharing his wife's affection with another man. We know that we've not put up with that for a moment. Our response might be violent or miserable, fleeting, or whatever, but it would get a drastic response from us, from the core of who we are. God is like that with us. He uses the word jealousy often. He uses the word because we know what jealousy is. We even know what appropriate jealousy is. We immediately understand the incongruity of sharing something like that. We would never accept that position with our loved one. So why would we expect our Savior more to do so? God is a jealous God. Now, unlike us, God is not insecure. He doesn't second guess his work or he doesn't second guess how he has treated this person to cause this person to respond this way. He doesn't have that bind because he's perfect. We're not, so we can go through that. But uh God is jealous in that he will not share his glory. He continually calls upon people to decide. Do you have an idol in your life that you refuse to let go of? Is there something that you must have along with God? Is there something you cannot and will not trust to God's hands? Is there something you cling to and you would cling to it no matter what God says? Be very careful. God is jealous. He will not put up with that position. He will not share your worship. It may be he'll take that thing in order to free you from it And maybe this thing will be a testing point with him. God will not share his children. He will not share his bride. And he takes it about as personally as if our spouse was starting to go home with another person. Really, it's like that with God if we're to take him out of his word. That is how much he cares for us. He won't put up with it. And now's the time to decide. Now's the time to confess that idolatry and trust him with that competing love. Now's the time to cut the chords that hold us to that competing love. This is how we're set free from our prison of blindness. It's only our stubborn refusal to see that truth That keeps us hooked on the love of the things that God has given to us in the place of the love of the one who gave them. Only God is worthy of our worship. Anything else we worship will enchain us, it will enslave us, it will do us harm. It's guaranteed. We're told that from the beginning to the end of Scripture. But Christ will set us free. Worshiping the created thing in slaves, worshiping the Creator sets us free. Verse 9, behold the former things have come to pass, and new things I declare before they spring forth. I will tell you of them. Between the ages of 12 and 15, I seriously questioned my faith. I didn't have a dramatic salvation experience like a lot of people I knew, so I was left with the question of, did anything really happen? Did anything really happen to me? And in my pursuit of the answers, this is one of the things that brought me greater assurance that Christianity is true. The Bible isn't like any other founding document of any other world religion. The Bible has thousands of prophecies, and all of them have either come true or they have yet to come true. There are none that have been proven untrue. The Bible is an impossible book. It could not have human origin. In fact, many of the prophecies told of things that until recently historians said weren't true. But then the archaeologist goes up and digs it up. As stuff that proves the historians wrong and the Bible right. This continues to happen even now. Isaiah names the name of Cyrus as the leader of Babylon 200 years before it happens. 200 years before it happens. He names them by name. That's impossible. Yeah, of course it's impossible. But it's true nonetheless. We as humans are warned not to get too high and say what we're going to do tomorrow. We're supposed to not not be too too quick to say, hey, I'm going to go out and do this tomorrow. It's gonna be, well, if the Lord wills, if everything works out okay, uh, you know, I I don't have any control over the cosmos. So I'm gonna think that I'm gonna do this, but I you know I'm gonna get sick, who knows But God is free to tell us what will happen tomorrow because there's no question about what will happen tomorrow because He is in charge of the cosmos. He is the one who can control. He is the one when He says it's going to happen, it's going to happen. But the greatest new thing that Scripture foretold is not all this other stuff. It's the coming of Christ. This coming servant was going to bring salvation to the world. The whole Old Testament paints a picture of what Christ would do. And we live in the blessed time of history where it's already come true. We have a Savior and we know who He is. We know what He has done. We know what He promises to His children, and we know how He wants His children to live. What a blessed people we are. And isn't it wonderful that we get to live on his coattails? Isn't it great that we get what we get by identification with Christ? Identification with our big brother. So many of the things the Father has given to his son, the Son gives to his children. He passes it right along. It's not a worldly kingdom. It's not where everything is self-serving to the one who has to find himself in power. Christ is so good to us. The question is: will we follow our big brother's lead? Will we follow Jesus' lead? Will we serve Him? Like he served his father. Will we lay our lives on his altar and truly be a living sacrifice to the point that we live and die to Christ? You know, we've been praying this as a theme, that we would have more of Christ, more fellowship with Christ, by committing ourselves more and more to Him and to His will. Well, this is talking about how the Christian life is to be lived. Romans 12, 1 and 2 will close with this. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. You think about that. A living sacrifice. Giving all that we are, all that we know of ourselves to all that we know of God holy, accessible to God, which is your reasonable service. In other words, you think about it long enough, and you think about it hard enough and you think logically enough, you hit that equals button, it says, this is the thing that's smart. Give your right to God. Let Him control it. Follow His lead. Serve Him. Verse 2, and do not be conform to this world. There's the problem. There's the rub. There's the thing that distracts us. Don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed. And how's that going to happen? And we keep coming back to this over and over again, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. By thinking the truth where we used to think lies. That's how that's how this you know, it 's nice to think, oh God, here I am. Because we can do that and walk away and be the same way we were. But when we start saying, Here I am, and he says, I say this, believe it. Now I got a choice. Now I got it, I can't hold it into this ethereal here I am. Now it's will I believe what you say? Will I replace what I want to believe with what you say I I must believe That's where the rubber really hits the road. So don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind and watch it for that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. That's how we get to the will of God. That's how we live this living sacrifice. It's by Living according to the truth, putting it into action in our lives, and then the will of God becomes clearer and clearer and clearer to us because we have incorporated his mind into our mind. And that's what we're called to. It's closing prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you how it all runs together and how it all feeds off each other and it's so perfectly written because it's Your. And that you have filled us in with so much of what we need to know to make rational choices, to live the way we were designed to live We thank you that that is your goal and that is what you will accomplish and that one day your pattern will be absolute and we will have the glorious privilege if we are yours to live under such a a perfect rule, an absolute rule. And we will experience life as you have designed it for the very first time in all its perfection. Lord, we we can't thank you for that enough. Lord, it makes it worth anything that we have to go through to know that this is the wonderful plan that you have provided for us. and the outcome that you will surely produce in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.