What would happen if those around us would work as hard as we do? Would things get better or worse? What would happen if they were as reliable at carrying out their duties consistently day by day as we are? Would they be better for it or worse What would happen if we said, watch how I spend my day and follow my example? Would they accomplish more than they're accomplishing now or less? Spiritual leadership in Scripture demands more than good doctrine. It requires a life that conforms to the good doctrine, that demonstrates that we believe our doctrine. When we fail to carry out our responsibilities, we display that we really don't believe the doctrines that we declare. There are very few occupations, if any, that require something that goes much further than the work a person does while they're on the job. A spiritual leader is responsible not just for the hours that he is putting in. He is responsible to have his whole life under subjection to God. Look at the requirements for elders, and you'll see that many of the requirements listed are pointing to the elder's character, not his performance of specific duties. Now there's also specific duties listed, but he has to be a 24-hour-a-day Christian, or he's not qualified to lead. Paul told Timothy to watch his life and his doctrine closely. It wasn't one or the other. It's never one or the other. He must excel at both. Both are very important. Both need watch. Why? It's because Christian discipleship is not just a matter of teaching people the doctrines they should obey. It involves teaching them how to obey. And with that, more is caught than taught. Pa is our wonderful example this morning. Look at him. He can look at these believers and say without question that these believers will be well off if they follow his work ethic. That is really logically implied by what he says when he says, you ought to imitate us. You ought to imitate us. You ought to work like we worked. That's wonderful that Paul could say that. Every position of leadership is strengthened if the leader can say, watch me and learn how to go about your work. Sure, listen to me as well, but follow what I do. If you'll work like I work, you will be well off. You'll be doing well. People will be able to depend upon you That's how Paul was. And then he goes on, because we were not idle when we were with you. Idle is an interesting word. It means unarranged, insubordinate, unruly. Deviating from the prescribed order or rule. Now, at the time it was used in writings to describe apprentices that did not show up for work. There's a whole lot of that these days. They were absent without leave. They were idle. In verse 11, Paul talks about the unruly as doing no work at all, but being busy bodies. So in this context, it's clear that Paul is addressing the problem of having work that needs to be done But they were unwilling to do the work. They won't fulfill the responsibilities of their position. They did not work when work was required of them They were completely content to allow their responsibilities to fall into the shoulders of others. Know this. When you and I do not carry out our burdens, when we do not carry our burdens. We normally create a heavy heavier burden for someone else to carry. When you and I do not carry out or carry our burdens, we normally create a heavier burden For somebody else to carry. Carrying out our duties is a loving thing to do for each other. Avoiding them is an unloving thing to do for each other. Somehow these Thessalonian Christians must have done some mental figuring that freed them from caring about what happens to anybody but them. Somebody else is carrying their burden. Somebody else is working to provide for them a living. And somehow that didn't trouble them at all. It didn't bother them that they were adding a burden to a brother Well, they didn't learn that from Paul. Paul says, we were never like that when we were with you. If these people quote Paul, Paul's letting them know he'll have nothing to do with that. Laziness and sloth was never the example nor the teaching of Paul. Diligence and hard, selfless work was Paul's example and Paul's teaching. And then Paul goes on. Not only didn't Paul and his team shirk from their duties, they went above and beyond in their duties. He says in verse 8, Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you. Now, it's not wrong to accept people's hospitality. In fact, I think I'd be a little offended if I invited you over for dinner and you handed me a 20. Yeah. We can't come up with that rule from this example. We need to look at the context to see why Paul was doing what he was doing. Okay, so he paid for the food that he and his team ate. Now, every day Paul was in Thessalonica, he needed to eat, and his team needed to eat. So there would have been a lot of meals, and it would have been a very considerable expense over time. So rather than allow for those he ministered to to pay for the food, Paul paid for the food. How? He says, with toil and labor we worked night and day. Toil is hard and difficult labor. That's the word used for toil. Toil is hard and difficult labor Labor is intense labor united with trouble. So it's hard labor, it's difficult The words Paul chose to use would have conveyed that the burden they willingly took upon themselves for the good of the Thessalonicans The Thessalonians was personally costly. It was personally costly. While the Thessalonians were working to advance their family economics Paul and his team were doing two jobs. They were doing the work of evangelists and teachers, and they were making tents or saddles or whatever work Paul did to provide for himself. I think Paul did all this partly due to the weakness of those he was ministering to. He may have chosen to do something different in a different environment, but for these particular people He found it very helpful to earn um the extra money. The Greek culture looked down upon manual labor. And it looks like some in Thessalonica look down upon any kind of labor. Haven't we all at some point in our lives thought that to be truly spiritual You know, we just wish we could be this kind of spiritual where we could stop doing all the day-to-day stuff and spend our time studying and praying. I mean, isn't there a cer certain kind of appeal to that? It's easy to get the idea that menial work is not spiritual work. But Paul's words say that menial labor is exactly what Paul and his team were doing. Paul didn't want to give any quarter to the sinful attitudes of the slothful believers he was living with. So he worked very hard, difficult jobs, and he also worked long hours. He was doing more work than the people that he was ministering to. Why? Verse 9, it wasn't because we do not have that right. First Corinthians 9, 3 through 14 lays out the argument for the right. of a minister to be supported by those he ministers to. And it says this, this is my defense to those who would examine me. Do we not have the right to eat and drink? Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living? Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk? Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the law say the same? For it is written in the law of Moses , you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out grain. Is it for oxen that God is concerned? Does he not certainly speak for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should plough in hope, and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop. If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much that we reap material things from you? If others share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, we've not made use of this right But we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple, and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial? Offerings? In the same way the Lord commanded that these who those who proclaim the gospel should get their living. By the gospel. Now, odds are that Paul had already shared this kind of reasoning with the Thessalonian church. So they knew. this, more than likely. He treats them in our text like they already knew what he was talking about. I have a right, but I don't use it. Now think about this example of Paul's. Paul could have rightly demanded support. He was not biblically required to do all that extra work. Paul's making that choice. He's thinking through this and he's making that choice. He doesn't have to. And it was a lot of extra work He could have risked these people misunderstanding his freedom to accept money for the work that he was already doing. He could have risked that. And he that would have been perfectly in his right. But he did not. And the reason was Paul cared more about this church than he did about his freedoms. Paul cared more about this church than he did about his own comfort. He was willing to take on an additional burden just so they didn't fall prey to their own weakness. Where are we like Paul? Where are we in our lives like Paul? Where will we lay down our rights for our brothers and sisters' benefits? Where will we pick up additional work just so they will not misunderstand or misinterpret something? What an example of loving Paul was. You know, the style might have been sometimes uh a little abrupt, and and things like that. But he was a workhorse of a man and willing to put his all toward the benefit of those he served. That's what love looks like. That's what love does. This love of Paul's, it has sweat on it. Then Paul goes on, but to give you in ourselves an example to imitate Now, Paul wasn't working these extra hours so he could buy a new fishing rod or go on a better vacation. And there may not be anything wrong with doing that, at least I hope not. But that is not what he is doing. He's working so that those he ministered to would be as well off as he could possibly make them. He's working to provide an example for them. He's working so that none of them will misunderstand how a Christian should not only work, but how he should think about work. Paul's not thinking about his rights. That's hard for me , you know, looking at that. He's not thinking about his own ease. He could have easily complained that he was carrying not only his own load, but he's carrying the loads of others that they should have. Paul could have done that, but he didn't. Paul was thinking about his brothers and sisters. He was thinking, I need to provide for them an example. And that's more important than my rights and my comfort. It's even more important than my time. And even after providing such a glorious example, some of his brothers and sisters still won't work. Can you imagine how frustrating that would have been for Paul? Verse 10: For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: if anyone is not willing to work Let him not eat. If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. My dad didn't quote a whole lot of scriptures, but he quoted that one several times. Hunger is a fantastic motivator. Hunger is a fantastic motivator. The parent who controls the food has the capacity to rule the child. Very few battles need to be fought over food. If a child doesn't want to eat, that's fine. He will He will. Sooner or later he will. As long as they only eat what you provide, you can always win that war when they're young. All that everything would be that simple. Hunger is intended to be a motivator for work. If the only way a person can eat is if they work, they will work. Maybe there are some people who'd rather starve themselves than to do work, but that would be the exception to the rule. That would be like lazy on a whole new level. Again, it's so sweet when we don't have to have long lectures or yell or get frustrated. We can allow God's Word to teach us how to effectively combat laziness. Attached the provision of food with the activity of work. Attached the provision of food With the activity of work. That is a powerful, long-lasting lesson. As I studied this passage, someone made another interesting point. This I would have never thought of this. This principle here that Paul lays out undermines any idea of the New Testament teaching communism. The Bible ties together the idea of one's own labor to provide one's own food. There's no assumption that someone else's labor should provide for my food unless I'm unable to work. If I cannot work, then I am dependent upon benevolence. Benevolence, that's a person being benevolent, a person willingly giving charity Any gift of food is just that. It's a gift given by a benefactor. In Scripture, I am not entitled to food, and no one is obligated to give it. There's an individualism about it that's not found in communism. Now it's important to note that if a person is unable to work, that it's very different. Of course, Christians must meet that need in the body. Of course they must. But even then, it is a gift. It is not an entitlement. Even in our government, I don't really think there are too many people who get angry if the government takes their tax dollars and distributes them to people who need food because they cannot work, and the government provides them with food. I think the church could do a better job of that than the government, but nonetheless, that's usually not a point that most people react to. Our distaste of that tends to be for those who can work and won't work, and for the disincentive for work that our systems have a tendency to create. God 's rule is pretty simple, and it's exceedingly effective. If a man can work and won't work, don't support his thoughtful habit Let hunger do its work, don't you feed him. Verse 11, for we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busy bodies. We have that same word again, idleness. And again, this is walking in idleness. This isn't something this person does once in a while, like they fall into a bout of laziness. But it's And and they struggle to do better and they think, well I'll do better tomorrow. This is a way of life. This person this is a person that cannot be dependent upon to show up to carry out their duty. They're walking in idleness And Paul paints the picture with a play on the word busy. It isn't that these people aren't busy. The problem is what they're busy about. They're not busy doing work. Well what often happens if a person doesn't have enough to do? I don't answer the devil's workshop. That's not a scripture verse, but it it is based on some No one does nothing. We all do something. So when we don't have enough constructive things demanding our time, we find we waste time with useless things or even evil things. So when we're not busy doing work, when work doesn't demand our time and attention and effort, it's easy to be busy bodies. People who are involving themselves in other people's business in a way that they have no constructive reason for doing so I've often seen things on social media and think that person has entirely too much time on his hands. And you just hear an uh me say that, uh stop and see it on Facebook might say John has too much time on his hands. And there could be some truth in that But anyway, work has a tendency to keep us from being wrongly involved in other people's business. We simply find that we don't have enough time to get into that kind of trouble Verse 12. Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. It's interesting that Paul says command and encourage here. We command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ. Sometimes there are things that are wrong in our lives that a command itself will not fix. We may already know what's right or wrong in a certain area And we're struggling with it. But we find it terribly hard to turn that corner on some of our sins. And I'm s I'm guessing I'm talking to everybody here. Uh we've maybe made them a habit. They are part of how we think. They are part of how we respond. Sometimes encouragement will accomplish what a decree never could. Sometimes we need side-by-side help. We need someone going through the process with us. Now that involves us communicating that need and uh and getting that help. But now think about what what it might look like in this particular instance. Where you got people who won't do their jobs and they need a command and encouragement. They may have already received the command, but now they're needing some help. Well I think uh how would that how would we help a person learn to work I think of the time many years ago when the laziest man I have ever met was living with the Francis. The Francis were doing what this verse describes. Unfortunately, this man gave up before he was able to turn the corner on his swath. This man was too lazy to even show up for work, at least more than maybe three or four times in a row. But the encouragement was there. It was available, it was active, it was constant, but the man was not committed. To change. This kind of encouragement can often be hard. It might need to be confrontive. It will need to place consequences and exercise tough love at times But sometimes it's the very thing that will turn a corner in a lazy man's life. What's the goal? How would we know when we've succeeded? That they do their work quietly and to earn their own living. They do their work quietly and they earn their own living. Most men I know accept the fact that they have to work They aren't drawing a whole lot of attention to it. It's not like they do a fanfare every time they leave them you know in the morning to go off to work. It's just They go. No theatrics are necessary or even desired. We just get up and we do what we gotta do. The things we are not quiet about are things that need attention, that we think are important to draw attention to. There are things that might be dramatic. We need to be loud about some things, but this is not one thing we need to be loud about. So we're to be doing our work quietly, not really making a big deal out of it. It's what we do. And that's not just men. It's easy for me to uh to put in that perspective, but but it's for all of us And what should it lead to? They should earn their own living. There was a man that was married to somebody I cared a great deal about, and he was attractive, he was talented, he was a good talker. He talked a good Christian line, but he had a flaw the size of Texas. He didn't want to earn a living. He wanted his woman to earn the living. And one did not need to be a prophet to know that this relationship would end badly. I can't think of a better way to slur the name of Christ than this man did. He simply would not earn a living. He destroyed a marriage and he did inestimable harm to this woman. We probably know we all know someone probably who married one of his daughters off to a man who would not earn a living. And how devastating that is. Dependably working is not something that is usually paraded as a wonderful Christian trait. Dependable working is not usually something that's per paraded as a wonderful Christian trait, but it is. If a man wants to represent Christ well, he must, among other things, earn a living. Certainly, a man does not prove himself to be a Christian if he earns a living. Most men in our world do the same thing, but he can quickly prove himself not to be a Christian if he refuses to earn a living. All the harm that's done to those wives and children by those men who refuse to provide a living, the damage is incalculable, and the man can be a nice man. With good intentions and a loving demeanor. None of that can make up for his unwillingness to provide the platform for his family to have food, clothing, and shelter. Verse 13, as for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good. In any church, it's comforting to know that not everyone falls into the same vice at the same time. We get to take turns, I guess. So there are those who are taking care of business. They're working. They're carrying out their own burden and they're helping others carry theirs. And they're also dealing with the issues created by those who refuse to carry their load. It's easy for us when others are not carrying their load to want to take our ball and go home. We think if they aren't working, why should I work? If they're getting away with murder, it shouldn't fall on my shoulders to have to fix it. And Paul tells them, brothers, don't know that don't let that wear you down. Don't be distracted by what work others aren't doing. Focus only on the work you should be doing and you are doing and keep doing it. As they studied this, a theme came through loud and clear, and it's demonstrated by both Paul and his team and the burden carriers at Thessalonica. Those who God will use the most for his church. Are those who do not allow those who are failing to obey Christ to become a reason for their joining in that failure? Those who God will use the most for his church are those who do not allow those who are failing to obey Christ. To become a reason for their joining in that failure. Now the leaders just keep seeing others' needs and meeting their needs at their own expense. They just keep doing it The needs of others take priority over the failures of others. True ministers see themselves in their time and their efforts to be expendable for the good of the people that they serve. There seems to be no focus on the idea that these people I am serving must reciprocate. These people should appreciate me more. I should get some kind of reward. No, the focus remains on the needs of the beloved. The focus is on the needs of the beloved. What an example Paul and his obedient brothers serve here for us. You want to know how to minister? Read how Paul did it. Amazing. Now, as for our lives and maybe application, how are we doing to carry on our own burdens? How are we doing at carrying our own burdens? Can people around us depend upon us to show up for duty? Can they bank on the fact that we'll do what we say we will do? We will do the work that we're responsible for doing. And obviously I look around and I know in our church, you know, and knowing your lives. We got a lot of hardworking people here, and that's a wonderful thing. And that can't be understated. That is so important. It is so valuable. And as for ministering to others, where are the areas in our lives where we could help others more if we would quit worrying about our preferences and our rights and focus more on their needs? And what is best for them. That's ministry according to Paul, and it represents the ministry that Christ did for us exceedingly well. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this example of a church where people weren't doing what