Okay. Christ has given us a command not to worry. Then he followed it up with four reasons that we can chew on when necessary. Fuel. for realizing why we don't have to worry. Our lives are important to God. The per birds are provided food Worry is impotent to accomplish the smallest task, and the flowers are provided clothing. That's what fuel he's given us so far. And then he ended that section by saying, oh you of little faith. We concluded that unbelief is the core source behind worry. We don't like to reduce it that far, but Jesus doesn't hesitate to say so. I like what Mr. Jones has to say. It was about something a man had once told him. He said, the trouble with many of us Christians is that we believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, but we do not believe him. He meant that we believe on him for the salvation of our souls, but we do not believe him. When he says a thing like this to us, that God is going to look after our food and drink and even our clothing, he makes such statements as, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And yet we keep our problems and worries to ourselves, and we're borne down by them and defeated by them and get anxious about things. He has told us to come to him when we are like that. He has told us that if we are thirsting in any respect, we can go to him, and he has assured us that whosoever comes to him will never thirst, and that He that eats the bread that he shall give shall never hunger. He's promised to give us a well of water springing up into everlasting life, so that we shall never thirst. But we do not believe him. Take all these statements he made when he was here on earth, the words he addressed to the people around him, they are all meant for us. They are meant for us today as definitely as when he first uttered them. And so also are all the astounding statements in the epistles. The trouble is that we do not believe him. That's the ultimate trouble. Little faith does not really take the scripture as it is and believe it and live by it and apply. Okay, it's easy to look at texts like this one on worry and feel a sense of dread if you're anything like me. Jesus here is telling us to stop doing something. And that is very hard for us to stop doing. So we can approach this with the feeling that this is just another invitation to fail. You know what I mean? If I could stop worrying, I already would have, we might feel, we might think. Is that not how we often approach the scripture when it addresses the sins that we are having so much trouble with? That we are so most likely to fall into. But I'd like us to look at the other side of that fence this morning. You and I must face trials. Jesus said so. We must face persecution. Jesus said so. There are many painful things that happen to us because we live in a sin-laden planet. We can't escape many of those things that we do not like. That is the situation that we're in. We all know that. But do you know one anguish that we do not ever have to experience? Worry. Worry. Well, some might actually try to make you feel foolish or shallow or inconsiderate if if they don't If you don't join them in their worry, it's really none of the above. Refusing to worry is a stellar virtue in a believer because it shows off, it demonstrates, it It brags about the trustworthiness of our God to provide to everyone who happens to be looking on. We do not need to worry. There is nothing in our lives that warrants. Worry in the sense that Jesus uses the word here. Now, in 1 Corinthians 7:32 through 34, he uses a similar word talking about concerns. When it describes a married person, and a married person has increased concerns because that person is married now. There's more to think about. There's more to concern yourself with, to take care of. But that is not the same word used in what Jesus is saying. So there are lots of things we need to think about, we need to take care of, we need to do. But not worry, not worry. The additional burden of being married is a burden, but it is not a sinful one. It's just costly, and that cost needs to be considered, and that's what the point Paul is making. But the worry Jesus is talking about has nothing good about it. There is no virtue In worry. A person who does it is not acting wisely, is not acting faithfully, is not acting godly. Again, think about this. Here is one pain in this life that we simply do not need to partake of. There are others we can't avoid. But we can avoid this one. It's never necessary or godly to do it. We can completely live free of it. We may not be able to live free of the temptation of it. Or the first response we might have of it, but we can be free of its control over us, of its power over us Uh do you re it reminded me as I was going through this. I may have a connection in your minds as well. Do you remember when Moses was challenging the Pharaoh with the plagues? And they were dealing with the frogs And life was miserable. I mean, frogs everywhere. You can just imagine how that would be. And Exodus 8:8 through 10 it says, Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron. It was so miserable he had to. And said, Entreat the Lord that he may take away the frogs from me and from my people, and I will let the people go, that they may sacrifice to the Lord. Of course it was a lie, but that's what he was saying. So Pharaoh is forced to ask Moses for help in relieving the frogs. In verse 9, and Moses said to Pharaoh, Accept the honor of saying when I shall intercede for you. Okay, so you tell me when. for your servants and for your people to destroy the frogs from you and your houses that they may remain in the river only. So Moses says, Okay, Pharaoh, you pick the time. Just give me the time. I will do I'll see it gets done on that time any time you want. And Pharaoh said tomorrow. I think we're all familiar with this and how odd that is. It just struck me as being applicable. Doesn't that sound like the dumbest response you have ever heard? You can get rid of your pain today. You can get rid of your suffering today. Or tomorrow, if you prefer tomorrow. And which would you rather would any intelligent human say tomorrow? I don't know about you in pain, but me in pain, I'm saying right now is good. I'll take it right now. Well, you see, we do that every time we worry. We can be free of this pain of worry, but we say, I want to worry a little bit longer. We don't need to worry. We have fuel for our battle against worry. Jesus has given us words to run in our heads Worry accomplishes nothing. Worry harms us in lots of ways. But it's so easy to give in to this temptation and invite the pain that we could just as easily avoid. So we act just as dumb as Pharaoh. I could be rid of this today, but I think I'll wait for tomorrow. Again, I just want to emphasize: we do not need To worry. It's not a spiritual requirement. It is not a sign of love. There is no merit in it, and we can stop. That is the life that Jesus invites us to. In fact, He commands us to. Now let's move on to our text. Verse 31. Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. So here's the second commandment, and it's actually to stop worrying. And I read that this is the verb tense used in at least some of the times in our passage when it says, do not worry. In the Greek, the verb tense is more like stop worrying. Stop doing what you are doing. And Jesus knows us. He knows what we are like. He knows how we are. He knows what we're we tend towards. And he's gracious to address us not as an ideal of what we ought to be, but where we really are Now look again at the examples of things that we shouldn't worry about. Don't worry about the things necessary for your survival on planet Earth. That's essentially what he's saying. Don't worry about the things that are essential for your survival on planet Earth. Doesn't that look just a little unrealistic? That's important stuff, Jesus. That keeps me breathing. I'll die if I don't have that stuff. My family will die if I don't provide this stuff. Are you really sure you want these things on a do-not worry list? I think the point is, if you can stop worrying about the most crucial things in life, you can stop worrying about everything. If we can pass the tests on food, clothing, and shelter, we can likely stop worrying about anything. If we can trust God completely to keep us breathing, keep us in the things we really need for survival, we can more easily trust Him to provide what we would prefer in life. And note how most worry is future-based. It's based on questions like: what am I going to do when this happens? How will I respond to that? How will I get what I need? And it's all based on the idea that God might not come through for us. God might not come through for us. At least God might not come through for us in the way we want Him to. He might just not give me what I think I need to survive, so I better have an alternate plan I better figure out something to overcome God's deficiencies or the fact that He might have a different plan for me than I would prefer and I sort of like to have control over that. Now we would never say that. None of us would write that down, at least I don't think we would, and say, you know, the reason I worry is because I don't trust God, I don't like what He might have in store for me. But that's logically what we have to think in order to fuel our worry. Now, what does Jesus tell us this time to fuel our worry-stopper? Verse 32: For after all these things the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly Father knows you need all these things. Just like Mr. Jones told us earlier, do we believe on the Lord or do we believe the Lord? These are the kinds of places we really need to get to apply this test. How are we different than the Gentiles? Now, all of us here believe, sitting here. are believers. We claim to be believers. How does our life display that we are different than the Gentiles? The problem with the Gentiles, as used here, is that they have nothing better to seek for and no one better to depend upon than themselves. They have nothing better to seek for and no one better to depend upon than themselves. MacArthur says this. When we think like the world and crave like the world, we will worry like the world. Because a mind that is not centered on God is a mind that has cause to worry. Think about this. If you saw your life as consisting of maybe 80 years on earth, if things go real well, and then nothing else. With no God, no eternity, how would you live? What would you think about? What would you pursue with your life? What would you look for to give meaning to your life? What would you look for for pleasure or security? How would you live if that was your mind frame? What would you live for? And it's very likely that you will live for stuff and live in the pursuit of the world's stuff in one form or fashion. Of course you would. That's all you have. What else could you do? And really, who could you trust to take care of you? I frequently mention that I believe that our world the more it loses sight of a faith in God, the more it has to depend on something. And I think largely our world is depending on the government. Which is a pretty pretty terrible God to have. But anyway, who do you trust to take care of if you're in that state? Who is there other who has shown the willingness And the capability to provide for your needs. No matter what happens. Who is there if you're in this mindset of the Gentile who is powerful enough to overcome all the bad things that can happen in a person's life? Who is there? Those outside of God do not have a God that is dependable. Everything rests on each of those persons' shoulders, and that's a very heavy weight to carry. No wonder they worry. They should worry. It makes sense to worry in their state. When we live like they do. We dishonor God. We essentially communicate to them that the God that we do have is no better than the God that they do not have. Both cannot be dependent upon. And think about it. If you have a dear friend and they have the goods that you need, and you really need them , Well, would you not expect that friend would give them to you? I think we all would. We would all expect our friends to provide us what we need if they have it. Jesus says For your Heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. Isn't that all we need to know? We preach doctrine that says that Jesus loves us. We preach doctrine that says that God is all-powerful. Is there anything else we really need to know other than God knows our plight? God knows our needs. God makes it his business to know our business. He is aware. Isn't that not the most important thing we need to know to have in our minds to set it at ease? That this God who loves us knows that we need it. Sometimes there are disasters in my work. They are things that are often above my pay grade. But they're often things that my boss is responsible for, and that I get first-hand knowledge of it before she does So there are often times when I go on a frantic search for my boss. Now it's a it's a virtual one, she's not around, but I go on this search and I try and communicate to her all different kinds of ways. I mean I'll use email, I'll use chat, I'll call her on the phone, I'll use everything I've got. And when she responds, I am instantly relieved because I know my dilemma is over. Hers might not be, but mine is. Because the one who is responsible for this thing. The one who cares most about this thing, the one who has the resources to resolve this thing, is now aware of this thing. And my burden is relieved by the knowledge that she knows. Such a thing should be true of us and God as well. Jesus is drawing our attention to the fact our Father knows. The most important part of having our needs met is already taken care of. God knows. Like the post that Brad frequently puts up on Facebook. God knows. We don't have to stress out getting to his attention We are to tell it to him in prayer. We are to bring it to him in prayer, but we're already told he already knows what we need before we ask. Not he God doesn't need information. It's for I think our benefit that we bring it to him and lay it before him relationally. He knows. And it's very clear here that the implication is: if God knows, God cares. And if God cares , God will act. And if God will act. We're good to go. And note too that God knows we need them. And need is the carefully used word in Scripture. There are many things that Scripture does not say that we need, but these things in our text are things God recognizes as being needs. And does He not promise to supply our needs? Lots of places in Scripture. Now there are rare occasions when something is needed in God's kingdom more than our survival. There is some something that God wants to accomplish that will cost us our lives. And that's all in God's hands. That's way above our pay grade. So we can't think we always know what God will do. And I'll go further into this in a couple of weeks. But most of the time it is God's will that the temporal needs of his children are met. That's the kind of God he is. He's better than us, and we meet our kids' needs. Now we continue. Verse 33, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. The meaning here is clear. Rather than seek one thing, we are to seek another. Rather than worldly things having the first place, we're to have heavenly things take the first place. John MacArthur points out that the cause of worry is seeking the things of this world, and the cause of contentment is seeking the things of God's kingdom and his righteousness. I thought that was interesting. I like how Matthew Henry emphasizes the use of the word first. First. Seek first the kingdom of God, he says. Let your care for your souls and another world take the place of all other cares. And let all the concerns of this life be made subordinate to those of the life to come. We must seek the things of Christ more than our own things. And if ever they come in competition, we must remember to which we are to give the preference. Seek these things first, first in thy days. Let the morning of thy youth be dedicated to God. Wisdom must be sought early. It is a good beginning betimes to be religious Seek the first every day. Let waking thoughts be of God. Let this be our principle to do that first which is most needful, and let him that is the first Have the first. The Greek word for first is in time, place, order, or importance. First in time, place, order, or importance. And then I think in our text, it fits every one of those. Seek first the kingdom in time, place, order, and importance. We could say first things first We know what that means. First things first. That's what Jesus is commanding. John MacArthur says: seek first his rule, his will, and his authority. Seeking God's kingdom is losing ourselves in obedience to the Lord to the extent that we can say with Paul, I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself In order that I may finish my course in the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify solemnly of the gospel of the grace of God. Acts 20, 24. To seek first God's kingdom is to pour out our lives in the eternal work of our Heavenly Father. Sometimes I wish this was harder to understand. Then I'd have a better excuse for my daily failures to actually do this as I should. This isn't complicated. Jesus has already told us what we should be praying for this, this very thing. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. That's what Jesus is saying again. In fact, we see the same theme run through the whole Sermon on the Mount, but he's applying it in our real day-to-day mental dilemma of needing stuff. Sure, it's easy to pray, thy kingdom come, but it's hard to sacrifice those things we desire as creatures for those things that will last forever. Jesus is showing us what really happens when we mean those prayers, what it is to mean thy will be done. Thy kingdom of come. This is what happens when we want what God wants more than we want what flesh wants So what does this mean, verse 33d? But seek first the one kingdom of God and two his righteousness. Then all these things shall be added to you. What is that? The kingdom of God and his righteousness. How are they different? What's it mean? Matthew Henry says, we must mind heaven as our end and holiness as our way. That's his way of describing the difference between the two. We mind heaven as our end and holiness as our way. Seeking first God's kingdom is to live in such a way as to further that kingdom. We have kingdom goals. In our lives. We have kingdom perspectives in our lives. We see our lives as passing through this realm with citizenship in a different kingdom. It's the framework through which we see our lives. We see our lives in a kingdom perspective, a kingdom mentality. Seeking first God's righteousness is to live in such a way that we fit into that kingdom. We have kingdom attributes. We begin to look like someone in that kingdom. People should be able to read the Sermon on the Mount and watch our lives, and they should be able to say. Oh , so that's what Jesus meant by storing up your treasures in heaven. So that's what Jesus meant about seeking the kingdom of God. So that's what Jesus meant when he said, Don't worry, but trust God. That person does those things. That's the righteousness that we are to have So that's what a good eye looks like. This is a person who finds a way to see everything from God's perspective. We can't get the idea that Jesus is something that we add to our lives. I see a lot of that. You know, you find a spouse, you find a career, and then you want to add something to aid your life, maybe give it stability in your later years, or help your family get together better or get along better. So you add Jesus. And I think that's a real danger in some of the seeker-friendly churches that we have and that we see. Jesus demands Priority. Not addition. Priority. He will not be added onto the end of the line. He is not going to serve us. We serve him in that sense. He goes to the front. We're to love him with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. We're to treat family as if we hate them in comparison to how committed we are to Christ. I find that very difficult. Our love for Christ should be that supreme And when we do place Christ first, then things start falling into place. Worry becomes less and less an issue. Because the kingdom we are concerned most about is not ours any longer. We are no longer worried about the John Kingdom. We're pieces to be moved on the chessboard by God because we want what He wants. And we can fully trust in our God to move us as those pieces. Because he always knows what he's doing and he's always got our best interest in mind. Remember, we mentioned earlier that the Gentiles do not have a Lord they can depend on. How sad. They have to take care of themselves. They don't have another choice. Well, they might come up with mystical stuff that You know, it gets a little hokey after a while. But if they sit down and think about it, they better take care of themselves because there's nobody else that's gonna. But look at what we have. As we're pouring ourselves out on that which the Master cares about, as we're seeking first his kingdom and getting involved in being the kind of person he wants us to be And we might think, yeah, I'm a little afraid of that. God might use me as a commodity. He might ride us hard and put us away wet because we're accomplishing stuff, work that he wants done. And he might just view us as a way to get work done He might take advantage of us like slaves, but then we read his word and we know he's nothing like that. He's nothing like that. It's, I think it's A lot more like Jason Vandorsken 's illustration of having his kids rake his his leaves with him, if you remember that. It's not that more leaves got raped. But they became better people as a result of doing it. And that's what God allows us. It's for our sake that he involves us in his ministry. Remember that Jesus has already taken note that we have need of those things. When we know that, we can rest, because our God is a good God. So while we are absorbed with eternal things, while we are absorbed with doing the service in the kingdom of God, While we are focused at pouring out our lives into being righteous, doing those things that please God, while we pour ourselves into the things of God, nothing we need is going to be missed. God is making sure we will be able to keep eating and drinking and remain protected for the weather as long as He wants us to. Christ is in charge of that. It will not go undone. We will not be neglected. That is the kind of master we have. We don't have a master who will neglect us and abuse us and forget about us. No, we will get all the stuff that the world worries about without without any of the worry. That's what he's telling us this morning. What in your life can you not trust Christ with? What in your life can you not trust Christ with? What is it that you feel you have you've got to control and it is not safe if only Christ is watching and controlling it? Why does that happen to us? Jesus is dealing with these very things in this whole text on the world stuff. Ultimately, it comes down to what we believe in our heart of hearts about God's character. Worry doesn't overpower us. Scripture is clear about that. We are choosing. We are always choosing. And we are choosing what is first in our lives. Those are the things that get done. They're not the things we intend to do. They're the things that we do do. Those are the first things. Do you think that God will take care of you if you surrender your life to Him? I think probably all of us have stories where we have come to those kind of thresholds and we have said, Lord, I can't. My way done work. I trust you. This important part of my life, I'm trusting you Will he provide you the right food, clothing, and shelter that he has in mind for you? Will he provide you with the right relationships? Will he provide you with the right resources you need to make it? Will he provide everything at the very right time? Can you trust him to come through for you? That's the battleground in our mind every day. If we believe, we will trust If we believe we can live free from worry, if we believe we will find ourselves actually doing what Christ said. Prioritizing properly, scheduling properly, deciding properly. Never perfectly. We always know that. Never perfectly, but properly. Christ is calling us to walk faithfully in his presence. And this morning he addressed our deep-seated desire to try to take care of ourselves. And he has shown us how we can be set free of that By believing in him and believing him. May we faithfully seek the kingdom this week and win every battle over worry. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you so much again for your word, for your knowing us so intimately, for giving us those things that