The Passover. And uh think about what you know about the Passover. One way of looking at the Passover is that this event celebrates the victory in the war that God fought for the independence of the Jewish people. Israel was under bondage of another king, the Pharaoh, another nation, Egypt. And God did miraculous works through Moses to finally get Pharaoh to loosen his grip. And the people fled the country and headed to the promised land. And Pharaoh changed his mind. And sent his troops to fetch the Israelites, and God sufficiently wiped out a significant part of Egypt 's military might in one swoop Then as part of Israel's trek across the wilderness, the people began running out of food. So God supernaturally, miraculously fed them with manna and then later with uh quail. If we want to understand the Jewish mindset during Passover, we need to think of our Their political independence day, as well as a spiritual holiday. They were freed from a godless king in order to worship God independently. So Passover in Israel tended to be a time of patriotic zeal and enthusiastic nationalism That's probably lost on us, but it would not have been lost on them. It was a time when they strongly longed for the independence and a Moses -like deliverer. Understanding this helps us to understand why the Jewish people responded the way that they did. There's another principle in our story we should watch for as well. This also relates to the crowd's reaction. There's a simple rule of human interactions. It's almost universally true. When you give people what they most deeply desire, they will like you. When you give people what they most deeply desire, they will like you. Yeah, none of us are exactly shocked by that. Sales organizations are based on that principle. Advertising is often designed to even create and accentuate that desire. Marketing's bread and butter is in advertising and selling people what they crave for, while part of the time creating the craving. Marketers understand how the world works. But we need to think about that when we're dealing with spiritual things. Why do false prosperity preachers so often get rich? It's because the so-called gospel that they preach promises to give the listeners those things that their flesh craves. It's what they most want. It gives them the desires of the body and the mind, at least it promises that. Like Ephesians defines it. That's how we always we all used to live in the desires, carrying out the desires of our body and our minds. They preach like God is endorsing all those selfish loves, and it like God is promising to fulfill those lusts if we'll only follow a couple of steps. Usually involving putting offering in their coffers. If you promise people what they most deeply desire, they will tend to like you. Why do seeker-friendly churches prosper? The worship services are intentionally structured to appeal to what people like most. Now, to be fair, many of them have moral limits that they adhere to. But it's largely the framework that it's designed around. But sometimes it's it's very tempting to think that we would have more people here if we would hire a band. More people would come if the talks were more topical and if they gave more self-help advice and they were limited to 20 minutes. And the pastor really could be a little cooler and skinnier and with a decent haircut. And each one of these things seems to have some merit. But the end result is based on earthly principles. The principle is that people like people who give them what they most deeply desire What we'll see this morning is that Jesus temporarily gives the people what they most deeply desire, and then he leaves them due to them showing him that that's all they want. That's all they want. He was doing miracles to give them spiritual insight, to show off who he is. But they wanted the fish sandwiches and the free health care Christ refused to allow his church to be built upon the desires of the flesh. He rejected it out of hand. We're going to see that this morning. Our elders need to, and I believe that they do, decide the course that our church takes very seriously. Our goal is not to appeal to the fleshly desires of fleshly hearts. Our highest goal is to give our Savior what he most deeply wants. And that's true worship. Where Christ is glorified and the Word of God is accurately and powerfully preached and taught. I think that prepares us to approach the text. Verse 1. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. The words after this aren't meant to communicate speed. They're probably to explain the order of events. It was probably actually six months later that Jesus went to the east side of the Sea of Galilee, which had several names. When Carla and I were in Alaska, old literature called the biggest mountain Mount McKinley. And most people there called it Denali, which is kind of a cooler name, I think. And it looks better on coffee cups anyway. But now President Trump gave it back its nationalistic name of Mount McKinley. Well, the same thing happened to the Sea of Galilee. The name Tiberius was a tribute to a politician. It's kind of cool that you don't have to spend a penny. You just call something something different, and that's all good. Now the west side of Galilee is where most of the Jews were. That's where Jesus was raised and hung out during much of his ministry. The east side was more remote. On a map you'll see that you could go across the lake, or you could walk the shoreline to get to the other side Verse 2. And a large crowd was following him because they believed he was the Messiah based on the miracles he was doing, and they wanted to be forgiven of their sins. Wrong. No, unfortunately not. Because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. John fills us in on it on that detail because it's very important. Motives matter. Motives matter. This little insight helps us understand everything that the followers would do next. Verse 3, Jesus went up on the mountain and there he sat down with his disciples. Now we need a little more context here. And John doesn't give us a whole lot. This is the only miracle listed in all four of the Gospels. And remember our Bible interpretation rule? The things that are said most often are the most important. So this must be very important. It's included in all four. According to Mark 6, Christ's disciples had just returned from a preaching trip. Going through all of Israel preaching what Jesus told them to preach. They're probably mentally and physically exhausted. They probably just want some time alone with Christ and a chance to kick back and relax and tell all their stories and rejoice in how well it went and to get a pat on the back for how good they did. Well, here's Mark's report in Mark 6, 6, 31 through 36. It says, And Jesus said to them, Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest awhile. So Jesus is even setting them up for this. For many are were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat. So they haven't even eaten yet. And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves. Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them. When he went ashore, he saw a great crowd, and Christ had compassion on him, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. And when it grew late, his disciples came and said to him, This is a desolate place, and the hour's now late. Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat. Might not be everything they were thinking, but that is what they said. This gives us greater insight into what was going on with the disciples. The crowds were robbing the disciples of a chance to eat, a chance to sleep, and a chance to be with Jesus. That's probably how the disciples saw the crowds. It's just people, people, needy people, people everywhere. I I think I think of the limits of comfort and convenience that we place on our lives And I wonder how well we would have done in the school of Jesus. Because he really is pushing the point here. Just think of the things that you have said as a reason that you couldn't minister to people. I'll bet very few of those reasons would be as good as the reasons these guys had, and Christ wasn't accepting any of them But Jesus has a lesson to teach, and it turns out to be some literally heavy teaching Verse 4. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. And we mentioned the significance of that event earlier. This was priming the people for what they're going to do. It's building up in them. Verse 5. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him. Now John skips what Mark tells us. Jesus felt compassion on this approaching crowd. He saw these people and thought, they're just like a bunch of stupid sheep. They need a shepherd. When we watch the decisions that people make, it's hard it's hard to find a better description than shepherdless sheep. Even sometimes our own decisions, but especially ones where we're watching somebody and we know way better than they do about what they're doing. Shepherdless sheep, they wander off into all kinds of things that look desirable to them, but only make themselves prey to the wolves. Isn't that true of our own lives? Those folks tend to fear everything because they know there's no one to protect them. They can't tell what's good for them, and they they trust their instincts to lead them here and there. The human condition really is somewhat pathetic in that regard. We are a lot like sheep, a lot more than we care to think about. It's pitiful, and Jesus pities them. Now, what's the reaction of the disciples in Mark? Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat They're essentially saying, let the sheep take care of their sh their themselves. For goodness sakes, Jesus, send them away. We're beat. We need a break. Come on. So the disciples flunked their first test. They should have taken their clue from Jesus. If Jesus thinks ministry to these people is more important than the rest, then rest. Then we should think the same thing. But they didn't. And I sure can't throw a stone at them. I don't know about you. The application here is clear. When God assigns an appointment, we do our best to keep it. Are we tired, unprepared , distracted? Are we telling ourselves I can't do it? They're all the wrong answers most of the time. Now, there are certainly exceptions. Sometimes we can schedule conversations until later and things like that. But an opportunity like the one that Jesus has right now is not going to come later. This was a golden opportunity to teach this massive amount of people, and also to teach his disciples the lessons they needed to learn. I can think of times that I put my comfort above the opportunity that I had to minister. I regret every time I did that. I'm not sure there's ever a time that I chose to sacrifice my comfort for Christ's sake that I've ever regretted. But every time I have sacrificed a ministry opportunity out of my convenience, I have always regretted that. Don't be surprised when Christ arranges your appointments. At the most inconvenient times. This passage challenges us to respond like Christ and not to respond like his followers. Allow compassion for a person's lostness or strain from their shepherd to minister to them as best you can. Jesus said to Philip then, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him. It's nice that John gives us that insight. For he himself knew what they'd do. He knew what he would do, he knew what they would do. Now there was more to this conversation that we see in the other gospels. First, Jesus had been teaching these people for a while, and he was healing the sick. And it's approaching evening, and these folks really ought to eat before taking the long walk home. The disciples wanted Jesus to send them away, and they couched their concern for the good of the people. Aren't we so much like that? You know, there might be two reasons we want to do something. Which which reason are we most likely to put out there? The one that makes us look the best. Well, they were just doing the same thing. They were saying, send them away so they can get some food and rest. But given everything else we've seen, it's more likely the disciples just wanted some peace and quiet. So see, Jesus said, you feed him. You feed him. That started the conversation about how this could be accomplished. Now Philip was from Bethsaida, okay, and they're in Bethsaida in that region. So Philip, this is his hometown. He's close. These are his people. He probably knows some of the people in the crowd. You would think he'd be the first one to show compassion. These are some people he knows, family, distant family, all that. But we don't get the feel that feeding these people is his highest priority. The cat was already out of the bag by left out of the bag by Mark, and Philip would also know where the bakeries are. Now, do you ever remember a time in your life when you were asked a question in public and you got the question completely wrong? I can quickly think of two times off the top of my head when I answered a biblical question completely wrong in public. Do you have anything like that? Why do you remember it? Maybe it's embarrassment. But the point is to test someone this way is a very powerful teaching tool. After answering wrongly, you're far more likely to remember the right answer than next time. It teaches you to think a different way before answering the question. And that's what Jesus is doing to Philip. Where should we buy bread so these people can eat? That's the question. Now, Jesus did not ask Philip, how can we afford bread? That's not what Jesus asked. He asked, where can we buy the bread? And Philip answered him, 200 denarii worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to even get a little. Philip is essentially saying, this can't be done, Jesus. I wonder if the purse that they had held at 200 denarii, because uh it's eight months wages, because Mark and John both mentioned that figure. Whatever the case, Philip is better at math than theology. He's a better accountant than he is a disciple. He never considers who Christ is in this calculation. Philip knows what money can do, but he forgets what Jesus can do. Philip is trapped in the natural cause and effect understanding of the natural world. He follows Christ, but when it comes to solving real-world solutions, money's the answer. You gotta have money No need to get spiritual here. We need money. We don't have money. End of story. There's nothing else to talk about. That was Phillips' mindset. Philip fa failed the test. So how about Andrew? Verse 8. One of the disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There's a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they? For so many. Well, Andrew, at least, did not tell Jesus what Jesus can't do. He didn't say it couldn't be done. That's a better response than Philip gave. But neither did Andrew appeal to the supernatural power of Jesus. He knew it existed. He had his theology right, but he just didn't think to depend upon it. Does that sound familiar in our lives often? We know God is powerful. We just don't expect Him to do anything. Andrew put himself to work. He probably had begun to go through the crowds to round up some resources. You've got to admire that. Andrew was still looking for physical solutions. We know that because Andrew summed it up by saying, what are these for so many? There's no outside force going to change this. We have you know X number of bread, X number of fish. That's not enough So Andrew clearly thought that this was no solution at all. And if there's no earthly solution you can see, there must be no solution That's his thinking. Andrew too flunked the test. Now no one said, Jesus, you don't even need bread. You made wine out of water. Come on. You can surely make bread out of the grass if you want to. But no one even thought this kind of thing from what we can tell. They were still thinking with physical limitations. They were limited by what they could see and what they could touch and what they could feel. They were thinking like atheists. You know what? It's so hard to not be like the disciples here It's hard not to think that all of our earthly problems need earthly solutions. And if there is no earthly solution available, the problem is unsolvable. How many times do we look at our dismal situation and we allow ourselves to be distraught because we can't see a way out? We think about it long and hard and conclude that there is no solution. Maybe it's in our marriages or in our families or in our health or in our work. Maybe it's financial, maybe it's relational, maybe it's physical, and we act like there is no God We act like there's no purpose for us being in that solution, in that situation even. And there's no solution to resolve it because it's out of the realm of something that we can physically fix It's out of the realm of something we can physically accomplish. And we think that because there is no earthly solution visible, there is no solution There's no difference between that kind of thinking and the failure we see in the disciples in this text this morning. Why is it so hard for us to pray as our first and primary instinct? Why can we not rest like sheep in the hand of a good shepherd, even when we know the wolves are at the gate? The right answer to Jesus' question would have been: I don't know about where or how this much bread can be purchased, but Lord, if you want it done, I know one thing: it will get done Tell me what to do. Wouldn't that have been a wonderful response? I don't know why. I don't know how. Tell me what to do The right answer to most of our problems in life is to go to the Lord with it. To pray, there are a lot of things I don't know in my current difficulty, Lord, but I trust you. Please either resolve the problem with your supernatural power or teach me what I should do. With your word and your Holy Spirit. Oh, what peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pain we bear. All because we don't carry everything to God in prayer. I know some of you are in trials. In fact, most of the time it can be said of most of us that there is some trial that we were under. Whether it be a very, very difficult situation or being tested by affluence. You know, it we can be tested all kinds of ways. And you don't know exactly what to do. And that's okay. Trust Jesus in the midst of it. He will guide you. Whatever it is will work out for our good. He would not have placed us in the spot that we are in if it would not if it could not be used for our good. He will teach you how to be faithful in the midst of it. And sometimes he will miraculously resolve your problem with his spiritual might. He makes bread out of nothing. What in your life is harder than that? Now we've seen all the failures to the test. Who actually passes the test? The only good example other than Jesus in this test is the little the little boy or the young man. He may have been wise enough to pack a lunch while most everybody around him didn't even think a hit. You know, he thought, well, I'm gonna I'm gonna take a lunch. We might be out there for a while. Nobody else is thinking that long It'd be easy for him to think, hey, they should have been wiser. I got my lunch. I'm not sharing it. I'm not giving up my lunch. Besides, this is just a lunch, you know, what good will it do? No, the young man was willing to give the only food he had for Jesus' use. He shows a trust in Jesus, or at least a generosity of heart. That's wonderful. What a wonderful example of selflessness this this kid was. How do we think about our provisions? Are we willing to share them with those who have not done the work that we have? Will we give generously to meet the need when Jesus points it out to us? Do we hold out our provisions in an open hand like this young man did? Lord's for you. However you want to use it, it's fine. Okay, so what's next? Verse 10. Jesus said, Have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down, about 5,000 in number. Okay, there's no food present, there's no food ordered, but Jesus wants to sit down in the nice spring grasses in his field. You can see them thinking Okay, Jesus. They probably did that a lot. Okay, Jesus. Don't know what you're doing, but okay. But this is odd. The note that there were 5,000 men may be an indication of what's going to happen a little bit later. It's men who do the fighting. It's mostly men who are involved in insurrections. And there are enough men here to really start stirring things up if they were to rise up against the local Roman troops. With women and children, there were probably 15,000 to 20,000 people in this field. Mark tells us that they were put in groups of 50 and 100. And then what happens? Verse 11: Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted. Mark tells us that Jesus broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples distributed them to the people. Each disciple carried enough bread and fish for over a thousand people. And Jesus either broke all of those loaves or they multiplied in the baskets. You know, if Jesus touched every loaf, this might have taken hours to do. We don't really know. It's not mentioned. We aren't given all the details, but the people ate until they were food. Until they were full. They had no food except for a little bit. Now they ate not only a little. They ate until they were full. That's kind of funny, given that the first meal was probably not enough for more than a few people to eat and be full. Now keep in mind this is during the Passover. These Jewish people would not have missed the connection between Moses providing the impossible manna and Christ providing the impossible fish sandwiches. Jesus was showing his divinity and his God-blessed status as the ruler of Israel here. I think that's that's meant for us to catch. Jesus is showing who he is. Verse 12, when they had eaten their fill, he told the disciples, gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the bar five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. Kids, your your parents ever tell you not to waste food? This is like a mother's verse here. Don't take more than you can eat. Things like that. Well, Jesus seemed to go by that rule as well. He gives his reason for why they should gather everything up, but he's specific that nothing may be lost. Then it not be wasted. Well that's pretty cool. We can't make too much of this though because we see later that this food may have ended up being soaked by seawater in the next event that was going to happen. But it's worthy of note. Jesus said, we don't want to waste anything essentially. Now, these were big baskets. This was the kind of basket that Paul was let down on when he was lowered from the city. So it's big enough to fit a human being. Now think about that. These disciples, all they wanted was rest and relaxation. That's all they wanted. They probably didn't have a good attitude toward all these people who needed ministered to. And Jesus had compassion for the people, not so much for his disciples at the moment, and the disciples just wanted the people to go away. And then the disciples had no idea at all how these people could be fed. And they completely failed this opportunity for faith in Christ. So what do they get Each of them gets a huge basket of impossible bread that they have to carry from point A to point B. From where they are to the boat. This makes me think of when our daughter Ashley used to pick up, I think it was Jeremiah, and uh I filled a bag of sand to about the same weight as Jeremiah. at that time. And then every time she picked up Jeremiah, we would make her carry that sack of sand instead of of Jeremiah. Because you can drop the sack of sand and not hurt anything. And the whole time she carried that bag, she remembered that she was carrying the bag due to her failure to learn a lesson. I think these baskets of provision were a painful reminder to the disciples of their failure on that night. They had to carry what Christ couldn't do From point A to point B. This the school of Jesus was not always easy Remember, these guys had just returned from being big shots all over Israel. They were healing the sick, they were casting out demons, everything was going well. They were Jesus' hands and feet carrying out a message of repentance, preparing them. They had expectations of celebrating together with Christ over how great everything had gone. But Jesus' boot camp was meant to take them to levels of service higher than they ever imagined. In the ministry they were called to do, they were never on leave. People were not in eruptions, no matter how inconvenient the timing was. Sheep need shepherding, and there is no appointment book that they go by. When I look at this, I'm reminded: guard your expectations. Guard your life's expectations. When planning your days, always use a pencil. The needs of people are often planned by God to become your priority. Be careful when we start thinking, I need this and I need that. Jesus said we need the bread of life, and Jesus found that bread by doing ministry. This is not to say we should never plan vacations or rest or anything like that, but just be careful you don't make your plans absolute. Jesus may have a different plan. And when he does, that's our greatest opportunity for giving Christ glory. Now, how'd the people respond? When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet. We've talked about that before. The prophet was another synonym for Messiah, who is to come into the world. Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. Now think about this. What must the people be thinking? When they want to take Jesus by force, we might think: how dense can these people be? If Jesus is indeed this prophet, this messianic figure sent to save Israel, do they really think that it's smart to try to make him do something that he is against doing? This displays the same kind of thinking the disciples had. The Roman rule over Israel was a physical problem that had a physical solution So these 5,000 men were going to take Christ by force and start a war against Rome, and then Christ would be forced to rise up and lead this rebellion. These people wanted to use Christ to gain the things they loved the most. They wanted to use Christ to gain the things they loved the most. And what they loved the most was fleshly. They loved freedom. They loved military strength. They loved safety for their families. They loved prosperity. And they were going to use Christ to get all those things. It was an early form of prosperity gospel. Come to Jesus and get everything your flesh wants. Jesus Christ did not come to free the Israelites politically. Jesus Christ did not come to keep the United States free politically. Sometimes those things serve his purposes and praise God when they do. But clearly it is not why he came. He came to save sinners from their sin and to himself. He came to glorify himself by gaining true worship. And Jesus, by walking away from this worked-up crowd, says, No, you still don't get it. You still don't get it. Note that these people believed that what Jesus did by feeding the 5,000 was a supernatural sign. They got that right. They knew it was something only God could do. They got that part right. It should have been followed by spiritual repentance. They should have sought spiritual solution. That's what this was all about When they found out Jesus was this prophet, as incomplete as an assessment that was, they should have bowed at his feet and asked, What do you want from us? Instead of trying to force on him what they wanted of him. How do we approach our God? How do we approach Christ? What attitude do we approach Christ with? Let's close in prayer. Lord, we pray that you'd help us to regard you.