Blood has bought my pardon and glorified. I will be one day with him forever. I mean that is a thanksgiving. Song. Our children are traipsing downstairs. Today begins a special children's church for those that have interest in Um dedicating a month or two months out of the year. We're giving some guidance on how to teach children's church. I appreciate Rebecca. Hansen's doing that, and uh for those that have interest in that, um, children are worth taking time to make sure they're taught and an affection. effective way. Well, let's go towards some hopefully effective teaching this morning in Matthew 5. Turn back to the Sermon on the Mount. And Jesus is teaching his disciples there near the Sea of Galilee. And this is The only full transcript that we have of one of Jesus' full messages that he taught anywhere in Scripture. But this was a message that he taught many times. It's representative of The truths that he taught people during his three years of ministry. And important truths indeed as he describes the conduct of kingdom citizens. Those who have placed their faith in Jesus Christ and look forward to a brighter kingdom. No more elections. Jesus is King, said and done. And we look forward and we seek that. Um, but Jesus gives a guideline here, and really these are commands, not just Guidelines for how to act as kingdom citizens. Humility and bright testimony for him. But then remember, we have, as we he gets into more specifics, we have a verse that kind of uh controls his overview over these next passages. Verse 20 says, He's or Jesus says, I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall never enter the kingdom of heaven. And then he goes through these topics. And their tests really. Think you're righteous enough to get into heaven? To be a kingdom citizen? Well, have you ever murdered somebody? Okay. You pass that test? Have you ever been angry with someone in your heart? Oh, you're a murderer. You're not righteous enough to be in my kingdom. Have you ever committed adultery? Okay, you might have passed that test. Have you ever had a lustful thought in your heart? Up can't pass that test. According to God's law, we have to, not in just our actions, but In our heart attitudes, measure up to God's standard of righteousness. We talked about divorce and all of these things. And Jesus Jesus is pointing out that everyone in his audience, the religious leaders included, need a righteousness that is better than their own. Because none of us Us can pass the test of these hard attitudes. We've all been angry. Most of us, if we're honest, have had a lustful thought. And as Jesus points out, Those things condemn us for all eternity to be separated from God and eternal punishment in hell. And that is the sobering reality, folks. That because we are sinners and we are guilty of these things, our righteousness won't cut it. However good we think we are won't cut it by God's standard, and it is His standard that we must must be concerned with because it literally is a matter of eternal life Or eternal death. And so why would Jesus just teach and point out that people can't be kingdom citizens if they're not righteous enough? Well Well, ultimately, he's pointing to himself. That they need him. That people need to be followers of him and that he will give the ultimate sacrifice so that they can have his righteousness. That he will take all of his all of their sin on himself, and he who knew no sin would give them his righteousness. And so that is the Um explanation for when he says you need a righteousness that exceeds even the best in your group, even the best rule keepers in your world. You need my righteousness. He's going to continue with these tests and comparisons today on this issue of oaths. He's going to continue to emphasize that just because you have outward actions, that doesn't necessarily mean that that reflects the heart of a inward an inward heart of And so as we go to oaths, again, as I said earlier, you may think, well, I haven't haven't thrown out any oaths to the Lord. I haven't vowed anything to God this week or in the past few weeks. I think on this one I'm gonna be okay. But if we think that, then all of us, the pastor included, miss the emphasis ultimately that this is a call. To be honest, a call to live life as we really are, and not to be deceitful. Hiding from the world who we are. But to live honestly. An underlying attitude of honesty is needed, folks, as not as much now as ever in a world with all the disinformation. That we have, is it not? You had used to be when my grandparents grew up, you had a few sources of news, and whether they were fully accurate or not, that's all you had. That's all you had to go by. Well now you have hundreds of newspapers. Uh I know they're antiquated. You have thousands of sites online, hundreds of news stories bombard us. Almost every hour. How do you keep track of what's real and what's not? It's almost an impossible task. And so we pray for wisdom, don't we? Lord, help me to understand. What's really going on here as much as I can so that I can make value judgments and live in a wise way. Well, we should expect that the world is going to be deceitful and try to cover things up. But as believers, folks, we should be the most honest, most willing to be real community that is possible. One day we'll live in full honesty in the kingdom of heaven under the reign of Jesus Christ. But dishonesty and distortion are actually truths of the truth, are tools of the evil one, as Jesus will point out in the last verse here in verse 37. And if deceit and dishonesty are tools of Satan, would you agree with me that they should not be named among God's people? Among kingdom citizens. So let's jump into this and see what Jesus is saying here. Verse 33. Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, those of the Old Testament. those of the former people of God, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. But I say to you, do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by earth, for it is his footstool. Or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. And I may add, you cannot make one hair reappear or Or disappear. But let what you say be simply yes or no. Anything more than this comes from evil, and I think a better interpretation or uh translation Is the evil one. That's what he's referring to. Anything other than this comes from Satan and is evil. And Jesus again makes it very clear. And so he's pointing out to us that committed promises are serious matters before God And so we need to understand the background behind this. That in the Old Testament, as God called his people to live in a way that was stark from the rest of the world. Of course, one of the uh characteristics that he would want them to have would be to be honest, to live and to be honest about who They were, and to be a representation of the honest truth of God's Word. And yet, we're probably not surprised as we read through the Old Testament, there was a lot of love. Lying and deceit going on , even through some of God's greatest um tools and saints, Abraham lying about Sarah. David misrepresenting the truth many times. And so, in the midst of what God knew among his people, a propensity to not Always be as honest as we should. A propensity to misrepresent, to try to commit to something, but not follow through on a promise or on something Something that we've committed to. God realized , and he knew that his people sometimes needed help. And so when in God's word, when he allowed for these oaths, he allowed for people to call God as a witness to their honesty. That in the midst of broken humanity, I commit to this. I am truly saying this is what happened. If I'm being Accused of doing something wrong, I am saying no, I did not do wrong, and I am going to call on an oath and call on the God of heaven before him that what I am saying is true. They were really, in effect, as we read about oaths in the Old Testament, they were actually calling God. This is how sober and how serious This was. They were calling God to judge and avenge if they failed to follow through on their promises. I'd say that's a pretty serious commitment, wouldn't you? That before the God of heaven, that I either state that I am innocent of this or that I commit to doing this, and if I don't, God is the judge and avenger toward me for failing to commit and follow through on that, or failing to be honest. Now We can understand a need for that. It's calling God as a witness to their honesty. It's encouraging people to keep their word. Well, that's always helpful. Even in our propensity today, not just the people, the saints of the Old Testament are God's people, but today we have our own struggles with being honest with ourselves and with other people a lot of times. We could use some help. So these oaths were designed to encourage truthfulness, but in actuality, by the time that Jesus came the culture and the society and the religious leaders had again distorted this and twisted this to where giving uh keeping or giving an oath was really not effective. They had actually, the religious leaders allowed for oaths to become occasions for clever lies. Because it was such a serious thing. And again, to restate or to make more clear, giving an oath in the Old Testament was an incredibly serious thing. And if you didn't follow through on it, there were times where you would be liable of your own life for not committing and following through on an oath. And the people and the religious leaders recognized that this was serious, but they realized how hard it was to be committed, and so the religious leaders began to give the people out. Ways to give oaths that didn't actually say the word God, but kind of implied God And so if you gave an oath in this manner, then you know if you didn't follow through on it, hey, it's okay. You know, we all we all make mistakes, but if you give an oath And say these words, well, now you're done. I mean, that's it's obvious that you were swearing, committing to God, and so there's nothing that we can do for you. And so that's what Jesus is referring to when he says these things. Back to verse 33. Again, what was God's expectation? From his people in the Old Testament, from the law. You shall not swear falsely. Be honest. Don't tell lies. Don't swear and give your oath on something that's not true. True, but you shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. You shall live honestly, you shall keep the commitments that you have kept to me. Real simple. But Jesus knew that they had twisted and made this convoluted. So he said to them, look, let's just kind of, if I can put it this way, scrap the whole idea. Don't take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the king, or by the earth, for it is his footstool. Or bright Jerusalem. For is the city of the great king. And don't even make those O's that you do every so often on yourself or on your body about your body or about your head. He said, let's just get rid of all that. And let's just honestly commit and state before God what we're going to do. So what's going on here? Since taking an oath in the Lord's name was serious and binding, the effort by the leaders was made to see how clear close to an oath one could get in order to appear trustworthy without being liable. That makes sense Swearing then by heaven and earth was not considered binding because it kind of sought, well, we all know who live who's in heaven. So I swore by heaven, but But, oh, I couldn't follow through on the commitment. Well, I didn't actually say God's name. And the religious leaders would say, that's okay. We'll let you buy it. On that one. Swearing by heaven and earth, why would you swear on earth? Because God was the creator of the earth? Or binding or swearing by Jerusalem, God's city. Okay? And many, many more. That we don't have time. Out. And so Jesus said this whole thing is broken. In fact, it was interesting. It was it got so bad that the religious leaders, there were many Pharisees that would say, if you're going to swear an oath, you can swear by Jerusalem, and if you don't follow through on your oath, it's okay, we'll let it slide. But if you turn toward Jerusalem while you're giving your oath, well then you're stuck. You've got to follow through. There's no out for you. You're gonna experience God's full judgment. Well, this was getting silly, right? As it always does when God's people try to twist and try To maneuver around the things that God has clearly told us. If we would just be honest, if we would just follow through on our commitments. We wouldn't have to go through any of these things. And so Jesus makes it very clear. Now, again, why did God allow oaths in the first place? Well, really, for the same reason he allowed divorce. In his grace and mercy, he understood man's propensity. And so he gave these things as vehicles to be a help to man. But his people distorted them and really made them a mockery. He says finally, verse 36, again, I'm reading this again. Do not take An oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. What is that all about? Certainly, like I said before, that's certainly not something that would be very effective for me. I guess if I swear by if I could swear by my bald head. What what is Jesus referring to here? Well they got so silly that they were actually swearing on their heads. and their bodies that you could rely on the strength of their youth by and you could almost it's almost like by the strength of my youth or if you were older by the wisdom of And again, if they didn't follow through, then it's oh well I didn't say God's name. I'm really sorry, but things came up. And so Jesus is saying, let's just have none of this at all. They were oaths phrased to avoid punishment and enabling people to speak with dishonesty. And so then Jesus just says, let's just do this. Let what you say be simply yes or no. And anything more than this. comes from evil. What is Jesus ultimately pointing to here And that is for kingdom citizens, and his people would experience this soon, his followers. Us today. Really, Jesus is saying all this oath taking is unnecessary. It's stressing you out. You're not following the way that God had uh had um planned for this. It's silly, it's foolish. And Jesus, I think, is pointing to the fact that very soon his followers would have the help that they need through his sacrifice on the cross and his shed blood that we could experience forgiveness of sins and cleansing and we could Could be God's people, and He would put a helper, a friend within us, the Holy Spirit, that would be able to keep us honest in a way that God's people had never had never experienced. Before or in the Old Testament. And I believe Jesus is pointing to the fact that look, very soon there is going to come for those that are followers of me. That are depending on my righteousness, you will have a person, God within you, the Holy Spirit, that will keep you honest. And so we don't need to worry about taking all these oaths any longer. Because we have the Spirit's indwelling to aid us. We don't have to go against the hard We don't have to follow the hard line of the law because we never could and we never can. We do not have enough righteousness to be able to follow God's law completely in the way that God expects. So Jesus just says, you depend upon me as kingdom citizens to live and be honest, to be real with each other, to be sincere with each other. Because if you're living a life of lies, then you are reflecting the father of lies. And there's a very good possibility that he then is your father. The evil one. And so my people need to be characterized by being sincere and honest. And even though broken, commit to being who I've made them to be. Committed promises are serious manners before God Folks. And God calls us to commit, to be faithful to our word. That's what Jesus calls us to here, to be care committed to honesty And to be careful what you promise. You know, we carry this out in our home. This may seem a little extreme, but I have been so impacted by this as I've read it and um thought it through in the past that I rarely if ever use the word promise in our home because I take it that seriously the same with Leslie if we have one of our sons that comes and says says, would you consider this dad or dad? Can we do this? I'm very careful. I rarely, if ever, say I promise. It's always, to their chagrin and frustration, it's always, well, I'll think about it. I'll give it thought. And then I will admit sometimes I forget to think about it. Three days later, Dad, have you thought about it yet? You know, will you just commit? I'm like, okay, I'll talk to your mom. Work it through. Yeah, I think we could I think we can do this Lord willing But I'm not gonna promise Because God takes promises seriously Now that just doesn't give me an out. Just again, I don't want to be like the Pharisees. Well, I didn't say the word promise, so don't hold me to that. No, it is my attempt to live honestly before my family and to be who I am. I am before them. And we all need to make that commitment as God's kingdom citizens for those that have trusted in Christ. We can live authentic lives. We can be authentic with our strengths and with our weaknesses. We can be authentic with our family. We can be authentic with our church family. We can even be authentic with our community out there because we have the Holy Spirit helping us to live honestly and to say what we mean. Let your yes be yes. Let your no be no. I don't have to spend a lot of time explaining that, right? It's pretty, it's pretty uh simplistic. If you mean yes, say yes. If you don't, if you mean no, then just say it. Well maybe No, we need to talk in this way. Well, what does here's the thing, and so as I mentioned this, right, now becomes more apparent that this is more than just oath oath taking. So there is a broader application here as we commit to living honest lives that we need to commit because of what Jesus is calling us. us to do here. Let me just give you some real practical examples. How about little white lies? Those ones that, you know, in our society today, it's perfectly acceptable. To tell something that's a little, that's not fully the truth, but it's so small and it's mostly the truth. It's just a little white lie. It's okay. And yet, as we see Jesus' commitment to honesty, we have to ask ourselves. Is that really is it really okay to deceive people in any way? How about partial truths? Where we give an answer a partial Truth, it's not fully wrong, or what we do give is right, but we don't tell the full story. Is that being honest? Is that being letting our yes be yes and our no be no? Now, let me qualify that. There are certain situations where we don't just Tell all that we know and all that's on our minds. It's very prudent and very wise to always have a filter on our mouths. So please don't misunderstand. I'm not saying here, hey, just commitment to the truth and whatever comes to your mind, you say it. No, we remind our boys many times. Filter, filter, think through what you are going to say. And there may be times where it's not best for that and it's not needed for that person to know the full truth. I say the full truth, that sounds bad. But let me give you example. Let's say someone comes to me for counseling. They want me to keep it quiet, obviously. They want me to keep it secure. And somebody sees them coming in my Office and going out, and that person comes to me and says, Hey, I saw so and so in your office. What are they doing there? Well, of course, I'm going to say, Well, they were there for so that I could help them and give them counsel. But I'm not going to go in all the details about why they came to see me. That would be inappropriate. Well, you're not telling the full truth. Well, no, it'd be inappropriate. That's not the whole that's not the point. There are some things Information that others just don't need to know and it would be wrong for them to know. So we do have to make value judgments here. you're trying to deceive people in what you're doing or who you really are. Is that living a life of honesty, folks? How about exaggeration? Boy, that's a hard one. Even in the pulpit with the pastor's stories, you know, a little bit of exaggeration is spicy and you know people laugh and but I have to be careful as well. And you have to be careful. We love to tell stories and we love to get the attention, but if we're exaggerating something that actually didn't happen, uh are we really being honest? How about making promises that you know when it comes out of your mouth you can't keep? And yet you f you you just figure, well at some point I'll figure out a way to let them down easy and tell them later that I really can't. But right now, I'll just let them hang with maybe I can, even though I know, I know that's not what I can do. Making promises that you're confident. As soon as it comes out of your mouth, How about this? Now this is something given making you think a little bit here, but I think this is appropriate and has practical application as well. I think sometimes in our making Too many commitments, we get so busy that that is a possible infraction of what Jesus is saying. Why Because folks, when we get busy and we commit to many things, are we being honest with the fact that God has made us with limits? Are we being honest with ourselves that there are Are certain things that I just can't do? No, no, I can do this, I can do this, and we bring all kinds of difficulties to our lives because we're Just not being direct and honest with ourselves and others, I can't do all these things. I'm just not capable. I need to step back. And that is an honest assessment that I'm giving of my life right now. Continue on here. Aren't these fun? How about giving people the illusion that you support them when you really don't? Oh yeah. Yeah, that's really hard. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, somebody should do something about that. Yeah, you ought to go talk to that person. And then later on you go to the other person and say, Can you Wow. Is that really being honest? Is that really putting forth who you are and what you think And we all tend to do this, folks. It is a weakness with humanity that we want people to think best of us. We want people to like us, and so we'll say what they want to hear. Even if that's not really what we believe or what we really think. We can all fall into that, and it we're not being honest. Our yes is not yes, our no is not no. How about distorting truth on our social media? Making the details of a vacation or of something that we did way beyond what actually happened. Distorting something to make us look the best on social media while we make someone else, we belittle someone else. We know that's rampant in our culture. Today, right? Because I use social media to make me look good. And so I'm only going to use and say things that always make me good, and sometimes I might even exaggerate. I'm not being Being honest with people. Or do you know someone who shares distorted truth of news stories and other things? before they check them out. You probably have a relative. I've dealt with people that have lamented to me, you know, I have this relative, I have this grandma, this mother, she just takes any news story and just posts it on Facebook before she even checks if it's real or not. And it's so embarrassing to our family and it's embarrassing to me. Well They didn't know. Yeah, but we have a little bit of a commitment to make sure that what we're posting is fact is actually fact. That it's real That it's not distorted. We have to be careful as well in our flattery Do you know that flattery is also a way of being dishonest? Because we come to people and we want them to like us and we want them um to esteem us and so we tell them all the good things and I I just like this word. We become a sycophant. Where all we're doing with certain people is just telling them the good things and almost it's almost like a mild form of word. But we're never really interacting with them and being honest with them and telling them what we really in a kind, loving way, telling them anytime. What they really need to hear. I will tell you this, just honestly, I think of myself as kind of a recovering sycophant. Because there are people in my life, Christian leaders, and people People that wrote books and things, when I got the chance to meet them, and even camp leaders and things, when I got the chance to meet them, I'm like, wow, I don't even know what to say, and I was so nervous. And so when I would meet them, I I would just everything I would do would be like to promote them and and say good things to them. And it you know, was I really being honest by just telling them I I would think through and think everything they want to hear I'm gonna tell them so that you know I can get to good graces with them. Is that really being honest? I look back on that now and that's flattery. It's not really being honest. Honest. I'm so thankful that over the years that God has given me a better relationship with some of those folks, and I am closer in my relationship with a few of those now than friendships that I treasure because they know that I'm gonna be honest with them and they can tell that there's a a real friendship rather than somebody that's just flattering them all the time and the Lord has blessed me with that. But we're all kind of in our own way recovering sick offense, right? I guarantee there's some person in everyone's life who, if they met , they would raise to maybe maybe a lesser extent than God, but Close to the same pedestal as Jesus, and we would do everything that we could. Oh, I'm so glad to meet you, and you're just I love your books, and I just so amazed. This reminds me of something That happened many years ago. I tell you, um it was when I was still single in my twenties. I've told you before that uh the the Lord gave Allowed me to work in Central Florida and have a job there for graphics design, and God gave me an opportunity to work in a small church and to work with young teenagers. Um and so one of the things that I would do as a single young man, some of the older teenagers, every so often I'd say, hey, let's get together and do something. Because in Central Florida, I was Literally fifteen minutes north of Disney World and all those other things. So it was real easy to take a group of guys and go somewhere and just and have some fun. And there was an area, I forget what it's called now, but it used to be called downtown Disney. It was the Disney World shopping plaza area there. And I knew a back road. I could get there in 15 minutes from where I lived. It was great. So it took a group of young men and we were walking around and having fun and we were getting ready to To eat, and a bunch of them turned around. And this was in the mid-90s. And they said, Brock, look who that is. I said, Okay. Who? Ken Griffey Jr. Like, no way. Now how many of you know who Ken Griffey Jr. was? Yeah. Uh one of the uh most talented baseball players in the mid nineties, Cincinnati And so it was a pretty big deal. And I'm looking like, you guys, no, that's gotta be. I mean, look at how many people there are here in crowds. No, I'm telling you, it's Ken Griffey Jr. And they start getting I'm like, okay, guys, first of all, if it is, the last thing you want to do is go running to him and and like making fools of yourself. So just calm down. And that lasted for about three Three or four seconds, somebody had a pen, somebody else had a piece of paper, they were off. I'm like, I'm responsible for these guys. All right, I gotta go too. And Ken Griffey Jr. was walking out of the restaurant with his wife and with his kids, and here are my young people running to him, Can I get your autograph? And I'm like, oh, this is so embarrassing. Guys. And of course at the end, I'm at the end. I'm the oldest, and it's obvious that I'm the older. It's supposed to be more mature. And he just kind of looked at me, oh, if he could have shaken his head. He probably would have, but is this kind of that look like, really? You let them do this and interrupt my time with my family? And I kind of looked apologetically at him like, I'm sorry. But then folks, I have to admit something. You know what I did? I was still holding the piece of paper. I had a pen. And I handed him the piece of paper anyway. And I said, could I get your autograph to? And he wrote it down, and I've lost that thing. I don't even know where it is anymore. But for a brief while I had from a perturbed Ken Griffey Jr. I had his signature. Wow. What a moment. See, we can all become sycophants and be who trying to be who we're not in front of others if we're not careful, folks. And the truth is harder to seek out than ever in our world today. And people at best practice pragmatic honesty. And they know Now, as a side note, does this mean then what Jesus is saying that we can never take an oath? Well I think that's taking it too far. Why? What is a marriage vow? It's an oath. What is when we go to court and we take an oath of honesty that we will tell the truth and nothing? But the truth. No, there are places Jesus isn't saying don't ever give oaths, okay? And there are religious uh sects that uh believe differently, they never take an oath. That's way beyond what Jesus is referring to. But all Jesus is saying is is as my people, be honest with yourselves and with your um your acquaintances, your your family in Christ and with your acquaintances in the world, let people know that this is a person who practices honesty and truth, and that is their anthem. And it should be our anthem because we proclaim the truth of God's word. And so we ought to be vessels and examples of truth. And honesty in our own life. Folks, in the end, let's sum all this up. That people ought to look at kingdom citizens and ought to be able to trust them and trust their word and consider them to be honest in a world of lies and deceit ruled by the father of lies. We should not reflect The Father of lies any longer is God's people, because we have a heavenly father that is the father of truth and righteousness. And we must reflect him. And that is what Jesus calls us to. As we finish today. Father, it's a good reminder for us to be truthful. Lord, there are so many ways that we Allow ourselves to reflect something other than who we are. Father, help us not to be unkind As we point out the truth of other people, help us to be loving in that. But help us as kingdom citizens as well to be willing not just to surround ourselves With a bunch of people that tell us what we want to hear. But Father, help us to be willing to surround ourselves with people that'll tell us like it is. Help us to remember that we are not truly loving someone else if we won't give them the realistic assessment of what truly is rather than what they Or what we want to hear. And help us to be willing to have mentors and others that we can trust in a loving, kind way to tell us the truth about our ourselves and to be honest with that and to live that out. If we have weaknesses, Lord, help us to be honest and willing to change. As we are committed to your truth, help us to honestly and directly reflect the truth of your word in our lives. Now, Lord, there may be some here today that don't know Christ, that don't have a personal relationship with Jesus, and their life is a lie. I pray that today they would run to Christ and trust Him as Savior and accept his free gift of salvation. So that they can live lives that reflect the truth of who God is. And for those of us who are kingdom citizens, who are your children help us to go from here and be honest and sincere about our lives open and not try to deceive Let them see, servants, that you are in the midst of a great work. And that love Christ and depend upon Him. As Leslie plays, if you still need Christ this morning, come talk to me. Let me introduce you to a relationship with Him. For those who Those of you that know Christ, let's commit today to live honestly in what we do and what we say. Think as Leslie plays together