We are so thankful for another opportunity to proclaim Jesus Christ this time of year. And as I mentioned again, I mentioned this in our email too. But we're so thankful uh the Restoration Farm and the Nativity Float won best float in the parade. Uh what a marvelous thing. Um we're just still kind of stunned by that in a good way. But the fact that the birth of Christ resonated with people in that way was just wonderful. And so we Praise the Lord for that. Well, speaking of the birth of Christ, I know we could have gone back to Ephesians today. It was interesting. The next time we're in Ephesians, which will be in In a few weeks, uh, we will talk about the light of Christ that enables us to be a bright light for Him. And as I was thinking through that and pondering that, my mind came back to a what we would consider a Christmas prophecy passage. You can turn to Isaiah 9, looking at verses 1 one through seven this morning. And this as well talks about the light of God that was sent into the world. And so it's a good preparation for our further study in Ephesians And it's a marvelous passage in prophecy of the coming of the Savior. And the title this morning is A Great Light in Deep Darkness. Folks, I think it's apparent to you, is it not? That we live in a very gray darkness in our world today. You know, we're here or you're at home and we're contemplating Christmas, you may be Surrounded by Christmas decorations, looking out at the snow. We're here just thankful for the warmth and the ability to meet together. But that doesn't take away from the fact that our World is is so dark, so much evil. All I had to do, folks, was just go through the headlines this morning. Last night And the evidences are very apparent. If you've been following the headlines at all, they read like this: There was a shooting yesterday at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. and two were killed and many were wounded. Or eleven dead and many, many injuries, as gunmen opened fire at the Hanukkah event In Sydney, Australia. That was just last night. Recently, two US members of our military were killed in an ambush attack in Syria Um and many were injured. And then in our own bike backyard, literally, I was made aware this morning of a recent story story of Two people that attempted to jump off the Susquehanna Bridge. And it seems one of them was successful. And there were others that I could go into, but it just didn't seem appropriate for me. For morning worship. I mean, that's bad enough, right? We know. The darkness, as we read these things and we're aware of so much, it really does in so many ways overwhelm. That's why I can't watch the news every night. To be honest, I can't keep my sanity by watching the news on a regular basis. Oh, I know I need to keep track, and obviously I do. But for those of you that constantly have on the local news station all day, whenever you're home, we might want to consider just spending some time in God's Word. Because it is so overwhelming. And we can look at all these things and and and for ministers of the gospel and pastors as we help people And they're going through these great tragedies, we might be tempted to say, where is the light? In the midst of the darkness. Where is that hope? These things are truly terrible that we read about. And the answer to that question is in many passages of Scripture, but it is an idea. Isaiah chapter 9 as well this morning. Isaiah the prophet answers this question for us. And he, in his direct context, Isaiah is encouraging a remnant of God's people. That will be soon taken into captivity, ripped away from their homeland, had everything taken away from them, and they too would ask the question: where is the light in the midst of the And so the prophet would point to the fact that they could be faithful in the midst of the darkness because hope and light was coming. In the midst of rebellion and God's judgment upon his own people, Isaiah says, hope's coming. The light will shine. And God will send that light. And even those that are rebels will see that light And be saved, and we'll be able to see in the darkness. So let's just look at these first few verses together Now it's interesting, there is quite a translation difference in the first verse of chapter 9 from the King James to what I normally read from From the ESV. So I'm going to read to you the King James and then read to you the ESV. And I do believe the ESV and many other modern translations have the more accurate, the better translation. Explain why. KJV verse one. Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at first he lightly afflicted or cursed the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. And afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea beyond Jordan in Galilee of the nations. And the point that Isaiah is making is God will shine powerfully his light in deep darkness. And God will overcome the darkness of sin and rebellion against the people that He created. But if you read in verse 1, it almost sounds like it's describing, of course, it's describing God's judgment on his people, specifically the people Of the northern kingdom who had constantly rebelled, had many, all all of their kings were wicked. And God is or Isaiah is pointing the fact that God is having to curse and judge his people in the northern kingdom. But then in the last part of the verse it seems to say, and you just wait, he's going to afflict you even more. Well, actually, I think the better translation is this. Read from the ESV. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. That's the overriding Sentence here. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea. the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. And so what really in this translation, what it's making clear, is that God's people have gone through Torturous pain and difficulty in his judgment of them. But they will not be in gloom and anguish forever. Things will change It says at the end in the modern translations, he has made glorious the way of the sea. And what this points to to is those of you that are being judged for your sin, Northern Kingdom, God's people, you will not stay in judgment forever, but God will send a light. And he will honor your region again through that light. You will have a change in status from rebels to people of honor. And you say, well, how can that be? How can those that have rebelled against God and He is having to judge them, how can their status be changed so that they will be an honored people? And it seems to indicate here an obedient people as well. Well, it is the salvation that God will bring in the world. These next few verses that he talks about. God will overcome the darkness of sin and rebellion, and he's provided the way to overcome that within us. Beyond, folks, the darkness of the world out there, there's a darkness in us. Let's be candid. There's a rebel within us. And Isaiah points to the people, verse 2, who walked in darkness will see a great light. God will deal not only with the darkness out there, but He will deal with the darkness in here And he will deal with that through the Savior that will come. But this, as you can tell, I moved to verse 2: the people who walked in darkness, that's actually both God's faithful people and the rebels. That first word for darkness there in this verse refers to a lack of light Even in one's own heart, has the idea of a darkness that makes people fearful, that terrorizes. And so Isaiah is referring to the rebels who don't seem to mind the darkness. And those of us who really, really do mind the darkness and we're really bothered by it, and we look around, even as I read those articles to you, and our hearts sing. And we're grieved, and we say, How long, O Lord, do we have to walk in this darkness? Isaiah says, Oh, I have a great hope for you. There is a great light coming. That will penetrate this overwhelming, unrelenting darkness. You will see a great light. Those who have dwelt in the land of deep darkness That second Hebrew word is the idea, it's really the strongest word in the Hebrew language for darkness. And it represents the spiritual. responses to living in darkness, the gloom, the foreboding, and even the illness that racks our bodies so many times. That leads to death and the grave. Oh, God knows, folks, that we live in a deep darkness that affects every aspect of us Of our lives. He knows he's totally aware. It may seem sometimes like he's not aware, but he is fully aware of what we as people are having to put up with down here. And he says, on those very people who experience gloom and despair and foreboding , I'm going to turn We had uh experience a number of years ago, probably many of you have done this. Uh most most folks have had the opportunity at some point to go through a series of caves. There's some down in um western Virginia. Uh right now I just I lost the name of the caves that we were in, but we met some of my family. Uh one one of my My brothers and his family and my mom and dad were with us, and we went through one of the cave systems there. And almost all of them at some point, when you're in that cave, you know, it's it's so interesting. You just you go down, down, down these steps, and all of a sudden you're looking at this just strange, like alien landscape and um these stalagmites, right? So I type should I get that right? Um up, down, whatever. They're amazing. And this one in particular had these beautiful lights that were showing all over, so it really looked just like an alien landscape. And then they turn the lights off just to make the point that you can't see anything, right? And it's such deep darkness you literally can't see your hand in front of you. of your face and they always tell you, don't move. Whatever you do, just stay where you are. Because if you move around at all, you're going to stumble, you can't see anything, and you're going to hurt yourself. It's a perfect illustration of what is being described here. We're in a darkness so deep that we stumble around and sometimes we get hurt. And G and Isaiah says there's a light coming. Oh, there's many who walk in darkness today. The poor, the homeless. We have crime-ridden cities, depression, suicidal thoughts. I remember recently uh Mary Lashley was giving me a description of some of the things that she deals with almost on a daily basis as they are helping those on the street in our city. And it just Breaks your heart. And we if you think, if you if Mary comes to your mind throughout the week, make sure you pray for her because she and her associates, they they have to deal with some dark things In the city. Some terrible tragedy. And people living in just poorly made tents. And having no protection. Children, that is the darkness today. And it is great. But I love what Isaiah is saying here We get intimidated by the darkness, don't we? We get overwhelmed. It becomes, even as I'm read- as I read those few stories this morning. to you. I'm sure you were after what? Four stories, you were thinking, Pastor Brock, that's enough. I get it. We are overrun and intimidated by the darkness, but folks, here's the Hope, our Heavenly Father, He is not intimidated by the darkness at all. He does not cower in darkness. He is all powerful, and he knows how to penetrate the darkness, and he will send his great, all-powerful light that will eventually overcome that darkness. And he already has through the sending of his son, the Savior, but I get ahead of myself here. Look what happens to those Who have been in deep darkness, but God's incredibly powerful light has shone. Look at the change in their circumstances. God overcomes the darkness of sin and rebellion, and he multiplies and blesses his people. He will cause them to live in joy and in peace. and in fruitfulness. Verse three, you have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. God will multiply his people. Even those rebels who are rebelling against him that we spoke of in the first verse, God will change their hearts into people that love him and that are joyful in his presence, and he will make the joy of his servants complete. He turns the tables, and those that are in this deep darkness are now overjoyed in the light of his salvation. A picture here of him filling their cups overflowing with joy. Boy, we could use a little bit of that. That's better than any holiday nog. But one a joy that overfills in our lives, an elation of joy that people will visibly and energetically express. There will be no cynicism any longer when the final fruition of this comes takes place and it is still within our future. Oh, the Savior has come, but folks, he will come again. And he will eradicate this darkness once and for all. And we will know who did it. And we will praise him. And we won't be cynical or sarcastic or hurt anymore. We'll just be glad. The darkness is done, and the light is with us forevermore. Oh, we want that, don't we? I hope in your heart you say, Amen. That's what we want. Verse 4, for the yoke of his burden and the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken. on the day of Midian, and for every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. This is uh such a great verse, a couple verses And sometimes we miss the hope in this, but it has the idea of God's Son will overcome all of our opposition. And God will conquer all of the enemies of his people in due course. That idea there where it says he will lift the yoke of his burden. That has the idea of the burden of slavery. And it's a picture when he delivered his people from Egypt. And he says, God will one day deliver us if he's able to deliver his people from Egypt. From Egypt, oh, he's able to deliver us from any darkness that we face. And he will. He really has the picture here of a type of freedom fighter. That will deliver his people from enemy oppressors. Gideon's victory over the Midianites. But as you go back through the glorious stories of the Old Testament, where God came as the freedom fighter of his people and delivered them out of their bondage and oppression and darkness. You know, eventually the darkness comes back. And they need to be delivered again. But Isaiah the prophet is pointing to a time here, folks. Where it will be a permanent victory. And the power of the darkness will be shattered forever. And there will never be a need for another soldier or another war or military fighting or guns For weapons. That's what verse 5 is saying. He's saying that God will end the need for armor, clothing, and weaponry of the enemy. Every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult, every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. All of that image of war will be consumed so that we don't ever have to think about it again. I'm fascinated by stories of war. I don't know if you are. We were able to have the opportunity to take our family to Gettysburg recently I suppose maybe it's kind of macabre, but I do I do really enjoy visiting Gettysburg and hearing the stories and just wandering and walking around and They have a wonderful museum there to just under to try to get a better understanding of these men that fought so hard. And we 're in the midst of a conflict that they really didn't understand the the implications of until after so many had died. And it really is a great tragedy. But I will tell you, after a while, you hear Hear the stories, your m my mind just gets overwhelmed. I just I really can't compute anymore how many men died and how they died in the terrible Of their deaths and the terribleness of warfare there. It is a beautiful place. It is a terrible place. Because it reminds us of the atrocities of war. And folks, I may enjoy going to some of these battlefields, but I will tell you, I think you can agree with me. I will be glad for the day when I don't have to think about war anymore. When I don't have to meditate on that And in fact, I really think here Isaiah is saying God is gonna surprise you with his efficiency. How complete he is able to wipe out all of this darkness, to rid us of all the wars, to rid us of fighting, of bloodshed. God will be efficient. He will be, He will thoroughly eradicate. He will cleanse And so we get to this point and we say, that's amazing. Oh, please, Lord, take out the darkness. Eradicate it. We're weary of stumbling around in this dark world. Lord, how can you do such a thing to make war a memory that we don't even have to think about anymore. How is this possible? And Isaiah says in verse 6, it's possible through a child. Through a baby God is going to accomplish. He's going to send the light that will eradicate all of this terrible darkness. Because a child, a little baby, will be born to us. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called. And it shouldn't be a comma here. It should be Wonderful Counselor. That's one name. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. This child's name, I believe we read this verse last week in Isaiah 7:14 This child will be called Emmanuel. And this child will be God with us, the Son of God. A hundred percent God, worthy of all the accolades of glory in heaven, will come and be a baby and will be helpless and will be and will be fully human. God with us. But he's described here as one that will stride out of this darkness and take control, will take fear and darkness by the neck and rattle it and eradicate it, who will strive out and make all things right again No matter how many politicians we vote for or kings that are established, there's always A mixture of satisfaction and regret in those votes that we make, right? Some were more satisfied with their leadership, others were greatly dissatisfied and grieved by, but none of them are perfect. None of those leaders in our world today actually, throughout human history, have been able to make all things right again. In fact, sometimes they make a whole lot of things worse. But one day one will come, and he will take control, and he will know what to do. And he will shine the light forever. Let's look at as we finish up here at these wonderful descriptions of this Savior who will come as this baby. Oh, he's a wonderful counselor. And this describes the supernatural, divine wisdom giver who gives fully, effective Um counsel to the needy and desperate, ready to point the way to those who seek it. Are you desperate and despairing in the darkness? Do you need a counselor? morning folks oh Jesus Christ is the son that we're referring to here and he is the wonderful counselor who can lead you in the right way Who can eradicate your despair? Who can deal with your hurt? There's many effective counselors in this world today, in our culture. Christian counselors and people who are there to help, but there's only one that's truly wonderful, and that's our Savior. And he will always give you good counsel, good sound advice as you read his word. God 's word is so important. It's where we get the counsel from our Savior. He's a wonderful counselor. He can lead you to the truth. He can help heal your hurts. He can show you what to do. He can guide you in the darkness. He can shine the light so that you know where to step next, so that you don't stumble in the cave of our world today. Oh, but he's more than that. He's a mighty God. This has the picture of the warrior to end all warriors. He is all powerful. You say, but he came to earth as this gentle, weak baby. That doesn't seem like the description of a mighty God, an all-powerful God. Well, he did That for us. He was willing to humble himself in weakness and frailty so that he could be the one that would once and for all defeat sin and death and hell in our enemy, our greatest enemy, Satan. And in that fragile state as a human being, he was still able to accomplish this for the Lord. He died and he humbled himself so that we could live. But one day, folks, and you know this, for those of you that know Jesus, he's returning. And he won't be returning as a baby. He will be returning as a powerful the warrior of all warriors. And he will gain victory. And we will see justice. In our culture today, we get all excited about the next movie that comes out about superheroes. And I understand that. Superheroes are fun. But we do realize, right, that those superheroes and those movies, they aren't real. We do realize that, right? CGI and all these effects can do some amazing things, but folks, there's really there's no real superhero that can save us from all of our Troubles. We don't need that kind of superhero. I'm not trying to be sacrilegious, but we have better than a superhero. We have the Almighty God. Who is, in effect, our superhero, who will deliver us from all of the wrongs. He will He is the warrior to end all warriors, the mighty God. He's also the everlasting Father. Well, how can the Son be the everlasting Father? Is that a mistake and transition? Translation. No, it's not talking here that Jesus is the person of the Father. Now they are the Trinity, right? And that's. It's still hard for us to grasp. One God, three persons, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And we're not trying to merge two of the persons here in this verse, but what it's saying is the Son will carry the characteristics of the Father, that he is eternal. And that he will have the same care and concern for his children that the Father does. That will be shown in the life of the Son, and He is eternal, He is God as well. He has the same love and grace that our Heavenly Father does. And he will show that to His people. He is the wonderful counselor. He's the mighty God. He's the everlasting Father. And he is the Prince of Peace. The ruler who will bring physical and spiritual well-being. To his kingdom. He is going to establish his kingdom one day. He already sits at the right hand of God. He is the king. One day he will return. And folks, if you are not yet a member of this kingdom, you don't want to miss out. The benefits of being a part of his kingdom will be on anything that you have ever experienced. True peace, true justice. Sin will no longer reign. Sin will be dealt with. Jesus will return. And we see in prophecy the millennial reign of Christ. Oh, a thousand years. of righteous judgment. Won't that be glorious? The benefits of the kingdom that God's children will in in And joy will be established forever. Perfect justice served. And righteousness will be established. Oh, folks, Messiah is coming. The Prince of Peace is coming. He will bring peace. We must believe that. That is our hope. When we read stories like I just read to you from our broken, terrible world today, one of the first things to counter that ought to be, oh, but Messiah's coming back. Jesus is coming back. He'll take care of all this. Lord, come back. Let the light gloriously shine in all of this darkness. Come, protect and save us. You want to be a part of this kingdom. Listen to the continued description here. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. He will come. He will be on the throne of David. He will be from the heritage of David, one of David's children. And he will rule and reign in an effective way, full justice, righteous behavior, and this, folks, will be eternal You know, we sometimes get a political, uh, a politician in that we like, or a president, or whatever, and they may do some good things, but then, you know, their terms are limited. Won't it be nice to have the king return and there are no term limits? He's king for life, for eternity Oh, that'll be a wonderful thing. And we look forward to that. Well, how is God going to accomplish all this through, and I think you understand this is his son, Jesus Christ. Whose coming we celebrate this time of year. The end of verse 7 says, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. The zeal or jealousy of the Lord will do it. You see, this refers to God's jealousy. That is terrible when he is offended and he brings retribution, but his jealousy or zeal when it is stirred by his grace results in eternal love. For his own. For his enemies, this is a terrible thought indeed That the Prince of Peace, that the mighty God is going to return and establish justice. But for God's people This is a glorious thought. To experience his love in person forevermore And folks, we realize right as we finish up this morning, this isn't just a prophecy. Matthew chapter 4. Verse 12 references this. Jesus did come as a little baby. He grew up in Nazareth. And Matthew chapter 4, verse 13 says, And leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea. Tell us where he lived there, so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the very area where the northern kingdom was were centered and located. The people that had rebelled against God, they did see a a uh that they were dwelling in darkness, verse sixteen, and they have seen a great light. And for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death on them, a light Has dawned. And from that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He did come. And we have the beginnings of these promises because he lived a life and he called us to repentance and called us to righteousness through him. He obeyed his father perfectly, being able to thus be the perfect Lamb of God that could shed his blood for our sins. And not only die for us and take our sins on Himself so that we could be delivered from spiritual darkness But also in three days rose again and conquered sin, death, and hell, so that we could be assured of eternal life and eternity in his kingdom forever. Oh, how do you become a part of this glorious kingdom where the king will deal with the darkness and will enjoy light for all eternity? We won't need to watch the news and watch all the terrible things. The news will be boring. There won't be any crimes to talk about. Well, I say it would be it would be boring. It'll actually be wonderful because it'll just constantly. The news will be Jesus is king. Jesus is king. All glory to Jesus. He is king. Oh that'll be glorious news. And folks, all you have to do to remove yourself from the kingdom of darkness that's temporarily ruled by Satan And be transferred to the kingdom of light that will be eternal, ruled by Jesus Christ, is to put your faith and trust. Renounce your sin. Repent and turn to him and put your faith, your confidence in what Jesus has done in his death and resurrection. And he will make you new. He will cleanse your sins. He came to do that. And he, in the midst of our darkness in this world today, will bring great light that his eternal confidence Consequences and make us a part of his kingdom, kingdom citizens forever. That is our hope. And the light of that hope is what should shine in the midst of our darkness today. Is there terrible things out there, folks? There is. There are great things Previous things, painful things. But the light of the hope of Christ carries us through, helps us to persevere And calls us to say, even now, come, Lord Jesus, shine your light upon this dark world.