And folks, the main focus, and I want to be clear, that this book is the revelation of Jesus Christ. It is further revelation of Jesus Christ, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon We still have that hope. This is revealed to us. So we can learn and be prepared. And maybe there's another aspect to this blessing that we won't understand entirely until we get to heaven. and is now writing this as well. I said, I see and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with a bowl on top of it, with seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on top of it. And he also has authority over all the kings of the earth. So he means so let it be, so be it. All the prophecies that proclaimed that he would, and John now gets to tell us it's going to happen. Verse 7, Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. He said in Isaiah 41, 4, who has performed and done this, calling the generations from the beginning, I the Lord, the first. As he speaks to us then, if he's worthy of that respect, listen. To us for it's in Jesus' name that we pray. in the future times. formula, well wait a minute, Pastor Brock, seven spirits. I think his name was Alan. This thing went off and it shook us to our core. That this glorious book has for us, but we would be ready, prepared, ready to praise, ready to serve, to offer Him all the glory and dominion forever and ever. going to see that in the book of of Revelation this morning as we go through the introduction, the introduction things. commentary because no commentary is perfect. across the wall they're so big and impressive and and everything and maps lots of maps and um lots of people have their own favorite charts when it comes to to remote about Jesus. of the victorious Christ to restore a fallen world and deal with sin in finality. that Jesus is coming again and we can sing that. actual reality will discuss what it means for us and what the incorrect interpretation is. in Jesus Christ because he's coming soon and you need to act like it. Let's read verses 1 through 8 together. And blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. is that Jesus himself is the very word of God. What do we do about that? And for those that have rejected Christ, it's going to be awful and destructive. If he didn't show it to us, we would never comprehend it. who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. and Luke and Kendall and Hudson, they're all at home on this thing. for easy access pull it out. everything and put it in there and we looked it up and it was a flying squirrel. vividness and craziness of that vision. Time is short, and that's why you'll receive a blessing. was with Jesus Christ. described here. the number of perfection, the number that represents God. Said to me, Do you not know what these are? Lord of hosts. Is not the governor or the president of the United States or anybody else or a foreign nation. that you ought to take with you this week and constantly you ought to break out in song. Psalmist there. slaves. what it's referring to. can become priests with all the robes and everything, but in essence we become priests because we have direct access to God the Father Thank the Lord that we can go directly to the Father and pray and he will hear us. for you, you will gladly give him glory and let him serve over you forever. The Almighty God now interrupts his own witness, and he actually refers to himself with the description found in Isaiah 41 with our technology and all the access that we have to scripture and to God's Word, literally on our phone, on our computers, multiple translations that you can go to a bookstore. And with the last, I am he. And uh so he had gotten there first and he had um the bottom bump which was you always tried to get to your semester early uh at the beginning of the semester's things and we were free of that crazy alarm. or through the study of this book. Coming. The revelation of John the Apostle. for this. It's a little crammed with a lot of things in there. time with that because they just view the whole book and the prophecy in a different way that I'm comfortable with that I think is is appropriate. a lot of things. according to my study is the best interpretation that that I can give and I think it's it's biblical in this. world history. We'll see more of that too soon. But it's basically going to be we're going to interpret the visions and the content of the book based on what matches actual reality and what does not. That we don't understand as well. I think one of the things that John is addressing in the first part of his introduction is our propensity to lack confidence in God's Word. and the ruler of kings on earth, to him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood and made us a kingdom. Priest to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. And all the tribes of the earth will wail on account of him, even so. interpretations. great hope that he will return and we will worship him forever. And the very transmission of this message is supervised by God Himself. All those folks 2,000 years ago. It wouldn't have been much better to celebrate Thanksgiving in heaven than Jesus. to the permission of God Himself, who bore witness to the Word of God. Describe the word that revealed all of who God is, the very nature, the very flesh. And right before the e the the prayer service, my wife called me. uh but it ended up that uh Luke was able to catch it and put it he had just bought a new cage an an aquarium type uh a cage with all the the glass surrounding it And it flew off. But even more so, John says, these details are vital for you to understand, and I'm ready to give them to you. I don't know if you noticed this before, but it pronounces a blessing on those who proclaim it and those who hear and obey it. who is John, proclaims the truth of his return. churches that he was familiar with and certainly had interaction with, while most likely we think that John, for the end of his ministry, was stationed in Ephesus. And so, although it's a unique way to describe the Holy Spirit, it certainly is appropriate to describe him in that way And so he leaves him last so that now he could talk about him for the rest of the book. about himself, but he also freed us from our sins by his blood. Reading again from Psalm 89, it's kind of like an old friend. earth. We look forward, and he made that. Let's uh let's serve him forever. Let him for all eternity hear our worship and see us serving him. But then gloriously, the point of the book now, Paul, John's going to give that to us. Daniel that we have now further explanation of in Revelation that help us understand what Daniel was talking about. him as one mourns for an only child and weep bitterly over him as one weeps over a firstborn. returns the whole world and those that have rejected Jesus will realize that they should have trusted in him and they didn't But we rejected the king. John says, let it all happen, Jesus. that you can choose the best bed. It was the loudest alarm clock I have ever heard. continued to do it until um uh later on in the semester we finally ended up they moved into another room to do some other moment, Lord, and give us confidence and gratitude and thankfulness this week as we think on these things. my desk in the middle and I'm surrounded, literally surrounded by commentaries and language studies and all these types of interpretation. But sometimes maybe even when we come to the book of Revelation we get confused and we start to think, I'm not so sure what that means. And I'm not so sure that that I Lord I'm not sure that you really mean for us to to place our faith and and to have confidence in in this? this other people, but we doubt. uh lacking reality and just um more visual about these types of things. and who was, and who is become, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead. come the Almighty. take place. providing that with God in our Bibles and this will describe the end of the story of world history. But they were described in terms when it was mentioned of a distant future, that it would come some time in the future, in this revelation of Jesus in particular. It's not ours. folks king can happen any time. That word for revelation. All these events, Jesus is graciously giving us this revelation. message. And he gets to relay the message of the word, the testimony of Jesus Christ to the world one more time. almost like it flew to the wall and then when the boys chased after it and then the dog and cat were there as well and they got into it I bore witness to the Word of God, to the testimony of Jesus Christ and all that he saw. and uh got it away from her and and so all of that together made made her remember a lot of the details and she was ready to give it to me because of her To let us know so that we can comprehend. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy. Now, of course, there's blessings from reading all of God's Word. And so the apostle here is relating a sense of urgency. He's going to do that again in a brief set of words here, but he's going to proclaim who he is and what he has done for us. And it seems pretty obvious in this that this is the same John that was the beloved disciple that wrote the gospel, that wrote the three letters that we have, first, second, and third John. But he knew these churches and had an interaction with them. Toward the end of that century. Peace to you. But he's from eternity past and he'll be too eternity future, and so he is God. Now, if you're not still not entirely convinced about that, in Zechariah, Zechariah 4, We have a description here that makes it clear. From the Old Testament are now finally revealed and fulfilled in this book, Revelation. He says, the angel who talked with me came again and woke me like a man who has awakened out of his sleep. And there's two olive trees, the right of the bull, the other its left. Him, that we can trust him. Remember we did that study in Psalm 89? That Jesus has all the heavenly rights and privileges of God. of the dead. He shall cry to me, you are my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. I will establish his offspring forever in his throne as the days of heavens. But now he's describing someone even more important. plan that God is supervising. That in the Old Testament only the priests had access to and only at special times. And everyone will take note that he is there. And verse 8, he says, uh John, move back from the stage. I am the first and the last. That's what that word Almighty refers to. If that's not enough, folks, you will receive a glorious promise, a glorious blessing in heeding of this message. So many avenues to describe God's word, and people today have more access to that than ever, and certainly when He returns, there will be great failing and regret. Here he's speaking to his audience who has Greek as their normative language. leaders in our in our dormitory rooms called prayer leaders and he was on a singing a a musical team that went about and about And all of us at the same time. It's truths. of interpreting it. Who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Which God, go back to verse 1, God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. And she pulled one box out, and literally something jumped out from the back and freaked her out, scared her half to death. And we'll get more about his current situation as he writes this book, as we continue to study this. And the one who is present in the eternal future as well. In this final book of God's Word. the vilest offender who truly believes that moment when Jesus of pardon receives. And usually I have at least one or two, sometimes with some books, maybe even three or four different commentaries for each book, depending on the book and depending upon how the Lord has has provided in that way. in this book. That we can fully rely on it, or practically speaking, we just rely on other things rather than God's word. It's interesting throughout Scripture the end times are mentioned in the Old Testament, and Christ mentioned the end times as well in some of the Gospels. Because it means a glorious, victorious end to all this. Those are the slaves, the bondservants of God. The angels send the word to John, and John then gives it to us via the Holy Spirit. because it was so surprising and so vivid and this craziness of not only the kids but the dog and the cat. But you do as well, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it. Son promises. We'll see that soon as well. Blessings, grace and peace to you. And peace, that whole consuming all sense of spiritual well-being that the Jews desired and talked about all the time, John says And then finally, he leaves Jesus Christ to last. But also, and this should be familiar to you, he's the firstborn of the dead. Well, that's more than enough to be thankful in the midst of whatever you're facing. Honored. I saw the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And that will be the greatest cause for regret and weeping that will ever have been in world history, that they had opportunity, and how much more today Not me, not John, but the very God of heaven, folks, is saying you need to listen. What a glorious opportunity to study this book with a blessing. To prepare us for the return of Christ, that we would not slumber through that. Folks, with all that's going on in our world and the disappointment of our own leadership around the world in our own country. Because unfortunately, in most Christian circles today, there are so many different interpretations of this book. One of the main things I want us to see as we come to this book and have as an attitude is we need to receive this book by faith and prepare for its fulfillment. his son. through Christ. Gives his song of praise for all that Jesus has done for us, to him who loves us, just in the fact, reflecting on the fact that Jesus loves us enough to shed his blood and die for us on a cruel cross. We don't have to face eternal punishment for our sins any longer because we're freed through faith in Christ because he shed his blood. To make us thankful. And furthermore, in the things that Jesus has done for us that are described here, is interesting. I don't think as you read that you might be tempted to, well, does that mean we're all gonna wear a rope someday and carry the Urim and the Thum and all those weird things and offer sacrifices? We can agree with John on that, certainly. But that he is finally gonna right all the wrongs. Because Alpha and Omega are the first and last letters of that Greek alphabet. The very thing that he had set up to get his attention, to get him to uh pay attention and to get up for the day wasn't working. Well go along with the message in the morning in that second verse. That John intended for the book and also my introduction to this series. But it's interesting with Revelation, a unique situation, I only have one basic commentary. We show by our actions that we don't have confidence in God's word. And Lord, let us give us as we have the privilege and opportunity to study this in the upcoming weeks and months. And we must act on these truths. So, you know, in a year's time we'll have works through all of John's writings, which is a blessing in and of itself. We can trust this revelation because it's totally under the supervision of God. This thing was running super speed around the room, ended up in the living room. The Father described as one who eternally was, who is currently ever present in all circumstances, all-present, all-knowing. But also in the from the seven spirits were before his throne. the ultimate faithful witness of the things of God. And remember, what book of the Bible did we say that Paul certainly would have had on his mind, or not book, but specific chapter? Here it's just like John can't help himself. Remember through this what's most important, that Jesus loves you and He shed his blood so your sins can be forgiven. So thankful for that. You can go and talk to him yourself and enjoy that relationship. I am the Alpha and Omega, says the Lord God, who is, who was, and who is to come. Well folks, God is here sounding an alarm to get our attention. Pay attention. this book at all and they don't spend much time in it at all. click all the way and sometimes the door can be open and you don't realize it. And look how, go back to Revelation verse 5. And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him Has a very specific, wants us to understand something even at the beginning about this book, and it's incumbent upon us to pay attention to this revelation. More on that in a minute. Everything's gonna be destroyed. This is a rare description of the Holy Spirit. And Zechariah is talking about the Jewish nation. We will talk more about those differences as we go through this study, but I want you to understand, even up front, as we start this book, that we're going to have a specific way And thinking of the prophecies and different aspects of the prophecy. There are many scholars that just kind of disregard this book and say in the end because they the way that they interpret it more allegorical and they bishop they they make everything as an allegory or um Jesus, many times we're going to see throughout Revelation, this angelic messengers giving the revelation to John. But John is expanding this definition to the regret of the whole world, not just the Jews. If this book is this important and we trust that it is, we want full understanding. And he warned us it's going to be pretty loud, and we're like, well, okay. series. And that includes commentaries. And there's there's a lot of interesting, sometimes just bizarre descriptions in this book, let's just face it. description of of the deity of God through Jesus Christ. that one has to be careful. That would be great. And we're going to see that in all of these interesting display here. That doesn't mean that there's going to be some visions and things that represent realities. Father, we want to be accurate in this because it is the revelation of Jesus Christ. to practically live it out and rely on it, even this book. Comprehend and understand. Grace to you. and honors of heaven. Remember um one guy when I was an undergrad went to Cola Christian College uh my sophomore year we had uh a guy that was the we had Lead us into the right interpretation. He doesn't have to say much more than that. Another fulfillment of Psalm 89 here. We need to be reminded of the end of the story. For those that follow God's principles, we're thankful for that. That's it. looking forward to it, but in the meantime you need to serve him faithfully, hoping at any moment. Jesus in his revelation is graciously showing us the end of the story here. This is all supervised by God himself. Reminds me it was Wednesday. Sorry, then he said to me, this is the word of the Lord insurrubbable, not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. There's so many things in that. He's describing the firstborn. And we need to soberly think about that as the new policies. But there's also different focuses. He will describe for us what he saw so that we can learn and we can be prepared. And Alan explained to us that he had a real problem with waking up in the morning. In that case, then it's not an apocalyptic, negative, cataclysmic event, but it is prophecy that reveals end-time events that only God could reveal. You have access to the grace and peace from God. And therefore these seven, if they're angels, they can't give us grace and peace, so that's not going to work. So Alan had the bottom lump, and the problem was it was central to the room and he had this alarm clock that I promise you was the large loud the loudest Scripture promises that. Jesus, because of his death and resurrection, his sacrifice of his blood on the cross, and because he is God, he is fully deserving of all the privileges. to a number of passages of scripture that this fulfills will be coming from the clouds, just as Daniel prophesied. Um, and he had gotten to a point where the uh administration trusted him enough to be the leader of the room with us Give us your understanding. And we're gonna have sp a specific emphasis. But look at verse 3. But he also, verse six, made us a kingdom. We're going to see a message from our Lord Jesus. Now as we hear that and as we read the things that must soon take place, and then as we get to the end of verse 3 and we hear, for the time is near, we may look at that. As we look back almost 2,000 years ago to God, it's just but a moment, right? Lord will be faithful, but we know it's happening soon. Well, cataclysmic destructive events that signal the end of the world. But he's writing to them. So John is drawing from that to describe in this really unique way the Holy Spirit that gives us grace and peace. All he has to do is say his name John. All of the tribes of the earth will wail on account of him, even those who pierced him. Let's learn together and have confidence that God will do what he says he's going to do. And all that the the political leadership that we're under right now is temporary. And John here continues one last time to have the blessed privilege of witness. And that's that's my job. There are movies out because man didn't respect nature. The revelation, I've entitled the revelation of Jesus Christ, and I've entitled it that way for a purpose. If you'll remember one of John, the Apostle's major things, we've gone through the Gospel of John, and we're actually going to be going through his smaller letters in one And so as it was cleaning out that area, this was probably an I think an hour before the first service started Regardless of what happens this week. That's been done away with. John describes grace and peace, and this grace and peace can only come from God. He is calling us to pay attention. Well folks, John here is ready to tell us because of the vividness and the uniqueness of this vision, he is ready with all the details I said, No, my lord. But we await an eternal kingdom because through faith in Jesus, because of what he did for us Turn that off, except there was one problem. Does he? It's that simple. We doubt that God's word is as powerful as he says it is. And now Jesus, as John uh presents this final revelation that we have in Scripture from Jesus, he Well, well, it was it was uh fun to watch it for a while. All the grace that we need as believers to understand this revelation and to live it out in our lives. Somehow John get the message wrong? But folks, even in the first verse, it reminds us this is the revelation of Jesus Christ. And there's even some series that I normally trust that when it comes to the book of Revelation, it's like, no, I don't even need to spend Everybody always wanted the bottom bunk. That's only Christ, not only God's word. Amen. It represents the coming of Christ of the end times as coming back, as happening very soon. And we have that. Folks, can you say that this morning? Amen. That this revelation of Jesus Christ that he's given to us is fully trustworthy and we can be confident that it's going to happen because he is the faithful witness. They shed his blood. Let it be. Lord, don't let this be my opinions and my own perception, but let this truly, let us all be spirit-led in this. Literally in every commentary that you purchase, there's a slight difference in interpretation. Father, thank you for this powerful beginning to this amazing book It could happen at any time. Now I needed to know about that squirrel so we could figure out what to do with it. Who is that? I am the I am. I think one time we tried to unplug it and he woke up late the next day and was all in a panic and anyway, it definitely got our attention John's the only one left of the disciples. But this is the John to the seven churches that are in Asia. He's making us a place even now that we will dwell for all eternity He breaks down into a doxtology of praise to Jesus, thinking of all that he has done for us. Gladly let him have dominion that he does have and deserves forever and ever. I mean it just rattled us and it was so loud and obnoxious I think that John is referencing this. I like to note when I catch things that so It's also important because the message of Jesus Christ, its transmission, provides blessings for his servants. John says, even so, let it happen. Are you going to commit yourself to paying attention to Jesus' revelation in this book? Those are believers. And so the Holy Spirit who are before his throne, recognizing the authority of God the Father He is the eternal I am. My interpretation of this book is going to be what's called the normative interpretation in what is actual and representing And I said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, Lord? By the way, Zachariah is one of those books that does talk about end times in its own way. It's unusual for an introduction of this, but it's because the rest of the revelation is about Jesus Christ. What does that mean, folks? But scripture is Jesus' story. And John proclaims now again who Jesus is. These are real churches with real strengths and weaknesses, and we'll see that as well. Don't misunderstand me, but no book of the Bible says there is a unique blessing for those that listen and obey it, like Revelation does. The one who is, who was, and who is to come. Who would have thought that all the way in the book of Revelation we have the final fulfillment of Psalm 89, verse 26 through 27? That's my ministry, is to help you understand God's word. If you can imagine in your room a fire engine siring going off, that's what this sounds like. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place, he made it known by sending his angel to his servant John. Remember how Paul in his writings wrote in that way that he was expecting it. The Holy Spirit will work understanding in your life But this isn't a unique Trinitarian form. In the hearts of true believers, we all say a hearty amen. People think of when they think of Revelation, big, long, beautiful charts. John introduces a message from the Lord Jesus. And I will make him the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. Let it be so. But he did. What is the number seven in Scripture? Here right now John is referencing Psalm 89 about the firstborn of God. He's the firstborn of the dead. And that is a fulfillment of Zechariah 12. Lead me, guide me in that. I don't know. And that's the positive sense what John and what Christ want us to focus on. So it is important indeed. Who can that be referring to? Folks, remember again, whoever was just elected into office, their ultimate authority His sin will be dealt with. As you would expect, the the majority of those things are books. And Leslie had been, where there's some felt boxes by our door that has all the gloves and all the hats and the scarves and everything. And we don't have to have someone, you don't have to have your pastor represent you It contains the revealing of the finality of the coming I mean that's kind of annoying, but it it helps you. It's fulfilled in this book of Revelation, Jesus Christ. Oh, perfect redemption, the purchase of blood to every believer, the promise of God. Do you remember that in John? That they, when they realize that Jesus was and is their Messiah, that they will weep in their rejection of him. And even as I was studying for this this week, it was such a blessing to remember that the King of Kings is John has great name recognition because at this point, folks, this was probably written toward 95, 96 AD I am the Almighty, Sovereign One, the one with all the authority and power. But there are so many that follow their own way. But folks, the word apocalypse, that word for revelation, also for God's people, is glorious. But because he loves us, he died for us and he's giving us this revelation. Regardless of things, our plans don't go as well as what we had hoped. But it's more pointing. That's why we need to take it seriously. They were in the heart of Asia Minor. And again, he has a lot to say about Jesus. And we're free. The Old Testament saints didn't have that freedom. All of this means, folks, that as this plan goes forward and as we study this and go He's saying as we finish this morning that I deserve your full attention And I pray that that blessing would be sensed as we allow your Holy Spirit to teach us. And somehow that crazy squirrel had gotten inside and had found a wonderful little nest in the midst of all those gloves and scarves and everything. He provided us an eternal kingdom. John proclaims who Jesus is and what he has done for us. That word apocalypsis or apocalypse, what does that reflect today? This revelation must be proclaimed and obeyed. But folks, as you listen and as you commit to obeying the words that you hear from the revelation, you will receive a blessing as well. Nobody wanted to sleep up on the top. Then we can also trust these truths and be confident and place our dependence in this In our humanity, that doesn't seem like that doesn't feel like it it's happening very soon, right? He sends the angels and But especially when it comes to revelation, there are so many interpretations. Now I'll give all of the details of that if I'm not trying to And we dare not slumber through this. That Jesus is giving this revelation to us. In fact, as we continue through this description, we're going to see many references to the Old Testament, and it's almost as if all these references Again, it means that if Jesus faithfully witnesses and gives testimony about all things about God Their ultimate authority is God. How John ends this description, the rulers of the kings of the earth. The content of this revelation of Christ is that he is returning Does Jesus have your attention as we have studied his message, his revelation? It could happen at any moment. Then it somehow when the door had been open, sometimes the the door knob doesn't doesn't I'm going to take the stage now. And we're going to see that today. We had quite an interesting day in our home. Well John continues, the message of Jesus Christ, but also his messenger Seek understanding. Amen. We had an event that took place that made it even more interesting for them at home. He's the firstborn So many times when you come to this book, uh leaders and and and lay people get distracted. And actually we'll have an opportunity to do that tonight as we reflect on these things. Jesus is the ruler of all the kings on the earth. Well, part of that is true in the aspect of there is gonna come an end to all this and it is gonna be cataclysmic And he sent it through his servant John. I don't know if we get a turkey or not, but I guarantee that the Heric Supper of the Lamb is gonna be one Jesus loves me. Jesus has all the rights and privileges That for all that Jesus has done Amen. Alan was still asleep, snoring. But regardless of all of that, folks, the And John here is going to address that and say, you must have confidence, you must believe. Let's look then again at verse 1 as the very beginning words of this book make it clear. But the time is near. Now that may throw you. It's imminent. Help our folks today to be confident in your will. But here in the Old Testament, that was Hebrew. So he uses the terms not first and the last, but Alpha and Omega, which is still means first and last in Greek. Verses 4 through 6. Do you get the sense of that as we continue? We were enslaved to sin for all eternity except for the fact that Jesus obeyed the Father, his heavenly We don't have to be in And so that he needed to have this alarm on full blood. But this, John makes clear, this book, when received, comes with a blessing. The revealer of who God is. He's the one allowing this revelation. They were necessary details He's referring here first of all to the Father, from him who is. The psalm was describing David and the Davidic covenant And then he says that glorious phrase, Amen, which faces us Because folks, for God's people, it will be a glorious thing. That is the great hope, even in these first few verses. Or in a book that has befuddled and confused even many scholars, so many different We eventually had to let it go. People know, when you say the word John, and there's written a letter like this, they know automatically this is the Apostle John. You want, and you can find it in the Old Testament, Zechariah chapter 4, verses 1 through 6 And he said to me, what do you see? Here the psalmist, I believe, remember his name was Ethan. Well the truth is, and I think you all know this, that soon is God's perspective. For all those things and even more, John says, that's enough. John to the seven churches that are in Asia, grace to you, and peace from him who is Otherwise, we would have no idea what's going on. Why is it so important? We will live with him forever. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy. Those that word is bond servant. He says priests to his God and Father. Daniel said in Daniel chapter seven, verse thirteen Looking forward That's me. It's one of his favorite themes. Well some people say, well it must be some sort of angels. You know, um in my office, in our home Are things that it's going to take some time to really explain and that in some cases I'm going to say this See if you could see the Trinity. He always has been. Sing a song to yourself. And even as John is giving this testimony, it's almost like God interrupts him here. And there's a lot of different focuses that people can be distracted by in this book. Well 2,000 years later, we're still His revelation, his apocalypse is something that we welcome. It's a number of perfection. So the same God in the Hebrew that used the Hebrew alphabet, now in Greek, to his modern audience, says And anyway, there's scholars that come to this and say, I just don't even really understand Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is, and who was, and who is to be And unfortunately in our culture today they tie that as a byline that it's the fall of global warming, right? You're not a kid anymore. But John, one of his major themes God is in charge of the whole process. Just real quickly A message from the Lord Jesus. Again, what is that reflecting? Aren't we thankful that even our country today with all of its brokenness that it's not our eternal kingdom Not that we're become given. It can't be given to us by angels. I'm going to remind you, I'm going to remind all of your readers who I am Some of your translations may say Paul Paul, I'm so used to saying Paul in our studies, but John here, the Apostle John. It is his message to us about his victorious return. It could happen before the end of the service. But folks, we can rejoice in All tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. That we would not slumber through the warning call and the alarm. But at the same time, there's a lot of, as I said, different It is eminent. Well, the next morning, the first time we heard this, 6 30, and this This is an important message of power and final victory. And in in our practical everyday life, we um First of all, this message, his message, reveals his return, his drawing near. Get ready for it We are going to see that take place. And there's a lot of detail in this description that we need to ready ourselves to And the angel who talked to me answered, And all of that, John says, get ready, it's going to happen. There's a lot more to that story. The final book of the Bible, Revelation, has a unique characteristic But he also says the highest of the kings of the earth Then thank the Lord together with your Now he gets to do that one more time in this revelation. I think Ellie actually chomped on it one time John, the Apostle John to the seven churches that are in Asia Now he has an important message to send to these churches from Jesus Christ himself He writes this vision to seven individual churches. Let it be, and come soon, Lord Jesus. And our main focus is going to be to learn more. And his message is is this book. Who's he talking about? 10. Give that to us Pay attention to this vision. And here we have even at the beginning of this That is the true title. Huge scream. Nobody wants the top bunk Jesus will return. And then what I just said, he made it known. God's worthy of all of our honor and respect. And we're But I think in the practical outfalling of our daily lives, sometimes we would have He's referred to here, and that he bore witness to the Word of God as Jesus gave it to him. He did that in his gospel. And they will answer to that authority one day. Let me read that for you. I did that on purpose. And when it doesn't match actual actual reality And we pray for that understanding and that confidence. I get a blessing from this. He states the common Christian letter greeting That's God the Father. And I've done the best that I can with a lot of different bookcases. Now you have nuances of that through every He is, first of all, the faithful witness. He always will be. Jesus loves me. We've been looking at that word on Wednesday night This is not something to ignore. Folks, let me put you out of your misery here. The message, the revelation of Jesus Christ. As believers, we say, I believe in God's Word, I trust it, I read it. What is eminent? John received it through God's servants, God's angelic messengers. For it's in Jesus' name that we pray. They were sent by Jesus Praise the Lord for that. This is a unique book in many regards But the point was when I got home, Leslie had quite the story for me My steadfast love I will keep for him forever, and my covenant will stand firm for him. Through this message. He's the one that will put it into play. Well, we saw this in our study in Colossians Plans are going to go awry this week, folks, as much as you try to do your best John actually expands that proclamation of Zechariah Because remember I just said this is a Trinitarian We can trust the transmission of Jesus And these are familiar themes. The boys came running. And again, that alone. It didn't work at all. That's an important word. I describe for you the commentaries that I have Why are they weeping? Maybe you've seen some charts from the book of Revelation that literally could be could go up. Could happen before Thanksgiving. So who does the angel say that those seven lamps? Not that we know the people that rejected him will have eternal punishment. We'll live with him forever. A glorious end for the future. You'll remember it was just Arden and we put some Remember what that reflects Eternal God who's in control, supervising this whole thing. And there again, as you would expect, there's much prophecy of the end times in And that very word revelation is the Greek word apocalypse. That it will take time That doesn't feel like it's near We've seen that Jesus made it known by sending his angel to his servant John. Let's give him glory It's something to pay attention to. He's describing here the imminent return of Christ, and that means They're real churches. Even so, Amen for that too. He reveals the final chapter of He was totally ignoring that. Praise the Lord. And we know that you'll give it He is presently with us Folks, here is a Thanksgiving list. That was written Father, thank you. And this thing Amen. Is that there are portions of scripture we come to What is the problem with that? Well no, that's not at all. Prepare us for that eternal Because at that moment, folks, when Jesus He's coming in the clouds. That again. And Leslie scared it half to death. Woe is us! It's not humanity. And the problem was he could I hope you see right away And