Be filled with joy. And praise is comely, or praise is appropriate. How many years? Well, certainly the great physician can do that. It was a beautiful area. And yet those that love him should praise him for that. If his understanding is beyond quantification, then God has the power to help those that are needy, that are hurting, that are sick. It can be carried out wholeheartedly and with upright heart. I made that person. He casteth forth his ice like morsels. As we finish up here, and we look at this last part and say, well, Pastor Brock, that's for the nation of Israel, so what does that have to do with us? As we fear you and honor you, as we love you, help us to remember that you're on our side And you look at those and think, wow, it's amazing. of the Peanuts books, right? That we don't have him all figured out. when we were talking about Psalm 100. This is beautiful nature and everything, but you know, I I didn't make it a habit of thinking and praising God when because I saw it all the time. What is he saying here? And um all that is involved with that, he is a God that is worthy to be praised. He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth, his word runneth very swiftly. In Jesus' name we pray. who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains, he giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry. And praise him for all that he's done. And gentle to the weak, to the needy. or being able to see as much as even that we can see up here. The wounds that people give us sometimes they don't even realize they've hurt us. The number of stars. Maybe intimidated or uh feel a little disturbed by how well God knows us or how great God is. And Adam and Eve tried that early on. As we look through Psalm 100, but it's a powerful word. And for his righteousness. And then we'll move on with the meal and the football and everything else. is and in my carnality I would look at that and said, Wow, that person's like super spiritual or they're trying to act like they're super spiritual. We normally exalt or think are important. Athletes and sporting events. And those that hope in that, and that are faithful and that fear God, God notices them. That Jesus could heal his servant. Right now. Your word. It says, praise ye the Lord, and in the Hebrew it would be halel Yahweh or Hallelujah. That chose us at the same time allows us to in faith come to Jesus Christ and accept forgiveness of our sins. And in that praise has the idea of glorifying or to extol, to laud, to make exuberant statements as to the excellence of someone. Psalm 177. The Lord doth build up Jerusalem, He gathereth together the outcasts of Israel, He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds. He telleth a number of stars, he calleth them all by their names. He delighteth not in the strength of the horse. He casteth forth his ice like morsels. And we praise God. They must have been very young, maybe children. Because God has brought the remnant back. people getting hit by them. We can praise him because the remnant, those that have been scattered, those that have been chased around and are running around in fear, God can gather his outcast together. Um keeping them secure. Heart, not just broken bones, but those who have had their hearts broken. Right? different porches and one is actually up on the third level near our bedroom. Because he is the true God. showing us that a while back and it's just like, wow, God is so incredible. while or you'll cry. strips and Lucy as arrogant as she was was arrogantly counting them and had a specific number and Charlie Brown walked up and just shook his head and said good us. here, okay? Sin. priest. portion given to those that offered it as well. Of their sins, and to share that and eat together in thankfulness for what God has done. And we went to the coast and saw that. Jesus, a widow with two little coins that gave her all, uh a captain who had faith to hallelujah, praise Yahweh. He sendeth forth his commandments upon the earth. I'm with them. As he says, verse 12, Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem, praise thy God, O Zion. things certainly he has. up there. In the oven back home or in the crock pot or whatever, thinking about what we're going to eat. New Hampshire. Changes because all he has to do is send out his word, and the snows melt, and the winds blow, and the waters flow. When we read that, God's in control of the seasonal changes. response. to do that. The psalmist says, as we say, Praise ye the Lord. The all-powerful God that created all, that is control of the snow and of the spring seasons and all of these things that will cast down the wicked. He causeth his wind to blow and the waters flow. The Lord lifteth up the meek, he casteth the wicked down to the ground. He gathereth together the outcasts of Israel. These people that were scattered. To cause a little bit of suffering. Candidly, and yet we're thinking thankful. The pagans would worship their gods, their false gods, and be in constant fear of their gods, and be in constant fear that they had to do enough to be able to to to grow and to wander and all that. Beautiful picture of our Heavenly Father carefully binding up the wounded. And just those beautiful eruptions of light and stars that are in our galaxy. That is an incredible amount of power. Some young men, not that they're arrogant enough to try to put themselves in the place of God, but in certain aspects of theology, certain things sick that are he says here that are meek God can do that and can he take care of the enemy He certainly has power to do that. Well this isn't in a reference to football, but it's a reference to the fact that God will take care of the enemy. He says, yes, and I will deal with it in my timing. His food into the young ravens which cry, God gives provision. And I don't know if it would be the appropriate time right before the Thanksgiving meal to say, okay, before we carve the turkey, we're going to take half an hour here and everybody's going to go confess their sins. Have reason to praise the Lord as well. This Thanksgiving that the Bible is talking about here is the domain of God alone. And Lord, your Holy Spirit's been working on my heart, on my pride, on my self-will, on my evil desires. meal. And the abilities that God has given men and women, the Olympics, basketball, football, whatever, we can marvel in those things and be amazed. Fearing Him is like looking at God, if I could put it this way, like when you see a roaring inferno and you're amazed by the power, but you have a respect for that power. He has strengthened the bars of the gates. Finish up, we may say, I'm not sure that Israel is really experiencing these in the way that the psalmist describes. most. Lord, and they should praise God for his bountiful blessings. people's lives and has been blessing them. He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth, his word runneth very swiftly, quick responses. fulfillment. God's people can also can praise God for his control over nature. Proclaim God's word to those that don't have it and let them know what a wonderful God He is. And God's people have reason to praise the Lord. Israel in the sense that we get the exact same blessings that Israel does, but we are God's children. morning and go from here in joyous, energetic praise for all that you've done for us. And as we hear your word being preached this morning. They're in Maryland at Upper Crossroads, and we would play some sort of game. You know, another thing I thought of when I thought of this. Appease them or please them or else they might get angry with them and bring destruction. Grief. Where they think they've kind of got an edge and figured God out. to adequately express the Trinity, and we're all just sitting there like, no, that doesn't do it. Sing praise upon the harp, or the idea this is actually called a lyre unto our God, who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains. To me. It's incredible. And the awesomeness of the God who created all of this. Those people, those men were the ones to be lifted up. for that and submit themselves to his power. Picture. Regardless of how faithless we are to Him many times, God's loyal love is with us, and we can have hope in that You realize all those things are addressed in the Psalm, in the part of the passage of the Psalm we just read? Changes. Turn to Psalm 147, and we'll get a better idea of that this morning. Then God, our Heavenly Father, the God of Israel, Yahweh, deserves all our energy, all our exuberance, all our excitement as we praise Him this morning. Thank you for this reminder of our need to praise you, that it is the humble, it is those that fear you, it is your people that have the most reason To be thankful, and that it is good and right and beautiful for us to take time to be thankful. dividing this up into three separate segments. Reminded that we have a faithful God who will be there for us, and be reminded of all the blessings that you have given us even over this past year. Praise is appropriate. And they remembered the beautiful temple, what was left of it even when they were children, that Solomon had built. Through the storms of life and through the difficulties, they can get hurt and they can be running. And that shouldn't intimidate those who love him. But trying to grasp that really, in the end we just say, it's true. And I'll preach that. But now we apply it. So, do the humble have reason to praise the Lord? It would be appropriate to take some time and say, Lord, forgive me for this. But we understand, I think, that the full fulfillment of this is future. What are, let me ask you this, what are the top areas of concern that we have for our lives today that we say are most important to us? Protecting our things, making sure our families are secure, providing for our kids, right? Just in the right, you've got everything planned just right, and you expect quick responses from other people because my time is valuable. Security for children. 6 he 16. Our friends, I have some friends, a number of our friends that are farther south, even in Maryland and in the South, Georgia, have said to us, really, you're going to move to Georgia Verse 19 He showeth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgment unto Israel. Proclaim it. Because of his power to lift up the afflicted. But I think we understand this as well. It's our privilege to have it. To be energized and exuberant and joyful as we describe a particular person. He hath not dealt so with any nation, but as for his judgments, they have not known him. That word there for pleasant has the idea of something that is beautiful. as to who the psalmist is. seems to refer and most likely refers to the remnant of Israel that had returned after being in captivity in Babylon for And I'm sure, and it says that that when the temple was built, but the younger people rejoiced, but the older people wept. No. If you've ever gone out at night and tried to just look up at the stars, um I've told you this before, but where we were near Baltimore, we were out in the country. The God that we serve, we don't want him to be like us. Thanksgiving comes from confession of sin, and also then of praise for God's character and his actions. And then, wouldn't you then have a heart that's even more thankful and ready to take on the day, being thankful, and a heart filled with praise? This thanksgiving also refers to the thanksgiving offering, that again was one of the three peace offerings, the three of peace offerings that God's people would offer to him before the priesthood. For the faithful, we ought to be the ones first that look at God's creation and say, it's marvelous, it's amazing. And it pictures God's loyal love, that God will be faithful and loyal and loving to his people for all time. To glorify God, to be energetic and exuberant in your praise. What a privilege it is. He is the personal God that chose Israel to be his people. If that is what this is referring to, then most likely this psalm may have been written by the prophet Haggai or the priest Zechariah, who were leaders at that time. God can come down when we speak to him and talk to him and he can heal and put back together a broken heart. But also in these next few verses, we need to praise God for his power to lift up the afflicted. He calleth them out by their names. His understanding is infinite, or the idea of beyond measure. Salvation through Jesus Christ. His understanding is infinite. Of the meek or the humble, and those that are needy, sick, or afflicted, that God has, if God has power to number the stars, to create the stars, And that's why we should come to Him and sing with Thanksgiving. To offer thanksgiving to God. But at the same time it would be odd to expect God to be looking down and say, Wow, look at that guy. And those that fear God look at him and realize the power that he's capable of and are in awe of that and have respect for him. And also security for the children of the people of Israel. But there will be a complete fulfillment one day when Jesus returns and establishes his kingdom in Jerusalem, but it will affect the whole world. To Israel. Let me say I do hope that uh that everybody, if you're able to, is able to make it tonight. Seventy years. Right? Their own nation in our time. Well, the theme that we have for the passage is really given in the very first couple of words in the first verse, which is actually one word in the Hebrew. He bindeth up the wounds like a nurse, carefully taking care of a patient. Offer up to God thanksgiving because of his power and greatness. And that is, when I was younger, when I was a young man, I used to hear people looking at creation and talking about the beauty of God and how wonderful God's creation is. We ought to be able to look at creation. And that's where all the fighting is. One other thing with this I think is very interesting. We're on your team. Today. He is excellent. He created all of them, but not only that, but he gave them names. We confess our sin. These each of these peace offerings would involve those that offered as well as the priest, all participating and eating of this, with a portion given to the Lord, a portion given to the priest, and then a portion And the power of nature, a hurricane, a tornado. Peace from conflict. God is all powerful. Thank you that you are an Almighty God who is beyond our understanding, and yet you've given us understanding of you through your Verse 3. Try to focus. Especially even at church where we eat together and then give testimony to how the Lord has blessed us and sing together. Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem, praise thy God, O Zion, for he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates, he hath blessed thy children within thee, he maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat. But you had to be careful because we we had a large age range and there were some guys in particular one of the reasons I when I was uh hunting and doing some shopping for dodgeballs, I tried to find some that weren't too hard. Mercy is God's steadfast love. What he's pointing out here is God gave his word to a specific group of people to put in their care to proclaim it to the world. He's loving. The disciples were looking at the temple and Jesus, look at the majesty of this thing, and isn't it amazing what they what they made and and this over here and and they had their own ideas about what was impressive. You know there's snow up there, don't ya? He will act toward his children today as well. And it's appropriate to think about as we think about Thanksgiving, as we go into the Thanksgiving season, even on Thanksgiving Day. And then the last two verses, it's almost like we're being asked, God's people's being asked, can you be as responsive to God's word as nature is? Ask the Lord to fill you with joy as we look over some of the things that He has done. Even the adults, even myself, I was kind of like getting out of the way. As punishment had come upon them, and now God had brought them back together. One God, three persons, all having individual characteristics. No other nation has that privilege or responsibility. For her to actually she had this particular number. And yet the psalmist here, whether it's Hagi or Zachariah or someone else, reminds that this is a cause for rejoicing. And there the parsonage on the property had quite a bit of space around it. And it just erupts in gratitude. I know that. Because that's an important thing for a pastor to have in his library, right? And aren't we glad in these things and others that we can't figure God out entirely? So laugh. And yet, with that understanding in mind, God knows and has counted and knows But obviously, later on, as God worked in my life, there was a sense of God made all this. It's almost as if the psalmist is saying, I can't think of a better thing to do, can you? God is in control. Well, he's saying that in reality, God gives his favor to the faithful and not to the things that we Not the things that we think are so great. Read his word. He giveth snow like wool. Why? So as we finish up with this psalm this morning, I hope that this has given you cause to be thankful We're going to read this and then pray and then look at the passage this morning. Amen. But even in that, verse 10, he delighteth not in the strength of the horse. His statutes and judgments are his word, his just decrees. Hallelujah is giving praise to Yahweh. How can God be sovereign and yet allow his people to be responsible for the choice and choosing faith choosing We're getting ready to experience God's blessing firsthand in that, right? He is beautiful in his power and his wisdom and all of his attributes. They returned and came back, and God enabled them to build up Jerusalem again. He is the God of love and mercy. We can praise God for his bountiful blessings. If we could somehow figure out God in any way and have understanding in the way that He is understanding, then in some way we become like Him. That didn't work very well for them. But it was an eal offered in thankfulness to God because he had shown favor upon them. He makes peace in thy borders. I'm definitely one of those that has the philosophy that um you need everybody needs to laugh, believers need to laugh once in a while. And honestly, God's own are those that should truly understand the value and purpose of creation. And then finally, here as we finish up, his people have reason. And yet God being control of all that? He's there to take care of us. Verse 6. But it's even a deeper picture than that. And then you see, if you've ever seen and not um to point or embarrass him, point out, but Gary Anderson takes some beautiful pictures of the stars in the Milky Way and But we know they've had hardships too, right? It's our privilege to through the Holy Spirit to understand God's word. Because of his mercy to the weak. He has protected them. We can, even more than the other people around us who don't know God, understand the beauty And you could see looking up at night a lot of stars. That's not what this is referring to. God forgives that sin. And to praise God for his powerful provision. He controls all things. Seventy years later, they're not quite as young as they were earlier. I mean that could take a while, right? There are many difficulties and challenges that we have faced this last year, but help us to remember that your presence has been with us, that you are for us. When we, my family and I went to the White Mountains and the Andersons took us there and we saw some of these different things. Who can stand before his cold? He's sovereign. Now as a side note, for those of you that are thinking think Thanksgiving and thinking football themes and the idea of he cast the wicked to the ground, don't be thinking football. Those who fear him have reason to praise God because of his powerful provision and because of his favor to the faithful ones. And you take care of us. Don't miss the gentleness here in this description. Why? He taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man. Who can stand before his cold? The Bible indicates that there were still some people alive that had gone into captivity It's better than crying. Continue on. Because way back in the Old Testament, they already had this idea to thank God for all of his goodness and his favor and his forgiveness. In the Old Testament, they exalted warriors and those that were strong and of military strength He gathereth together the outcast. His word runneth very swiftly. Well, if we needed more reasons why, the psalmist certainly gives it to us in this Psalm this morning, verse 2. That idea of building up Jerusalem and gathering together the outcast. The Lord lifteth up the meek. They certainly do. And again, don't get me wrong, there's nothing intrinsically wrong with those things. These are the things that Jesus, that God says, Wow, that's good. And I think of that in a spiritual sense that these God's people had been scattered What gets God's attention? He hath blessed thy children within thee. Understand even the recent history of Israel. That as they were God's children in the Old Testament, as we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, it's not we have to be careful here. There's been a lot that's going on this past year. And it involved more than just meat. This idea of the horses has the idea of almost a war horse. Well, we don't do that today, Pastor Brock. There are miraculous stories that are amazing that you say only God could do this. And then a little less spiritual, but let's admit it. We're going to be looking first at verses 1 through 6. That picture we had in verse 2, gathering together those that had strayed, reminds me of a mother gathering her chicks together, protection. And it ought to make us break out in praise and thanksgiving. But one day, so there's two aspects to this as we see God's blessings for his people. Because of his bountiful blessings, because of his control over nature and his word to his people. All the pagan peoples around Israel, the gods that they worshiped, there's not a one of them that they would describe in this way. And the Bible says, God notices those who fear him and then those who hope in his mercy. Why? He showeth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgment unto Israel I've mentioned this before. We want him to be bigger than us. And testimony and all of these things, Lord, we look forward to this today. A needy people offer thanksgiving. They have been scattered. Great is our Lord, and of great power. We went out well recently while we were here and we have like three, well two He scattereth, that's basically the frost, like ashes. Verse 5 again, great is our Lord, and of great power. Hallelujah! Remember, don't hit the youth, Pastor. The idea of a trusted physician in verse three that is able to heal, that we trust this guy knows what he's doing and he can heal me. And yet he places upon each of us the responsibility to accept Jesus as our Savior. It's a word that we must understand. And then we're filled with thanksgiving for His ability to do that. It's amazing. Why? We should praise and revel in the fact that God is beyond our comprehension. It's the right thing to do. One of the favorite games was Dodds Ball, no surprise. And you can go out there and it the stars are so clear and they're so numerous. Hurtful situations, difficult situations. And I enjoy, I've always enjoyed since I was growing up the Peanuts comic strip. This is the amount of stars, and obviously the point is that it's impossible. God decided how many stars would be there, and he gave them all names. I remember a guest speaker coming one time into our church and saying, The Trinity, it's not too hard to understand. Great is our Lord, and of great power, his understanding is infinite. You know, in a sense, Bill's chapel is kind of a remnant at this point, honestly. Right next to the commentaries. And if it was, then it talks later about him helping the Ravens, and we won't even go into that, okay? Well yeah. He has power over that. It's a good perspective. Why do you respect it? We can say hallelujah for that as well. Now that's not often an aspect of our Thanksgiving day that we consider many times. And here we have promises directed specifically to the nation of Israel. Notice how responsive nature is to God's word. Here, what is the psalmist referring to? We've talked about God's great power and his majesty I have that ability. Sometime during the day. I can't give you the answer. Because God has given them bountiful blessings. And He's ready there to be for us. Not just healing of physical conditions, but Yahweh, the God of Israel, can heal the broken in heart. In a multitude of reasons. Because think about it. Look at verse 7 and 9, 7 through 9. It involved cakes and things. Or for those of you that are really orderly and have everything So we should look at this as well as Israel and say, we are a blessed people to possess God's word and understanding of it. So help us to focus on the many, many blessings that the psalmist has reminded us of this. That word thanksgiving, we talked a little bit about this Sunday night. Why are we thankful? But we should have, in the midst of all that we're thankful for It's one of the most beautiful words, I think, in the Old Testament. Look at this again. The second part here: those who fear God That this will one day happen. Look at that again. And we're experiencing that even this morning, especially in Sunday school. He will build us up as a church. It's only the true God, the true God of Israel, that's pictured in this way of caring for those that worship him. He sendeth out his word and melteth them. We were very thankful for that. And then you see pictures from the Hubble telescope, right? I'll never fully understand it. He has power to take care of all aspects of his creation. We should only give it to God. Verse twenty nations in the way that he's given it to you, Israel. He giveth snow like wool, he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes. And can we say that they have fully secure borders at this point? Peace. Praise to Yahweh, the God of Israel. Really looking forward to that. And it could actually, the translation could be referring to God and the fact that he is beautiful. A lot of things, a lot of good things, but a lot of difficult things as well. Again, more the spiritual wounds, the wounds from people. Sometimes if we are straying from God, we can be mis If you've ever read a book or seen a documentary on on how Israel became And we here in New Hampshire can will relate to these verses right now, right? But you know what I can say now? Why? Sing unto the Lord with thanksgiving, sing praise upon the harp unto our God, who covereth the heaven with clouds. And you take a look at one of those pictures and you don't even think of starting to count all those. He casteth the wicked down to the ground. Now we may continue to read through this, and as we The God of Israel is worthy It's those that fear Him, that are faithful He's also our heavenly father. The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, and those that hope in his mercy It's impossible to quantify God's wisdom and understanding and his greatness. And we're going to see today that a needy people can offer thanksgiving. But there were still the lights from Towson and from Baltimore that would just kind of hinder Well he's not done yet As for his just decrees, the world does not know them. Praise ye the Lord, for it is good to sing praises unto our God, for it is pleasant, and praises comely. Because you know the power it's capable of. Is it interesting that he seems to portray snow as a gift here? And so certainly it is appropriate. And everybody would scatter. Lord, I realize that I've had this sin that I'm struggling with. He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat. Who is Yahweh? You have to have the Peanuts books too. So we can trust a God like that and sing hallelujah to him. We've gone through a lot of them. And if God acts to his children in this way in the Old Testament, he never Praise to the God of Israel, to Yahweh, is the right thing to do. Well, yeah. Here the psalmist is describing security for God's people. Because thanksgiving in the Hebrew has a primary focus on confession. Praise God for his favor to the faithful And yet, what does God do here? He healeth the broken in heart and bindeth up their wounds. His understanding is infinite. We should be glad and praise him What we're gonna eat, what we're having. Praise ye the Lord. In the meantime, trust. He can really run with that football and throw that thing and all this. He filleth thee with the finest of wheat. So a promise for Israel that has present fulfillment and future completeness. Praise ye the Lord, for it is good to sing praises unto our God, for it is pleasant. We talked about this last Sunday night. I pray that we have a good Thanksgiving season, Lord, but help us to have these attitudes foremost in our hearts. I know it's true. Again, the picture there of the mountain of God that Jerusalem was on. That's one of my favorite times of year Um, this reminded me of as youth pastor on Wednesday nights we would get together and the first thing we do we had a gymnasium. It was very helpful for the boys growing up to have space. We don't have to be constantly waiting for the blow to come from an angry God that just gets angry for no reason. We can sit down together and enjoy those things and marvel at the strength that God has given people. Will we be as responsive as nature to God's word? We have those in our congregation that are involved in nursing and so thankful for all that they do. Because as we confess our sin, we realize God's righteousness is exalted in contrast to our sins. Stops. So let's praise God together. That's what the author is trying to do here. Why? We want, we should want a God to be bigger than us. He taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man. You know what God's Word says? Well, yes, there are specific connections to the nation of Israel. Will we then proclaim it to a world that doesn't have it? You know, Satan also as well can scatter people, can scatter believers. He hath not dealt so with any nation, and as for his judgments, they have not known him God, don't you see what these people are doing to me? God literally gathered the outcast of Israel together and brought them back. Hurts from other people, from situations. What is his power? And it goes back again, the psalmist says, because his understanding is infinite, it's being Has God rescued Israel through many things? Well, hopefully you know He is the God of Israel. Praise the Lord. There's no matter what illustration you can come up with to try to adequately explain the Trinity. We know it to be true. The Bible, people in the Bible were doing this long before we thought of it in our country as well. But God controls here. The humble have reason to praise God because of his mercy to the weak. I'm also reminded as well of the picture of Jesus. God's people have reason to praise the Lord. He has strengthened the bars of thy gate, security. Sing unto the Lord with thanksgiving Help us to go from here in the midst of struggles and challenges. Who should praise the Lord? And by the way, verse two might actually give us an indication. Thank you, Lord, for these things. But doesn't our culture exalt athletes? But they would come back and they saw the desolation of the city. And I remember one comic strip in particular where Linus was trying to count the stars. It can be done in public. The legs of a man, the strength of a man, of a warrior. I know there's two sides to the coin. And of course, who in the end really deserves that? In our singing, in our prayer. And as we begin this morning and looking in Because they remembered how things used to be. Another thing is it's talking about God's way with his creation. God has been working in his Psalm 147. And our God can come and heal and bind up our wounds. It become redundant. And if you got hit by it, you knew that that was going What arrogance to be able to say you could do that It's kind of, you can kind of pronounce it like this: Heset. That should actually give us comfort. Immediately. And this thanksgiving is only offered to God. It's an excellent thing to do. And now it was rubble, and they would have to rebuild. I will lift you up. It really is amazing. Hallelujah. That's a gift from God. Hallelujah. We weren't so politically correct that we couldn't play Dodge Praise God because of his mercy to the weak. And I have to have all the volumes. God gave them specifically to God forgave me. Father, thank you for your word. Look at verse 4: He telleth the number of stars. God's Word says it's true Food. Nobody else can do that. What it's pointing out is God controls everything. And so we say, Lord, bring spring soon. That would be accurate. Some of you I'm sure even now are thinking about that roast. Because I mean this All of them. So literally, it was a thanksgiving And God has a message for us in this that we can still look back and One, that there is a present fulfillment, but it's not complete. Let us be energized in our thanksgiving. What could we better use our time for than to do this? No, that's what's in contention right now. Who can stand before this Lord? Don't you see the the stress and the persecution? So what do we say in the end? Well first of all, the humble have much reason to praise the Lord. So we're not going to go there. And He offers forgiveness. And God says, Oh hum, yeah, I I made So, as we preach, as I preach and as you listen, It's a worthy thing to do. The Lord doth build up Jerusalem. Will we proclaim it? It's impossible. And here we have a beautiful picture again. How about this? Father, thank you for your word Lord, cleanse me. That doesn't have that understanding. Calling Jerusalem and all of God's people. This is a struggle many times in seminary. So we're glad kind of for that. Millions. It's an excellent thing to do A Hebrew word we all know. God has given Israel some of these blessings. It's just looking forward to a good time tonight. Here's an illustration. And people in the Old Testament would have looked at that person as some He has blessed thy children from within within God gave his word to Jacob. You are the keepers of his word, and you're supposed to We're not as believers as a church of the new Warm us up, please. Now This is a beautiful Billions of stars. So what are we going to do with it? So I was thinking through this though. The seasonal change. Security? It was a series of comic strips And he gave us an illustration that was supposed to be Praise the Lord. God is tender. And what a You know that's See, you do know a little bit of Hebrew. What impressed Jesus the most? It's our privilege. How appropriate. And what was impressive to Jesus He giveth to the beast