As you turn to Ephesians. Again, Ephesians chapter 1. And we just read as kind of a reminder of where we've been in this chapter. Looks like we have the children going out for children's church. That's great. If your child is under sixth grade, you're welcome to take them out too, and they have a good time of teaching there. For those of you that have been with us recently, we've had this wonderful, beautiful display that Paul gives us at the beginning of Ephesians of all that we have or many of the things that we have in our relationship with Jesus. Jesus Christ. I read through them again for you this morning in our scripture reading together. And folks, our hearts ought to be thrilled with these things as we realize God's sovereignty. As we realize the love of Jesus, he gave his sacrifice of his body and his blood for our sin, and that uh we're able to understand God's word, and that we have an inheritance as a children of God, and all that that means. We ought to be elated this morning with the truths that we we've heard already. And Paul is as well. Paul begins with that, but then he jumps into, as he does many times in his letters, a prayer. And he even in Ephesians lets us know why he's praying. He moves from this blessing of praise to God. And he moves into the prayer that it motivates for the Ephesian church. Paul says: because of all that God is and that Jesus has done, this motivates me to pray for you all. It's important that leaders in the church pray for the church. And Paul is thankful, as we're going to see in this prayer this morning, for all that God has done. But he's also burdened. See, Paul is, and is, even as we'll find out in this passage, Paul is writing to a group of seasoned Believers that are vibrant in their service to Christ. And he is thrilled by that and he's moved by that. But even with that, he knows there's more growth to be done. Sadly, we have to admit that many of us that have been s For a long time, we get comfortable. We think we've attained a certain level, and we're comfortable with that level until Jesus returns. Well, I'm thankful to let you know this morning that Paul is going to make us uncomfortable as he moves us to further growth. And he prays for us. And that's my prayer for our church as we Well, that we're not satisfied, but we continue to grow in our relationship. As we get a better understanding of the hope we have in Christ, and the power of God that we have available to us. I am convinced many times, folks, that believers live anemic spiritual lives. Because they just don't take time to fully comprehend what God has offered in his power to revive us and make us more useful. I'm convinced that we would have revival and more of a vibrancy in our service if we just remember all that God has done us. And that's why we're in this book to have these reminders. Paul is going to pray for these folks. And he's going to pray that they will have greater insight into God and his riches and what he offers his people. And he's going to remind us that we all as faithful servants we need constant prayer. You need prayers from the pastor. You need prayers from the pastor from each other, to help each other to continue to grow and to be all that God would have us to be. But Paul is motivated in this prayer, not only by the truths that he's just stated in the first part of Ephesians. But also it seems he's heard another wonderful report of the great ministry that's going on there in Ephesus. Remember when we introduced the book, we took some time to work to to uh present Paul's ministry in that great city of Ephesus and how they turned from the darkness of magic, of dark magic, and being influenced by demon. demonic forces and incantations and and magical things um that they were involved in. They turned to the one tr True God. And Paul has heard that their faith is strong and their witness to Christ is strong. So he's rejoicing in this. It's moved him to make this prayer of thanksgiving. You know, it's so apparent when we study Paul's writings is that Paul, prayer is really spiritual breath for Paul. It's a regular activity. For Paul, prayer is like breathing. And even as I say that, I know that for many of us that convicts. Us. Because if prayer were like breathing for us, if we considered that much of a necessity, there'd probably be a lot of us that'd be really struggling at this moment, even to take a breath. Our prayer lives aren't very vibrant. Paul here is thankful and glad for the work that's being done. I'm reminded even this yesterday, About seeing God's work in people's lives and that making me glad and causing me to rejoice. I mentioned earlier, I think, in the service that I have The opportunity to marry a young couple. They were a part of our youth group for many years, made a great impact in our youth group when we were here before. We're well loved. names were Kent Barrow and Laura McCall. And they were very close, but they had a very close friendship while they were in youth group, but they were very careful. Toward the end of their time as teenagers, they realized God might be calling them together, but they prayerfully waited and they waited for God's timing, and that timing was it was yesterday in the midst of the heat. It was still a beautiful thing. I told them afterwards, I said, because Kent and Laura had written their own vows for each other. And they were just I say, guys, don't worry about being hot out there. People aren't going to know in the end whether we were crying or whether it was sweat. They're not even going to know. Um but the whole story about how I even got involved in that just made me so glad yesterday. Um two years ago when we came here and And we were candidating. And the church graciously put us up at Restoration Farm. Many of you know where Restoration Farm is. We support that ministry. And it's a hateful Haven for pastors and a place for ministry people to be able to stay. So many things we're thankful for with that farm. Kent Barrow and his family lived next door to Restoration Farm Farm. And so we were pulling up on the long driveway that goes to Restoration Farm, right by the Barrows house, and we saw this couple in the field, and they were reading a book together. And I said to my wife, Isn't that romantic? Look at that. A young couple reading a book together in a field. So picturesque. I looked a little closer and it was Kent and Laura. And so I stopped the van right there and I jumped out and I yelled to them, Kent! Laura, it's me, Pastor Brock. And they just immediately jumped up. They were shocked more than I quite understood. I found out later. And they ran over and I told them, hey, we're candidating. We don't know what the Lord's doing yet, but he might be bringing us back, and so we're glad for that. It was just so good to see them. We drove on. A little bit later, we were heading out to do some different things. Drove back down the driveway, and this time Ken Ken hopped the fence and was almost in the middle of the road. He's like, Pastor Brock. Like, okay, so I stop and what's wrong, Ken? What do you need? Well, he said, Laura and I were just talking, and he said, you know, we were wondering, you know, especially if the church calls you back, but even if you end up still in New Hampshire, would you be willing to consider marrying us in two years? Now that's planning ahead, folks. And of course, how am I gonna say no to that? I said, Of course, if at all possible we would love to do that. And so they had us penciled in two years ago. And yesterday was a happy result of that. So I was telling his parents who hadn't heard the story yesterday. at the rehearsal dinner. And they told Kent, and then Kent and Laura responded back to them. They said, well, you don't know the whole story. Now I had never heard this before. And I had met with them many times. But while they were in that field reading that book together, they were also talking about the future of possibility of getting married. And they said to one another, they were talking about different possibilities about who could marry them. They said, you know, wouldn't it just be easy if Pastor Brock was around and back again and he could just marry us? Yeah, that'd be nice. And sure enough, as soon They said those words. Here comes our man pulling up. So that's why they were sh they were more shocked than we were. I didn't even know that. But folks, to see the obvious hand of God in And that's why Paul's writing here, because he hears of how things are going, he has put a lot of energy into that church. church in Ephesus and encouraging them in spiritual things. And now he's hearing how they're doing and he's overflowing with joy. And so he writes, go to verse 15 of chapter 1. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, you have strong faith in the Lord, you're growing in your Your faith, you love each other, you're not divisive, you're not um you're not in quarrels with each other. This is wonderful. And so I'm moved to pray. Verse 16, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. Paul would be the ultimate prayer warrior, wouldn't he? We need prayer warriors like Paul today to pray for us and to pray for people. He says, I regularly pray for you and I'm rejoicing because Paul is just filled with gladness. Folks, maybe just for a minute I ought to just harp on that or mem emphasize that. Are we glad when we hear of good things, spiritual fruit, and things going on? Does it lift our spirits? Do we rejoice when we hear God working in the lives of the Ho family and many others in our missionaries? As we hear of our young people making decisions at camp. Do we just overflow with gladness like, man, Lord, this is this is why I live. This is why I'm so thankful to be a servant, because you're working and you're moving. Praise the Lord. That's what Paul's doing here. And then he's not done. But now he goes into even when And you have to admit with me, that's a good resume for a church, a large church in the city of Ephesus. They have strong faith. They love each other. And yet Paul says, that's good, and I'm glad, but there's So much more still. So much more growth that you need. And so this is what I am praying for you. I am praying that you will be more and more secure in your identity in Jesus Christ. Instead of being identified by the things of the world. And we accept a lot of identities, don't we, folks? What we do for work, okay? What's favor our favorite sports team is who we're a fan of. Our relationship, our position in a family. A lot of these identities we, and rightly so, take on, but many times we forget that our most important identity is that we're in Christ and that we're a child of God. And Paul is praying that these folks will get a better idea of their life in Christ. And he actually makes examples of the Trinity that he prays to for this. I can put it this way. Paul, as we get into these next verses, remember the verses I just read to you earlier and that fireworks display of what we have in Christ. Christ. What Paul is praying next is that his people would have a better appreciation for all they have in Christ. Folks, I can't think of a better thing to preach this morning and to pray for for you is that no matter what you're facing, no matter what distractions that you have, is that God would continue to work in you in appreciation. And a better understanding of what Jesus has done and what he offers you. That's the answer to really any of the struggles that we have. is to more consistently get our eyes on Jesus Christ. So Paul prays for three specific aspects of further spiritual maturity for the members of this church Let's look at it in verse 17. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, so he mentions the Father and the Son. And then he mentions the Father again, the Father of glory, may give you the Spirit, there's the Holy Spirit of wisdom and of revelation and knowledge of him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened. that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power towards us who believe. According to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead. And we'll just stop there for a minute. That's a lot to chew on. And we're going to do that now. There's a lot of things to contemplate in this. And I would encourage you to go back over these verses later on. And that this prayer that Paul has even for these people would be your prayer as well. What does this prayer involve that he's praying and including the whole Trinity in, the Father of glory, the Father that is deserving of all of our glory and praise, even as we worshiped him today. Our Lord Jesus Christ, for those that are truly believers, we worship Jesus as Lord. He is our Messiah. He's our Lord, and we recognize that. And the spirit of wisdom and revelation, the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, that gives us understanding and further knowledge of Him as we read Read his word. These are the the Trinity that he prays to. And here are three things that he's praying for in those verses. Number one. That these Ephesian believers will gain further understanding of his calling as their hope. Now remember the calling? Remember that sovereignty of God and his calling us to salvation and all that he gives to us when we put our faith and trust in Jesus? Paul is saying here, I am praying that you'll understand. that even more and that you'll become more thankful and you'll become more glad of all that Christ has done for us. Folks, sometimes we come to the issue of the gospel. If I were to come to the issue of The fact that we're all sinners. The fact that apart from Faith in Jesus Christ, we are all under the curse of sin. We are destined for eternal punishment in a terrible place called the Lake of Fire. And yet our Our Heavenly Father had a plan from eternity past that He would send His Son, who would succeed in being obedient fully to His Father's commands And he would die a cruel death on a cross and shed his blood so and take all of our sins on himself so that he could give us his obedient record, his righteousness. And when we put our faith and trust in him and Jesus Christ alone, the Son of God, we can be gloriously saved, redeemed, and not have to face that eternal prospect of death. In hell forever. And that we can be reconciled with our Heavenly Father. There, I did it. I did preach the gospel. That's good. But if I were to say, my whole message is on the gospel this morning, there might be in some of our our hearts uh uh well i know that part i know the gospel i'm thankful for it but pastor brock isn't there another passage of scripture that'd be a little more interesting that you And folks, uh even as a pastor I can have that tendency. And what Paul's saying here is, no, I'm praying that the more that you'll have more and more of a desire to understand the gospel and what Jesus has done for you. And so what he's done for you will far outweigh any of the disappointments and discouragements that you've been facing. And that you'll be motivated to serve him. So yes, he's praying. Look at middle of verse 17. That the Spirit, the Holy Spirit of wisdom and revelation and knowledge of him. Having the eyes of your heart enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you. That he's praying that the Holy Spirit would make it more and more clear to faithful believers who are loving each other and sharing Christ. He's saying There's still more understanding you need. You need a deeper understanding of all that you have in Jesus. And that your hope is secure. Remember, we talked about this a couple weeks ago, that when we trust in Jesus, our inheritance, our hope is secure. We cannot lose our salvation, folks. Because we're sealed by the Spirit. And that ought to cause us to rejoice and be glad this morning. And the more we understand those things The more we'll have an appreciation for Jesus. And the other things that we're concerned about will fade away. In the light of his glory. And grace. Remember that hymn? Number one, that's what he's praying for. And then number two, here's the second thing that he's praying for growth for these Ephesian believers. And that I'm praying for you today. He's praying that they will understand how valuable they are to God as his inheritance. Continue to look at Let's see, verse 18. The end of verse 18. What are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? Now it may be a little bit of confusing what what Paul is saying there, but folks, this is this is rich when I talk about the riches of his glory. Glorious inheritance. Notice that it says his, not ours. We've talked about our inheritance that we receive in our relationship with Jesus Christ. It even includes a new body one day, but this says his glorious inheritance in the saints. And I could say a lot about that phrase, but really I could sum it all up in saying this, is that Paul is saying that we are God's treasure. We're his inheritance. We are of ultimate value to him. Folks, if you are here this morning and you've trusted in Jesus and you're Your sins are under the blood, and you're a child of God. You are valued by your heavenly Father. You are a part of his inheritance. You are greatly treasured. And so no matter who else lets you down in your life, we can confidently know. And Paul says, I'm praying that you'll have a better understanding of this, that your heavenly father loves you, values you. And you're important to him. You see, folks, we're not alone. He's with us. And he values us. Wouldn't you agree that we need a better understanding of that in our daily lives? How much more fervent would our service for God be if we were able to put aside all the disappointments of other people? in our lives and just say, regardless, whatever else my heavenly father treasures me and loves me, and that's enough. That's what motivates me. And that's my prayer for you. And then number three, then, that they will have a greater understanding of the power of God working in their lives. Verse 19, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead. Paul says again these Three things. I am praying for the believers in the church in Ephesus that you will continue to grow in your knowledge of the hope that you have in Christ, of the fact that you are the treasurer of God. And that you remember that you have access to the very power of the Creator of the universe. Is there any excuse for us to live Anemic defeated lives when Paul says here That we have at our help, and in a certain sense at our disposal, the immeasurable greatness of his power and the working of his great might Folks, there's no excuses. So every time we come to God's word, we ought to ask the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit, help me to understand more of my riches in Christ. Help me to understand that I am truly valued by my Heavenly Father, and help me to understand the power of God that works in me. That can use me in a powerful way. One of my favorite authors, Paul David Tripp, said, God seeks you, forgives you, transforms you, and delivers you He bathes you in his love and grace, and he simply asks you to believe. That's a great quote. So when we remember these things, folks, we don't have to feel anymore like we're worthless, or that we're some sort of second-hand item to God. But we need to place our dependence fully in Him. What is your dependence in? Well, I hope it's in Jesus Christ When we come to this issue of the power of God, many times we're not accessing and depending upon God's power like we should, and therefore many times We put our dependence in maybe in an earthly inheritance that we hope we get a certain amount of money, or you know, maybe we're gonna get that certain amount plus check from the IRS this year, or maybe it's in a particular person that really has never let us down. And so we really depend upon them and sooner or later all of those things even our favorite sports team in baseball are gonna let us down And it's a reminder where is our dependence in? Is it in our secure heavenly riches? Is it in our relationship with Jesus Christ? Uh many in my family have a couple particular places that they like to spend time in. And we refer to them sometimes as thrift stores or well I I don't know what else we call them, but thrift stores makes the point. Like Goodwill. And we have this wonderful place right down the road from us, right in Falston, called Tabitha's House. That's a great place. For some of us. There's some in my family that love to go there. They find riches there. I have to be honest. I'm not one of those. I'm not, I don't, I'm not to the point in my life where I just really enjoy going to the I Tabitha's house. You know, yeah, okay, there's some neat things there. For those of you that don't know Tabitha's House, it's a Christian thrift store uh run by a local ministry, and they have a lot of great deals. So some people say. But they we even have some young people that work there. It's a great place. Not doubting it at all. But I don't like to spend a lot of time in there because I'm sorry as I look let's just say goodwill. So Um I look around and I just tend to see it's just junk. It's just used stuff. I don't have time for this. I'll just spend a few more bucks and get the New version. You know, whatever. I don't. But I have members in my family that know where to look in these different places. Not everybody in the family is this way, but I have a few that know where to look. And I have a few boys. Talk to Luke and Kendall. Luke in particular, he has made his own little business of finding things. in Tabitha's house that may be working or may not be working or a goodwill. And as you know, Luke is very gifted, and Kendall too. uh in fixing things. So they take these things home, they fix them, and they sell them. And that's worked out pretty well for them. So they take something that I see as meh junk. And they make it almost brand new again, and they make it filled with value. Folks, so many times we look at ourselves as just junk. And Paul is calling us to remember all that our Savior gave so that we could be Redeemed, and that we are not junk, but we're treasures to our Heavenly Father. And even if other people in your life treat you like junk, your Heavenly Father treasures you And he will see that you persevere and make it home till you see his son 's face and are welcomed in his presence for all of eternity. Don't we need constant reminders of that even today? We do. And that's why Paul praised this beautiful prayer that these people would remember these things. But he also prays for greater insight into God's magnificent power. What do we put our dependence in? As Paul continues in this passage, we see that we depend upon God's power of resurrection, and we can also serve through God's power that He has given to Jesus Christ. We might say, well, how can I trust really? I don't know that I've ever really seen God's power in my life. And we may May have a tendency to doubt the power of God. And so Paul gives us examples of God's power that leaves it beyond the realm of doubt, or it should Verse 19 again. What is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might? That word for immeasurable has the idea of unsurpassed, exceeding. That word for greatness means dunamis or power. Capability, potential, ability, great ability. That word or the phrase the working has the idea of active power, power in action. And that word, his great might, means inherent strength, possessed power. You think Paul is using all these words for power for a reason? You think he's trying to get something across to us? The power of God, the power of God, the might of God, the power of God You have access to the active, supernatural , exceedingly great, immeasurable power of God. It almost seems um kind of um A poor transition into an illustration thinking about the power of God. But as I was getting ready for this message, I remembered an old TV show that my kids loved. Love to watch. Maybe some of you. Now the problem is as soon as I mention this, if I sing the theme song at all, it's going to be stuck in your heads. You're not going to listen to me for the the rest of the service. But for those of you that know, there was a kid's um educational series of videos called Mighty Machines. Did you ever see those? And he I'm not gonna sing the chorus for you. I don't want to get it stuck in your head but man it's already in my head and talked about mighty machines um doing mighty things and they would all have these different tractors and things and they would take like this whole 30 minutes to explain these different powerful tractors and construction vehicles. And my boys just ate it up. They're like, oh yeah, that's so cool. Hope I can drive one one day. Well, there was one that was a front end loader, and uh they were entranced in that um and These it it gave not only a description of what it was capable of doing, but it also gave videos and uh and a description of what it could do and seeing it in action so that by the time you finished with this video you were convinced wow this mighty machine really is powerful it can do great things Folks, that is what Paul with all these words is trying to bring across to us. Is that the power of God can truly do great things in your life He doesn't want us to doubt that. But in case we're still doubting, look at the rest of the passage. That he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him in his right hand in the heavenly places. That power was able to raise his son, the Son of God, from the dead. And put him at a position of authority, seated him at the right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion And above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him his head over all things to the church, which is his body. The fullness of him who fills all in all. How extensive is God's power and the power that he gives to his son Jesus Christ. He raised him from the dead and put him in a A seat of authority over all things And it's interesting as it says here that he put him over all things in Psalm 110. 1. This is a prophecy. A completion of a prophecy where it says, The Lord said unto my Lord, sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. It's interesting. There was in this culture in ancient pagan kingdoms A king often represented seated next to a god, was represented seated next to a god that was worshipped by a particular city or nation. So the point is, is they would have their king. And a picture of him seated next to that nation's God, and they would say, This is how powerful this king is. He's at the right hand of authority of the God that we worship. What a perfect picture then, albeit egregiously wrong, a perfect picture though for the true God. To say, I have raised my son from the dead, I have put him in this position next to me. He represents me, he represents my power. And he is above all things, those words for rule and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named. would have really spoken to these formerly pagan people who worshiped Satan and worshiped demons and dark magic. And Paul is saying Jesus has been given a position of authority over all those things that you used to to think we're so powerful and cool and important over all demonic power Over all worldly kings and worldly authorities. Folks, today over every frustrating politician. Jesus has the authority over all of these because of the power of God. And then he says, and every name that is named, you think of a name of someone in authority, basically, and Paul's saying Jesus is more powerful and has more authority than that person. You think of the most powerful earthly king in history. Jesus' name is above that name. Whatever name you can come up with. Folks, if you have trouble and a problem, you don't just have to uh be relegated to calling your local senator or congressman and calling on their name you can call on the name of the Son of God and you can have his power and his help for the the things that you face today. How extensive is Jesus' power? It says verse 21 Again, above all rule authority, above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come, and he put all things under his feet That has the idea that all the powers and creation itself must submit to Jesus Christ and bow the knee to him. That phrase, put all things under his feet, does that not sound Like one that crushes the head of the serpent. You see, in ancient times as well, when a king or a victorious General would conquer a nation, they would have the other leader and the other general lean down, and he would put his foot on the neck of the one that they had conquered and vanquished. And said, I have won. And folks, for all time and eternity, Jesus can say, I have won! I am the victor. Over Satan and death and hell. I have won over all of these things, and furthermore, I am the authority over the church He's the command center of the church body. He directs and gives his power to the church. And he can easily provide full resources to a church to accomplish its mission. So there's no excuse. Charles Spurgeon says, having made Jesus' all, he shall find all in Jesus. Because we are his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. There's no excuse for our lack of service and our fear in presenting Jesus in the gospel. There's no excuse for not expecting that Jesus can bring reconciliation. There's no excuse that And not expecting that he will lead you into what he would have you to do with your future service for him. All the things that we we struggle with in this life. And as far as our service in the church, Jesus has the answer to them all. I'll finish with this illustration. Just happened the other day. One of the things that I really enjoy is uh mowing the lawn. I don't know about you. It's very therapeutic for me. And what's really cool is coming back to our church ministry here. This isn't the Main reason we came back, but it is a nice benefit. We have a great collection, selection of mowers in our shed out there. We have that powerful orange tractor. That just zips right along and cuts that grass amazingly. We have that zero turn that can go anywhere and much faster than even the tractor. And we did have for a while that riding lawnmower that basically we gave to the younger. younger boys who weren't you know ready yet for the bigger tractors. I love getting on those tractors, those mighty machines and cutting that grass because of the power that I've access to To make quick work of a chore. Well, there's a problem. Now that my kids are getting older and we've encouraged them to also help mow the lawn, they're always the ones to get to the shed first. So I'll go many times. Ah, you know, it's it's a beautiful day. I'm looking forward to mowing the lawn. There's no zero turn. There's no orange tractor. This week was finally a turning point in this whole thing where my son Kendo, he had just uh, the Lord had provided a new push. mower for him. And as I came home, he said, Dad, we could use some help on the lawn. Could you help us with the push mower? Like really? I said, no And I looked around and Luke's happily on the tractor, Arden 's happily on the zero turn. I'm like, okay. So I went and did my part, and I'm pushing along this mode. But folks, it wasn't the same thing at all. And it was hard. It took me much longer to get that small amount of ground that my h my son had assigned me. to me. It took longer. It wasn't as much enjoyable because I didn't have access to the power that I did in the big machines. It was frustrating. Folks, we get frustrated in our service in the church when we rely on a power that's so much less effective. And mighty than what we have in Jesus Christ. But when you serve God And when you live your lives out there faithfully, depending upon the all-powerful, sovereign creator of the universe and his son, you can do mighty things. And you don't need a zero turn. Who are you depending on? Are you growing in your knowledge of Jesus and God's word? That is my prayer. As Paul is praying for the people of Ephesus, my prayer is that you will grow in your knowledge of Jesus and be reminded that God has all the power you need to accomplish What he's called you to do. Let's think on that as we pray. Father This is a glorious passage, and I had to go through it quickly. But I do pray that its truths would resonate in us. That we would be further. Lord, my prayer for this congregation, as Paul prayed for the church in Ephesus, is that they would better understand the hope of what they have in Christ. That they would better understand that they are your treasure. And that they would, in a much more, in a deeper way, believe and trust that your power is all they need. O Lord, help us to depend upon your great power that is above all other authorities and dominions throughout all eternity Father, if there is someone still here this morning that doesn't know Jesus and is headed for an eternity apart from you in a place called hell, Lord, I pray that you might do a mighty work in their heart. Hearts that they might see their need for Jesus and call out to Him in faith this morning and put their faith and trust and dependence in Him alone. Father, I call for the Holy Spirit to work this morning in our hearts. And so folks, let him do that work. As the piano plays, let the piano The Holy Spirit work and convict us of these things this morning