So I'm going to kind of leave it a little bit of a mystery. We think what would be the worst possible thing that could happen to me, or the most embarrassing, or the most fearful situation that I could face in this life? And help us to depend on you and then to rejoice in seeing your mighty arm in our lives. It's not quite hallelujah, but it's a form of this word, and that reflects praise and glory given to God for his abundant provision. And then it continues on, and sometimes it can get um a little intense, the argument, and mom and dad have to step in and say, boys, that you know, that mom and dad saying And the psalmist David encourages this. And if that's your heart, then go boast away. But I want everyone to magnify his name. and you know you can get the better of them, you can push them off and say, I'm King on the Mountain. At that point it's not so exciting to play King on the Mountain. But it takes God entirely out of the picture and makes Satan supreme. No, David makes clear there is deliverance from the things that scare us and the terrors in our life, and the Lord can literally, He has full power. And in this video in particular, every time this young lady posts this, there's these three little girls and she focuses on their faces and then she goes around and shows their dad coming up and goes back and their faces just And again, I'm not going to give away all the details, but in the midst of his trial with Achish, King of the Philistines, we're going to find out here soon he is humbled and humiliated. or whether we're at a low point where we're doubting him and panicked about what's around us, God will intervene. God helps us because we cannot help ourselves. Is it from what we can tell when the angel of the Lord is mentioned, many times he is the preincarnate appearance of Jesus Christ And said, Elisha, the enemy and the armies are close by. And he's at they're at the breakfast table and I kind of imagine Elisa still eating his Wheaties or whatever and whatever he's doing and says, Well, calm down a minute. A lot of these themes in this very psalm are things that Paul brings up. And and the as the lions get older, they're incapacitated and they eventually die because they can't provide for themselves anymore. Look at this psalm in closer detail. And it gives us some information. What's going on? And yet God delivered him from this. We're going to see here a praise for God's deliverance. Per se in Hebrew. And let us exalt his name together. Your words. and be a grateful people in the midst of what we admit, Lord, is dark and fearful times. But Yahweh is all-powerful as the God of Israel, and he is fully capable of abundant provision, and he has provided for me the deliverance that I needed. This isn't, David isn't saying somehow that he pronounces blessing upon the Lord. That verb bless has that idea. The second there, the word is praise. We can have a lot of things that are ready to come out of our mouths that aren't always helpful or aren't always soothing in a situation. And they can downright hurt. I've been catching some of them recently though. They're both really good. And so lowly that you can learn from me. what the what their God has done for them. They experience spontaneous joy as God is being worshipped and praised. David's saying here, God doesn't need us to magnify him in that sense. so that all of us can exalt his name together. My brothers got taller and then it wasn't as much fun anymore. that haven't trusted in Christ, that have rejected God, of course they're going to not understand. But I've got a little bit of an advantage than you do. Let's make sure that when we hear that taking of his name that we don't get desensitized to it, that it bothers us, and we ask God what we can do about that. But we should seek God, especially in times of difficulty, because we can be confident He will respond. What is your worst nightmare? Don't live your life as if Satan is in full control and has the ultimate power. from fear is just a reminder that God has overcome. And when they look toward him and ask him for help, it says here they were lightened. Here they are in fear and terror, and they look to God, and God shows them his power. And sometimes it's kind of by surprise and it's in the gymnasium and there's and and the family doesn't know that their dad or their mom's gonna show up. And what is the look on the faces of these folks when that military family member shows up surprisingly and they get this look on their face of total shock and then it's like radiant with joy. that I tried to go it alone. What were the two most important things to David as he's on the run here with his little band of marauders, so to speak, of desperate men? And I don't know for sure whether David is, certainly David's not thinking of Jesus, but maybe the Messiah. You, he calls us to taste and see that the Lord is good, just as he has. Blessed is the man that trusteth, or the idea here, really take refuge in him. We hear a lot of ads for a lot of different things over our lives and a lot of um promises where the ad or the the device or whatever the product is supposed to meet all of our needs in so many different areas you can fully trust in the Lord. 1 Peter 2, 1 through 3, I think he's thinking of this very psalm that David wrote. There's no want to them that fear him. And King Saul's power, that normally would be something that he would be fearful of. when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, or probably what that means, that's probably Aikish. that aren't in the service anymore going over you probably heard of some of these stories. And this is one of those. And he was very fearful in the midst of this, probably almost in a panicked state in what he was going through. the this psalm and yet he really wrote this kind of this was his psalm or his song on the run. If David can do it on the run with people pursuing him, the enemy pursuing him, then we can certainly do that too. praise you and that we can as Village Chapel Baptist Church exalt your name together as we meditate on And then the psalmist here in the first three verses is even before he gives us more of an idea of how God delivered him. He just starts out with, folks, we need to worship God all the time. the king of the Philistines, and the Lord has uh uh delivered him in a miraculous way and he is so thankful. And verse 1, I will bless the Lord at all times. I can't help excuse me but think back to this morning. Jesus Christ. And David points out here as well that above all things that he will worship, he will praise and give God glory, and that will always be ready to come out of his mouth. on our lives, on our mouths, that whatever God allows into our lives, we're going to praise and we're going to give God glory, regardless, because we trust that much in His provision and His deliverance. And so David, again, a um uh one of Israel's greatest worship leaders, so to speak. tanks and planes and they really get into this and some of the things they make are remarkable, but the problem is they get into every so often. This is why mine is better than yours. The humble. And he continues. That when someone hears the praise of their God and they they understand as well as being humbled and being weak and dependent, And gladness for that. And that's an important thing for us to remember as well. to proclaim, in other words, how important God is, not to make him important, but in its essence help others understand his greatness and his importance. And David says, do this with me, magnify, proclaim of God's greatness and importance to all those around us that need to hear of that. so to speak, the high altar that he deserves in our lives, exalting him, making sure that he always comes first, that he's number one. I thought of a game that I played as a child called King on the Mountain. come a tractor that had made a huge uh mound of dirt or there was a hill or something where we were at when we found it. that obviously took the game even was more obsessed and took it much more seriously than even we did. you know what someone i is saying. And delivered me from all my fears. And whatever tends to make us fearful and scared and intimidated, David says, seek the Lord. steer them entirely away from this, but that's the horror genre of books and movies and all that that entails. And Lord help me to best deal with the situation. And David is so thankful for that. You know the other opposite side of this, unfortunately when I was younger, um I I got into a genre of media that I would never recommend today, and I would certainly our young people But here is why it is so disturbing. to disturb me. with joy. and have radiant faces of joy, knowing that he will deal with our problems. uh deliver himself and and come up with a way for himself to to get out of a jam that he's allowed himself into. gives him mercy and delivers him. If he could save me in the midst of some really foolish, dumb things that I've done, then he could save you too He'll be able to do that. The angel of the Lord, multiple times in the Old Testament, describes himself as God But he knows that the power of the Lord, the angel, the highest protection that God can give him will be with him and will deliver him. The Lord sweeps our griefs away as the winds clear away the mist. And both of those are mentioned here. and delivereth them. That's in our Old Testament. Show my servant, who's really in control here. And so David's pointing out that he knows the armies of the Lord will protect him and deliver him. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby. Peter invites people to remember their provision from the Lord and uses the same terminology. Ready to praise God because we know that He'll protect His people and be confident in that. And then he points out as we finish up in verse 10, the young lions do lack or they want and suffer hunger. Because they can provide. the enemy that thinks they're so self-sufficient, that thinks that they can prey upon him. Normally they would be people to be feared. They lack and they want and they suffer hunger because I have all the sustenance I need, the spiritual sustenance. If he is, then we can have confidence. And even the title, interestingly enough, the Hebrew title is there. And we're facing a lot of scary developments in our world today, aren't we? He found himself in a predicament that he had not anticipated. That's what you're going to see in this Psalm is David's praise and thanksgiving for the deliverance that God has given him. Be ready to praise him when he does deliver. The first word of each verse starts with a letter in the Hebrew alphabet from, as we would say in our alphabet, from A to Z. That God will deliver his people when we seek his help, when we go to him. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. And but uh as far as numbers tonight, we're small in number, but let us have hearts that are ready to For God's mercy in his life, that he declares, I am committed to praising God, to giving him glory. Regardless of any of the circumstances in my life, I'm reminded again of God's deliverance and mercy, and so whatever comes, I'm going to make sure that I'm continually Praising the Lord, the Lord that in the Hebrew that word is Yahweh, the God of Israel, also our God, as well. Five different words here in the beginning of the psalm used for praise. I will have a spirit that's ready to praise him throughout whatever I face. And there's a lot of things that come out of our mouths just automatically that we forget to put a filter on. And woe to the person who is in bare feet when we find those scattered Legos at the places where they're not supposed to be. They will hear that boast and that praise, and it says here, be glad, and that's certainly what it means, but really it almost has the idea of a spontaneous joy. But this relates to our appreciation of his greatness, of his majesty, and then our responsibility to make it known to others And that worked out real well too, because when we were younger, I was the tallest and the old I was the oldest and the tallest, so I won most of those rounds. Well, that little example there, really, folks, what David is saying here is that God should always be king of our mountain. He should be king of the mountain in our lives. And they get mad and oh my and they let the word's name fly and other curse words. So grateful for that opportunity. He will answer and he will deliver you. First of all, never let me be complacent. Dark, it's evil, and really it should just be something that our folks stay entirely away from The desperate and needy look to the Lord for help, and God never disappoints. And David says, um, they will be delivered from these things, from their terrors. And these things will be judged one day. That he they live in California now, a young couple, and he's in the Navy, and they have these three beautiful little girls, and a lot of times he's away. They will post she will post videos of when he comes back from an assignment and he comes through, you know, and you've seen this in videos where military um members come home back to their families. Because the one that they love has returned. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. You know, not too long before that, we've already talked about the situation with David and Goliath. This situation is the exact opposite. choices. When we don't always trust in the way that we should, but we call out to him and ask for his help, and whether we're confidently serving him faithfully, Two things were protection from the enemy, from King Saul, from the Philistines, and also supplies, provisions. And the angel of the Lord is described in such a way that he is a special messenger. Okay, one other cup of coffee? But David is giving the ultimate advertisement or the o if I can put it this way, marketing pitch, whatever, saying David in verse 9 continues, O fear ye the Lord, or fear the Lord, ye his saints, those that are his, for there is no lack. So we can proclaim him because of his protection, and we should honor him because of his provision in our lives. My God will supply all your needs. Whatever they want. He's saying that in contrast to the Lord's provision, even the young lions, those that are normally self-sufficient, maybe he's referring to the deliverance. In the God of all provision and all protection. uses the skills God has given him to write a remarkable psalm that continues to encourage us today Of a powerful individual or one that is fully capable of abundant provision And as King, leading the people, writing these psalms and leading them in worship, we can see that praise is certainly a top priority for David. And the humble, the this actual word boast is in the Hebrew an official declaration of why someone is worthy of praise and worship, not why you're my Well, if we apply that here, what is David saying? about that. light up and they run and they grab him and they hug him. And he was at probably one of the lowest points in his life, and yet the Lord still responded to his cries for help and rescued him. Numbers. I kind of is a reminder for me that no matter even what we're facing, even under stressful, difficult situations, we can still take time to meditate on God. We need to praise God for his deliverance, expect his deliverance in the midst of whatever we're facing, and praise him But here boasting is encouraged. And gladness that we are so thankful for all that God has done for us that it just erupts and oh wonderful, another opportunity to praise the Lord in song. I'm reminded a very practical application of this that even I myself I will admit sometimes this this That Satan and that evil are overwhelming and that terrors overwhelm us and that we can have no deliverance from them. So, do we believe in what David is saying? We have a situation in our boys still love to play Legos, and we have a lot of Legos around the house. My own self or yourself is worthy of praise and adoration, but why God is worthy, Yahweh is worthy of all praise and adoration. becomes trite to me or it doesn't have as much concern, I get so used to it, and probably you do too, and that is when you hear somebody take the Lord's name in vain. Let me just ask you a question as we begin. And certainly as we look at our world today and things are so dark and we can feel the persecution and the oppression, right? Well God doesn't need our help in being great. My experience is that God is always reliable. And that's what this verse is there for, for us to be encouraged in that way. So this is this is probably Akish, who drove him away and he departed. destruction of our country and all that's going on. You don't see this in the Psalm the way that it's written, but this is actually in the Hebrew, is written in a type of acrostic where His praise, his worthiness of praise and worship, the humble, the truly humble that have seen their need for God Sorry. He is about ready to enter a time in his life where really nothing that none of his expectations are met. We've already done that in song, Lord, and our hearts have sung together your praises. Their faces were not ashamed. I know you don't understand that yet, Floyd, but you will. Where Satan brings all sorts of fearful things into our lives and people are helpless to do anything about it, or somehow by fate they might be able to conquer those things. hearing more and more about this whole situation in Afghanistan and people that are over there, Christians and Americans and trying to find a way out Now for me I've I've got it easy. What's going to happen to us next? And it's not this gives us hope too, because it's not that God will intervene on those of us that get it all right and are always courageous and faithful. They really don't have any A either. And here we have that second part of this verse then as this boasting is going on about God's And we saw that in the Gospel of John this morning. What is your worst fear? Verse 2, my soul shall make her boast in the Lord. But they that seek the Lord shall not lack, not want or not lack any good thing. It's people that are actually trying to go in and rescue these folks. Now we're not going to get into a lot of detail about that episode because we're taking on the life of David on Wednesday nights, and we're going to get to this incident very soon. Because folks, in all of these situations, whether it's films or whether it's horror movies or or books written in this way, really what it promotes is this one simple theme, life in which Satan triumphs. They can do what they need to get food and sustenance. I'm so weak. But in the Hebrew Bible today, that actually is verse number one, is that title, because it was a part of the of the Psalm and when it was written Spurgeon says this about this verse. He writes this psalm after the Lord delivers him. Or, you know, you know, whatever. First of all, protection. Just try it. That it's they just rejoice automatically. But folks, my point is in practicality, when we see David telling us to make sure that we proclaim God's importance and greatness. Now the angel of the Lord, most of the time when it's mentioned in the Old Testament, do you know this? They're both nice. And they're like, you know what guys, I'm done with this game. We have protection. But our boys love to play these Legos, and the Lord has blessed us through the gifts of multiple people with a lot of them. Or sometimes they they really don't say that as much anymore because they're just so used to doing it They they can provide, they're very self-sufficient. He has been humbled recently in this situation that he's in. That is the thing that the humble loves to hear. And and uh there's the other side of it where you have to understand we understand that the people Brother David is saying he has rescued me from my worst fears, from my terrors. But uh it follows through and it's remarkable, and then there's also continual themes woven through You know, boys are competitive, right? Remember Elisha's fearful servant and how he came to Elisha. It can make us very fearful. And he says, so I will bless and worship and praise the Lord for his deliverance at all times. And then he calls us to magnify the Lord with me. A lot of times if I hear somebody do that and they and I haven't met them before and I say, hey how you doing? And so then verse 5, there's a beautiful picture. And it's almost like even as I read this psalm, I can hear David saying, poor man, man, I can't believe I was so humiliated in that. Just taste and see. Remember Paul said that? And of course, when you hear that, you have to explain why, you know, yours. This is the one time because this is the boasting of the humble And it says then, very important here, that he delivered me from all my fears. This is that picture that David is painting here. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. That's not the boast. I want us all to do this together. They could be confident in God's deliverance. He ought to have that height and that importance, that no one should be higher, placed higher than God. And we talked about this today. And so, folks, go from here in confidence and not in fear and terror about what's out there because there's a lot of darkness out there. Boast all you want in the Lord. Not because we can. And we should praise God for his deliverance certainly. We have a lot of things that as we're thinking through, and sometimes we can get angry about things, and unfortunately when we're angry. And that's all it takes for him to be fearless. What is one of your worst nightmares? There are ways that you can let people know that God is important to you as they're taking his name in vain. Never let me be okay with hearing your name taken in vain, because you need to be so important and magnified in my life that that should always bother me. David at his worst, at his most fearful, he's panicked, and he's making wrong And the servant looks again and he sees the angel of the Lord and the armies of the Lord encamped around. Lord, let that be our heartbeat tonight. No, I don't want to play that game anymore. David says, God has given us protection while we're on the run, the very angel of the Lord, verse 7, and campeth round about them that fear him. It's remarkable. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. What is the ultimate provision that God has given us? Literally the idea of snatch us away out of harm and evil And David says, no, they still, when it comes to the provision that my God gives me, And let's go forward then praising him continually. And so the reminder is as we work through this Psalm, Psalm 34. He already is great, right? But you remember as we get to this point in David's story, let's remember the themes of this psalm, as David really pours out his heart here. Expect that he will help and praise him in all things. So stop boasting. Exalting God involves giving him the prominence, the height. Maybe it's just an idea of, you know, uh I'm a believer and you know we love the Lord and so thankful. We can take refuge. This first one, I will bless, bless, refers to a recognition When you get some another kid that's a little bigger and a little more intense, and you know that you probably don't have a chance of winning, His praise shall continually be in my mouth And Jesus said, I will give God glory. Is anybody surprised by that? Is he saying, oh, folks, make the Lord great with me. Let's go home. And when I would allow these things into my life, why it would it was like an avenue of Satan directly into my spirit At once and altogether David was clean rid of all his woes Well, isn't that what David's saying here? These people going over to rescue and it's very scary A lot of things where we just kind of sometimes shake our heads and say, Lord. And we mentioned last Wednesday night in talking about David. We need to worship him continually. David has experienced the Lord's reliability. And folks, this is the ultimate lie, and David dispels this lie. That was such a foolish thing for me to try. It brings joy and gladness to their lives to think on all that God has done for them. And folks, as we sing the songs and worship Him in our church services, we should have that kind of joy. This verse is the psalmist's own personal testimony. They're coming up after us. Jesus has overcome Satan and death. But the boast of the humble is boasting in the humble's God, the humble person's God. And you know, there's I think there's a lot of our New Testament writers that think back to this psalm. Don't try to take on your terror, your fear on your own. It's beautiful. And there is one passage in particular, Peter as well. This psalm I've entitled A Praise for For God's Deliverance. Unbelievers are not going to understand the importance of God and who he is. Maybe he's thinking of the Philistines' power. Sometimes we look at what we're facing and saying our our worst fears are realized in a lot of ways as we see the David says, I look to God and he showed me his power, and it made my face radiant. He doesn't need us to make him make him great Something that was very humbling that the Lord delivered him from. I sought the Lord, verse 4, and he heard me, or the idea really is he answered me. And now may we do that in our hearts as we meditate on your word and reflect on its truths. This word magnify is very important. Live your life in the knowledge that God has power and he can snatch us away from those things of Satan, those dark evil things. And David points this out, I think, to say this. The Lord doesn't need his blessing. The humble loves to sing God's praises He will provide that. But what's David saying here then? Do we believe in the provision and the protection that his God brings? That was David with God's strength in his life at his best, confident, ready to take on the Philistine. And I I had I was the oldest of four or three no four brothers. And then David gets really personal. It was always exciting. Verse 8. And so they looked unto him, those that were needy, those that looked to God for help. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious And David says here, boast in him. And let us exalt his name together. So what really is um But we would play, but whenever there was another kid involved This really means they were radiant. Amazing veterans from our military. And David reminds us here too, in a very fearful situation that he faced They can provide for themselves. And these boys love to make these But that drive to be the one that is the highest, the king, the one that um is the victor, the conqueror. And I you know, it happens so much in our society now that it really we just kinda take it for granted and sometimes we don't even really think through Well, we should also praise God for his provision. And in the Hebrew that would be considered, well, actually in the in the modern Hebrew Bible, in the original Hebrew scriptures, there weren't verse. And the second word praise is a related form of that Hebrew word we all know. What is the boast of the humble? Now, normally we don't encourage boasting, right? He says, Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speaking Maybe he's thinking about King Saul. Don't be prideful, but just be thankful for what the Lord has given you. You know, it's fun when you have somebody that can kind of match your strength. And Elisha says, just calm down a minute Um, the oldest of four boys, and every so often when we were playing, I think it was out out back at our church, there were no It's radiant in their faces with joy It's the most important thing to me, even in sacrificing my life. And that's what he says. Right? But folks, really, we ought to have a praise filter. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. I've experienced that. That we can turn to the Lord Mine is better than yours, and this is why If the Lord delivers him and he's on his way, he's being pursued by King Saul. The humble shall hear thereof, and be glad. Yeah guys, you know what that means, right? I love to watch these videos of, and um we have some friends. The same thing, the same concept. Some of your versions may show that. No doubt about that. And the psalmist David, he's been the recipient of great deliverance and mercy in this situation with Akish. Kurt He was just delivered from the Philistines. Or one of your worst nightmare scenarios? His Son And part of that being delivered from And yet you know what? My point is. Let's go out of here. Well, why would he bring that up? I know that many are not feeling well, and we're glad that many are able to still join us on Zoom And the Lord just And we ask this in Jesus' name that we pray. It says a Psalm of David. Yeah, and I don't know for sure. He's grateful. But what the Lord, what David is saying is here, I recognize that David says, This is my experience. And so he says, And he finds himself in situations that he never expected. And now this almost gives us a personal testimony in verses four through six. The older lines, if you've ever watched some of these nature shows, We'll read verses 1 through 3 here. Is not just a messenger or an angel, but he's very special person. I like calmness at my breakfast, still drinking my coffee here. It has the central meaning of making someone great or important. You can too. But the young lions are the ones that have no want normally He is And it was a good reminder to me as well. God's mercy is not just for the courageous, but for the weak and fearful as well, as David reminds us. Legos find their way everywhere. Those things can be painful. Let's in this last song as Kurt reads it. David gets very real here in his testimony Now, interestingly, David. In other words, their faces are literally made radiant with joy. He says there will be no lack. Let the afflicted reader take heart and be of good courage Not, I am so humble. Not just me, David says. Help make him important. The Lord still heard me and the Lord still saved me out of all my troubles. But all of a sudden when I as soon as I got older He seeks God, and God responds to him. In fact, really what he's pointing out, this is not the norm. We have these bins and they love to sit down and they make things. That word fears really has the idea of terrors. And he will give us provision. And I say, hey, I'm my name is Pastor Brock Maudsley. It's It's time to play King on the Mountain. Now they don't have a Z. But God will deliver. It's not a good thing. Probably what he's referring to. Abimelech can be a more general name for he who is king. We all have them. Well, I can't think, but No, God will also intervene when we're foolish Exalt him. I will bless the Lord at all times. But we still ought to pray, Lord, Well, we should worship God continually, yes. Now, does this remember remind you of another Bible story Um boy when you get fifty, just the memory just disappears. Amen. We're not supposed to boast. You try it too. And it's almost like he just responds with, oh Make them stop and think. O magnify the Lord with me And uh There is. Hallelujah. And then, folks, when he does, be ready to praise him. Let's go. The young Philistine warriors. Let's go with the song on our lips That is the boast of the humble. In fact, he tries to Praise his name. In the midst of this, he We we were at church the other day praising the Lord's name. And he just prays, Lord What do the young lions normally get? Is his God our God? So trust. Remember that question I asked you at the beginning You won't be disappointed It makes them glad. I can't wait Oh Because David says