Praising him and giving thanks to him. It just seemed appropriate since it's that time of year. And again, it's something that we should focus on all of the time. But when we have times like this, why not emphasize it even more? Our gratitude and our thankfulness for all that God has done for us. I was thinking through the rest of the year and even tonight, and decided that tonight and next week I would have a focus on Psalms of Thanksgiving. that seemed appropriate for that. We'll be looking at Psalm 100 tonight in just a few minutes. And next week we'll be looking at some other Psalms as well. Then when we come back, it'll start December, and we will for the Sunday morning service of the first week of December. look into Philippians. We're at the passage of Scripture now with a beautiful description of the humility of Jesus Christ and all that He's done for us that's so well known in the book of Philippians. Philippians. And that will be a good starter to a series of messages themed around the Christmas and the Nativity and all of that. And then we'll um continue. The Philippians study in the evenings as well. And that'll bring us to the first of the year when finally in January we'll get back to our Sermon on the Mount. series as well. Psalm 100, we're going to be looking at tonight. Focus on Thanksgiving, it's appropriate. And this is In some translations, the heading underneath Psalm 100 says a psalm for giving thanks And that's a good description of this Psalm, Psalm 100. It's one that we all know well. We could probably quote it without even looking at it. But I thought it'd still be appropriate, even familiar texts like this, to be reminded. of what God says. This is thought of as a Thanksgiving text. Why is that? Well because it has the word Thanksgiving in it And we're going to look at more about what that means. Should we be thinking about the normal Thanksgiving activities that we have today? Well, not exactly, as you would imagine. But the principles behind this do fit with our celebration of Thanksgiving as well. Now, it's interesting as I was studying for this, something that's not often noticed is that Psalm 100 is the last of what seems to be a trio of Psalms that focus on the kingship of God That he is our king, that his people, Israel, called to him as king. And so it just seemed appropriate as I get ready to read Psalm 100, That I in fact I assigned some people this morning to read some scripture and then we didn't get to that in Sunday school. So I didn't want you disappointed. So I thought we would go ahead and I'd have different people read different portions of these Psalm ninety eight, Psalm ninety-nine. Since they're all kind of grouped together, I wonder if um when Israel got together for worship it. If they didn't include these Psalms as a trio, reciting them, maybe singing them together. So it seemed appropriate to go through these tonight. And then on Psalm 100, As I read that, I thought we would all read Psalm 100 together so we all get the chance for scripture reading tonight. Isn't that a blessing? And then we'll have a word of prayer and look at this Psalm. So I'm going to ask, let's see, Gary Anderson, if you would read Psalm 98, verses 1 through 3. And then Paul Wetzo, if you would read Psalm 98, verses 4 through 9. And then Rick, if you would read Psalm 99, 1 through 4. And let's see. Daniel, would you read Psalm 99 verses 5 through 9? And then I'll let you know that we're going to read Psalm 100 together. And notice how these all fit together as we're reading. Okay? Gary, would you start us off on that? Okay. Good reading. And those psalms emphasize the kingship and the need for his people, the people of Israel, to acknowledge God's kingship. But now as we get to Psalm 100, now the psalmist acknowledges and invites the whole world, all the earth. to join in the praise and recognize Jesus as King. So this really in actuality has a mission statement to it. It is inviting the whole, not just the Jewish people, the people of Israel. Israel, but all the people of the earth to accept the one true God, to accept him as King and worship him. Psalm 100, let's read this together. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord, he is God. It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people, and the sheep of his pasture Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting And his truth endureth to all generations. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for this time of year where we're able to look back and just in gratitude. And in gratefulness honor you with all that you have done. Lord, I know that there have been difficult times for each person in this room tonight, this past year, struggles, challenges. And yet, even in those, we can see how you have brought us through. And your hand has been with us. And of course, we rejoice in the blessings that you've given us. Thank you for leading me and my family to Village Chapel and to be able the privilege of being able to minister here And help us as we look at this Psalm tonight to just go away rejoicing and thankful for what you've done and for who you are. I pray this will be an encouragement tonight to all that's here. For it is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Psalm 100, as we've sung, as we've read together, we didn't sing the psalm. I'm sure there was a melody applied to it at some point in Israel's history, but we know it well. And what God is calling us to do, the psalmist is calling us to do as we give thanks, is to first of all, in the first three verses, acknowledge God's kingship with joy. Acknowledge God as king. And to do it with joy, verse one, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands And many down through the ages who have read this and feel that when it comes to corporate singing, that your voice doesn't necessarily add to the melodious sounds that everyone else is making, you can read this verse and say, see, even if mys my voice sounds more noised than melodious, God wants to hear it. And that's true. God knows he knew before he even created us whether we would have certain vocal abilities or not. And in corporate worship, it doesn't matter. We're all just praising God together and it's beautiful music or noise. whatever you can do. But more specifically in this passage in verse 1, he seems to be not only just singing, but shouting This is glad tidings, joyfulness. These are people that are looking at the fact that God is their King, the Lord, Yahweh, the one that rules over them. The great I am. He is their King. They're thankful for that. And they're rejoicing. And so not only singing, but shouting in triumph. He is our God. He is our Lord. And to the whole world, to all the earth, we call upon you to join us in rejoicing and shouting and gladness that He is our Lord. Acknowledging God's kingship with joy. We can do that even today, even in our culture today, as people are focused on so many things when it comes to To Thanksgiving, right? Football, good food, time with family. Now, those things aren't bad in and of themselves, but obviously they're not the primary thing that we should be focused on as God's people. But at this time of year, we should be living a life that invites people to join us in praising the one true God who truly gives us all good things, all blessings. And to invite those who have rejected God in their lives, who don't know Jesus Christ, to accept Him as their Savior and to experience not just physical blessings of food and family. But even greater, wonderful spiritual blessings that God gives us on a daily basis. And this psalm is going to continue to show us that toward the end of the Psalm, especially. Calling people to shout with joy for all that Jesus has done. And if you've ever been around a new convert or someone that's been recently saved and you've seen the Joy in their face, and their realization and relief that their sins are forgiven, that they have a home in heaven with God for all eternity. And there's this joy on their face. That is the type of thing that we all should have, no matter how long we've been a Christian, no matter how many years. We should never lose this thing. And this joy about what God has done. We get to serve God as our King. That should be our attitude. Verse 2. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. And interestingly, this word for serve is the word of uh, it can be used many times, as serving as a slave um servanthood with a master over you. And in our culture, in our society, and understandably so, the whole idea of slavery is a negative thing. Because there's been a lot of negative, very horrible aspects to slavery in our country and around the world. That's not the kind of slavery, though. that we are called to as believers. Paul referred to himself as a bondservant, a servant that gladly serves as a slave because his master is so kind. And gentle and loving. And here we're called to serve in this way, but with gladness, with excitement. Is it possible? Can someone be a slave or a servant in this way and be glad about it? Only when your master is your heavenly father. is the king of all the world, the creator of the universe, and you know that he has good things, that he has favor upon you as his children. Then you can serve him with gladness and excitement. Come before his presence with singing. This seems to indicate that even as we gather together and as we sing praises to God, in a worship time this morning and even this evening, and pray and hear her word being preached. We don't often think of it like this, but the psalm here, it's almost indicates that this also is serving God faithfully One way that we can serve God is by coming together with singing. So even though you may not think that your voice is as good as the persons next to you, You are still serving God by proclaiming praises and honoring Him with the voice that He's given you. Yes, that is an act of service. And God and the psalmist makes that clear. Come before his presence. He is the heavenly Father that we don't fear to come before him. As small children run to a parent, to a father that they love, believers run to spend time with their heavenly father. They want to be in his presence and they rejoice Pastor Gary Reemers, which you know is one of my mentors and who originally started the church, were taking Joseph's Now, he would tell us, and he would say that when uh after a full day he would come home and he has three daughters. And when they were young, they would come running to him, they would see his car driving, and they'd come running to him, and all excited, Daddy's home, so glad to see him, and they would be full of joy and excitement. And as now that I have four boys, and of course, right now I'm living and have my office in the same place with them. But let's say I go to the store or something, or I'm away for a little bit, and I come back, many times they'll still come running out the door, Daddy's home, and they're all excited. And that's really a nice thing. He would he would make the point that n as he got older and as they got older that kind of stopped and how much he really missed that. Um as they got older and more mature and more cool. Dad, good to have you home. Now I've got other things to do. He missed that joyful greeting that he would get when they were young. And I know someday that I will miss that too But we should always come before Jesus, come before God in His presence, our King, with joy, being glad to be with Him. Acknowledge God's kingship with joy, and acknowledge the blessings of God's kingship. Acknowledge him as Lord, as God, and the blessings that he's given us. Verse 3: Know ye that the Lord, he is God. It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves. Or some translations. Another way to translate that would be, and we are his. I think that may be the more accurate way to read that. And not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. What do we need to acknowledge as God is our King? That He is our Lord. That He is our God And we want to serve him with that acknowledgement. That must be a part of it. As servants of our King. We must acknowledge that he is God. But acknowledge his blessings and be thankful for them. He's our creator. He made us. He understands us in a way that no one else can. David says in another psalm, he knit me in my inward parts, almost like a way a loving grandmother knits a quilt or a sweater, if they have that capability. And spends time on that. It's a beautiful picture that David gives us of God's care with each and every one of us as He created us and allowed us to be born. God is not surprised by anything that we do. He knows everything about us. He made us and that kind of knowledge shouldn't be creepy. be or disturbing to us. But we should welcome that. There is somebody that really truly understands me. It's my creator Because he made me. Rejoice in that truth. And again, that alternate translation, the Hebrew can be translated, and we are his. We are his. If God made us. Doesn't it stand to reason that he has authority over this? The Creator has authority over what he has created. And that shouldn't be a problem for us either. Lord, you gave me existence. You allowed me to be here. You created me. I'm glad that I'm yours. I'm glad that I have your name stamped on me as your child. That's no problem for me. If we're bothered by that truth, then we really need some reflection in our lives. Do I really do I believe that my Heavenly Father really loves me and is good to me? If we're estrained from Him, if we're estranged from Him. Because we've gotten involved in things, we've gone our own way, are following after things we shouldn't be following after. God might seem to us as distant or stern or angry. But that's not the picture of who God is. The more we know our Heavenly Father and spend time with Him, the more we know His favor towards us is His children. And we would gladly say, we're his. And then he develops that. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. He is our shepherd, right? The blessings are that we belong. We belong as a community of believers. We're his people. We bear his mark. All of those that put our faith and trust in Jesus, we're God's people. We're God's children. That should encourage us and delight us. He's our shepherd. And I think it would be appropriate, as I we consider this, for me to remind us of what that means. And again, this is another psalm that we could quote without even looking at it, but I won't make you do that. I'll just recite this. But as reminded that we are the sheep of the shepherd, Psalm 23 reminds us of what a blessing it is to have him as a shepherd. So if you'll accommodate me, I want to read Psalm 23 as a reminder again of the blessings that we have being his sheep. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. As the sheep, are we blessed? Him as our shepherd, we certainly are. Take some time to meditate on that psalm this week, and it will fill your heart with gladness for his care and concern for us We rejoice. We are the sheep of his pasture. We gladly proclaim that. And are glad These last couple verses show us that not only do we need to acknowledge God as King, but then naturally what ought to come forth are acts of worship. Worship God as King. And we can enter gladly into his presence with praise. Verse 4. Enter into his gates with, here's our word, thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him. and bless his name. Here we have a picture of a people that feel and sense they can enter the temple freely And the area there around the temple where they can worship God, and they gladly do this. A group of people that want to worship God and feel welcomed into his presence, enter into his gates. And into his courts. But don't forget something that applies to us as believers today: that at some point in the Old Testament The people of Israel had to stop. There was a point where they couldn't go any further, where only the priests could go. And certainly the most important of those areas was the holy of holies. Where the presence of the Lord was, and where God specifically visited his people and let him know his presence were with them. And only certain priests that had been sanctified and at certain times of the year could enter in there and offer up incense and sprinkle the blood and all that took place with them. There was a point in the Old Testament where even as they rejoiced and were at God's tabernacle together, they had to stop. But we today, with all that Jesus has done for us and his sacrifice in that furthering of a relationship to where now we can as individuals Literally enter the Holy of Holies with Thanksgiving. I can go to God. I don't need a priest because Because Jesus was and is my high priest, and I can go to him and directly say, thank you, Lord. Praise your name for all that you have done for us. And we should be thankful, even more so than the people in the psalmist time, for the access that we have to God. Has here the idea of Thanksgiving. Well, okay, what does that mean? Obviously, this isn't referring to what we would consider Thanksgiving. Activities today. But there is kind of a correlation. It seems like what this Thanksgiving, most likely what the psalmist is referring to, is there was a Thanksgiving That was one of the three peace offerings that God's people would offer to him. Um, the thanksgiving offering in particular was one that they would offer to God when it had been recognized that he had blessed them or he had favored them in the specific way. So in Thanksgiving, they would basically provide a meal, and we'll read about this in a minute. It's described in Leviticus. All of these peace offerings were special offerings. There were many sacrificial offerings where the people were not allowed to partake in the food. They gave it all to God, and the sum would be given to the priesthood. But in these peace-offering sacrifices and offerings to God, the people were allowed and requested to take part in it, to also eat of the offering as well. So it was a meal offered in thankfulness to God when he had shown favor upon them, and it was an offering in which a portion of the meal was eaten by the family offering it. Let's look quickly at Leviticus, and we can see this. Leviticus chapter 7, I believe it is. Okay? 7 verse 11. And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he shall offer unto the Lord. For if he offer it for a thanksgiving, this is that thanksgiving offering, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes Mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, a fine flour, fried. See, there were fried foods back then. Besides the cake, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving, of his peace offerings And he shall offer it one out of the whole ablation of a heave offering unto the Lord, and it shall be the priest that sprinkled the blood of the peace offerings. And there's meat involved as well, the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for Thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is offered. He shall not leave any of it until the morning. So here's an offering that involves cakes and meat and unleavened bread. Not quite the turkey and the gravy and the crescent rolls or whatever you have, cranberry sauce that we're accustomed to today. But it is a meal And it was offered to God because of giving him thanks for all the blessings that he had given them. And they would eat it together as a family and also share it with the priest. So in essence, really, it was literally a Thanksgiving meal. Now, in our country's history, we often think of the first Thanksgiving with the pilgrims, and we understand If you under understand what happened there. Them offering thanks to God for how he had protected them. That's an important part of our heritage as a country And um just out of curiosity, do you know the first president that made a Thanksgiving proclamation for this country? There are a number of them that did, but do you know the first? Uh Abe Lincoln, a lot of people think of him, but actually it was somebody even before that. This wasn't an official declaration that proclaimed it a national holiday, but it was a recognition of the need for a Thanksgiving Day. Richard? It started with George Washington. In fact, he agreed proclaiming December 18th, 1777 as the first national Thanksgiving Day. Although it really wasn't established as a national holiday until much later, Abraham Lincoln had a part in that as well. The Continental Congress supported similar Thanksgiving proclamations. But it did not establish it as a permanent federal holiday. We have our own history of Thanksgiving, but you know it goes far beyond that In Jewish history, like we just talked about, there was a Thanksgiving meal all the way back in the Old Testament. There was this precedent of having a time Where we ate together and thank God for his blessings. It really is fully biblical, right? And so when we read that under his gates with thanksgiving, maybe we have a little bit more appreciation For this time of year as well. Finally, we can enter his presence with praise, but we can expect his favor upon us. And this is why we can rejoice and we go into his presence with thanksgiving, because we know that he's not a dark, brooding, angry God that we constantly have to To soothe with our actions and our words. But He is a God that looks kindly and favorably upon His children. That has love towards them. Our God, the Lord, the one true God, verse 5: He is good. His mercy is everlasting. This idea of mercy is a Hebrew word that can be proclaimed or pronounced as chesed. Gotta get that kind of worked up in the back of your throat. And it is a beautiful word. I think it's one of the most beautiful words in the Old Testament. Whenever you see the word loving-kindness or mercy, that is God's loyal love to his people. When you see the word mercy, it's so much more than just feeling sympathy toward us. But it is a word that means God's loyal love is on us. us that he will be faithful to us even when we don't deserve it. Which is a good good portion of the time. When we're faithless, he still Faithful. And that mercy is everlasting. It never ends. And his truth, or in this case, the Hebrew means his faithfulness Endureth to all generations. And here is the call again to the world, to all that will acknowledge Him as God. He will Be faithful to all who put their faith and trust in Him and who acknowledge Him as their King. You see, we knew this already, but it's a good reminder, we have a lot to be thankful for. Meditate on this Psalm this week. Meditate on Psalm 23. Even in the midst of struggles and difficulties, be reminded of all that we have. With God as our King and serve Him with gladness. Rejoice that He is our Heavenly Father and we are His servants. Father, thank you for your word. What a blessing. This little psalm is so packed with power and goodness and encouragement. Help us to be encouraged as we go from here. Here, singing your praises, let us be an example to a dark world that we have much to be thankful for and happy for, to be encouraged for. Because we have you. All this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Right