Show thyself strong reminds us of the power that we have in Jesus Christ, as we mentioned this morning. We don't walk the way of the kingdom city. On our own, but through the power of Jesus Christ. That's a good reminder, especially on a topic like tonight. Um, we're back in the Sermon on the Mount. And And we're in Matthew chapter 5. And this is one of those topics that normally doesn't make the top ten list for pastors' favorite topics to preach on. doesn't uh make my top ten list. Um and yet it's more necessary than ever in our world and in our culture Today. It's about adultery and divorce. And there's a lot of controversy about this passage, specifically when it relates to divorce. divorce. And so with that all that in mind, um, like like I said, it's not if I was gonna choose one of my favorite paths Messages to speak to about this would not be it. At the same time though, it's a Sermon on the Mount and it's a very to skip it or to just wait till later to go over it wouldn't be a Appropriate either. It's God's word. And so we're going to be looking at this tonight, what God says, what Jesus has to say, and how his kingdom peace People should react to this issue. And obviously it's more necessary than ever because access to illicit materials In our culture and on media and and everywhere we look is so much more easier than ever really in the history of the world. This isn't a new problem. This is something that man has struggled with since he first rebelled against God and women too. But even more in our culture today with as much access and as more as much in your face as it is Is we need the reminder of what Jesus is telling us tonight. It's in our faces, it's being pushed at us all the time, and yet we need The message and reminder tonight that kingdom citizens can still remain pure in a world that scoffs, literally scoffs at sexual purity, strange, weird, and marriage faithfulness. Being faithful in marriage, that's a new concept. Shouldn't be. But in our world today, it's different. It's bizarre. Can we remain pure and a testimony in our world today? We certainly And we could be a powerful testimony in this area, as the norm has begotten so low that we as kingdom citizens, when we do what Jesus tells us to do We can be an incredible testimony because we'll be so unlike the world in this area. And the world needs that. Even in this most difficult areas. Jesus can help us to remain faithful. And so let's look at this passage. We'll pray and look into it together at Matthew chapter 5, verse 27. You have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, that whoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath Committed adultery with her already in his heart. If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast in the And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing, a certificate of divorcement. But I say unto you, That whoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery, and whoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery. Father, give us a Understanding tonight. My goal is to be faithful to your word above all else. That's my desire. And then help us, Lord, in the age That we live in to be faithful and to be pure in this very impure and unfaithful world that we live in today. Help us to go in your strength and be a good example for Jesus. Be an example. Follow Christ as kingdom citizens. So we ask for that tonight and for understanding. In Jesus' name. Name that we pray. Amen. Jesus is giving us some very simple truths here in the Sermon on the Mount last week. Don't be angry. Don't be sinfully angry. Because that's murder of the heart. That's something we can understand. But it's something that we all need to hear. And again, that idea of those that are characterized by wrath and anger throughout their lives are those that have rejected Christ. And we'll one day go through eternal punishment. And we don't want to represent the other team, Satan's team, when it comes to that. We want to be good representatives of Jesus So don't be angry. And tonight's another simple one. Don't lust. Don't be unfaithful. And we know this, but we need this reminder. Adultery, Jesus is saying here, even as we start in verse 27, is unfaithfulness. It's not an option. It's unfaithfulness. And it is not merely an action, but it's also a heart attitude Again, verse 27, Jesus is referring to the tradition of teaching that the rabbis at the religious leaders leaders would give from their understanding of the law, and that's why he says, you have heard that it was said by them of old time. From those that teach tradition, thou shalt not commit adultery. This was one of those basic things that as Jesus hears, his disciples and those around him We're listening, they would have said, Yeah, we understand that. It is interesting, though, from the Jewish perspective, the main problem with adultery was looked at more as theft rather than unfaithfulness. And that it was stealing someone's spouse, which it was, but the whole issue of unfaithfulness and two people being faithful and pure together really didn't get a lot of attention. And so Jesus is making uh uh or putting a focus on the aspect of adultery that most of the time didn't get a lot of attention. And that is, verse 28, that whoever even looketh in lust committeth adultery. It's not just an action, it's a heart at a time. Of unfaithfulness. Simple teaching, but yet one that we all need to remember. What is this looking upon? It's a look that imagination Wrong actions. In our society today, unfortunately, we can't get away from the images As many times as much as many barriers as we put, and we shouldn't. Today, we're going to be faced with the opportunity to look at something that we shouldn't be looking at. And Jesus is not referring here to a glance that, oh, I didn't realize that was there, and I didn't mean to. There's the understanding. in our world today that that's going to happen. But he's talking about one that continues to look and the r and thinking and imagining Imagining wrong actions, and that is this idea of lusting that he's referring to. It's a heart attitude. Now I could go through a long list of things that this would Relate to right. Certainly pornography is involved in that. And by the way, when we're warned, when we're reminded of how wrong pornography is, that's not just a warning for men. morning for women in our culture today too. Is the statistics say that women struggle um almost as much as men do in our culture today with This so it's not one-sided. Jesus makes it clear, right? And we know this that that kind of looking at those kinds of things, you're being unfaithful. In your heart. Gratuitous sexual situations in movies, sensual music, immodesty, and I could go on and on. I don't need to be Salacious in this. I don't need to give a long list with a lot of details. You know why? Well, first of all, we have young children here. But second of all, we know. We know what Jesus' teaching is addressing. We don't need a long list. We know when Jesus says this, uh, yeah, it's that look that uh involves my heart and makes me unfaithful to Jesus Jesus and to those around me, to my spouse, and it's wrong. And it's very simple, isn't it? Adultery is unfaithful Faithfulness, not just the action, but the heart attitude. When we allow ourselves to engage in this, we are being unfaithful To God, unfaithful to Jesus Christ. And because of that, then we must respond to it with drastic action. And look at verse 29. If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from From thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. Now does that sound extreme? Is Jesus saying this literally that if if you can't handle um the unfortunate opportunities in our culture today to look at things that we shouldn't and you're struggling with that that you literally take your eye out? Well, Pastor Bach, that would be very painful. right it would be but jesus isn't trying to make a literal point here he's using an illustration that make should make the point very easily to us and that is this is extreme but you need to Take extreme measures in this situation with this sin. Take whatever measures you need to take to not give in to this sin. And so maybe not literally, but if it were possible and you had to choose between having an eye and not looking at this Choose to not look. It's better than one member should perish, that you lose actually lose a body part rather than continue to follow after the sin, reject Jesus. And eventually face eternal punishment in hell. Now, let's be clear, we're not talking about a Christian who has committed this sin who now faces eternal punishment in hell. I think you know that. And we'll get to that in just a minute. But Jesus is making a point here. Do whatever you have to do to not give in to this sin. Because it's that detrimental and destructive. And this is a good reminder in our culture today because we get many times anesthetized. to this and complacent. He continues, if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee, for it is profitable for for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. The I , this is fitting what Jesus is saying here. The eye is where it the entryway. Where it comes in. And the hand is what carries it out. And so those two Jesus mentions, if you're struggling with this, better to lose those altogether than to fall prey and have a life. That is characterized by this. Because again, a reminder that people that have rejected Christ and follow after these things are facing eternal punishment. And We can bring destruction in our own lives if we're following after this sin. So, what does it mean? What is Jesus saying here, summing this up very quickly? Do whatever you have to do to remove Temptation in this area. Do whatever it takes, whatever extreme measures. It may be different for different people. Even in our church, as far as what um you're tempted with, and as far as the opportunities that you have. A general list is certainly some sort with our uh technology today, blocking software that filters through things things and doesn't allow certain things to go through, that's not a cure-all. That doesn't mean that I've got the software so I'm good, I don't have to worry about it anymore. No, it's just one precaution. But we still need these things, especially with children, right? Um children and it Earlier and earlier age statistics are that they are getting involved in pornography and having addictions at an early age because people aren't monitoring Um and they're not being watched and and had these these um safeguards in their lives. And so it's a thing that we must have have and must take seriously. If um you need so if you have questions about that, even um on what software to use, uh trust me, I've done a lot of research and uh no a lot of different uh helpful software. We use something called Covenant Eyes and some other things. And we can give you the information you need to make a wise choice in this regard. But it certainly should be a part of the safeguards. Accountability. Keeping yourselves accountable. Um when we were in Maryland, when I was doing work on the computer, I would have my laptop and it would be right there at the kitchen table, dining room Room table where everybody was walking through during homeschool. And so everybody at any time could just walk right by and see what I was doing on the computer. Now that's a really good form of accountability. And that's only one aspect. But we need to have that set up in our lives as believers, helping each other, avoiding tempting situations. in this regard. And also for those that have not married yet, a pledge to be pure and faithful for your future spouse. And to have that pledge before God. Because marriage, as we're going to see in the next bit here, is a covenant before God to be faithful. And it's very Very serious. So pledge to be pure and faithful. Pledge again, those of us that are married, to be pure and faithful to each other. If we've messed up in this area. If we need to ask forgiveness and we need to ask for help, do it. Do whatever you have to do. Extreme measures to make sure that you're protected as much as possible in this Area because it is so serious and destructive. Our world is filled today with sexual addicts and those that Are constantly letting this stuff come into their minds and viewing this. And the the crimes and things that take place. Our world is degenerating quickly and People are struggling with this, and it's a normal part of life, and it should not be named among Christians. And we shouldn't, we should have a faithful testimony in this regard. I remember um when I was a kid, you know, you'd go into a store or a Quickmart or whatever, and And um there'd be the magazine rack and walk by and dad, what are those magazines that are wrapped up in the plastic way up on top there? And dad's like, don't worry about it, son. Just move on. Or you'd have the magazines that were behind the counter that somebody literally had to ask the cashier for. Dad, why do they put some Magazines back behind the counter, don't worry about it. Let's focus on our purchases here. That's how it used to be, right? Now, all you have to do is take out your phone. And quickly with a few touch buttons, you can bring up all kinds of evil and wickedness. It's so much easier to gain access to. To the point where we might say, can we can we really be pure and safe in our world today? Well we can. But I want to remind us as we're finishing up with this topic is That one of the reasons adultery, besides just being devastating and destructive in our lives and keeping us from being faithful to our spouses and faithful to Jesus Christ, is again, it is a sin that condemns People to eternity in hell. It's one of those sins that will send people to hell for all eternity. And Jesus says that here. Be careful Don't be involved in this. So what is he saying again? That those that are involved are automatically going to hell, no. But those that have rejected Jesus Christ and that are on the other team, that are a part of the other kingdom, their lives are characterized by the salation. Immoral lifestyle. They take it all in and they don't even filter it. It's a normal part of life. And Jesus says that's not how kingdom citizens should act. In my kingdom. That's not the testimony that believers should have. It should not be a pattern in our lives at all. Again, it's so easy because of our lust-saturated culture. It's easy to become anesthetized and complacent. I'm just tired of fighting it. It's just, you know, I go sometimes even, maybe you've had the experience. I'm studying. You can have filters up or whatever. You go to a news article about something that's going on in Israel. Something that of a dig in the old part of Jerusalem and the city that's fascinating. Oh, I can't wait to read about this. And on the side there's some ads and things come up. It's like what what does this have to do with my Bible research and about Israel. Well it just pops up anyway. It pops up no matter what article that you read. It happens. And it might make us discouraged. And this is what we have to remember in the midst of this, that Jesus can give us victory. And this important promise when it comes to this especially, First Corinthians, can everybody turn to First Corinthians 10 I'm gonna do something a little different tonight. 1013. And I'd like us to read this together. There is a reminder. As difficult as it is in our world today to stay pure, it It can be done. We have God's promise in his word. Let's read together chapter ten, verse thirteen. Everybody together. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able But will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. God promises, if we're serious about it. This asking Jesus for his help, there will be a way of escape. Every time we can be pure. Be faithful, maybe not unscarred. And this is not to fit make those that have one time fallen prey to this, and they've asked for forgiveness and they're on the right track now. This is not to make them feel guilty because God's grace can revive us, can get us back on the right track, and all those things that you've asked forgiveness for are behind you. So focus on the future. Focus on being pure in the future, regardless of what's happened in the past. Rely, trust in Jesus Christ. That's taken care of. Those images come up in your mind, that's covered by the blood of Jesus. And I have asked forgiveness for that. Lord, give me a pure mind. Give me pure thoughts. And the power of Jesus Christ can do that. And can help us to do that. But you know, another aspect of this, and this is the aspect of kingdom citizenship, and what Paul was talking about in the letter to the Philippians, is that we all. Need to do this together, in unity, helping each other, encouraging each other, accountability. Even in a sm church this small, in a group this small that's struggling, come talk to me. Come talk to one of our leaders. Get the help that you need Don't fall prey to the idea that this is something that is normal. In our culture, it is normal, yes, it is, but it shouldn't be the normal part. of a kingdom citizen's life. God can give us grace and keep us pure. As dark as the culture is today, he can do That's the first part. Jesus moves on to talking about heart attitudes to now talking about actions and outward things. And he's going to continue on this list for a while. The first one of these is divorce. That topic that is controversial and even among conservatives Baptist fundamental churches, there are a lot of differences as far as where people come down, and there's a lot of um there's a lot of Discussion, put it that way, about what this passage means. And so I want to say up front that my goal in this, the ultimate goal, is to be accurate with God's Word. That is my goal. Um I hate divorce and I'll give you some examples here in a little bit on why. And I don't think it I don't want to Ever see it happen. But even with that, my most important goal here is to make sure that what God's Word says, that I have the conscience, the safety of conscience. that I am being accurate with God's Word. And I hope that comes out in this discussion. Because Jesus is also going to point out here that divorce is unfaithfulness. The world views divorce as an acceptable alternative. Let's look at Verse 31. It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his life, his wife, let him give her a writing or a certificate of divorcement. We'll talk more about this in just a minute, but this was a very controversial subject, even in Jesus' time as well, not just today. And there were a number of religious leaders, rabbis that would allow for divorce. divorce almost under any circumstances, but they would say just make sure you get that legal document of divorce, and then you're good Because it needs to be legal, and then you can, if you have that document, you can remarry and um it'll be a legitimate marriage And so that was the main standard at this time. And so Jesus is pointing that out here. This is the standard that you live under. If you need to get a divorce, then make sure you have a certificate of divorcement. But Jesus turns that all upside down. But I say unto you that whoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery, and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth. Adultery. And this would have been shocking for his hearers who had religious leaders that would almost give divorce certificates for almost anything. And for Jesus to only give one exception here, they would have thought, and that's why the disciples will look at another passage in a little bit and say, Well, Jesus, how can anybody get married then? If that's the the standard that you're going to hold us to. And Jesus addresses that. But the world, again, abuse divorce as an acceptable alternative. It's sad. Um, but if it makes you happy Go ahead and do that. And you just have to somehow explain to the kids that their home is broken up and you're going to have a new home. And you guys know in our world today how messy this gets. You can have people that have been married two, three times, and multiple children. And they'll introduce this is my brother from such and such And even trying to explain all the things that some people have been through, it gets pretty dicey. Man, God made it simple. And man through his His sin messed it all up. God views divorce as unfaithfulness. And specifically sexual unfaithfulness, that word Fornication. It's a unit of one that God that made a covenant together and now they're torn apart. And the results are devastating. Jesus says more clearly and more specifically of how wrong divorce is in this passage. Let's go ahead though, before I go any further, and let's see a little bit more about what the Bible has to say about this issue. What did God plan originally for marriage to be? Genesis 2:24. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother and shall cleave We all know this. God's intention for marriage Marriage. One man, one woman, in one marriage for a lifetime. Now, of course, if that man or that woman dies, there is the opportunity to marry again And we know many faithful servants who have been involved in that. But God had made it clear from the beginning of creation, and unfortunately, as man is often want to do, man messed the whole thing up with his sin. To the point by the time God had established Israel as a nation and was giving them the law, in Deuteronomy chapter 24 verses 1 through 4, it's addressed that divorce, even though God hates divorce, is allowable because man hates And Israel had messed up this whole concept of marriage. Deuteronomy 24. In fact, go ahead and turn there. That would be helpful because there's a few verses here. Deuteronomy 24, verses 1 through 4. And Moses says here, when a man hath taken a wife and married her And it come to pass that she shall find no favour in his eyes, because he hath found some uncleanness in her, then let him write her a bill of divorcement, and give it into her hand, and send her out of his house And when she is departed out of his house she may go and be another man's wife. And if the latter husband hate her and write a bill of divorcement and giveth it in her hand And sendeth her out of his house, or if the latter husband die, which took her to be his wife, her former husband, which sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled. the Lord, and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance. Now that's a lot of details. And as you read that, it almost may sound kind of casual. Well, if a man divorces one woman, make sure that he gets a certificate. that if he marries again and well if he divorces her again then you have this. Moses is not excusing divorce. What he's really pointing out here is Israel had messed this up. There were so many difficult situations that the law was unraveling this and saying at its basic level, since You all have rebelled against God's intended pattern for marriage. That if you get involved in multiple marriages, And divorces. Remember, and the law says the former husband who was involved in that first marriage, once all that mess has happened, he's not allowed to go back and make it worse. And marry that individual who's already been married again and divorced. He's not allowed to marry her again. He's again, this is meant to unravel the mess that is Israel has made of their marriages. But God did allow for a certificate of divorcement, but it was never something that He approved of, and it was never something That he ever intended. Okay? That's important. There's another passage in Matthew that refers to divorce, and we need to go there as well. Matthew chapter 19. Let's look at that. Because by the time we get to the New Testament In Jesus' time, things were messed up all across the board as far as marriage and divorce was concerned. So look at Matthew 19, verse 3. The Pharisees also came unto Jesus, tempting him. They thought, you know what? We can't figure this out. This is a really controversial issue. And it is today too, by the way. Let's see if we can trip Jesus up on this. Is it lawful, Jesus, for a man to put away his wife for every cause? Jesus, you see how much of a mess we've made of this whole thing. What do you think? Can a man just divorce for whatever reason that he wanted to? And this is important. I've got these this helpful bit of information And in Jesus' reply that we'll read in a minute, Jesus rebukes and corrects a first century practice of easy divorce for trivial Reasons. Listen to this. For example, the Mishnah, which was a collection of Jewish traditions that commented about God's law. Does that make sense? The Mishnah said, the school of Shamai, this was a specific rabbi, said, a man may not divorce his wife unless he has found her unchaste. There was another rabbi named Hillel that says, Well, no, that's not right. He may divorce her even if she's spoiled a diss, if she's messed up, supper. can divorce her. And there was another rack rabbi, Rabbi Akaba. Now this guy went really far. He says he may divorce her, even if he found another that's fairer than she. If he finds another woman that's Better looking than his wife, it's free and clear. He can divorce her. Now you can imagine that there was a lot of misunderstanding involved with this as Even the leaders amongst God's people had all kinds of different ideas about what was allowed in divorce and what was not. And this was a much debated thing. And so these leaders thought, we'll catch Jesus in this. And Jesus turns this all around. What does he do? He just affirms God's original plan for marriage and shows that it's God's ideal for all marriages. Look back at our passage. Jesus says, verse four, and he answered and said unto them, Have you not read that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female? He goes back past the law to Genesis. This is how God intended marriage to be. And he said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall leave Shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder. Well, that should have taken care of it. No divorce. But they said unto him, Well, then why did Moses command to give a writing of divorcement and to put her away? Why didn't Moses allow us to do all of this in the first place? Jesus said unto them, Moses, because of the hardness of your heart, suffered you to put away your wives. But from the beginning it was not so. Because your hearts were rebellious. With sin and had no desire for the things of God. God put allowed you to do this, but it was never his intention. With marriage. This was never supposed to be a part of marriage. But I say unto you, verse 9: whoever shall put away his wife, except, there's that exception again. It be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery. And whosoever marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. And his disciples heard this and said, If If the case of the man be so with his wife, it's it's good not to marry. If that's the case, if that's the only reason that's even possible for divorce, Lord. How can anybody stay married? This was shocking to them. All of their opportunities and different possibilities had just been taken away. Jesus said, God intends for marriage. For people to stay together. And he makes that clear. By the way, I should point out, and I'm sure this is the case even in a small church like Village Chapel. There are people, certainly even in this church, that have been scarred or have dealt with divorce in your family. And maybe there's even those Those who have been divorced in the past, don't misunderstand in the midst of all this. I don't want you because of something in the past that has done that you feel guilt or a second class citizen in God's kingdom because of what you've done. When Jesus talks about the idea of adultery here and divorce, he's talking about a one In other words, for does a marriage where a divorced person marries again, are they considered adultery? For the rest of that relationship? Do they wear a scarlet letter that says the word D, the big D, for the rest of their lives? No. In that act, at that point in time, they've committed adultery. But it's still marriage. So my counsel is to those who've had that in their past and have gotten remarried, be faithful to your marriage partner now. That's in your past. You be faithful. Don't focus on the past. And there may be there may be some mixed-up things and some difficulties because you've gone through this. But you can still be used of God. He still has a plan for you. And you don't have to think that the rest of your life you're in constant sin, because that's not how That's not the freedom that Jesus talks about. When we ask for forgiveness for our sin, He gives us forgiveness. And there's ways that we can serve and all of that. So please don't make Misunderstand me. Even in that act, once you're married, be faithful where you are. And that's important. So with this understanding and what Jesus has said, I think hopefully it makes sense that Jesus was not giving credence or acceptance to divorce. But what do you do about that exception clause? And that's Matthew chapter 5 again. Let's look back at that. Verse 35. thirty one thirty two but I say unto you that whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit Commit adultery. Alright. Is Jesus giving an exception to this? And my answer to To you is simply that as much as I've studied this, the simple understanding of this is that in some form or fashion Jesus seems to be giving an exception For the case of fornication, immorality. Now let's focus on that and understand that a little bit more. Because I've read to you two passages in Matthew that have given that exception. But there's also in Mark and in Luke this same basic summary. It's it's more briefly summarized, but there's not And so good people, people that I respect, have looked at that and said, Well then maybe these instances. In Matthew, it means that they're not, if it's not addressed in Mark and Luke, maybe we're talking about a different situation in Matthew than just Marriage. And maybe there's not really an exception in this regard for divorce. And I have studied this out. And I believe in those passages, Mark and Luke 16, is that there's different purposes for those. Luke, probably out of the synoptic gospels, which is Matthew, Mark, and Luke, my study, I think that Luke was written the latest. I think there's a good possibility that Luke could have looked and and even have read Matthew's gospel and as he's um giving this um indicate or this Teaching of what Jesus said, there's a good possibility, he thought to himself, well, Jesus or Matthew mentioned that twice. There's really no reason for me to go over that again. And we have um indication in the book of Luke, that when he covers the beatitudes that Matthew covered and the Lord's Prayer, you'll find he doesn't include all of the beatitudes that Matthew included. In the teaching in the Lord's Prayer, Luke includes less of that teaching than Matthew does. In other words, there is a pattern of not always having to uh bring up everything that's in the book of Matthew Well, what about Mark? Mark was written, I believe, first, before Matthew. That was written by John Mark, but it was heavily influenced with his Relationship with Peter. And what Mark tended to do as he was relaying what Peter was telling him about Jesus' life was he was He would give brief summarizing paragraphs, they didn't have paragraphs at that time, but summarizations of Jesus' teachings that wouldn't leave in every single part of that teaching. In other words, they were summaries that and and Mark had a specific focus that didn't necessarily need to include that exception clause Now there's another aspect of this as well. I know there's a lot of details, but these are important for you to understand where I'm coming from on this, and that I've studied this out There was actually our understanding about New Testament Jewish circles is evidence shows that Jewish law actually required the divorce of an adulterous wife. Actually required that in Jewish law. And so Mark and Luke may have looked at that and said, That that's so well understood, we don't need to bring That up again in this passage, in this relaying of Jesus' teaching. It was important for Matthew, who was talking about what they had been taught in the past by different religious leaders. And so he brought up this aspect of Jesus' teaching. So that's where I'm at as far as why those passages don't include this exception. Those that look at those passages and say, well, maybe Matthew's talking about something else here rather than just marriage, they go to this. Matthew is referring to a betrothal period, which was the legally pledged period to be married before they had consummated that Physically, they would still be considered to be married, even though they were also considered engaged. So, from good people, they look at this and say, Well, maybe Jesus Jesus is then referring to just the betrothal period. And that's what he's allowing an exception for. I have prayed about this and studied this, and I don't Don't see any specific indication contextually that this is in view. In fact, in my mind, it complicates, it adds nuances, complicated nuances, to what Jesus Was simply communicating. When he talked about anger, he said, Don't be angry. He's going to talk about oaths next, and he said, Don't give an oath. I think he's simply saying here, except for the case of fornication, he's making a simple exception clause. It fits with the rest of his teaching in that way Well, let me say, even as I give this to you, again, this is important, that ultimately, as I'm working this out, my My commitment is to presenting Scripture accurately, being precise with the teaching of Jesus. Now, do I approve of divorce? No. Jesus doesn't approve proof of divorce and we're going to talk about that and more here in just a minute. But above all else, I want to, we I must be precise in what Jesus is teaching here. And this is Now, what is this fornication that Jesus is talking about here? What kind of immorality? The word here used has broader meaning and maybe per Purposefully. But I think from my study in the context that this is basically contained to um sexual unfaithfulness in marriage. There's a potential because of the broad use of this word. There was two uses for this word, two words, excuse me, that the Bible used for Fornication. The one that Jesus uses here is a broader word. I leave open the possibility that Jesus could also be referring to other severe, serious Sexual sins. But in my study right now, I think I'm convinced that really he's referring to adultery within marriage. So, with that then, well, Pastor Brock, what do you do then if you allow for this? It doesn't change my viewpoint on divorce It didn't change Jesus' viewpoint on divorce. It doesn't change God's viewpoint on divorce. What is God's viewpoint on divorce? Let's go to Malachi chapter 2. Ultimately, what is God's unchanging view on divorce? Malachi two, verse thirteen And this ye have done again, covering the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering anymore. Or receiveth it with good will at your hand. Yet you say, Wherefore? Why are you acting this way to us, Lord? Why? Because the Lord hath been witness between us. Between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treachery treacherously. Yet is she thy companion and the wife of thy covenant And he continues on in verse 15: Let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. Verse sixteen, For the Lord the God of Israel, saith that he hateth divorce, he hateth putting away taking away Take heed to your spirit that ye deal not treacherously. What is God's position on divorce? He hates it. And I hate it too And because of that, and because this is controversial, I always counsel for marriage restoration. I counsel people when I have the opportunity to not even use the Say the D word in your marriage when things are getting stressful and there is argumentation and there's strife. Don't even use the word. I'll always counsel for marriage Restoration because I know how God feels about divorce. God hates it. Why? It's a breaking of his covenant. God says it's a covenant you make with your wife. And when you have divorce, it's breaking that covenant. Well, then we should never have divorce. True. But do you realize that adultery is actually the breaking of the marriage covenant even before divorce? When somebody's involved in adultery in this way, they are breaking their marriage covenant. And so at that point, it's a matter of the covenant's been broken. Lord, what do I do as maybe the innocent partner in regards to that broken covenant? And again, I will always strive to tell people, with God's help, with Jesus' Power, you can make this marriage work. You can come back together. In your own strength, you can't do it. In the power of Jesus, you can. I had one person That was struggling in their marriage, and he said, You know, my marriage is never gonna be the way that it used to be, but it can be better. marriage if you're struggling and you've hurt each other and there's been adultery, it will never be the same. That's true. But Jesus can help to make it even better and stronger. So, what do we do about divorce? It's almost like the consideration of removing a body part. We're not very casual with that, are we? Even if it's our appendix or something like that. I'll just remove my arm. It's giving me fits and you know I'm just tired of it. I'll just remove my left leg. Been a lot of pain in it recently and I'm just getting tired of it. I've been having a lot of trouble with it. We don't talk that way. Isn't it strange then for a union of a man and a woman that are together as one to even consider Breaking that apart. That's what ought to be strange. And unfortunately in our culture, it's the norm. It also tells those that are considering God's future for the them as far as looking towards marriage is to be careful. Make sure that you are convinced that you are pursuing the one that God has for you. Because marriage isn't always easy. All of us that are here attest to that. We love marriage. We're thankful for it. But it has its hardships at times And make sure that you get your marriage on the right foot started out by being covenanting with God together, that you will serve Him and follow Him faithfully, and you'll never bring up divorce. As an option. So, divorce, a tricky situation, a difficult topic. One that normally I wouldn't bring up, except that God's Word addresses it, and so we But in the midst of my belief that Jesus is giving an exception clause, it's not a command. Jesus And God 's will is for divorce to not be an option, for people to live their marriages that way, to be Be faithful because it's being unfaithful to God and unfaithful to your spouse. And in our world today, where that's common, people need to see the testimony of Jesus Jesus that people stay faithful to their covenants, to their marriages, to their families. That's how people live that are Kingdom citizens, and that's how we should live. Father, thank you for your word. I pray that I was clear tonight. I know I went a little longer than usual, but I thought This was important, Father. Help us to have a better understanding of this whole issue of divorce. And Lord, help us to search our own hearts. In this culture today, Lord, I know it's a constant struggle to stay pure, and yet we have the promise that you will provide a way of escape. So we pray for that, Lord As we struggle through, and help us to remember that Jesus' power will get us through. And in our marriages, to never let divorce become an option. Father, even though there is this exception clause, help us to strive to be faithful in our marriages and be an example, a wonderful, true example. Of faithful covenant keepers and those that follow after Jesus and are on his side. Help us To do that together and be a light for our community in this dark world. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.