I hope that you have been encouraged even this morning in whatever you face, and whatever our country faces. So I feel like with A recent email that I sent out, and our recent focus, even in our singing, and reminders of our focus on Christ. Our children, they're already leaving, but they're supposed to. So that's good for their children's church. And that's good as well, because as I was saying, um, I think the reminder of our faith in Christ Has been enough. We're going to go back then, rather than say anything more about that, we're going back to the Sermon on the Mount and back to Matthew chapter 5 A this is always a timely topic, but as our society continues to Degenerate and crumble. This is one that believers need to keep in mind, and it really is a matter of staying pure. A number of weeks ago, we looked at the second part of this passage on adultery, and we discussed the issue of divorce, but we're going back to the first part now. And it's a reminder of what the true nature of adultery really is. So many times, and this sin, and so many other sins, like anger. Like greed. Lust is one of those that we can see pretty clearly in the acts of others, but we often fail to see in our own hearts. And Jesus is not going to allow us to get by with that. Jesus is going to point out that we have this struggle as a heart attitude. In each of our hearts. And remember, the context in this again is Jesus has just said that he's told his followers, which were Much more numerous at that at this point as he's teaching them near the Sea of Galilee. He has told them, unless their righteousness exceeds Exceeds the s that of the scribes and Pharisees, that none of them will ever enter the kingdom of heaven. And then he goes Goes to these heart attitudes that we're describing. Anger, we've already talked about, the need to reconcile, the need to be faithful to the spouses that we We're married to. And then the need to be faithful to God in our hearts rather than giving in to lust. And these were things that all of the people, including the religious And so Jesus again, for our reminders, Jesus is pointing to himself as the only way to true righteousness. Jesus was tempted in all these things as well, and never once gave into them, and therefore was able to be the perfect sacrifice, the bloody sacrifice that we needed to cover. our sin and to allow us to be righteous and to be kingdom citizens. Because there's not a one of us that can keep these commandments as Jesus gets more More and more specific in the inward nature of our hearts, it's the point is that we should come away saying, we're all guilty. I'm guilty. Maybe I've not had divorce in my life, or maybe I've not given in to certain temptations, but I still have it in my heart. And I need Jesus. And then, as we become kingdom citizens through a faith relationship with Jesus Christ, Jesus alone. Then he enables us to have victory in these things that we almost say sometimes it's impossible to have victory. In our culture today, we're just in bombarded, bombarded By sexual imagery and pornography and all of these things. And yet, folks, we need to be reminded, yes, it is possible to have victory in the The area of adultery of the heart. But we need this reminder. The world, would you agree with me, scoffs at sexual purity? And marital faithfulness. The world thinks that's a joke. Or maybe some that are a little more sincere think it's a pipe dream, it's something that can never be achieved. Yet those that are kingdom citizens that await the return of Jesus Christ, we can have victory by remaining Strong in the Lord, folks, and not in our own strength. And even this issue of sexual purity and faithfulness. We can have victory. So let's read these few verses together as we consider the topic again of adultery. Verse 27, Matthew chapter 5. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. Nobody would argue with that, including the religious leaders. That's one of the Ten Commandments. It's very specific. But Jesus says in verse 28, but I say to you that everyone that looks at a woman with a lustful intent, and really you could say here as well, that looks at a man with lustful intent, this is for Both sides has already committed adultery with him or her and his heart. And if your right eye causes you to Sin tear it out and throw it away. And if your right hand causes you to sin Cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. Very striking, vivid , violent even language. Why would Jesus even say that? We don't even want as he as he makes mention of this possible solution. We don't want these images in our head. Again, not to be gross, but to tear out an eye, to lose a hand. It's not something that we want to think about. What is Jesus saying here? Well, I think we would all agree that whatever he's saying, it's very important. He's using this direct vivid language to get across a point to us that we must not ignore. And he's pointing out that it's not enough just to say, just to check off the list. I have never technically been involved in the sin of adultery, because adultery of the heart is also un Unfaithfulness. It's not, in other words, it's not just an action. We don't just take a list and say, I haven't done this, I haven't done this, I haven't looked at this. Okay, um, I'm not unfaithful to God. I'm not guilty of adultery. Many people in Jesus' audience, probably most of them, the followers of Jesus and the religious leaders Could have done that. We're not guilty of adultery. We're keeping pure in what we're looking at. And maybe another list of things they would have said, oh, we that's one commandment, Jesus, that very few of us have broken. And Jesus Says, really? And again, verse 28. He says, look inward. Have you ever had a lustful thought? Even one? Then you're guilty of all! And so, folks, really, we all stand guilty this morning. Of this very sin before God. Adultery is not merely an unfaithful action. It's interesting. The Jewish view of the sin of adultery, among the leadership, especially, one of their greatest concerns Was that adultery was considered theft. Now you think of the mindset and thinking behind that. And again, um the mindset of husbands and wives, and as sad as it is to relate, it is a reality that this time, as in other times in our History of the world, that the children and even the wives were considered property. And so the Jewish leaders would have a tendency, and people would have a tendency to think adultery, the act of adultery being Sexually unfaithful to in the midst of one's marriage, or even apart from that. The act is wrong because it's fevery It's wrong against the other individual. But Jesus turns us around and says, don't focus on that. It's in reality a sin against God. It's much more perverse and concerning than even a sin against one or over the other, which it is. But Jesus says this is unfair Faithfulness to God, because you're throwing your commitment in a marriage out the window, and you're indulging, maybe not in the end And so you are unfaithful as well. But we must in each of us address the unfaithful heart attitude. Folks, I think we understand this. This is not rocket science, right? That look that Jesus is referring to there Is a look that maybe not even one, because in our culture today we're bombarded by this. It's on our phones, it's on our computers. Um it's on television, it's on in in movies and all of these things. It almost really does feel like we can't, at some point or another, we're going to be confronted With an image that's immoral and wrong. And so what do we do with that? As we see that, do we say, oh Lord? Help me to turn away. Help me not to indulge in that again. Or does our curiosity get the best of us and we look further and we look longer and then we look at other pictures and Pretty soon we're entrapped. That first lustful intent that imagines wrong actions, especially after we look, folks, that's adultery of the heart. And so I could give a long list of examples of this. And I don't think there's need to do that this morning. I think we all know in our Our culture today, pornography, pornography, gratuitous sex and movies and television , music that refers to adultery and sex Sexual situations, very, very inmodest dress. I don't need to go any further than that. I don't need to go through a long list to be salacious. That's not my intent here at all I think we all get the point. We know what Jesus is saying when he's saying, check your attitude of your heart. And it's interesting when we do that, sometimes we can say, well, the guilt comes. Because it's so prevalent, I do assume as a pastor that probably most of our congregation has had to deal with this in some form or fashion. I try not to be naive. about this and that many times there's guilt over it. And so we may say, well, you know what? Just like maybe the Pharisees did or the followers of Jesus at this time, I just need to do Better in this scenario, and I need to do better and stop looking at this, and I need to make sure that I never commit this. And that never really addresses the real problem, though, does it? Because then we can Pursue it, especially in today's culture, and a multitude of other avenues, even if we give up on a couple. To add a little bit of relief and maybe subtle humor. Here to this topic. I was reminded in reading a book on this the other day of an old story and children's story. Do you remember those stories about frog and toad? Have you ever read those? the books. Some of you okay good. I'm getting I'm getting some homeschool moms that are shaking their heads or nodding. Well there's these set of children's books. They've been around for I don't know fifty years about frog and toad and um great illustration illustrations and the misadventures that they had together. And uh so there was this one story in particular where Toad baked some cookies. And Toad said these cookies smelled very good and he ate one. And he ran to his friend Frog's house and he said, Frog, Frog, you gotta taste these cookies that I made today. And he Frog grabbed a bunch of them and stuffed his mouth full. And they started devouring these cookies and then Frog finally said, I think we should stop eating. We will soon be sick. And Toad said, You are right. Um, let us eat the last cookie and we will stop. And they ate one last cookie cookie and then there were still cookies left in the bowl. And so then Toad said, Well, if we don't eat the rest of these, we won't stop. And they said, no, we've got to stop. We've got to figure out we've got to have willpower. So Frog says willpower is trying hard not to do something that you really want to do. And so they tried to hide the cookies in all kinds of places. They first of all tied The box with the string. And unfortunately, the desire to eat the cookies was so great that they quickly untied the string and opened the box and ate more cookies. And so the next thing they said, they tried to put the box on a high shelf. There, we can't reach it anymore. Except that they left the ladder there and soon again they were climbing up and getting more cookies. Now, you all know that if you have a stash of cookies and you put it away for a little bit and you'd you know you think okay that was the last one. That rarely works well, right? If you have access to it. Anyway, the ladder so then um they were frustrated and Frog finally took the box outside And he shouted in a loud voice, Hey birds, here are cookies. And birds came from everywhere, and they ate all the cookies and flew away. And Toad said, Now we have no more cookies to eat. Not even one. And Frog said, Yes, but we have lots and lots of willpower. And Toad said, You may keep all that willpower, Frog. I'm going home now to bake a cake. Well, what's the point of that simple story? Is that in a much more sobering way, folks, we're not going to have victory in this area or in any area. In our lives, spiritual victory, anger, lust , greed. Just by dealing with the cookies and finding a better way to hide the cookies. We have to ask Jesus to deal with our heart. The desires. They dealt with the cookies, and Toads still had a desire for more s sugar and for more things that would make him sick. And folks, we may tack off, okay, I don't have this in my life. I don't have divorce in my life. I don't have this in my life, so I'm okay. And there's still a plethora, a hundred other ways to make And so we need to candidly acknowledge that it is a heart attitude that needs To be dealt with. And that's what Jesus is saying here. And we also then need to take dramatic action. We need to we need to first of all realize We need to assent that what Jesus says is true about lustful thoughts and about gazing at things that are wrong and immoral longer than we We should. We need to acknowledge that it's sin, and that when we are giving into those and doing those things, we are being unfaithful to our covenant God, and we're being unfaithful in our marriage if we are married. Or we're being unfaithful to our future marriage. And we need to have the candidness. To say, I am being unfaithful to God in my heart when I fall prey to these things. And Lord Jesus, I need your help to have victory in these things because And Jesus comes and through the power of the Holy Spirit says, You certainly can 't. Most of the time in these addictions we rarely or we forget to rely on Jesus. Do we even pray? If you're caught in the midst of an addiction or you're caught and when it comes to pornography or these other things, Have you prayed and beseeched God significantly recently? Lord, help me and change me. If you are a child of God, folks, you have the hope of victory in change. It may take time. It may take a lot of time. But the first step is acknowledging that we're being unfaithful to God when we give in to these things. Next, it means to take dramatic action. I think we understand that from what Jesus is saying here: that adultery must be responded to, these lustful thoughts and actions must be responded to be responded to with dram drastic action and to respond effectively to avoid in few future encounters and also to respond soberly realizing the seriousness of sin. We need to take whatever extreme actions that we need to have in order to um um eliminate or tr try to keep the Jesus, I think we understand here that he doesn't mean to actually, I mean, again, this is a terrible picture, but to tear your eyes. eye out. That's awful. That sounds like something out of a horror movie. But what things do would you need to eradicate folks out of your life that you have become dependent on? In order to have victory in this, we need to take dramatic action, even if it's something that's computer related or a device. If you are struggling and you're not getting victory, eliminating those sources and avenues of how to get at these things and look at these things and asking God to help you in your life. Do what you have to do. Take whatever measures you need to. So that you won't have to give in to Let's be realistic. Do what you have to do to make it harder to give in to the sin of lust. I'd like to say that on this side of heaven that we'd be totally victorious, but we know in our world today it's we're gonna fall. Most of us here. So respond effectively, take measures, be sober, realize that this isn't just a one, this isn't just something between me and myself that I enjoy doing that nobody else will ever find out. Online, you know that's not never just two people. There's lots of other people that know that you're looking at that. People that have posted that, people that can trail that and all these sorts of things. You're never alone when you're looking at things like that. Other people know and are involved in track even your trail on these things. So do what we have to do to help remove the temptation. Pray, ask Jesus to help. And then blocking software, keeping accountable. With each other, avoiding temptation, tempting situations, pledging again to be faithful to your spouse or to your future spouse This is a sin that used to be more categorized among men, but folks in our society today it's men and women. It's both. Both can be in Trapped in this addiction of pornography and other things. And so one of the reasons that I um stress accountability And discipleship in our church ministry is for this very thing. Not that you have to come forward and confess everything that you've been looking at, or that anyone needs to do that. But going to an individual like a pastor or someone that you can trust and say, I need help here. Go to your wife, go to another friend, say, I need accountability in this area. It's too much for me to handle alone. And when we are addicted, when we have patterns of looking at things and maybe doing things that we should shouldn't do. We need the accountability of the church body of our brothers and sisters in Christ to help help us gain victory over that. We can't do it alone. We need Jesus. us and his help and we need the help of each other. So whatever software, whatever accountability, pledge again to your wife, to your husband, I need to be faithful to you again. Because it is so prevalent, isn't it? It used to be, many of you know what I'm talking about, you'd go into a store, a quick store Or even um a shopping center, uh a grocery store, and there'd be the magazine rack. And you know, when I was a kid, some things would catch my eye and knows some car magazines or some comics or different things. But then there was always this row up at the top that was covered up. And I always wonder what what's what's that? Why would they Why did they cover up magazine? Why did they put that at the top? And my dad, he saw me kind of looking and kind of wondering what that was, and he came over and he said, he just wanted to make sure what I was looking at but um those things were out of my reach and they were covered up over the days when that was a possibility right nothing's covered up anymore if I'm Folks, it's all out there for us to see at any time. Again, not to be too salacious, but I do remember the first time that I was exposed. To pornography. It wasn't of my choosing. Um, it was actually a visit to my grandmother's house, and my family was there, and me and my brothers, and a cousin named Craig, um we were we were j we we just uh wan there was a field out beyond my grandma's house and we would many times walk in the field and talk and and just enjoy Joy being outdoors. Well, we went outside the gate and were walking around this field, and all of a sudden we came across a very strange thing that we'd never seen before. And that was a stack of magazines that were just sitting here in the weeds. Like who throws away magazines and puts them in the weeds? And there was in at the top, there was a cartoon of a scuba diver. Well, this is really strange. So we were just wondering what they were, and we turned it over and we were exposed to pornography for the first time. Ran home and told our parents My mom came in later and said, You know, you want to talk about what you've seen? And I'm like, not really. But it was there. Innocence gone. Folks, I think we all can relate to that. We feel like in many ways our innocence is gone. We're exposed to things that we wish we'd never had to know about or see. And our kids are exposed to things now more than ever. I heard tell recently in an interview between two conservative um Commentators, that pornography has just become a way of life in our culture today. That for young people, just we don't even need statistics anymore. That pornography has become the way that a majority of young people and teenagers are first exposed to sexual things. Because it's everywhere. Can we really have victory in that kind of scenario? Folks, do we trust what Jesus says here? That we We can through his help radically amputate and take extreme measures, but we can counter the influx of this into our lives. I believe That we can. It's not perfect, but we have to do something because in the end, adultery has eternal consequences. As we go back to 29. Remember what it says, your right eye, for it is better for you to lose one of your members than to throw your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away, for it is better that you lose one of your members and let their whole body go into hell. This is extreme. What's Jesus saying here? We're all, I'm sure, I'm confident, in this congregation this morning, guilty of this at one time or another. Are we headed toward hellfire because of that? Well, thankfully, we have so many other passages that make it clear that if we have a relationship With Jesus Christ, we never even have to worry about eternal punishment. That's dealt with. And if we had to worry about eternal punishment after being saved then Jesus Christ and his sacrifice was not sufficient. And we know that's not the case because we know that Jesus accomplished everything that he needed to so that we could be saved, so that we could be cleansed and have victory. Victory over sin, and so that we could confidently say, I will be with God forever and eternity. So we don't have to worry about somehow slipping into hell. For giving in to these sins. So, what is Jesus saying? Well, he's pointing out here that these are sins that do condemn people to eternity in hell if they don't turn to Christ. That lustful thought, that lingering over an image, that addiction that we have, folks, it shouldn't be named in as Kingdom. citizens because those are the very types of actions that without our relationship with Christ the people are condemned and go to hell for. And so we ought to look at that and say, that shouldn't be named. I should be a better representation of my kingdom citizens. I should be a better example of one who's living forever with God and not of one. And I think as well that Jesus is always saying also saying, again, these sins should not be a pattern in believers. lives that these sins are serious don't let's do this folks at the end of this message, at least commit that when you give in and when you struggle with these things, that you recognize that it's serious. That it's no small thing. Let's stop kidding ourselves that looking at these things and watching these movies and letting this television flood our minds, let's not kid ourselves that there's nothing wrong with it. It is serious. And people are going to hell and condemned for all eternity because they reject God and get involved in these things. Let's make it serious and then plead with Jesus to help us to get victory over this. You know, another thing this reminds me of as well is our tendency to look at certain people and again not to belabor the issue of divorce, but look at divorce. And wherever you come down, I've I've given my um uh my interpretation that I believe is the right one in Scripture that divorce is adultery, but that there are extenuating circumstances, there are exceptions. But regardless of whether you come down on that, for us to look Look at certain people that have had divorce in their lives and brand them and not look at our own heart. Brand them as adulterers and not look in our own hearts and say, but I've lost And therefore, I'm an adulterer too. So, really, shouldn't we all be wearing the scarlet letter A? Not just a certain group of people that have Had thus sinned in their past. All of us are adulterers before God. And yet, Jesus says, and Paul says, that God has provided a way of escape that we can have victory. Folks, I don't have time in a message like this to go through all the ways that it's possible to have victory. Certainly scripture memorization, meditation, thinking upon the good things of God and the promises of Jesus Christ rather than those lustful things and those pictures And all of that. Instead of contemplating being unfaithful in our marriage, focus on faithfulness to God and His Word, reading more of Scripture, all of these things, putting these Things into place. Come if you have a struggle with this, come talk to me later. I'd be glad to counsel you further and help keep you accountable. We have many here that could do that. You need help. Come get the help you need from Christ and from others. But let's not tell ourselves any longer the lie that we cannot have. Victory over this sin in our lives. Have we all committed it? I'm certain that's the case. Are we all adulterers apart from Jesus Christ? Yes. But we've been gloriously saved, and our sin has been cleansed. And we can now sing, I can be strong in the Lord, I can have victory over these areas of sin in our life. Do you believe this, folks? That let me have you turn together. I want us to read together a passage, 1 Corinthians 10, 13. I think you know this verse. But for those of you that say in this area of lust and adulterous thoughts and adulterous actions, that because of our society today there's no way that anyone can have victory over this, you need to be reminded of this verse this morning. Now I'm reading from the ESV. You can read from the King James. I don't think it's going to be too chaotic if you read from a different verse. Let us not say again that we can't have victory. Let us not become anesthetized and complacent towards this lust-saturated culture. Let's not Do that anymore, but let's say, Lord Jesus, you can give me victory. And let's read then together First Corinthians 10, 13. Are you ready Ready? No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful And he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. Do you believe that this morning? Then Jesus can give you victory through his word and through each shelter. As former adulterers, but now precious pure children of God help each other to stay pure In a dirty, filthy world. It's possible. Depend on Jesus Christ. Seek help. From your fellow believers and experience victory. Don't worship at the altar of pornography and sensuality and sexuality Unfaithfulness. But turn to God and worship Him again. And have a peace and a release from your guilt and a joy that That passes all understanding. Father. Sometimes even as a pastor, it seems almost hopeless to preach on something like this because things Have gotten so difficult in our world today. And yet, Father, I believe. I believe in the power of Christ. And I believe in that verse that we just read that you will provide And there are many here, including myself , struggle, all of us struggle, with at one point. point or another lustful thoughts and thinking. And so give for those today that are having a deep struggle, that can't get victory. In the area of pornography, that are contemplating an unfaithful relationship with someone else who's not their wife. Lord, today let the Spirit work in their hearts and lives and keep Keep them from sin. Keep them pure. Today, give them a way out. Protect our minds. Keep us pure. And then, Lord, is well, and whatever happens this week, With our country. Help us to depend and rely on you. That we have the ultimate victory. That Jesus will one day return. And every Everything we've suffered and gone through in this life will seem like a momentary blip on the screen. Help us to be faithful till He returns Let's contemplate those thoughts and think on those things and ask God for help and victory in each of your lives today.