We need his help. We need his help to understand the truth that we're going to look at in God's Word today And you can turn to a book. Well, let's just say this. It's Malachi. And I hope as you turn there, the pages don't still stick together. It's not one that we may all the time turn to, but it's one that we ought to be familiar with. And in this series There are give me sometimes we go through multiple passages. But this morning we're staying right there in Malachi chapter 1, verses 6 through 14. And thank you those that helped get a cold cup of water. Unlike David, I will not be pouring it out. But I'll be enjoying it. Malachi chapter one, verses six through fourteen. Well, I hope that as we've continued in this series , Folks, that one of the main things that you understand is that worship is one of God's central commands. It is the most important thing that He expects from us above all else. It was even when God made man in the Garden of Eden and sent him there, what was the number one expectation of God in that garden? That the Father would be worshipped and that he would be glorified. And unfortunately, man failed in that But isn't it wonderful to know that one day Jesus will return and we will worship him through all eternity in a perfect way, folks? That time is coming. It's not here yet. But we will worship him one day in perfection for all eternity. A well-known writer named John Piper reminds us, as I just said here, missions is not the ultimate goal of the church. Worship is. Missions exist because worship doesn't and didn't. Worship is ultimate, not missions. Because God is ultimate, not man. When this age is over and the countless millions of redeemed fall on their faces before the throne of God, missions will be no more. It is a temporary necessity. Vitally important, but temporary. The worship abides forever. Just a reminder, folks, of why we're going through this series and how important it is to understand these truths And so today we're going to discuss, I've given you more of the principles of worship. Throughout the rest of the series, we're going to get much more detailed and practical. And today we're going to talk about one that unfortunately, this is a concern, a negative. a problem that we have in worship that's common. In fact, it's so common we just kind of write it off, take it for granted. Oh well, it just happens. But folks, we're going to see from Malachi that God considers this actually an egregious error that has to be changed. And that is apathetic worship. Having apathy as we worship God. Let's admit it. We all have those times where we struggle with this. But we must never be comfortable with it. Because God makes it clear, He will not accept our worship. It's worship offered as if we don't care about Him. We're going to examine this passage more closely. What I want us to, one of the spirit that I want us to have, is let's be most concerned in worship with what God is most concerned about. There are certain concerns that we all have about the worship service, and I'm sure as I'm talking with you and you're relaying those to me, they're important. But folks, sometimes the most important things that are important to God are so much less important to us, and that should never be. Let's agree with God today that we should not offer him apathetic worship. Let's just read a few verses from Malachi chapter 1 this morning, and then we'll go to prayer. Verse 6: A son honors his father and a servant is master. If then I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my fear? says the Lord of hosts to you. O priest who despise my name. But you say, how have we despised your name? By offering food upon my altar. But you say, how have we polluted you? By saying that the Lord's table may be despised. Will you offer blind animals and sacrifice? Is that not evil? And then let's skip down to verse 9. And now entreat the favor of God that he may be gracious to us With such a gift from your hand, will he show favor to you, any of you, says the Lord of hosts? Oh, that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle on my altar in vain I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, and I will not accept an offering from your hand. Father, this is sobering. It is a reality that we must come to grips with. That so many times we come together to worship, and it's so far less in joy and enthusiasm and even concern for who you are because we get so distracted And Lord, we offer no excuses, but we know our society with this technology is so easy for us to get distracted. And yet, this truth rings out as much as it did back in Old Testament times, that you will not accept worship. That is offered in a non-committal, non-caring way. Oh Lord, convict us this morning. And help us to change by the power of the Spirit that we just sang about, that's able to transform our worship into joyous and enthusiasm. And it can honor you. Lord, help us to do better in this area, even as we hear these truths this morning. And help us to love you enough. To be joyful as we worship together. And this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Apathetic worship is truly a problem. In these first few verses, verses 6 through 8, God knows the reality of our worship. You can't hide it from them, folks. You may even be able to smile, we may be able to, I may be able to put on a face of joy this morning But the prophet Malachi at the end of the Old Testament here reminds God's people that God really knows what's going on in each of our hearts. He knows if our worship and our joy is true, or if we're just being a hypocrite. He knows. And he knows when we lack reverence and awe And honor toward him. Now the prophet, here in verse six He basically states just a universally accepted expectation. A son honors his father and a servant his master. Okay, this is one of the Ten Commandments, right? Sons honor their fathers and daughters too. That's expected This relationship between a servant and their master, as a bond slave, is different in some ways from what we experience today. One practical application of that might be an employee with his employer. But the prophet isn't saying here that this always happens. We know that's not the case. Oh, that it would be that the children always honored the parents What the prophet is pointing out here is everybody understands that that is expected, that that is right. And God's people at this time, as he's writing to them, they understood. Certainly, children, they honor their parents. God's made that clear. And so he takes that universally accepted expectation and he applies it to their relationship with him and says, you are not taking this as seriously as you do that command. Because you're not honoring your father in the way that you expect your children to honor you. God's worship leaders. He's talking to the priests here. Those that would lead the people in worship. And so of course even today, although we don't have priests, we don't offer sacrifices thankfully for that as we as they did in the Old Testament, this still is a reminder to those of us that lead in worship. We have a responsibility. And that is that we honor our Heavenly Father in the way that He calls us to. And yet these men, these leaders, refused to show proper reverence toward the Lord, toward the God of heaven. As we continue here, we're going to see their attitude was one of refusal. We don't need to do this. It's not that important. Amazing, but it's true. And then they argue with God about his illumination into their sinful hearts. It seems as if in a lot of ways, as we continue through this passage, that the worship leaders, the priests, were treating worship in a worthless manner and using the very name of the Lord of hosts to do that. And God's very name was very important to him. Our names are important to us, aren't they? But God's name truly is important to him because especially in this culture, one 's name is what makes one unique and distinguished from others. And so look back at verse 6 again. He says, I'm your father. Where is my honor? It's a rhetorical question. We're supposed to know the answer to that. I'm a master. Where is my fear? That word fear Not as much, although it does have the idea of awe and trembling before an all-powerful God, but not like we're terrorized. um and um were frozen with fear, but it has the idea of proper reverence toward the Lord, honor, respect And of course we would expect that at least the leaders would show that honor, that fear of God, says the Lord of hosts to you, the Lord of all the armies, the all-powerful God that rules over all kings and armies. Certainly God leaders in worship would respect and honor and glorify Him. But yet, he says, those very leaders are actually despising my name. And that word in Hebrew, bazah, means to make despicable, to consider something as worthless. It was a very direct accusation. And it's usually used about people treating valuable things in a worthless manner. It may be valuable, but people treat it as if it's worth nothing. And God says that his leaders are actually treating him in this way. Well, as you can imagine, the leaders would take a front of that. And so they would argue back. But you say, how have we despised your name? And but parents, we understand this, but what if we ever have a child that's debating us And saying, you prove it, you prove where I'm wrong, you know that we've got a problem that we have to deal with. Well, adults can do that too And folks, if we're not careful, we can actually do that with God. And say, Lord, I don't believe. I'm not sitting the way that you say I am. Prove it. How have we despised your name in this way? We're doing our jobs. Well, God says, I'll be glad to tell you. Verse 7, you're lacking reverence toward me, and I know it. By offering food upon my altar. You say, how have we polluted you? Or by offering polluted food or defiled food, presenting that food upon my altar. The offerings that they were giving were not up to par with what they needed to be. They were blemished. They were not the best. That were polluted. Has the idea of desecrating. That these were very, not just a little couple spots, but these were very imperfect sacrifices that were desecrating the worship of God. It was a severe problem. And these leaders didn't even understand that. And he continues further. How are we polluting? How are we doing that? By saying that the Lord's table may be despised or contemptible. How are they doing that? Verse 8. When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor. Will he accept or be pleased with you or show you favor? says the Lord of hosts I like the way in this passage that the New American Standard Translation translates some of this. It says, in a way we can understand a little better, God's asking him a question. It's translated, well, why not offer that kind of sacrifice to your governor? It says, why not offer it to your governor? Would he be pleased with you? Or would he receive you kindly? says the Lord of hosts. The priests were allowing imperfect sacrifices and offerings to be offered before God, and that way they were treating worship of Him, really, folks, as valueless or worthless. They were allowing people to bring animals that were obviously less than the best that God had asked for. And here's the thing. God knows and puts and pinpoints one of the problems that we can understand. These same people, when they were impressing other rulers or other foreign dignitaries or things, Even the priests, when they wanted to impress a leader, they would make sure that whatever gift and offering they gave to that person, oh, that looks good, that looks great, it's perfect. But God says, doesn't the God of heaven deserve that same kind of treatment? And the point is, the God of heaven, the Lord of hosts, deserves far more better treatment than in worship and honor of him than any earthly dignitary. Folks, we all have people that we're impressed with in our lives to make this very practical There are people in our lives that we put our best foot forward for. If you were about ready to meet somebody famous that was important to you Uh whether it was a politician or a leader of some foreign nation or or maybe even the employer of the company, you understand many times the need to look our best and to want to put the best foot forward and say the right things and all of these things. We understand the desire to want to look our best for those that we're trying to impress. But isn't it true at the same time that God's people can come to worship Him in a service even like this? and have very little of that concern at all. Here I come to worship God again, it's just something I do every week, and we're going to sing the hymns and we're going to pray. But we're really not trying to offer the best that we can because God isn't as important to us. And some of these other people even that we respect. And God makes it clear that should not be. That should never be. He knows when we lack reverence for him and he knows when we even lack concern for him. We understand the frustration when you have somebody under you, whether it's your children or whether it's a employee, we ask to do something, and then the job only gets half done or even worse. It's frustrating. And we get irritated with people like that. Yeah, another aspect of this, I was thinking as they were talking as the prophet Malachi is talking about the sacrifices that the people are offering , and they're not being very careful. It's just a thought came to mind about I guess recently as I've been helping Leslie do some shopping and things and I won't even give you the name of the of the store because that'll just destroy But it gets really hard a lot of times to find good quality vegetables and fruit sometimes in our stores and things, isn't it? So I don't know about you, but I have to look things over lesbian meekets and lettuce the other day. And it has to be a specific kind of nutritious lettuce, which is good And I'm looking all over this particular store that I won't name, and I couldn't find anything, and finally I found one bag, and I look at it like, eh, I think it's okay, I guess. Oh, it's the only one they have when we need it. And I brought it home and Leslie took it out and it wasn't the quality that we expected. We could still use it, but it was obviously not a very good quality. And some of us, when we're looking at those fruits and vegetables, you all have your own ways, or many of us do, of checking them out and saying, you know, what 's it like on the inside, and is it really a good quality? Some people go to local farms and get their vegetables and their eggs from local farms and these things so that they know they're getting the best quality Well, I find that interesting, even as I was thinking on this, folks, we spend all that time making sure that we have the best quality of things in our own lives. And how much time then do we spend preparing and making sure that God has the best quality in the worship service? That would be convicting for all of us as we think on that. And that's what God is calling us to here. Let me just ask: do we carefully examine what we're offering God in the worship service? Let's get real practical here. Our attitudes, our actions, our responses, are they what they should be before God? Or are we blemished? Do we have anger? Do we have bitterness? Do we have a lack of joy that is a severe blemish on the worship that we offer? Is it okay if I even get a little more personal? Even as we sing, now one of the things that hopefully we're accomplishing As the leaders of worship up here is that it is showing a joy and a love for Jesus Christ on our faces. And we're trying to do the best that we can by God's grace to do that. But that's not just a responsibility of the people on the platform. That's a responsibility, folks, of everyone. I'd just like you to think, do people, do visitors as you're singing praises and as you're taking part in the service, can they see on your faces that you are reflecting upon the message of the song and the joy of what we have in Christ, are they seeing your love and your joy for Christ? Not to try to be too funny here, but um I thought about this, that song that we introduced today. I think some of you, most of you knew that well. We will glorify the King of Kings. We will glorify the Lamb. We will glorify the Lord of Lords who is the great I am. We would all agree. Those are wonderful words that we ought to sing out. But if we're not careful on our faces, folks, we can portray or even in our hearts, we might have something entire different. We might be portraying something like, I hope the service isn't too long. I hope to leave pretty soon. The weekend really tired me out and I still got lots of stuff to do. We wouldn't ever say that. But can't we reflect that in our hearts sometimes and in our faces it's not the right worship then that God deserves? And He knows more than the pastor does. He knows our hearts. God disdains our apathetic worship. Continue verses 9 through 11, and he's displeased with hypocritical worship. And here the prophet addresses the wrong expectations of the worshippers, moving beyond the leaders to the worshipers, that they still expect God's favor in their lives, even though they're being disobedient to him in worship. Look at verse 9. And now entreat the favor of God. Malachi is saying, this is the expectation of the people Even though they're bringing these blemished sacrifices and they're making it clear that they haven't had a lot of concern for worship for God, they still say, But God, you give us favor, you entreat us. You be gracious to us. And then Malachi asked the question, with such a gift from your hand, will he show favor to any of you? says the Lord of hosts. It's another one of those questions that we should know the answer to. God says, you will not obey me with proper worship in your minds and in your spirit and in what you offer me. Do you really think then that I am obligated to show you favor or to blush you? That's a critical question, isn't it? But then God says something really here. Yahweh, the God of Israel, says something that should be shocking to us. If you've ever read this before, look what he says in verse 10. God answers his own question. Oh, that there were one among you who would shut the doors That you might not kindle fire on my altar in vain. I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, and I will not accept an offering from your hand And here God says, I'd rather the temple doors just shut it all down. Just send somebody to shut the worship down. Because I can't honor this careless, apathetic worship any longer. No more unworthy offerings to be made. Just shut the whole thing down. Stop going through the motions. And we might say today, well, that was the Old Testament saints. That was the people of God in the Old Testament. That doesn't apply to us today. Well, then there's that book called the Book of Revelation. Where Jesus has some words for the churches, right? And he gives those to John. And some of the words to those churches say kind of the same thing. Jesus warns them for their apathy and their disobedience to them, to him, and he says, if you're not careful, I'll snuff out your life. So is God as concerned about the worship, the poor worship and the disobedience that we show him today in the church as he is in the temple and the Old Testament with the Old Testament saints? Surely he is, folks. He expects our worship to not be apathetic. Here's the point. When we worship in an uncaring, apathetic way, our worship is in vain. The Lord takes no delight in it, and furthermore, he will reject it. That's a hard fact, hard truth. That's what God says here. I will have no pleasure in you. I will not accept. I will not find your offering of praise and worship favorable because you are not being obedient and you don't care. And when we worship God and we don't care, folks, he's offended by that. And he will deal with his people Now you might say, well that's hard. That's really hard. I mean, Pastor Brock, you don't know what I've been through this week, and I've had a lot of distractions, and and I'm trying my best, but I will Be honest, even as I'm worshiping, there were a couple times that I have other thoughts and I was distracted. And folks, I understand that. It happened to me too. In this life, we can't offer perfect worship to God. But because of our relationship with Jesus Christ, He's ready to help us. So are we are are we comfortable with half-hearted, apathetic worship that displeases God? Or are we ready to turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and say, by your Spirit, I will do the best I can to worship you with energy and with appreciation and with love. And with care for all that you've done for me. I can do it that way through the power of Christ. And one day, as described here in verse 11, folks, we will be able to worship Jesus Christ. Worship the God of heaven in a perfect way. Don't despair. We may never be able to accomplish that in this life, but there is coming a day, look at verse 11, where we will for all eternity. God says, from the rising of the sun to its setting, my name will be great. You can count on it, it will happen among the nations. And in every place incense will be offered to my name and a pure offering, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. God says, I know that in this life you can't worship me in a perfect way. That way's coming. It will happen. The whole world, the whole universe will bow before the Lord. And again, as I said before, I hope God lets me kind of look around at that point where Jesus returns and we're worshiping him Because there's a lot of people that I'd like to see bow the knee before Jesus Christ. I'm looking forward to that day. It will happen, folks. John Piper says this, all of history is moving toward one great goal, the great goal, the white hot worship of God and his son among all the peoples of the earth. Missions is not that goal, but missions is the means, and that's ultimately why it's so important for us in missions to support people and for ourselves to be um testifying of Jesus Christ so that we can worship God in the way that He intends. Only folks, only through a relationship with Jesus Christ will we be able to accomplish that worship Well, what does that say then? That for God's people here today, there's no excuse. We have the power of the Holy Spirit in us. To help us to worship God in a way that the Old Testament saints, you might give the Old Testament saints a little bit of a break, even though God makes clear how they need to worship Him. But how much so are the more the people of God who have the Holy Spirit within them that can constantly be reminded by the Holy Spirit Himself of the character of their God and the love of Christ and his sacrifice and all that he has done for us. There is no excuse, folks, for careless, apathetic worship when you have a relationship with Jesus Christ. It ought to motivate us every week to come and worship Him with our whole heart. Jesus returns and establishes his kingdom. All worship will one day meet his standards and expectations. But until then, we should desire right now. It's a challenge. We should desire for our worship to be as right and as pure and as holy as we can possibly make it, and never satisfied with less than that, but always moving to make it better. Another one of my favorite authors, Paul Tripp, said, corporate worship is designed to keep us from ever taking the redeeming love of our Savior Jesus Christ for granted. And if you are worshiping him with a full heart of gratitude, that shows that you understand what he's done for you. If we're worshiping him carelessly and unthoughtfully this morning, folks, we need to remember more of what our Savior has done for us. And it will make us glad. And it will infuse our worship, regardless of how the pastor looks in the morning or the worship team, or how somebody played the piano or the song that didn't get picked in. you were looking forward to. All of that will be inconsequential compared with Jesus Christ did all for me. I get to worship him. Let's go. Let's do this. Well, here's the most sobering reality of all this, folks, is that God will discipline our apathetic worship if we do not change, because he will not accept our half-hearted worship. And continue with verses 12 through 13 and 14 we find that he will punish half-hearted worship Verse 12, but you profane. That means you are deliberately defiling something when I have told you not to. But you profane it. You profane my name that is worthy of all honor and praise. God's name is his character, and we don't worship him in the way that he intends. We're profaning, profaning. We 're despising, we're making dirty his name. You profane it when you say the Lord's table is polluted and its fruit. That is, that its fruit may be despised or contemptible. He says, you are not offering pure right sacrifices, right worship. Well, again, that's quite an affront. To people who think that they're very religious and that they love the Lord, and that people think that they love the Lord, so they're affronted by this, so they debate God again. But you say, oh, what a weariness this is. And you snort at it That's quite the picture picture there. I love the NASB, the New American Standard translation. It says, My, how tiresome it is, and you disdainfully sniff at it, says the Lord of Hosts. What's our modern-day vernacular for that? It's boring. I'm so bored. This isn't the way that I want to worship God. This is tiring. It's weary. Now remember, they're thinking of the sacrifices and the priests and all the offerings, and there was a lot of integral things and a lot of blood and things, and the people tended to look at it at the end of the of the Old Testament and say, We're bored. We want something better. Now eventually something did come to and that was Jesus Christ in God's time. But folks, how much more then? If we've experienced the fact that Jesus Christ has come, how much more should we be unwilling and be careful to ever say that's boring? If you have the Holy Spirit in you reminding you of what Jesus has done and you have the opportunity to sing, how could that ever be boring? Even if you didn't know the song before you came to church. But we ought to be ready to sing his praises in a better way than even the people could, and not have this attitude. How tiresome. I just don't even want to come to church anymore. Complaining about it being wearisome. Really, literally lifting up their noses out like, ew, I don't want to do this again They become complacent. And here's something that's even more interesting. Look what he says in verse , the end of verse 13. You bring what has been taken by violence or theft, or is lame or sick, and this you bring as your offering. Shall I accept that from your hand? says the Lord. He's saying, you allow the people to steal from others and you're accepting those offerings, knowing that the people have stealed those have steal have stolen, have taken those animals from others illegally, and you offer up to me and you're okay with that. What sins do we commit today, folks, that we just think, oh God's okay with it? He doesn't say anything, nothing's happened, so it's okay to do this. It's okay to come to church and be frustrating. Frustrating. How about this? Have you caused a stumbling block with someone else today and as they're preparing for worship, you've come up and said something to them that was negative or angry And you ruin their preparation for worship. It's okay, God's merciful, he doesn't mind. We shouldn't ever be accepting of that But we need to examine, are we offering right worship and not sinful worship? Because God will not accept sinful worship from careless hearts Really, when we offer apathetic, uncaring worship, it's blemished, it's spoiled. Look at verse 14. Cursed be the cheat. Or the deceiver who has a male in his flock and bows it and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is blemished. For I am a great king. says the Lord of hosts. And my name will be feared among the nations. Don't you understand? I am the Lord of Lords. I am the great King. The great King And you're literally going to offer up things that are stolen and blemished and weak and far less than what I deserve. It shows you don't understand my value and my worth. And God says, I am a great king, and I will not, and cursed will be your offering. You realize when we worship God in this way, without care, without concern, without love for Him I don't know if you thought about this way, but we're cheating God actually out of worship that He rightly deserves. He's not getting the full worship from our hearts. We're actually stealing worship from God. One author describes this as being a glory thief. Folks, we're all we're all guilty at one point or another of stealing the glory from God and putting it back on ourselves as glory thieves. But you don't deceive and steal from the sovereign king of the universe. That's not appropriate. That's not expected God doesn't need our worship, but he commands and expects that yes, we are going to worship him in this way. We had a melon one time that we were excited about, you know, talking about being very picky and choosy and things. And uh got this watermelon. It looked okay from the outside. It looked exciting. So we cut it open. I think it was our mountain. And I I really don't, I still to this day don't know how this happened. Because we cut it open, we're slicing it open, the poison's kind of like, eh There was mold in the middle of that melon. I don't I still don't understand how that happened. But it was gross. And the boys weren't real interested. Well we paid some good money for that melon, but they weren't real interested in, hey, let's just scrape it off and let's do Eat the rest. It's okay. Because that melon was defiled. How many times do we come to the service and we look like everything's okay on the outside, but inside folks So we're defiled and we're offering in God something that's just you. That's gross. So here in the end are some questions for all of us, the pastor included. Are we weary today with right worship? Are we bored? Are we just sitting Do we complain more about the different aspects of the service rather than examine our own hearts to be make sure we're prepared and unblemished? And cleansed of selfishness and pride, I don't think we do that as much as what we need to But we can through a relationship with Jesus Christ. The Spirit, folks, can enable all of us to worship in a way that God intends for us to worship. as we give him all the glory and we don't take any of it on ourselves, but we tell him that we love him and we we're thankful for him. Because God is a fool. He knows the quality of our worship. He knows when we worship in pride rather than in reverence and submission. And it makes it clear here at the end, he's going to reject eventually those proud offerings. You're not going to receive the blessing individually that God would have given you if you don't come with a heart that's ready to worship Him in the right way. And folks, that's a shame because the blessings of worshiping God and being thankful for him are wonderful and marvelous and ought to make us go out here with a smile and joy in our hearts. The blessings are rich for those that worship God in the right way. He's going to deal with us when we complain and disdain right worship. But each of us in our hearts With joy, with thankfulness, we can offer right worship to God because we have a relationship with the one that made it possible. There is no excuse to not care about God in our services. And let's ask Him to help us to do a better job. Us. Father, it's a sobering reality, but we understand it happens way too often that we come to these services and we're not prepared. We don't have joy. And we are distracted by so many things. Lord, help us to trust in Jesus every day And to trust that he can enable us to stop being glory thieves and to give glory 100% to you as you have required and expected it. Help us to cleanse us, Lord, from our selfishness and pride of what we want, and our distractions in bitterness and anger towards others. And help us come as clean vessels, ready to offer up with joy and thanksgiving all to you Because you've done so much more for us. And even more importantly, you are the great king. And you deserve all of this and so much more. And so help us to worship you in a way that you deserve until Jesus comes. And we can worship you in perfection. We look forward to that day, but help us till then to do this in a right way that we may honor you and receive the full blessings of glorifying you forever. This we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.