This church began and it continues to be a theme that's important to us. You may be seated, and our kids can go down to children's church. And you can turn back to Ephesians chapter 3. We're going to try to get through 13 verses this morning. And we'll see how well we do. I was thinking through this whole theme of God instituting this local church upper crossroads and the good times and the bad. And also thinking as I was preparing for this about the sufferings of Paul. And Paul begins this beautiful letter. to a group of seasoned faithful saints who are being powerful witnesses for Christ in their community and in their whole region. And so Paul is again reminding them to rejoice in the things that they have in Christ. And so I'd like to read for you that just a few of those things again. Turn, first of all, we're going to be in Ephesians Ephesians three, but turn back to Ephesians one. And I just want to read to you some of that list. From verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, all the blessings that we need and many more. He provides for us. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. That is the theology of election there. And we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. God loved us enough to adopt us as sons and daughters. according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ As a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth, and you could continue on with that glorious statement. But Paul is recounting the blessings of those who are the children of God through the work that Christ has done. And all we do is put our faith and dependence in that work. No work of our own as Ephesians, as Paul continues through to remind us later on. And then he talks about how what we were in the past, that we were slaves to sin, that we were rebels against God, that Satan was our captain. And we were happy in that way. And Christ redeemed us. And God chose us from that path. to be his own. And then also the fact that as Gentiles, which I think uh encompasses most of us here, basically those that are not Jews, that we were set, we were cut off from the promises of the messianic people, of the Jewish people, and Christ in his work allowed us to have a part. in those blessings that are eternal and we have an inheritance and we um will be with God forever And we will worship Jesus as our King forever. And our Heavenly Father as Lord of the universe. And we look forward to those things. But Paul emphasizes the power of God that can accomplish all of this and that has accomplished our salvation. And he's emphasizing these things of all that Christ has. accomplished and brought us together and unified us so that we can have peace as we meet together as God's people. We don't have to bicker and argue, but the power of God can do a marvelous work of unity. So that we can come together and worship him and put all of our frustrations and enmity aside and do all of that. And yet, Paul is writing all these glorious things. And he's basically shackled to a Roman soldier having really no freedom of his own at all. And is sometimes suffering greatly in prison. And so his audience that was receiving this letter, these folks, they might have looked at this and said, wow. The glorious power of God to accomplish all these things, the power of Jesus Christ and his death and resurrection brings us unity, allows us to be together as the church, and yet here's Paul suffering Wow, Paul, that doesn't seem like God's power is really doing amazing things that we can see in your life. There's kind of a contrast here, Paul, between the glories that you describe and what you're suffering right now And Paul was suffering. I think in the history of our church, you know, a small community of farmers that get together and they say, Jesus Christ needs to be named here. in Hartford County in Baldwin, Maryland. And we're going to start a church to do that. As through revival, the Spirit was working and God moved them to do that. But we're just a little church in the big scheme of things, folks. Off on a side road here, Green Road, named after a former family that attended this church for many years. And we've had our ups and downs. At our largest, I've been told that we were over 200, maybe 250, closer to 280. And we've had times when we're smaller Now is one of those times where, well, we get everybody here, we're around 100. And we may look around and say, all this powerful uh truth that we've heard from Ephesians, but I'm kind of looking around our church and saying, uh, where's the glory? Where's where's the power of God working in us here at Upper Crossroads? And we may tend to doubt, or we may tend to diminish what God is doing. People may have tended to diminish what Paul could do because he seemed helpless. And so Paul in Ephesians 3 now reminds the people that even though outward circumstances it may not seem like God is at work, that God uses even our suffering And our lack of ability and our weakness to accomplish his glorious things. And so, yes, folks, Paul, or God was accomplishing marvelous things through Paul, even through his suffering in prison. It is Expected that Paul may have even had eventually evidence to Caesar, to the head of the known world, and that through Paul Caesar himself might have heard the gospel. God was working through Paul. God is working through this church ministry. And we must not diminish what God can do here. Be confident, folks, in God's powerful plan. And so almost, again, as I read those descriptions to you and the blessings of God, it almost sounds like it's something that's too good to be true. I remember a series of advertisements when I in the 80s when I was a teenager. group of uh radio advertisements where it would go through something that sounded a a couple would talk about something where they discovered some sort of way to earn money or something that sounded really good and they were gonna put their money into it and the ad at the end said If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. You remember that? Folks, sometimes we can come to the promises in the and and the talk in the description of the power of God and we think almost, man, that sounds too good to be true. I just don't know anymore. I have my doubts, Pastor Brock, that God can work in this small church. I'm just not sure. It sounds too good to be true. But no, folks, God can work powerfully as he was working through Paul's sufferings. He can work through our weakness and our smallness to accomplish his purposes. And so Paul gives a little bit of a digression here in chapter 3 to bolster the confidence of the church. That God's plan for the ages is still going on, and they could be confident in God's plan for them for the church because he has provided access to the revealed mystery of God's plan. A mystery that the people in the Old Testament could not understand. Did not have access to the truth. But Paul says now in the church, you have access and understanding to things that God's people could never have understood back in the Old Testament. And we should glory in that. So look at chapter 3, verse 1. For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, on behalf of you Gentiles. Paul says, yes, I know that I've just described the marvelous blessings of God, and yes, I know that I'm a prisoner. Those may seem like contradictory things, but this is all because of God. This is all because of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ has ordained that I be a prisoner so that you Gentiles could hear the glorious truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And folks, whatever difficulties, whatever suffering you're going through today, whatever challenges you're facing, remember that's not fate. That's God's ordaining plan for your life, just like he ordained for Paul to be a prisoner at this time. to lose his freedoms so that the gospel could go forth. Whatever you're facing, it's been ordained by God, and he has a purpose for it. He says, verse 2, assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly. Paul was imprisoned, but he refers to himself here not just as a prisoner, but as a steward, which is very interesting I looked up some definitions. He says the stewardship of God's grace. But he's referring to himself as a steward. That God has ordained him to be that. Well, the next question then obviously is, what is a steward? I looked up some definitions. First of all, it can be a person who looks after passengers on a ship, aircraft, train, bringing meals, etc. That doesn't really fit what Paul's going through, right? Number two, it could be an official appointed to supervise arrangements or keep order at a large public event, for example, a sporting event. That doesn't really fit what Paul's going through either. Number three, it could be a person employed to manage another's property, especially a large house or estate. And that fits what Paul is describing here, that God has made him the house steward. Of the church for his purposes, and he is managing the house and its members To follow after God's ways and to be the proper example of Jesus Christ. Paul says, that is what he has ordained me to do by his grace. A biblical viewer of this stewardship could be defined as this. Utilizing and managing all resources God provides for the glory of God and the betterment of his creation. So in the context that Paul is saying here, he's saying, I'm not just a prisoner. I'm actually a house steward. God is my Lord. He owns the house. He's the house lord. And he has a plan for the household of people and his head servants, and I am the head of the head servants, Paul's saying here. I'm over that household. Now this should be somewhat interesting to us, although it's a unique description, as we are described literally as the house servants of the house of the Lord. Remember, we just talked about the fact that the church is the temple of God, and so we are the stewards of that temple. But there's a lot of interest even over the past decade. I won't go into the name, but there's a show, English Mansion, large English mansion where some wealthy people live. The show talks about the lives of the servants and the people and all of this, and they're still making getting a lot of mileage out of that, still making movies about that today. See, we have some interest in these types of things and thousands, millions of people watch these shows. Well, it's the same sort of concept, but a much more sanctified and holy way. than any wealthy English household going through uh trauma and tribulations. No, this is the household of God He is the Lord. And Paul says, I am one of the head housekeeping people. For God, and what a privilege that is. He says that means that I get to share with you all the truths of what Jesus has shown to me. I am able to show you the mystery of God's plan, that we as a privileged people of God can understand more of God's plan than God's people were ever able to in former times. Folks, that should amaze us and humble us that God would allow us to have that kind of understanding about His will. word. When there were people in the Old Testament that would have, we say, given their left arm, but they would have given anything. To understand more of what God was doing. And Paul has now the privilege of explaining further the mystery that he mentioned in chapter one. Let's look at that just briefly here. Just turn a couple pages to Ephesians 1. Paul says, I have the opportunity of explaining the mystery that I mentioned to you earlier on in my letter. Ephesians 1, 7 through 10. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us, here we go, the mystery of his will. According to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things in earth. And so Paul says, I have been given the privilege, along with other the other apostles, Peter, John, and the others. to provide spiritual insight and revelation into this mystery, this church that Jesus has put together and his head over. The church was still a new thing uh to the people of God. And they were still marveling at the the content and the fact that it included not just Jews, but Gentiles, and it included people of all ethnicity and all backgrounds, and they all came together to worship God. And people were still marveling that God would do this. And Paul said, it is my privilege to give you further spiritual insight and revelation in the truth of what God is doing. God chose Paul as Paul was a rebel fighting against God. Actually probably had was responsible for the actual murder and the death of many new Christians. and new members of the church. And he thought that he was doing God's work and he was on his way, remember to Damascus. We have this in the account of Acts. And Jesus miraculously confronted him, blinded him with the truth of the gospel, and said, Paul, this is the truth that you have not had understanding of until now, and it is that truth. that God gave this rebel to now impart to the rest of the household of faith as they continue to grow as a household of God. And this was, again, information that God's people in the Old Testament had no knowledge of. And so Paul says, we ought to marvel because we're not worthy that God has chosen to show us these things. That the promised Messiah has come. And he came not just to provide us a political victory, but he came to provide us ultimate spiritual victory. Because in our sins we were faced with eternal death and eternal separation apart from God for all of eternity. And Jesus came and shed his blood. so that when we put our faith and trust in him, we can be called one of God's children. We can be made anew. We can have an inheritance and look forward to a future new body and a future dwelling place with God. forever. And God in his mercy and his grace made decided all of this before eternity passed. And he is the one that decided to make Paul, this former rebel, now the house manager of the whole estate. People might have said, well, why does Paul get to do that? There's plenty of other guys. I mean, at least Peter wasn't responsible for the murder of Christians. Why would Paul get to do this? Because God decided. It was God's sovereign will that Paul be the main house manager over the household of the Church of God. See, folks, we have to humble ourselves before this fact We need to trust our loving Heavenly Father and then humbly submit that God knows best and He has the authority to ask us to do whatever He wants us to do. And we must be willing to do that. Not be rebels. September 8, 1928, God ordained that a group of farmers from North Carolina and their families would get together, and he worked, the Holy Spirit worked in their hearts that they needed a church. Church here on Green Road in the midst of their farming and their fields , God brought together the people for Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. church. And he had a plan for them to testify of Jesus Christ. Folks, that's still the plan today. Even as we look around and see each other, and we pray, Lord, please, you know, grow our ministry here, grow the household of faith here at Upper Crossroads. We need to remember that our simple responsibilities are to be bright lights for Jesus Christ in this world, in this community, and around the world. It's really simple. Are we still committed to doing that as the people were that began this church so many years ago? Well, God has given us access to the mystery of his plan, but he also has given us access to the promises of his plan. Look at verse 6. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. members of the same body and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. You see, the promises of spiritual and eternal redemption are not just for one group of people. Here is the mystery revealed. God had always hinted at this throughout the Old Testament and said that He would provide opportunity for people beyond the Jewish people. to come to the Messiah and to worship the one true God. But Paul says now he has made it clear that this is through Jesus Christ. the work of Jesus Christ, that he brings the Gentiles in, and we also are heirs to the inheritance, not just the Jewish people. But we who are far off, we now share in the inheritance of God's people. We're fellow members of the household. We have a stake in the promises of the Messiah's kingdom. Now when I say that, I need to say something just uh make sure that we're all on the same page here. I'm not saying, and a lot of times Christians get this mixed up, that as the church we have access to all of the promises that God gave Israel. There still are some promises specific promises that God gave to an ethnic people, the Jewish people, in regards to the land, in regards to the kingdom. That is specific for them. But folks, the shared promises of relationship and union, reconciliation with God, and this mystical union that we literally have with Jesus Christ. and the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives who makes us more mature in our walk with Jesus Christ that allows us to be brighter, more refined lights for the Savior in holiness. We have uh shared access to all of that, Jew or Gentile. And Paul says, I'm the guy that gets to share that with you. What a marvelous thing that is. We have access to the promises of God. And he will do this work in us till Jesus returns. So be confident in God's plan for the church. It is a sovereign plan, and he's called us to be a part of it. But be confident also in God's message for the church. Let's continue just for a few minutes here to look at verse 7 and we'll try to get through verse 13. Of this gospel I was made a minister, according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power, to me, though I am the very least of all the saints. This grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ and to bring light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God, who created all things. Paul's saying here that he gives us, he gives Paul, and he gives us the grace to proclaim God's message of his son, Jesus Christ. And Paul in verse 7 again reflects with amazement that God allowed him to be the head servant over the household. He said, basically saying, I don't deserve this. Of this gospel. The gospel of the salvation, the redemption that is found in the work of Jesus Christ. God made me a minister of that. And it was all a gift. It wasn't anything that I deserved. I was a rebel doing harm to the household of God. And Paul says, look at what God has done in his grace. He's given to me by the working of his power all that I've accomplished and all that I continue to accomplish imprisoned in this cell with this Roman soldier. and access to Caesar himself. All of this God has done not because I'm an effective communicator or because I'm a really good salesman or I've always been good with people. But Paul says, all this is accomplished by the power of God in my life. And he marvels. He says, I'm the least of all the saints. I'm the least worthy. To have this wonderful privilege. Oh, what a great God He is! What a miraculous, wonderful Savior! that he would give me this opportunity when I know I'm not worthy. And it was through his grace That I get to preach not only to my own people, but to the Gentiles that they have access to the amazing, unsearchable wealth, the riches of Christ. And folks, today Jew and Gentile can marvel that we all have access to that unmeasurable mind -blowing riches, spiritual blessing that we have in relationship with Jesus Christ. Paul is marveling that God in his grace and his sovereignty would give him. He was a former rebel. He tormented Christians. And he never forgot what God saved him from. Can I submit to you folks that many times we forget what God has saved us from? And we tend to get prideful and arrogant. You know, God's really God's really lucky to have me on his team. Of course I deserve to be this leader in my church, or I deserve this position because I've always been a good person and yeah I know I needed to trust in Jesus Christ but you know once once we got that settled man I was ready to go and you know I'm I'm one of the I'm one of the best um advantages that God has And we tend to forget that we were that none of us were worthy of this because of our sin. Whether we were saved as a as a small child or whether we were saved after a life of sin that we lived. There is not a one of us that is worthy of the grace of God, but because of his love for us, he has provided Jesus Christ. And whatever he's called you to this morning, we ought to be humbled. Lord, it's amazing. As your pastor, I look back on my life and I say, Lord, what you made me a pastor when I was in my 20s. I couldn't have imagined that I'm not worthy of this. And yet , you have put forth the very weak things of the world, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians. to share the glories of your riches. You see, folks, God loves to take weak things And use them in powerful ways. And that's why you can have confidence, and I can have confidence that he can use each and every one of us. of us as Paul said not anything I've done oh I was a real stinker I was a real rebel and God used me God uses all of us And God can use a small little church that maybe is used to bigger things and now looks around and says, we're a little smaller than we used to be. But God But God can use us because He uses weak things for His glory. So we should look forward and look ahead To what God's going to do as we look to the hundredth anniversary of our church, as we proclaim the mystery that is that everyone, regardless of their background, regardless of their past, Everyone can come to Jesus through faith in him because of what Jesus has done. Anyone can come. No one is barred. Regardless of your past, and you can have a glorious future through what Jesus has done. That is the message that we proclaim, and God gives us grace for that. And Paul then illuminates the glories of God's marvelous plan for the church that God had hid from the Old Testament saints. He's basically describing himself, really, I think Paul has in mind the ministry of Daniel. Do you remember Daniel? Remember if you've read through Daniel, you get through the first couple chapters and there's a really you know interesting part about the fiery furnace and of course Daniel and the lion's den. Oh man, that's a great story. And then you get to the rest of the book and it's all these prophecies and you're just like Whoa, what's all this? Weird beasts and dragons, and this is this is kind of crazy. But the people revered Daniel because of his testimony, because God used him to reveal mysteries that before had not been able to be understood. Paul says, God in his grace, even though I didn't have the testimony that Daniel did, man, I mean that guy had a testimony for Christ. My background, not so good as Daniel's, and yet God has made me a revealer of mysteries as well for your benefit. What a marvelous thing that is He says, basically, from the God that brought you the creation of the world, he now brings you the church. A unified body of people from all categories of the world that can get together and worship Jesus and proclaim his name. We have such great blessings, folks. Thinking of missions conference, many years ago when we were here, I remember uh every so often during our missions conference week, we would take some of the missionaries to that glorious display of wealth of food and utter abandonment that is also known as um now I forgot the name after all that build up. It it's shady maple. Thank you. I guess I guess is what life is after fifty Shady Maple, Pennsylvania. And we would take these missionaries and we wanted to honor them and thank them. But I remember one time there was a missionary that we had, I don't remember his name, but I remember I remember he was from Haiti and he came with us and he was just overwhelmed. You could just see it in his face. As we walked in and as we sat down, he saw these huge tables. Well, why would you need all this space on all these tables? And then we took them back to the buffet area, which if you've never been there before, you remember the first time you saw that, right? But think of this man who lives in an area where they hardly ever have enough food. to ever even feel fully fed. And he saw this huge spread and he was just overwhelmed. And it was almost like as he came back, he didn't know what to get and he came back with a plate, he felt guilty. Because he was overwhelmed with the richness of the blessings that were before him. And I never forgot that reaction. Because folks, I'm convinced that that's the reaction that we ought to have toward the blessings of God that is described here. And how many times are we really that overwhelmed like that poor missionary who just couldn't believe the Abundance and blessings of food. We rarely get that overwhelmed about the blessings that we have in Christ. Oh, but we should. If we really understood what those mean and what it costs Jesus, we ought to be overwhelmed and humbled like Paul is here. See, God has given us the grace. He will give us the ability, like he did Paul, to proclaim the gospel of Christ, but he also has given us the authority. Finishing up with verses 10 through 13. so that through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in heavenly places This was according to the eternal purpose that he had realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence. through our faith in him. So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory. He ends with this marvelous statement, and then Paul says, so don't lose heart over what seems to be my weak position before you, that I am a prisoner. Oh no, God is doing powerful things. through my life and he will do powerful things through his church. Just real quick, folks, I want you to go back to verse 10. I don't want you to miss this. Not only through Paul, but through the ministry of the church, God has ordained that his wisdom and his gospel and the unity between Gentiles and Jews be testified of by the church. And the end of verse 7, or I'm sorry, verse 10, be made known to a specific group of people. This is mind-boggling. to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. Paul had opportunity, we're pretty certain, to share the gospel with Caesar himself. But beyond that, Paul is saying here, the church, God's church, has opportunity not just to share the gospel and reveal the mysteries of the gospel to people on this earth. But also to the rulers and authorities in heavenly places. Those are angels. And those are even Satan himself and demonic rulers that Satan has placed In different areas of this world, see folks, as the church, we reveal to them mysteries that they didn't even know. In other words, Satan doesn't know everything. He's not omniscient. And God in his grace allows weak vessels like us to tell Satan things he's never heard of before. That's remarkable. Yes, we ought to be careful of Satan's devices. Yes, he is a roaring lion. But actually, folks, amazingly enough. We are in many regards, as we share the truths of God's Word, we're Satan's teacher. Because Satan could have never come up. Remember, he thought when Jesus was sacrificed on the cross that he had won. He had no idea what he was unleashing. Satan had no idea that he was unleashing the power of God to Conquer sin and provide us salvation and provide us reconciliation with God for all eternity God made arrangements from eternity past that Satan and his minions could never have comprehended. And Paul is also saying here, God's wise plan is unstoppable. You'll never be able to hinder it. And this was always the plan from eternity past of salvation. And it is through Jesus Christ, verse 11, according to the eternal purpose. that he is realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. You see, man didn't sin and God had to come up with a catch-up plan. Oh boy, I wasn't expecting that, but I'll I'll give them my son. No, from eternity past before creation, it was always the plan. For Jesus to come and provide us salvation through him. And Paul says that here. So that we can, with that understanding and the idea that we are actually revealing things to heavenly authorities. We can have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him. Folks, we ought to be courageous and confident through Jesus Christ. That we can have access to the Father and that we can proclaim his message. We ought not to be discouraged and weakened in our resolve to share Christ. But we can be bold in our testimony for him, just like Paul was. Again, realizing that we're weak vessels. In and of ourselves, we have no ability to accomplish these things for God, but Jesus empowers us and the Holy Spirit gives us all that we need to be right testimonies So Paul says, don't lose heart over what I'm suffering for you. God is using my weakness for his glory. And so when we're tempted to look around and say, Lord, what are you doing? We're not as big as we used to be. Lord, are we still a part of your plan? Paul can say a confident, yes, you are. From before time began, you have been chosen to be as stewards of the household of God. And God can use our weakness here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church to bring much glory. God's plan is unstoppable. It's not able to be hindered. And he works mightily through weak, unworthy vessels like Paul and like all of us. And so as we go forward in the future, as long as Jesus gives us opportunity here at this church to serve him, let's do it with bold confidence. Expecting that he's going to work and God is going to move until Jesus returns. That is what we look forward to in this church ministry for our future. Father, help us to have this bold confidence that sometimes we lack as we look around. That the Ephesian believers maybe had trouble struggling with as they saw Paul imprisoned and bound to a Roman guard? Lord, you know we're weak. We struggle. With doubt and cynicism. But Father, as we go from here and we enjoy a wonderful meal together, and we revel and are thankful for all that you've done. Help us to remember to trust in your power that will accomplish all things. Help us to remember that we are teaching The authorities of heaven, things that they never could have understood on their own, through your power and grace , through your ability to reveal the mysteries. Let that encourage us and let that motivate us to serve you more effectively, to know that the power of the Holy Spirit works powerfully within us. To be effective testimonies of Jesus and let Upper Crossroads Baptist Church be that light until he returns, whether it be a hundred or a hundred and fift years. Help us to be faithful. And folks, I hope that is the heart, the desire of your heart. You pray that the Lord will continue to help you to be faithful. be faithful. For those here today that may not know Jesus, oh, that you would come to know him in faith today. Come talk to me. I'd be glad to share with you how you can know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You think on these things as Leslie plays