And I am sixty-four. We have almost twenty years between our firstborn and our lastborn. Six grandchildren. And And uh we are so glad that we have been blessed of the Lord so abundantly with the family that He's given to us. And we we'd appreciate your prayers for all of our family as well as for the ministry This morning, if you will, open your Bibles to the book of Mark. Mark chapter 13. I preached through the book of Mark several years ago in our church in Spain. It took me about three years to get through the book. When you get to Mark chapter 13, of course, we're closing in on the end of the gospel message, and Christ is uh suffering crucifixion at the end of the gospel message but before he went to the cross christ had something to say to his disciples many things Say to his disciples, but the particular one that I want us to focus on this morning is in verses 35-37. Mark chapter 13, verses 35 to 37. And I've entitled this message, Be on the Lookout. Be on the Lookout, trying to apply it to us today. This is not just a message for his disciples in the first century. It's a message that we need today. We need to be on the lookout. And what Jesus says to his disciples here is, watch ye therefore. For ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock crowing, or in the morning, lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping And what I say unto you, I say unto all, watch. My Father, I pray that you would bless this time that we have together. It's not much time. The amount of time isn't the most important thing. It's the truth. And I pray for your people here, for me, that we would all be awakened To be on the lookout, to watch and be ready for our Lord's coming, and in the meantime be busy about what our Lord would have us to be doing. We thank you for your word. Thank you for this church and pray that you would bless our time together now in Jesus' precious name. Amen. If you will grant me the opportunity to use an illustration to start out this morning, the preaching , those who are in Sunday school, and maybe Maybe many of you know that one of the outreaches we have had in Spain for years has been basketball. I, when I went to Spain, was a decent basketball player and so and I say that proudly of course it adds it it adds integrity I I wouldn't recommend that I go to Spain and try to coach soccer, for example. Can you imagine? I mean they laugh at American soccer. I'm sorry, if you're into soccer, they still laugh at you. They just don't think the United States can produce you. produce a decent soccer team. I kind of disagree. I've watched some of the highlights of some of the games and I don't know what's missing. Maybe you could tell me and uh Maybe you could provide the next generation of better athletes on the soccer field. I don't know if it's a coaching thing, if it's the uh dirty tactics of the other nations. I don't know what the problem is, but Uh the U. S. is still just not quite where they are with different sports. And of course, basketball is a an actual American sport. My father was a YMCA man. And the man Naismith who developed basketball developed it at a YMCA in New England many years ago, 18 something, and they just had a peach basket. You ever seen the pictures of the original playing a basketball? And to get it out of the peach basket, they didn't even think to put a hole in the bottom, except a small hole, and they used a stick to push the ball back out so they keep playing. There was no dribbling They just pass the ball back and forth, and it is one of the most absurd uh exercises in waste of time that I've ever seen. Other than maybe what's that one that they play in Australia where a bo an all-boys team entered a woman women's league and just destroyed them because they're just frankly taller. And they just throw it into this little basket up here and there's I don't know what they're doing. But anyway, I know basketball if you will bear with me. And if you're better at basketball than me, I'll shoot 20 free throws against you and we'll see who can make more. But imagine that we're starting a basketball game and I'm trying to teach my guys how to properly bring the ball up the court. Now if they're good enough, there's no issue. But most guys don't have the handles that some guys have that make it to the NBA, for example, and they can just dribble past anybody and it's not a threat. When you're starting out with basketball, everything's a threat. The defense has a bigger advantage over the offense because the defense just has to manage their bodies. The offense has to manage their body and a ball. So when I start out with guys, when they're going to bring the ball up the court, I'm right-handed. Anybody here not right-handed? One One, two, three, good. Now the left five four five. The left handers, I'm gonna turn around. I think you'll still be able to hear me because I got the mic on. I'm gonna pretend I'm playing with you, okay? So I'm gonna pretend I'm a left-hander to start. And if we're attacking, let's say the basket that we're attacking is over there, a left-hander is dribbling here, right? And you would think the left-hander is going to be stronger going to their left, right? Correct? So they're coming this way, and there's a problem, because we're going to eventually get to the sideline. And you can't go past that line without losing the ball. If you step on the line, it's the other team's ball. So you gotta you got that limit to that line. And where is the rest of the court if I'm all the way over here against that line trying to go that way? It's all to the right. And if the defense is smart, and most defenses are smart, they're going to send one person up here in front of me to stop my forward progress. And what else are they who Help me, somebody who's played basketball, who else are they gonna send and where is he gonna be or she is gonna be if I'm stupid enough to be over here dribbling If I'm not good enough with handles, I'm gonna get stuck on this line. Where's a second defender gonna be? Right here. And now I've got a person in front of me and a person right here. And I, if I try to see the rest of the court, they're blocking my view, and they got hands all over the place. So what we teach And any good coach teaches. All right, now I'm right-handed, okay? This is true. I am right-handed. Believe it or not, I'm gonna come over here But I'm right-handed. So instead of dribbling, and I think I'm so good with my left hand, I can just beat them up that sideline, but they block me. If I'm right-handed and I stand like this, dribbling with my right hand Now what do I see? The whole court. And they can send that guy at me to double me and try to pressure me and steal the ball from me, but I have somewhere to go and I know he's coming, so I can backpedal. Now you gotta be careful you don't get all the way to mid court because there is unlike soccer there You can't just go back to the back side of the court. You gotta stay once you get up there, you gotta stay there. So I can back up and I can see my teammates. I know what's going on. I see the defense, the enemy. I see them attacking me. I'm aware of what's going on. You get the point? Is the illustration Clear? We've got to wake up. We've got to watch what's going on. Be on the lookout for the enemy. Now, why do I bring this up? We are not the only ones in enemy territory in Spain. You are all, we are all in enemy territory And Jesus said that he was going to build his church, and he started doing that, and he is still doing that. And I don't know if you have the wrong image that I used to have when I would hear that the gates of hell will not prevail against his church. Somehow I got in my head that we're in a fort and we've got big gates in front of the church and Satan can't get in. Is that what the Bible says? Whose gates will not prevail against whom? His gates. And yet sometimes we kind of get into our little cocoon, Christian cocoon, our little Christian community. We come to church on Sunday morning, and please keep coming to church on Sunday morning. I'm not trying to change. Chase them away. It's a good thing to be here. But this is not the Christian life. It's part of a Christian life. In fact, we probably ought to be more like the Central American churches, the women who come from Central America looking for work in Spain. They have services almost every day. Different groups of people almost every day of the week have an hour service here or there because their schedule is free or the group of women or men are are free to come and pray or whatever they're going to do. And it kind of follows more of a biblical pattern in the book of Acts. But that's not the way we do it, and it's okay. I'm not trying to say you need to start having services here every day of the week. But We are being prepared here to do something. A couple of things. Overall, we're being prepared here to glorify God. Now, how can we glorify God? I'm not going to tell you this morning as a missionary that the only way you can glorify God is winning souls. That is one way you can glorify God. I'm absolutely convinced of that. Jesus said that he came to seek and to save that which was lost. If that's why he came, we certainly ought to be busy about what he was busy about if we're following him. That just makes sense. But that's not the only thing that he did. That's not the only thing that he preached. He preached righteous living. And that perhaps is the primary reason we gather here at church. Is to grow in grace. But why do we grow in grace? Are we just looking to win trophies? And one day when I get to heaven, I'm going to get to see my trophies and my crowns. Well, of course, brother. And then I'm going to take them and throw them at Jesus' feet, like we see that image in the imagery in the Bible. Well, that's good. But while we're here, that's then. I'm looking forward to then I have nothing here, just so you know, if I don't get back to Spain in October, I have nothing here. I'm not waiting for a grandchild to be born. I'm not waiting. There is nothing here to keep me here. I want to stay as long as God wants me to stay, take care of my wife. I vowed to her to care for her till death do us part. And if death parts us, well, I can't do anything more to help her, but so I want to be here. I'm not trying to die. I want to be ready to die, and that's the point of this message. How are you ready to die? One of the most famous sayings in Spain, when someone dies, is well, it's just a part of l life. The last part of life is that step into death. It's inevitable. It's kind of a pessimistic way of looking at things, but they don't like to even talk about death in Spain. It's one of those politics and death and taxes are all inevitable, but you don't want to have to talk about them, and so you avoid it. But we do get opportunities to talk to them. And as I think about our mission, and I believe the mission of everybody here who's saved, I hope everybody here is saved. But I know it's possible that you're not. I sat in church pews like these until I was 18 years old, thinking I was saved. And I encourage you today to consider your own soul in light of Christ's death on the cross for the sins of the whole world. It was not a limited atonement. His death, his bloodshed is sufficient to save any who will believe that you believe before you leave here today I was blessed up in Wisconsin about a month ago to preach the gospel. I think the title of that message was Preaching the gospel from John chapter 1. It's one of my favorite places to go. I don't I don't dislike the Romans road, don't get me wrong, but I love preaching the gospel gospel from John chapter 1. And there was a young man sitting about right here with this man with the glasses and Green, blue tie about right there. He's looking down just you. About where you are. And he was sitting there listening to me during Sunday school and then the morning service. I mean just r with rapt attention on what I was saying. I didn't know him. I don't know anybody. Well, here I do. I know Sylvia and um Brother Craze and I know a lot of people here because we've been here so many times over the years and it's a blessing to come and see people, familiar faces. But I didn't know this fellow, but he was listening to me the whole time. And after the morning service He went back to the pastor's office with the pastor's brother accompanying him, and the two of them led him to Christ. 28-year-old young man. Now, this is Middle Wisconsin, and let me tell you, I am not racist But this was a black man in a rural Wisconsin church. Looked very much out of place. And I talked to him afterwards, and he said, Yeah, I was just walking by and I thought I'd come in this morning. Okay , that doesn't happen very often, but he did, and he left the believer with hope of eternal life in his soul. Now all of us are different. It doesn't matter if can you believe that they're actually, they're not racist against me, but they're, what's the word, ant uh What's the is when you're against another country? I can't remember. But there's one of those is against people from another country. Huh? Nationalist is the positive side. Unless you don't like nationalists. Uh there is a sp specific word. Help me again? Xenophobic. Xenophobic, thank you. That's the one. So not a is, uh an ick. Somebody who is xenophobic is against other countries. Well, I If you want to call it suffering, I don't think I suffer, but I am the subject of or the object of xenophobia all the time, because I'm an American. Oh, I can't wait till I get back now that Mr. Trump has put tariffs on all of Europe. That's gonna be exciting. Before I left, I'm a b I have become a cyclist since I can't play basketball actively anymore because of the wonderful knees um that are going fast. I'm biking now. And the the guy at the cycle shop before I left I talked to him and he said everybody is absolutely terrified because of what your president is doing. Okay, well, I have no idea how they've survived. Maybe he's closed his shop. I mean, I don't know. But guess who's going to feel the brunt of our president's decisions when I go back to our little town of Beta? They blame me for everything. It's unbelievable. When they bring him up or they brought up Mr. Biden, I would always tell him, you know, the president never calls to consult me on anything I can't believe it. He could get so much help from me if he would just call. But he doesn't. So I avoid those topics if I can and get to the gospel. That's why I'm there. Now back to our illustration here. And I talked about the gates of hell are not going to prevail against the church. We're being prepared in here to go out there. We don't want to bring there in here. We want to take in here out there. Christ never said, be careful of the world and stay away from it. What did he pray in John 17? Intimate prayer with his father. I pray that thou would keep them in the world. We're supposed to be living in and among the people of the world. Now I know I have the wonderful privilege. This church has helped finance my calling for 35 years. I appreciate that. I want you to know. I really do. I cannot imagine a more wonderful calling than this. This is my calling, in case you're wondering what the missionary's calling is. Mine is look for ways to spend time with people in order to give them the gospel. Look for ways to spend time with people in order to give them the gospel. And I get paid to do that. And that's what I'm wired to do, called to do, and I get to do it every single day of my life. Not everybody is blessed with that much time and that kind of backing to be able to do that. But did you know? Most of the people, if not everybody you know, I will never know. I will never know them. But they know you. And the gates of hell, Satan is actively fighting against our encroachment in his territory. And he does not want you to say a single word, to live a holy life in front of anybody in your realm of influence. So one of the things that I believe back to my illustration. I want to keep my eyes up. I want to have a court vision of everything that's going on. I got to know three things. I'm going to suggest to you we need to know three things. Number one, know your opponent. Number two, know your objective. And number three, know your resources. So let's start with knowing your opponent. I don't like to preach about Satan a lot, but the Bible talks about Satan a lot. And when it does, I think we need to pay attention. So turn with me, if you will, to 2 Corinthians. In 2 Corinthians, starting in chapter 2, verses 9 through 11, now of course you know that the Bible talks about The devil as what kind of a an animal? A roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. I'm going to ask that you pray especially for your pastor and deacons in that regard. Because I think normally we overlook the context of 1 Peter chapter 5, where it's talking about the elders that are among you. And then it mentions this roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. It's not to say he's not trying to devour all of us. But in the context, particularly, he's after leadership in the church. Because if he can get us to fall, it's a domino effect. Don't ever rely on your pastor. Don't rely on your missionaries. Rely on Christ always But they are a part of God's plan. And if we fall, it has that horrible domino effect. Snowball. Muddy, ugly snowball effect that destroys the bigger that it gets rolling down that hill. So in 2 Corinthians chapter 2, I discovered in my own preaching in Spain several years ago In chapter 2, one of his devices, one of his tactics, if you will, that he uses, especially in this kind of a context in a church. 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Let's start reading in verse 9. For to this end also did I write that I might know the proof of you whether ye be obedient in all things. To whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also. For if I forgave anything, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it in the person of Christ. About whom is he talking when he's talking about all this forgiveness? Five times in that verse, the word forgive shows up or forgave. It's probably the man from 1 Corinthians chapter 5 who had his father's wife. And Paul made his judgment and said, I think what you got to do basically is expel him. That I think, and I'm not the only theologian who thinks this, this is what I was taught, is probably this person that he's talking about now That man evidently repented. Well, did you know that a lot of churches have a hard time dealing with church discipline Forgiveness and restitution. It's a very difficult area to deal with. We have to deal with it in Spain My church in a town of 3,500 people, I live in a town of 800 people, six miles away, my church has felt the after-effects of a divorce situation in a town 30 minutes away where the Man basically divorced his wife, and the wife is actually Spanish. He was American. I mean, it just is really complicated My church landlord in our little town 30 minutes away, his wife went to school with that woman. And he heard about it. All of the mess. Well, for my church landlord, divorce and remarriage in the world is. is kinda normal. That's what they expect. And I know lots of people are affected by divorce and remarriage and I it's it's a horrible thing. And and if you've suffered through that I'm I'm not condemning any This morning, but it does have an effect. The Bible talks about these issues in marriage, and we've got to deal with them. And what do we do if someone's genuinely repentant? Shouldn't we restore them? I know of a situation in North Carolina, not far from where I live, where a man was I don't even know what he was accused of doing, but he was under church discipline. He repented and came back and was accepted conditionally. What? What's the condition? What are the consequences? Does he have to sit in the back row? Or better, does he have to sit in the front row? Everybody sees him every service, and what are we doing? Are we trying to make him suffer longer? Let me ask you, when you got forgiven for all of your sins, how many is all? All. Now if you sin again after you were forgiven for all, I understand that was under the same blood shed back on the cross of Calvary, but you do, I do, have to repent of any new sin. But it's gonna be covered. It is covered by the blood of Christ. But Satan doesn't want you to know that He doesn't want you to know the freedom, the forgiveness that God has for you. So Paul is talking about forgiving A sin that Paul at the time in 1 Corinthians 5 said, this isn't even mentioned among the Gentiles. The unsaved world. A man as his father's wife, as his own wife. You say, well, how can you even do that? Probably the man's mother died, the father remarried, and that son went after his stepmother, is probably the situation. Well, I mean, that's at least historically considered. That's incest. You can't do that and and so that's bad and and so nobody even does that. And and they were doing it and somebody in the church did that. And people were saying, Wow That's great. Wow, what freedom. Go for it. And Paul said, no, no, no, no, no. You can't be happy about that. That's gotta be we've got to put an end to that. And so they put an end to it. They expelled him. But evidently He repented. And Paul's saying here, you've got to forgive him. Now, why is that important? Let's keep reading. Verse 11 starts with a very important word, lest Unless this is going to be the consequence if you don't forgive him, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. What is the device, folks? To get us to not forgive one another. We have a supporting church out in the Midwest, that I was really surprised by this, but the pastor years ago, before we went to Spain, uh we we were there for a month. Kind of on we're gonna really check you out. I mean I don't remember how long we were probably here for a missions conference the first time we came to Upper Crossroads, and in a week's time you can get to know us pretty well. But can you imagine in a month's time and they got a Christian school and they had me come in and speak to the deacons? I spoke 31 times in 28 days, I think it was, in different capacities. So they really wanted to check me out, find out what you believe. Well, while we were there, they had the Lord's Supper. And the pastor didn't announce the Lord's Supper until that morning. He said, Deacons, get the Lord's Supper ready. And you may think, well, that's underhanded. Why would a pastor do that? He told us specifically. He got up and told us. Now we're going to have the Lord's Supper in just a few minutes. The deacons are bringing it out and and they're they're getting it all prepared. Now, if there's anybody here, imagine I'm the pastor of that church and you're listening to me. If there's anybody here that has anything against anybody here, or you know that somebody here has anything against you, now's the time Time. We'll wait. Get up. Go take care of it. Now And there were people who got up and moved. Pastor hasn't told me a thing about what's going on at this church. Nobody told me a thing. Is there anybody you got anything against here this morning? What are you waiting for? It's not just their petty thing or your petty thing. We're talking about spiritual warfare. Satan doesn't want us to forgive one another It's one of his devices, one of his tricks, one of his tactics. Because if he can paralyze us and pollute and poison us, what kind of an effect are we going to have against his gates? He's tired of us banging on his gates. Well, we're not quitting. We're going to go back to Spain and beat on his gates. My question for you this morning: knowing that tactic. Are you going to be willing to forgive and not let him get an advantage? That's what it says happens if If we let him have his way. But there's another tactic that he uses further on in 2 Corinthians. I had just never seen these three different things that Satan specifically does. Look in chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Imagine that there's somebody who comes into this service who's unsaved. And they've never heard the gospel. Like Jeff Battle, the fellow in Wisconsin who came in. Imagine an unsaved person comes in and they're sitting and listening to the preacher preach. Do you think Satan's happy about that? Of course not. I mean, what if Jeff Battle gets saved that he did that day? What if you're here today and you're not saved and you're going to get saved? Satan isn't happy about that. And look what it says here in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 4. In whom I'm sorry, we've got to go back and get the context. Verse one. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not. But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully. But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. So the context is we're talking about the lost now. Verse 4: In whom the lost, in them, what's happening in the lost? The God of this world, if we can all agree, that's Satan. He's been given reign over this world by the God of the universe temporarily, in whom the God of this world, what has he done? Hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Now that's that's basically a description of the people in Spain to whom we minister. They are absolutely blind. Sister Schott mentioned to me that she was wishing, hoping that I had a picture of Dr. Benny. If you get our bass bites, our weekly updates. I think the full name is uh is it beneface or benef Benedicto? I think it's Benedict. Benedicto. But we just call him Bene. Dr. Benet is a medical doctor, family doctor, very educated, unmarried still, at age 67 or 68, I think he has dedicated his life to the intellect, to helping people. He knows he can't actually heal anybody. But if he can help people who are suffering, he does what he can. He's committed to helping people. And one of the things that he faces in his medical clinic is people come in, And besides health issues, they have hope issues. They have none. No hope. And if they were to go to their church On a Sunday morning, they would get an additional amount of zero hope. Because the Bible is not even practically opened in the Roman Catholic churches of our area, at least. The priest, apparently, I go to my own church. I preach, I don't know exactly what he's saying, but I'm told that it only talks about his politics or some philosophical idea that he had, or just reads whatever homily or whatever he's supposed to read that morning from what's been prepared for him. They're getting nothing. And so Dr. Ben is frustrated. And he's always talking about people are so ignorant. And of course, I'm not talking to the people that he's talking about. I'm talking to Dr. Benny. And praise the Lord. Dr. Benny received the Bible from me. And he ch Cherishes that Bible. Takes it to work with him. I gave him a Bible cover. He wanted to protect it. Keeps it in that Bible cover. Brings it out when we're having a Bible study in his home about once a month. Actually it was almost every two weeks. Before we left Spain. And he's always got questions for me. And so I answer his questions from the Bible. And they're just the simplest questions Like why did God prohibit certain meats or certain fish from from his people? And I'm not a medical doctor. He should know better than I why you wouldn't want to eat certain foods. But when I explained it to him, the simple way it's been explained to me, he's like, oh, okay. That's all I need to know. Tell me. What what does it say? And so I'm just giving light to Dr. Benny. Light upon light upon light for two and a half years now. It's been a Bible study in his home for over an hour every month. For two and a half years. I don't want to give up. Why would I give up? I mean he might come to the point and say, you know, I'm tired of you coming and my door 's closed to you. Well, that in that case, all right, I'm not going to come knock on his door and try to break it down and force my way in, but he's got an open door to an open door open heart, but that's because God has been working in his heart through his word in Dr. Benet 's own reading and perhaps used me to preach the truth to him along the way. But Satan's not happy about that one. Because he's trying to blind the minds of them that don't believe. He wants them to stay blind. I had a I had a blind foster sister when I was young. She lived in our home, I think she was a teenager, and we were all four boys, all less than Probably eight at that point. And it was kind of interesting to live in the house with a blind girl, four boys. You know what I'm saying? You can just run from the bathroom to your bedroom and it doesn't matter. But you could not say a word in a whisper, but she knew it. What are you guys talking about over there? Because God has given her and accelerated or imp improved hearing after losing sight. Have you ever heard about that? Frequently, people have gifts in areas where we think, oh, that poor handicapped person, and and there are people who are suffering horribly, but God compensates so many Many of them. And Satan doesn't want any compensation from God for anybody. He wants total blindness, lameness. Sordo in Spanish. Death. He wants everybody to have no advantage because that's the way he is. He's his destiny is sealed. For whom was hell prepared? The devil and his angels, not for people. But if people persist in not believing the gospel, that's their destiny as well. So this message of the gospel, as I said in Sunday school, is urgent. It's the only hope that people have And you and I have been chosen by God to be the mouthpieces of carrying that hope to others. And Satan is there trying to do this second thing, not just preventing us from forgiving one another. but blinding the eyes of those who would be saved. There's another one though. Look in chapter 11. 2 Corinthians chapter 11. It's amazing how now think about the Corinthian church. This carnal church. Remember 1 Corinthians? He couldn't write to them as unto spiritual, but evidently they were saved. But as unto carnal, because of all the divisions among them. And that church is a target. Of Satan, evidently. Because Paul's having to let them let them know all of these tactics, these devices of the wicked one. In chapter eleven, what's his device here? I believe it's directed toward us, the people in the church. In chapter 11, verse 14, it says, and no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness, whose ends shall be according to their works. In this context, he doesn't mention the world, the lost. He's talking about the church Be careful that you and I don't get deceived by false teaching that can creep in. Unawares. We're not even aware of it. And suddenly it's on us. And Satan is happy about that. Because that's going to cause new division and problems in the church, and it's going to thwart the church's effort to attack his gates. But folks, we've got to stay on the attack. We are not to huddle together. Be careful, understand me, in a holy huddle, so-called holy huddle, here in our pews. This is preparing for warfare. I think about my son, the Marine. It's it's almost scary to think about the military and the way that things go in the world. We're we're becoming more aware of this as our son is involved in the process. He'll tell us, you know, yeah, we're preparing this mission. And two years later, two years later, Something in the news comes out that there's conflict over in such and such a place. And we think Wait a minute. Two years ago, my son was preparing a mission to go there. And we just hear about it in the news two years later. Evidently, somebody two years ago knew that was going to be happening. Are they provoking? I mean, this is this is I have no inside information. It just makes me stop and think, because I'm constantly thinking about this warfare that we're involved in. Satan is not dumb. He was the glorious seraphim in God's presence. He was perhaps the greatest angel. I'm sure he hates Gabriel and Michael completely to the depths of his if he has a soul as an angel He hates them. He fell from God's own presence, wanting to exalt himself above God. We have an enemy that we've got to watch out for. Be on the lookout. Remember our title. Be on the lookout. Don't be blinded. Wake up, watch, pray, be ready. Because you don't know when the Lord's coming. So, what are our objectives? That's the first one. Know your opponent. Now know our objectives. Stay in Corinthians, but in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Talking about camp, all these campers. How many of you went to camp? I didn't get to see how many young people went to camp right here, all the way back there, all those hands back in the booth. Excellent. You can put your hands down. I remember when I was probably a junior camper, maybe Maybe 12, 13 years old. I went to a camp in Michigan. It was a snow camp. And I mean there was a lot of snow. It was a cold week. And before they would let us go in to eat our meal, we had to recite a verse. Well, at that point I was a pretty carnal young person. I wasn't even saved, it turns out, but I thought I was saved, so I have no excuse. at least call me carnal. I wasn't going to say any verse to go in and eat. I paid my dues. They must feed me. Well they were bigger than me And they made me stay outside in the cold if I chose to not say the verse. You can stay out there, buddy. I finally submitted. Praise God. He softened my heart This is the verse that we had to recite. 1 Corinthians 10, 31. Let me get the right chapter here. Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. That 's one of our proof texts as theologians for the chief end of man is the glory of God, not just soul winning. Not just holy living, both and for the glory of God. Now, let's think back to the three men in Sunday school: Noah, Daniel, and Job. God picked them out of history and said, though those three men were here, they would only save themselves, basically. Nobody else would even come close. But Of course, they couldn't save themselves. It was God's grace that saved them. But you and I are never going to be good enough to get to heaven. But if we're on our way to heaven, we've got a goal. To glorify the God of heaven into whose heaven we want to go. So that's the chief end that we're shooting for. But how are we going to get there? Let's look at the two means of getting there. Number one, I mentioned in Sunday school, Luke 9, 19:10, Jesus said this little man up in the tree who wanted to see him climbed up there, and Jesus said, Today salvation has come to this man, this house. Because the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. He said it himself. That's why I came. To seek and to save that which was lost. So we ought to be involved in soul winning somehow, some way. If what you can do is give to missions and I go and I'm the mouthpiece, I think that's a good part. Tonight at the pavilion, we're going to hear about movement without the ball. This illustration here where I've got the ball. I'm in charge and I'm going to dish it out. I'm not just going to shoot it every time. Yeah, I just want you to know. I'd rather give an assist Brian, you cut back door, and I'm gonna flip it over that guy's head. Do the alley do the dunk when you get there. I want to score. We want the glory of God. We want to score. But Brian's got to move. If he said, if you're a typical basketball player, you're over here. Hey, hey, here I am. Throw it to me. And I'm like, are you blind or what? There are five guys between you and me and and you're not moving. You think I'm gonna throw it to you? Yeah, but I'm all alone. Yeah, yeah, but the five guys between us, it's not happening, buddy. Move! Move I'm telling you this morning, get a move on. Yeah, look, know what's going on, know the enemy, but get busy. Be doing what Jesus came here to do, be a part of it. Do that! And I'm not encouraging anybody to deceive anybody, but in basketball, this is one of the things that makes it hard to believe that I ought to even play basketball Because we're taught to think like you're going that way, so the defense moves, and then really go this way. Is that Christian? That's a great dilemma that I don't think anybody's gonna ever have an answer for. That may be one that I do want to ask God about someday. I'm not sure. I think when I see God I won't have any questions. I think it'll all be clear. But Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. What else does God want us to do? You're there in 1 Corinthians. Turn over to chapter 1. I'm sorry, 2 Corinthians, back to 2 Corinthians chapter 7. The other major thing that I've alluded to, mentioned it twice now at least, is the holy living. Are we living like Jesus? That's the goal. I hope nobody here would raise their hand if I were to ask for a raise of hands. How many of you are living like Jesus that you could honestly say with a raised hand that you're living like Jesus. That's impossible. He was perfect. But that doesn't mean we stop having that goal. Back to basketball. Anybody remember how Shaquille O'Neal shot free throws? It was pathetic. I mean I mean you don't want to get in front of that guy. If he's five feet away from the basket, he's gonna dunk it over you and you're gonna be squashed like a little bug on the floor. But free throws, there was something about Shaq I mean I don't know if I can even imitate it. I I think he tried a million different things. But I don't think he ever tried underhand. He probably should have tried that one, but he was Horrible. He could not hit the broadside of a barn with a bazooka. He was so bad. So you're not going to follow that example. So who are you going to follow? How about Steph Curry? Highest free throw percentage in NBA history is 91% or something like that? Nine out of every ten, and sometimes ten out of ten, that guy's making it. So, okay, yeah. Steph, how do you do it? Not like Shaq. No, you get the knees bent, you get the ball in front of your face, you get a straight line with that elbow, and you follow through. Swish. Swish. You follow that good example. You don't say, well, it's impossible. Okay, well, fine. Follow Shaq. And maybe make four out of ten. Why would you do that? Why not try? Why not learn from the maestro, the master? Second Corinthians chapter 7, verse 1. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, and we could preach a whole message on what promises he's talking about, what are we supposed to do about it? Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit. Perfecting holiness in the fear of God. That's the second goal of the Christian life. Not just winning souls. Perfecting holiness in the fear of the fear of God. God. That's what we ought to be busy about every day. When your children wonder why you just yelled at them, when you children disobey your parents and you say you're a believer and you you mock your mom and dad when they turn their back. Whatever sin you fall into, there's no excuse for it. Oh, we all understand it. We've been there, done that, but that doesn't mean it's right. That doesn't mean, well, you know, we're all just human, so So what? You're gonna use that as your goal? Just be human? How about be Christ-like? And don't just sit back in your chair and say, well, God's going to have to do that work in me. Right there it says, Dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves. 1 John chapter 3, and we're going to close with this. 1 John chapter 3. I firmly believe that we as believers have a lot of responsibility. 1 John chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. Verses 1 and 2 are frequently quoted verses. If you're in Bible college, they'll make you memorize these verses. Wonderful verses. Verses 1 and 2. and two. But we leave off verse three, and we can't do that. Listen to these verses one and two of 1 John chapter 3. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. That we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it do him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God And it does not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Aren't you looking forward to that? Jesus is coming back. And when we see him, there's going to be a transformation. We're going to see him as he is. Think of Fanny Crosby, the blind woman that wrote so many hymns. She wrote about this. That's the first face I want to see. I hope that's your desired first face to see too. And when you see him, something's going to happen. We're going to be transformed instantly and completely, no more sin. None! No more falling to temptation! Don't you want to get to that day? Well, what do you do in the meantime? Verse 3 Don't skip verse 3. And every man that has this hope in him, what hope? The seeing him being transformed to perfection, if you've got that hope in you, what do you do about it? Purifieth himself again. Purifieth himself, yes, God has to do his work of grace, but we have a responsibility to desire it and pursue it, purifieth himself. To what point, brother? Brother, you're not going to tell me I gotta be perfect. That's the goal Do you think Steph Curry wants to ever miss one? Oh, I think I'll just miss this one. I'll just lose the game. No, he's shooting to make it every single time. Isn't that what What you and I ought to do as Christians? No sin? Isn't that your goal? That's what the Bible's teaching here. To what point? Even as he is peace Pure. As pure as Jesus. That's a tall order. But Jesus Himself told us: watch and be ready for that day when I return. I hope that you will leave here. I'm not trying to scold anybody, I'm trying to encourage you, but I I have to preach this gospel to myself every day. Because I haven't arrived. I need this message. I need to be reminded of it. I have to believe we all. It's in the Bible. If it if God took the time to put it in the Bible, there must be some reason for it. And I would encourage you today to To seek to walk with him every step of the way in the purest way possible for his glory and the good of those that we're trying to reach. For him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your love. Thank you for your word. Thank you for your people here who have been so attentive this morning. And I pray that your spirit would Change us in whatever ways we need to be changed as we leave here, as we live with each other. If there is anything anybody has done to offend anybody else here. That they would take care of that today, before leaving. If we're not being faithful to preaching the gospel or living in the power of the gospel a holy life, Lord, show it to us and give us that grace to do what's pleasing in your sight in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Pastor.