He is our hope in this life and the next, because he died and is risen again for us. And he is our king, and we will see him one day. And folks, in the meantime, we can be strong in him. And that is the message we proclaim this morning. Children are going out for children's church. You turn back to Ephesians chapter 6, and we're in verse 10 this morning. We are approaching the end. It's sad. I've enjoyed our time in Ephesians, and I hope that you You have too? It's a marvelous book. Filled with the descriptions in the first three chapters of all that our Heavenly Father has provided for us in spiritual blessings for this life. and the next. And the second three chapters, the application of all these truths, and the power that works within us. And then Paul comes to the end of this letter that he has written to the Ephesian church, and he finishes out in this grand finale, so to speak, that is powerful and vital to our walk as believers. And yet, folks, I'm convinced that Paul is also describing here one of the great failures. That we in this age and probably throughout church history have struggled with. And it is simply this That we do not live our lives conscious of the power and strength that is ours in Jesus Christ. Christ. That we try, we attempt to live, if we're honest, almost every day, in our own Strength. And really, folks, when we do that, when we get up practically on a daily basis, you, the pastor included. And we forget to seek the power of God in our lives. We are powerless. Isn't that really the great lie? Ancient serpent told God's original creation, that he told to the woman that not sometimes we think that maybe Eve was tempted by the idea of oh I can be like God. I can be, and I I'm not sure. I don't believe that that's really what was tempting in in the most in the uh strictest sense. But I believe it was this that when Satan told her that you don't need God, that you can be like God, that the temptation there was that you You can live life on your own apart from God. You don't need him. You don't need you can be like him, and therefore you don't need to depend on him. I think that was the great lie, and that's the struggle that we've had ever since. And it really is a delusion, folks. We delude ourselves, we deceive ourselves to think that we can live independently of God. Because he is all powerful. He is the great warrior that equips us for battle, but he is the one that goes to battle And we develop more of a defensive posture. Appreciate this morning in Sunday school the reminder from Psalm 9 That God numbers our days. And we need a regular reminder, folks, that God has our days numbered. He is the one that literally holds us together. And we can't do anything apart from him. But on a daily basis, when we rely on his faith Strength, he can do things that we could never even imagine. Maybe that's partly why we live lives that seem to be so So lacking in victory, lacking in power. As God says, I'm not going to do all that I could through you, although He's sovereign and He will have His will done through us. But he may not bless us with more power if we don't seek it from him. Because as we see this morning, Paul makes it clear, we can be strong in the Lord. God's power is readily available, and we need it because the attacks of the enemy are severe. And we also delude ourselves that the attacks of the enemy don't particularly happen to us very often. Oh, he's there. He's not more powerful than God. He's not even a match for God, but the enemy is there. He is powerful. And we delude ourselves if we don't ready ourselves every day for the battle. Because the attacks of the enemy will come, but God can keep him at bay. And give us victory until Jesus returns and we visually see the final victory and Satan done with once and for all. Oh, won't that be a great day? But until then, we don't have to live defeated lives. And the message this morning literally is ref is called be strong in the Lord. Because verse 10, that's exactly what Paul says. Let's read it. Together. Finally, be strong in the Lord, and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places Therefore, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand, withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. Strength to withstand folks comes from the Lord. And we can only be victorious and stand Against the current, the attacks of Satan by relying on God's power. Oh, the battle is real. It is real. For those of us in Christ, if you put your faith and trust in him, you are a soldier. And we must be ready for that battle. Paul is finishing this teaching with, he's describing here an all-encompassing practice that believers literally must pursue daily. This is a daily thing. That we must receive God's strength in order to be sustained in the reality of spiritual warfare Paul has taught us much about the victory that we have through the power of Christ, through the working of the Holy Spirit. in our lives. Yes, we can have victory in our marriages. Yes, we can have victory in our families with obedience issues And with families functioning together to be proper examples of the Lord Jesus Christ Yes, in the authority figures that are over us, whether they be at work or in our community, we can respond correctly to them. And acknowledge and respect them as God given to us. We can be victorious in all of these battles, but we must rely on Jesus Christ. We must rely, folks, in a power that we do not have in and of ourselves And again, I just said this a minute ago. I think so many times in our daily walk with the Lord, we fail because we daily We don't seek his power, but we try to do it in our own strength. I really believe it's one of our greatest sins. It's not, I don't even think it's something that we always cognizantly fall into. The terrible reality of it is many times we get a In the morning, and we don't think of them at all. Until maybe a worship song comes on on the radio or listening, or you've got your playlist and you turn it on. I as a pastor continue to seek, to every morning get up and say, Lord, and again we heard the This is in our study in Sunday school this morning. I believe it was confirm our days. Lord, you have something that you have sovereignly ordained for me. Let my actions and words today and what I do be pleasing to you. And I need your help. You are my power source. I cannot get through this day. I can't even get through this morning without your help. Folks, if we would do that, I think we would see a lot more victory in our lives because Because Paul is clear, we can have the strength to make it through, to be victorious. God offers us this power as a gift, and it's sufficient. The power that God, the strength that God gives, we must believe is fully sufficient for us. what we need. In our wisdom choices and our decisions every day, in our victory over sin habits in our life, when we relinquish control and give it over to Him on On a daily basis, folks, his power is so sufficient. Don't you worry. He can accomplish what he needs In my life and in your lives. But we need to acknowledge that at least that he's there. Isn't it embarrassing, really, that as the children of God, the followers of Jesus Christ, that many times practically we act like God's not embarrassing even there. It's been convicting to my heart too as I've been going back through this passage. Do we have the power to live lives on our own? No, we must humbly acknowledge that we must Be strong in a power that we do not own. It is not our own. We are weak. We are frail. We don't have the ability to get through the day. The Satan or the enemy can be victorious over us. When we live our days in our own strength, no, we call upon a power that we do not own in ourselves. We are dependent upon the power source that is our Heavenly Father That is our Lord Jesus Christ, and every day we must be connected to that power source. I regularly have a Well, it's a it's a longstanding challenge, and that is um I don't know if if you all struggle with this, um, but over the years as I've um updated my iPhones and and the Lord has given me a new phone. Um the the ability with these new phones is there for the battery power to last a long time, but at some point you have to plug it in. You have to recharge it. And I many times forget to do that. And so when maybe in the morning, or maybe sometime in ministry during a day, when I recharge really need it most. I go to it and oh it shuts down. Oh. I didn't plug it into the power stores. I think that's a common thing. I probably do it maybe a little more than you do. You're maybe a little more Tech savvy. But folks, we all have struggled with this, and we shouldn't, but we do, and that is we fail to plug into the power source source many times on a daily basis and we wonder, man, why am I weak? Why is my power why is my spiritual power level at one percent? Oh maybe maybe I haven't today sought the Lord and sought his strength. It's there. But I don't have any of my own. I have no battery power. I need to seek the strength of the Lord. And it says, strong in the Lord is the idea of his full sufficiency. But it's in him. It's in our Lord Jesus Christ. And the strength, the word for strength there means that he is fully capable of enabling us. And seeing us through. And then his might, that word for his might, is the greatness of his power. That he does own for himself. And so all of this is a picture of us depending , Paul's re repetition of these words of God's power is our dependence on that power through our relationship with Jesus Christ. Through literally daily saying, Lord, I can't get this We need that type of dependency because we have no strength on our own. Dads, we need that dependency to be the dads that we need to be. But raising them, um, directing them um through life and through scriptural principles. We need God's help to be able to do that and so many other things. We can't do it on our own. I'm so glad the snow is melting. I just love to see it melt away. And I'm not one that hates Snow, okay. We lived up in New Hampshire for many years. I grew up in Michigan. It's just a fact of life. It just is. But as you know, this snow has been particularly um oh burdensome, right? And it's been so nice to see it slowly melt away. Well, when uh it first came down, we were all warned that it it would be problematic and challenging. Uh and so as we were looking to Before that with uh at at our house at the uh parsonage on the back of the property, we I was thinking through, okay, we really need to shovel this quickly before the next part comes down and makes it almost And if you know, if you've been over to our house before, you know that down here you go Crystal Lane and then there's a long driveway that gets to our area. And then there's the church shed, and then there's our home. And that long driveway is pretty much impossible, even with uh young men, to shovel that whole thing just with snow shovel. I mean maybe it's possible, but it's just it seemed it's it's too big of a task for just a few people. So the before all this was starting, my son Kendall, who is becoming very adept at fixing small engines recently, a very helpful um ability. He found the old snowblower in the back of the church shed, and I thought, you know, Kendall, uh he wanted to fix it Or just to check it up and try to get it working a little better. It did work, but it needed to work a little better. I said, go at it, because if this snow is as bad as what they said it's gonna be, we're gonna need that thing or we may not be able to get out of the driveway. And so he was able to fix that. I think he got a new belt for it and he was able to make it work. And uh usually when the snow came it was enough we would just wait for the the the plow to come and plow us out. But we knew that this snow was going to be a little bit more challenging and I didn't want to have to wait that long. I didn't want to be snowed in. And so he got it running and sure enough the snow came Came down. It was like concrete, right? Or concrete snow. And yet with a few shovels and then that snow blower, we were able to quickly remove the snow from that area and down that drop And it was such a huge benefit to us. It provided strength that we didn't have in and of ourselves to get the job done. And we were so thankful for that snowblower Well, folks, God provides us the power that we don't have in and of ourselves. The job is too great. The enemy is too powerful for us to be victorious. But God provides us the power that we need to make it through, to stand firm through his strength. We stand in God's power, but we stand as well against a powerful adversary. And so we continue in verse 11. And God's power is now presented not as some new age nebulous force or. Or cloud or something, but it's presented in a very practical way that we can understand as equipment that God literally equips us, supplies us. For us to defend and protect ourselves from the enemy's advances. Now I remember as well that recently we've seen the process of spiritual maturity. In Ephesians is putting off the old sinful ways, right? Remember this? Renewing your mind through Scripture and putting on the new ways. And isn't it interesting now? Here we have a very specific description of something we're supposed to put on. Part of putting on as the child This is another analogy of what the new man should be doing. Put on the armor of God. And it is our relationship with Christ that allows us access to this armor. God gives us armor that fits us and prepares us to stand against the enemy, even though he does the fighting. And God is more than capable of providing us armor. folks because he himself is a great warrior. In fact, just quickly turn to turn to Psalm 68 We see the description of the great cosmic warrior that is our Lord. Psalm 68, verse 1. God shall arise, his enemies shall be scattered, and those who hate him shall flee before him. As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away. As wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall perish before God But the righteous, God's people, will be glad. They shall exult before God. They shall be jubilant with joy. Sing to God. Sing praises to Him. Lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts. His name is the Lord. Exalt before him. I could go on with this great psalm, but here is a picture of God as the water that we can expect will be victorious. See, there's no question here. David says, oh, his enemies, they'll be scattered. They'll be obliterated. You can count on that. He is a warrior. Throughout all time, because he's also creator, that always wins his battles. Yes, that's right. Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. He helps the people that He's protecting, but he is a great warrior that is able then to arm us as well for the battle. See, this isn't your ordinary enemy. This isn't a human agent. Many times we have people in our lives that seem like their whole goal is to work against us and to cause us trouble and to make our lives difficult. We all have people like that in our lives, but folks, this goes beyond any human adversary that we may Face. Even the most powerful of kings and rulers and enemies, we face we face an enemy that's more powerful than any Hitler But any Stalin. And he is a supernatural enemy. And he is his name is Satan, the opposer. So do not think that you in and of your ourselves that I in and of myself can make a dent or can have any victory in our own strength against this super Supernatural enemy, the adversary of God. Oh, folks, we have no ability in and of ourselves. But the cosmic All victorious warrior, general is more than capable of providing us the victory And he gives us this armor. Now, we're not going to take the time today. We're going to just look over it briefly. Next week, we're going to get into the description of the armor. This is the introduction to that. But God gives us all that we need, not necessarily to fight, although some of the actions that we see in there could be considered offensive. I believe that God really gives us This armor for a defensive stance toward an opponent. Why? Isaiah 59. You don't have to turn there, but listen as I read this. Isaiah 59, 17. Here again, God is the warrior. He puts on righteousness as a breastplate. Note the descriptions of this armor reflect the description of this Isaiah fifty nine seventeen. in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds, so will he repay. Wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies, to the coastlands he will render repayment, so they shall fear the name of the Lord from the west. and his glory from the rising sun, for he will come like a rushing stream, which the wind of the Lord drives. And this describes again someone who will prove to his enemies that he is king on the mountain, that he is the ultimate warrior, and no one can stand against him. Him. You see, God is described here as going on the offensive, and his people, his children, we take a defensive stance. With our armor. But he's the one that gets the victory. Isn't that wonderful? That's actually a real blessing. That we are called to battle, we are given the armor. But it is God, the all-powerful God, that does the fighting for us. You see, in earthly wars, even in this war uh in Iran, with all of the modern technology they're using and everything. There's still, at some point, boots on the ground. There's still human effort. And there's still, even though thankfully we praise the Lord, the casualties of Been light, there's still been casualties. The men have to go in and do their part, and they're expected to, in their strength, be able to carry out what they're called to do. But God calls us to a battle in which he fights That's a blessing. But we must be prepared because the devil, the adversary, is is a skilled strategist who, folks, don't get me wrong here, he is capable of cunning plans and scheming to accomplish his purposes. We must be able to withstand against the schemes of the devil, and they are great. He was literally the first human beings that he met. He was able to That doesn't hold out a lot of hope for the rest of us apart from God. He's a sly one. I remember many years, well, this was many years ago, because it was when I was a teenager. There was a Christian song off a Christian album That I listened to. And there was one song in particular that s that stood out to me that was very interesting, the words of it. And it was a powerfully, very powerfully sung song. But the words were interesting. I still consider that many years later as one of those it was a Christian, a contemporary Christian song that I believe now Now, as I think back, totally missed the point and was off message. And this is why. This particular song talked about how that the church and believers could as I remember the text. It was something like we can all get together and in our strength Um as an army of God, that we can literally storm the gates of hell and take demons and bind them and bind almost Satan himself. And it didn't have a whole lot to say about the power of God in the midst of that. It's like, Christians, come on, we're going to storm the gates of hell with us. kinds of things wrong with that. First of all, you do realize folks that Satan isn't dwelling in hell right now. In fact, Satan is not looking forward to being in hell. Hell is not his kingdom. That's his punishment. That's his eternal punishment. So be careful when you ever hear teaching or songs, even by good Good-minded people that when you hear that somehow hell is against us, somehow that Satan dwells in us There. He doesn't. He dreads dwelling there. And we don't storm and do battle against Satan and bind demons or anything. anything like that um in an o offensive way. I don't believe the Bible describes it that way. That's that's the work of our Savior Jesus Christ. He will win the battle. We don't have the power to overcome Satan in and of ourselves. He's too powerful. He fights against us with his own army and war plans. He's creative and resourceful in his devices. And we can only be on even the defensive against this by letting God go on the offensive and relying on his power to stand firm. Let's look back at those verses. Finally, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil, and those schemes are great, folks. He is a master at deceiving us We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We have a foe that's more powerful than many times we estimate, and yet we can stand firmly against him Because of the power that our great warrior, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, provides for us. We must not be flippant. about the the challenges that we face. It is an intense, this idea of wrestling against flesh and blood has the idea of a very intense wrestling Match. Some of our young people know exactly what I'm talking about. We have some wrestlers in the congregation this morning. The Hansen guys are very adept at wrestling. Wrestling. I tried wrestling for one semester in college, and I did better than I thought, but I really didn't do that great. And the only reason I did well at all is because I grew up with three brothers and we did a lot of wrestling. But I had never done profess I say I wanna say professional wrestling because that moves into a whole another so what do I say? Uh real wrestling until that semester in college. And I learned a lot, but it really wasn't something I wanted to pursue because folks it was intense. I mean you're right up against it. And you are you are literally neck and neck, no pun intended. And I've seen some videos of uh what the hand Boys Will and AJ go through and you just watch those matches, they're intense. You don't fool around in real wrestling. You want to win. And at the end of it, you're tired. This is an intense battle, folks. And we, can I say this? We are foolish. To think that we can go into this in our own strength. Because as he says here, do you know what Paul's saying when he says against the rulers, against the authorities? Against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in heavenly places. This is not describing any earthly authorities or any earthly rulers, but this is describing the servants of Satan. That he is, although temporarily he is given authority to in different areas of creation, somehow or another God has allowed Satan to give a certain amount of authority Authority to his demons, to his minions. And these, although they are nothing, they fall flat against the power of God. Do you remember Jesus confronting these demons? And they couldn't get away from him fast enough, right? But folks, they're too powerful for us in and of ourselves. And we need the power of the armor of God to be a formable opponent. You know, it was interesting. There were wrestlers in the times in in Bible times in the city of Episode. Wrestling was a thing. This was part of the ancient Olympic Games as well. And in Ephesus, do you remember our description of the people there? They were focused on magic. They were really into magic and superstition. So these wrestlers many times would wear some sort of magic amulet around their necks, which I don't know how they then weren't Or something by that, but somehow these amulets were supposed to give them the power of the gods to be able to defeat their opponent. Well, folks, we don't have to wear crosses or magic Ambulance or anything like that to get the power of God. It is at our disposal when we ask for it. The enemies of Christianity that we can't see are the most dangerous, not the ones that we think we can see. The unseen enemies are the real concern. I remember uh again as a teenager a couple times letting some friends talk me into singing uh uh a couple scary movies in the horror genre. And all I have to think about just for a second are a couple of those movies, folks, and I I can just say, can I just say from the pulpit But just don't ever watch them. Just don't don't ever let movies from the horror genre. Now I'm not talking about, you know, the black and white, the early stuff with the creatures that I Obviously it looks fake and all that, but I'm talking about the modern ones that are are so demonic, so terrible. If you've ever seen one, you you know what I mean. You know the genre. What makes those movies, by the way, so Scary and terrible. Even beyond all the gore and all the stuff that you should just never have in your minds. I think it's I think that those director directors and those movie companies, in those movies, they present Satan as the victor. That is the higher power. And many times, if there's religious figures in those movies, they're quickly disposed of. Folks, that is a lie. That's why we shouldn't really ever we shouldn't have those movies in our head because it's promoting something that's not true. Satan is not more powerful than God. And we don't have to live lives where we are subject to the bullying of the enemy and we can't be victorious. No. Everything We have here is obvious. I hope it's obvious to you that you have the power of God to have victory in your lives. So don't fall prey to that deception. Got a couple of Charles Spurgeon quotes here. Those are always good. One, he says, he said, if you feel incapable, throw yourself upon the infinite capacity of God. And so we must arm ourselves with the whole armor of God. As we finish up this morning, verse 13: take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand firm. You can stand against this all-powerful enemy. It is possible. What is this armor that our warrior gives us as his children? I'm going to go through these in brief We'll cover them next week, but I can't just skip over this, right? Here's in brief, here's the arm your armor pieces that are described for us next Number one, the belt of truth, which is the truth of God's word and the character to live honestly. Number two, the breastplate of righteousness, the righteousness we receive. received from Christ and the enabled lifestyle that is the result. Number three, gospel of peace footwear, better than Nike, by any means, or Adidas Our proclamation of the gospel to bring others to Christ. Number four, the shield of faith, our faith and dependence upon Jesus. Number five, the helmet of salvation. The continued realization and assurance of our salvation in Christ. Number six, the sword of the spirit, the word of God used against Satan's attacks. Well, that was all next week's message. Guess we can keep Keep moving on. No, we need to go into more detail about what these pieces of armor are so that we can use them effectively. But that's just a preview. What I want to leave you with is the end of verse 13. When you depend upon God and you have this armor and you You are depending upon that armor, folks. You, Paul is clear, you may. That means you will be able to withstand. You will be able in a defensive posture to stand and be successful and victorious. And having done all to stand firm I think that idea of having done all is giving our last breath, giving all of our energy. You know, even in a defensive posture in a war, Still, that takes a lot of energy. That takes a lot of commitment to stand there. I think what Paul is saying here is with the armor you can withstand Satan and give it your all. Be a good soldier. You can be strong. You have the strength and the might of the cosmic warrior that overcomes all of his enemies. Be confident in that. And then fight till the end. Withstand would be a better word. To the end. Give your all in service in the army for God. We can do it And it is enough. It is what God has called us to do. So can I encourage you every morning? I'm going to try To do this better too. I say, Lord, prepare me today for the battles I face. I believe that I can be victorious through your power, through your might. And so I stand firm in my dependence and reliance on Jesus Christ. Folks, that is the stance. of a victorious warrior. And God will see you through the day. It might be good to pray that multiple times actually throughout the day. Another Charles Spurge quote, are you afraid of the earthquake? Charles Spurgeon said, no. I rejoice to know that I have a God that can shake the world. Folks, whatever you're experiencing, know that God is insane. Sovereign control. He has allowed it to happen. And he has his purposes. And he will be and is victorious. So trust in the one who is going to win it all. In fact, he already has. He already is the conqueror. He's already won the victory You and I can have faith in that and go forward as good soldiers, full trust that God will give us victory over whatever we do. face attacks of Satan, difficult co-workers, difficult family situations , difficult health situations I'm so thankful for Dr. Mike's testimony as he gets ready to go to Uganda, going in full strength of the Lord, not in his own. Power, the Moors in Ireland, serving Christ, relying on Jesus Christ for their strength. We can do that as well, and we must. Father, thank you for this reminder that we truly can be strong in the Lord. And Lord, we acknowledge, we acknowledge as a local church body that one of our greatest sins is that we lack dependence upon the victorious warrior Jesus Christ. Christ, we lack that daily dependence that is so necessary. Father, we recognize that there is so much more to be done that you have called us to. And that we can be in a defensive, victorious stance against whatever we face, and that we we can be successful As we give our lives, our all for your purposes, let us be useful tools that You use for fruitful purposes. And help us not to be intimidated by the enemy, but confident in your strength and power. Power. Father, if there is one here today who still does not have a relationship with Jesus, they've not put their confidence and faith totally in him. And what he accomplished, that he was victorious over death and hell and sin. And he reigns victoriously today at your right hand, and he will one day return as king. And defeat all the foes. If they have not if they do not have relationship with you this morning, I pray today they will come and talk to me or someone else, or they will put their faith and trust in Jesus. And they will be able to live victorious lives through his power. Folks, I prayed these things. Let's think on these things as the piano plays.