As we just again contemplate all that Christ has done for us. And now we get to hear from his preaching, As you turn, turn back to Matthew chapter 5. We continue on this topic, the Sermon on the Mount, and the kids will leave for their children's church time. And again, I believe as I've studied These passages and this only uh full transcript of a message of Christ, that this was what Christ regular regularly Preached. I think Luke records another time where Christ preached these same themes. I don't think it was the same Sermon on the Mount. Um but it was another time, and the themes are the same because these are the themes of the kingdom that Christ was proclaiming, and he was ultimately pointing to himself as the Entryway to the kingdom, as he told his disciples, if you want a part of the kingdom, you need to follow me. And so as he's preaching about the kingdom, He's pointing out through these three chapters in the Sermon on the Mount the conduct and the way of life for kingdom citizens. Ultimately , I believe that this emphasis is in this, we'll see this in another week or so, that Christ points to the fact that That kingdom conduct can only come through a relationship with Him. That people would need a righteousness that excelled the righteousness of the best The most moral people in their community, in their society, the scribes and the Pharisees, and Jesus will say, You need a righteousness that goes beyond that. And he's pointing to the righteousness that he will provide so that God's people can live in a right way in their kingdom. So, folks, today, for us, as we go to the Sermon on the Mount, we need not despair That we can't follow these principles and act in this way because we have the power of Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit that enables us to live in this way, not perfectly. But it enables us, the power of Christ, to live in a way that's a testimony to this world. So we finish with the beatitude, And you had those that are blessed, that are poor in spirit, that mourn, that are meek , those that society did not honor. Did not value those that hunger and thirsted for righteousness. If you hunger and thirst for righteousness in our culture today, in our nation, Today you'll be mocked. You'll be um labeled as almost an insurrectionist. The merciful, the pure in heart, the peacemakers, all All of these and these would be the type of people that you would want in a stable society, but then Jesus says, actually, you'll do all these things, and people will not appreciate that where they will not value that. And you will suffer persecution. And so be glad because you have an entryway into a better kingdom. It's not broken like this one. And so I really believe in this Sermon on the Mount that Jesus is asking a question. Will you follow him? And then what kingdom are you living for? There's two sides. There's two teams. There's two kingdoms. Jesus' kingdom, that he will one day return And inaugurate in a full political sense? Even though I believe he reigns as king even now, and we need to treat him as king, or are you a part of the other side? Do you are you a part of the kingdom of the prince, the temporary kingdom of the prince of the air, the prince of this world? Satan's temporary domain. Choose sides. Play for the team. Whose kingdom are you living for? I think could be the theme of the whole Sermon on the Mount. And so Jesus says that these that are named in Beatitudes, their reward will be And we need to remember that folks then in this climate too. That as elections come, things ramp up, we s we still have no idea what's What's going to happen in the next few weeks? And from what we've seen this past year and the past few years, we probably would agree anything can happen. Um Stability does not lie in the stability of the United States of America or America itself, but our stability and our hope lies in a kingdom that's coming, that will reign for, that will be established. Established for all eternity, and whose king will reign on the throne of David for all eternity. That is where our hope lies in the end. And so we need to be testimony Testimonies of that kingdom. And so we come to a very well known. Well, in one sense, all the Sermon on the Mount is is well known. We're familiar with it. There are some passages that we could quote, and this is one of those. Matthew chapter 5, verses 13 through 16. You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has Has lost its taste or its savor, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything, except to be thrown out and trampled under people's People's feet. You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, and but on a stand, and it gives light to All in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Jesus again in this message is highlighting simple things that we all ought to we we understand is God's Children that we ought to practice. And that so many times we fail at practicing these things. I mean, we know we need to be humble. We know that we Need to submit our strengths to service for Christ. And as I just read, we know that we need to be salt and light And yet the question is asked to each one of us this morning as we get ready for this passage. How much of a light are you being today? As pastor, how much of a light am I being in this community? Am I a powerful lighthouse We see we've seen we we my family and I have seen had the privilege of seeing so many beautiful lighthouses in New England. Beautiful structures, powerful lights. Am I a powerful Lighthouse for Christ, or am I a barely weak batteries low operating flashlight? Kind of light in testimony. Very practical. And again, as we hear this, we we I think we sometimes tend to we understand what Jesus is saying But we sometimes tend to mix the metaphors here and the illustrations. Because I think sometimes we can look at this and say, okay, I need to be salt and I need to be light, and that means To be a testimony and proclaim Christ. Well, to be a light means to proclaim Christ, but to be salty, if I could put it that way, is a little bit of A different flavor or perspective about our testimony for Christ. And so the first thing that Jesus calls us to be is to be salty. And even as I say that, you've probably heard the phrase that's used in our inconnotation, our culture today, in a negative way, right? Somebody who's salty is someone who is critical. And who is cynical and who is sarcastic. Well, that person's rather salty in their speech today. That's not what Jesus means when he says, you are the The salt of the earth, and that's not what I mean this morning when I say be salty. But it does have a more negative and a secret function. And Jesus is calling. Then and pointing out that the people of the kingdom need to be an effective in their ministry and their testimony as a preservative, as a flavor. And as a purifier, three things that salt does. And that we need to be, as kingdom citizens, as children of God, that we need to be Salt in our communities. We need to be salty as a preservative, as a flavor, and as a purifier. Because As we read this, let's look at verse 13 again. You are the salt of the earth. It's obviously that we're supposed to be useful, but that's kind of a broad umbrella. How do I do that? And so I believe the application here is very important. It's also pointing out that salt is very highly Valued and useful. There are pictures here that we may not get unless we understand and study the Jewish background behind what Jesus is saying. here. And one of those things that we need to understand is the high value of salt during in Bible times. Did you know that the word soldier and the word salary, the English Words actually come from the word for salt. Roman soldiers, for example, received a ration of salt as part of their regular wages. It was so valuable. That they were included, here's your money, and here's your salt. And that was very valuable to them. And that is actually where we get the word salary. Aren't you glad that your employer doesn't pay your salary in partial salt? Maybe there's a break room with salt there, but you know what I mean. But that's where we get That word salary is its reliance and the gifting of salt to people and also another phrase, maybe you're thinking of this all already. But if the Roman commanders, the legioners, didn't or uh The people under the soldiers under the commanders didn't want them thinking that they weren't valuable and that they weren't useful, that they weren't worth their salt, then they had to work extra hard for it. See, salt was a very valuable commodity at this time, and people in the ancient Ancient world needed salt in order to survive because salt not only seasoned food, it cured meats and it kept them from spoiling. And so again, salt pure Purified, it cleansed, it heals. As long as it remains salt and useful, it was of great benefit. So Jesus is calling God's people to be of great benefit to the society today. And that is our responsibility. Folks, first of all, a salt is a preserver of what is right in society. And salt, as it was rubbed into that Meat and as it was used as a preserver, um, and it would keep the food uh available and ready to be eaten by preserving it in that way. I believe that one of the aspects of Jesus when he says that we need to be salt of the earth is that we need to preserve and And promote biblical values and a biblical way of life. Promoting the very values that Christ is promoting in the Sermon on the Mount. Way kingdom citizens live. God expects us to live this way. And this is what one day the king will come and expect from the whole world is that they shall Should live this way. And so when our society reflects those right values, and there are some areas it still does There may be less and less of that, but as our society still reflects good, right moral values that match with God's word, we ought to seek as much as is possible to help Preserve the good so that we can have a better platform to share Christ. So I believe that being salty As Jesus is commanding here, is for his people, his followers, to promote and preserve to the best of their ability what's right in society. We have more of an opportunity in our culture today to do that than they ever did back then because we can vote. Now we may not think our vote counts for as much as it used to, and we can have a Discussion about that, certainly. But folks, we still have an opportunity in that in multiple ways in our society to be a preservative, to point out what's right. And I think this church has had a history of doing just that for almost a hundred years. And so that is one way of being salty. And being the salt. But there's another aspect of saltiness that I just mentioned a few minutes ago. That is that God has made, and this is one that we don't always think of when we think of this principle. Be the salt of the earth Of the earth, but I think it's legitimate. And that God has made each of us as His children with a distinct personality that He has given to each one of us. Each one of us has a distinct flavor. I didn't say odor, I said flavor. Okay. Yeah. Flavor. And that is something, folks, that I think we just need to think on and meditate for a minute. Is that even though God calls us to serve with within local bodies and local individual ministries, we're all not cookie cutter. He doesn't in fact he we we all have different struggles and different um Combinations of sin temptations and all these things, but we also have different gifts and different talents and different personalities. And God uses Each of us in a unique way. And so we shouldn't strive to be just like each other. We should strive through the power of Christ to follow after The principles in the Sermon on the Mount, but that doesn't mean that we all have to be the same person, the same personality. In fact, I think that sometimes that we need to be careful not Not to wish that we God had made us in another way. Or had made us somebody else. Or admire somebody else's personality to the detriment of the way that God had made has made us. Now I'm not saying exalt yourself and promote yourself. We've already talked about the fact that the meek are the ones that will inherit the earth. But folks, at the same time, each of us have special parts of our our personalities that God has given us to add flavor in a good way to the church ministry. Now some of you might say there there are those that add more flavor than others. But we all provide that salty, that distinct taste that is pleasant and helpful in our community And we don't have to lose, if I could put it this way, our individuality and how God has made us. We need to subject our personality and our individuality to what God has called us. Us to what Jesus is calling us to in these principles of the Sermon on the Mount, but we could still be the person and um show forth the personality that He's called us to. Let's let's uh be candid here. It'd be really boring if we were all the same person as your pastor. I certainly don't want to To pastor over a group of people that all look and act just like me. That would be terrible. Sometimes some people's flavors aren't to our liking. But they're necessary. And we have distinctive gifts and distinctive um flavor in a salty way. That makes our ministry unique and valid before God. So don't lose that saltiness, that distinct personality that God has given us. But help let us learn from the different personalities and serve well together. Then three, I think what this is referring to as far as being Being salty, Jesus is saying, be a purifier in your world. Don't become foolish. Be salty. And be one of those, a purifying agent for our community and our society. Proclaim the truth of Jesus Christ. Proclaim God's word and be a highly effective cleansing agent to show our communities and Our world, our country, what people that follow after Jesus Christ, how we act, and how we live. So we're a preserver of what's right. We have our own unique flavor that enables us to serve in our churches in a way that nobody else can. We have a unique place in each ministry as as our salt is flavored, and also we're a purifier in our world. And the more we know God's word well, Well and um the the more we proclaim and understand it, the better a purifier we can be. Folks, if you aren't in God's word on a regular basis, you're going to end up being dull. And that doesn't help our testimony. So salt is effective. But what happens if it's not effective? Well then Jesus can Continues on in verse 13. Well, it's worthless. Salt of the earth. If salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It's no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. Now, this brings up an interesting question if you've ever thought about this. Does salt lose its taste? Does salt let's put it this way, does salt ever really go bad? Um have you ever um seen somebody in a restaurant pick up a salt shaker and and now hopefully they clean those salt shakers because Because I know from personal experience that sometimes um little children like to take those and lick the tops and so hopefully they're cleaned on a regular basis. But I've never seen one of the servers or the waiter say, hey Hey, here's a thing of salt that's gone bad. We need to throw this out. Salt losing its savor? And so what do we do with this? Would do we just say Say, well, you know, the Bible's not a science book, and Jesus didn't understand, and he was just using this as a illustration. Maybe it wasn't his best illustration, but no, there there might Must be a a a picture that Jesus is trying to communicate here. And what does he mean by salt losing its savor? Well, again, this has helped As far as knowing Jewish background, because in this community, in this society, there were actually three ways that salt could lose its Saver and I put savor in uh quotation marks. One way, and this would have been one that Jesus listeners could readily relate to, probably Probably again, he's preaching here near the Sea of Galilee, 63, 65 miles south would be the Dead Sea. Some of you have been to the Dead Sea, and some of you have even swam in the Dead Sea. But I've been told that drinking out of the Dead Sea is probably not the best encouraged uh thing to do. Um but people actually and people in Bible times and people today would If sometimes if they were more desperate, they would use the salt of the Dead Sea to help with their food. Um, but it had to be under the right conditions. Because the salt in the Dead Sea not just it doesn't just contain salt or sodium chloride as the compound for salt. But it also includes a lot of yucky extra things, a lot of minerals , even some toxins, some poisons, things That although the people in Bible times would have appreciated the effectiveness of the salt, they didn't want the other things if they could avoid that. And Then what would happen would be if they would use that salt and somehow that sodium chloride compound w would be dissolved or um or reduced down Watered down, then the saltiness would give way to a lot of yucky flavors that you wouldn't want to sprinkle all over your food. And so Jesus audience in knowing, having experienced that salt from the Dead Sea, and knowing that when it it literally can become useless and almost toxic if it's Not used in the right way, they would have had a picture of how salt can become useless and almost poisonous. Well, there's another aspect A second uh illustration that Jesus may have been using is that not everyone understands this, but salt was also used, the Dead Sea salt, as a fertilizer. because it had a variety of mini minerals within it. And so this type of salt, because of its mineral content, wasn't a danger to alcohol. agriculture but an aid unless it was diluted and it rain and and through rain and other elements and it eventually became useless Useless as a fertilizing aid. And so then you literally would trample over it because it has no more use anymore. You'd get rid of it, trample over it in the fields. Another aspect picture that Jesus probably had in mind. And there is a third way, by the way, that the chemical composition can be changed because salt bricks were used at the Bottom of Middle Eastern ovens where the intense heat can alter the salt, and so sodium chloride can lose its favor flavor in a chemical compound that dissolves in water. And recrystallizes with other elements, which renders it something other than salt, so it's no more salt, strictly speaking. Now, for you scientists, I'm sure that's fascinating, right? But the point is, is yes Yes, in this culture, there was ways for salt to lose its savor and to be useless and really almost poisonous. And so Jesus knew what he was talking about. Jesus was using a very effective illustration to say this. The people of God's kingdom, the children of God folks, are supposed to be Be useful. Our service is valuable, it's distinct, it's effective. It should be unheard of for a child of God to To not be useful because then they're no longer salty. So, what Jesus is saying, first of all, is to make sure be the salt Of the earth, be just useful for God. Be a preservative, be a purifier, be who God has made you to be within the local context of the The church. Use your gifts. Don't hide your gifts under a bushel. Use your gifts for the help of the body and the per testifying of Jesus Christ. The worst thing a child of God can be is useless, is tasteless, because then they're of no value. Might as well be thrown out. Be salty, folks, in the right way in your ministry for Christ. But also then Be light, I put it this way, be a night light. Because we are lights in the darkness. Now the Be Salty had a negative, it was more of a secret. unobservable um function, but a night light is a positive, it's a public function because obviously light illuminates the darkness. You are the light of the world. A city Set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket but on a stand, and it gives light to all the house. Now I know you're all thinking of that little ch children's song. I might sing that at the end Get your light ready, okay? Um it doesn't say anything in the text about Satan blowing it out. But anyway, um that first as I was thinking about Um what Jesus is saying here about being the light of the world and the city that set on a hill cannot be hidden. Um I immediately a illustration came to mind. One of the things that we really enjoyed in New Hampshire Was that where we lived, it was farther away from any large cities? We actually had friends. We actually had the Swellas join us for a week and stayed with us. And we could go out in the evenings and look out into the sky and see all these beautiful stars, and they were just so clear in the Milky Way, and it was wonderful. And I remember being out there with the Swellas and Brian and Kristen commenting on the fact that, wow, we just don't get to see this back home in Maryland. And I could commiserate. Because I remember even we're w my family and I are so thankful for this uh patch of of woods and this land that we have in this open area. It's wonderful to raise To rear kids on. And you can go out at night and you can see some stars, but there is a little bit of a difference. And that is as you look over to your right at night and you're looking maybe uh at the The stars over here, and you look this way, there's this bright glow of the lights of Towson and Baltimore, and it gets in the way of seeing the starlight and the Constellations and all of that, it's a little frustrating. Well, that's a negative aspect of this, but really, folks, isn't that the illustration that Jesus is saying here? Be a light, just as you You can see the light of the city from the distance. Be a light that people can see in the darkness. Let them be able to see your light from miles away. Let them know you're there. Let them know that the eternal city is coming. And you are the light that draws people to it. That's one aspect. Light illuminates the darkness, but also light Is supposed to be useful for people. I, when the boys were younger, they had a fascination with flashlights. And uh I had many flashlights. At different places in my toolbox and next to my bed. And somehow they one way or another always found them. Wherever, even if I would stash them, somehow they eventually found them. And boys and flashlights are just kind of like a a magnet. And they love those flashlights. Which was, you know, uh understandable and they had some flashlights that they could use. But the problem was whenever I actually needed A flashlight, I would go to turn it on, and of course the battery was run down. Um didn't know you know who was responsible for that, but it was frustrating to pick Up a flashlight and to need to use it for something so I'm not stumbling around and it's not useful. Now maybe we were just using lots of bad batteries all the time, too. I don't know. But we did have an epidemic of very poor working flashlights for for many years. My flashlights work a lot better now, thankfully. I think I've just found better hiding places. But folks, we are supposed to be useful in shine a shining light for Christ, and it's frustrating. And it's not helpful when our light is so dim that people can hardly see it. We're not useful flashlights for Jesus Christ. When our batteries are low and our energy is low and our commitment is low. Many of those flashlights I had to throw out. They just weren't. Useful anymore. Are we useful lights for Jesus Christ? Light illuminates the darkness. Light is supposed to be useful for people. Finally, The light of your obedience can lead others to the kingdom. Because there are people stumbling around in the darkness today, folks. Now there were times that flashed Flashlight illustration again. There were times I just said, you know, forget the flashlight. I know my way around the house. It may be the middle of the night, but I know my way around the house well enough. So just forget the f the flashlight altogether. So you've probably done that before, but stumbling around in the darkness hoping that I didn't, you know, put some clothes over Over here, or boy, if the cat's in the room, I'm gonna hear it in just a minute. If I step on his tail, you know. Um, he always lets us know if that takes place, or maybe Even the dog sometimes has snuck up the stairs. You know, you just don't know what you're gonna be facing. There was uh one time where I heard a strange noise in the boys' room or or um in the upstairs area and so I knew I couldn't find a flashlight. So I'm stumbling around, almost tripped over a couple things, got to the door, opened the door, down the hall. And slowly tried, you know, and I was just praying, Lord, help me not to hurt myself in some um terrible way here because I can't see what I'm doing. Folks, we understand that perspective. But do you realize that every person who has not trusted Jesus Christ is in that kind of danger in this world today? They're stumbling around in the darkness. And they could have that one moment, that one dreadful fall. And that fall it could end there early Earthly life, and they could fall for all eternity, and the destruction and the punishment of eternal Condemnation. It is a terrible thing to stumble around, a frightening thing to stumble around in the darkness and not be able to see. If people have not trusted Christ, folks, people are living their lives stumbling around and not knowing where to go. Or not knowing where to find hope. You don't have to stumble, you don't have to be Fearful. You don't have to be anxious in the darkness of the world any longer. You can have wisdom and the truth of know the truth of God's word and have the love of a relationship. Relationship with God and with Jesus Christ through a faith relationship with Jesus. And I can point you to the way. Here it is in the scripture. The gospel. Folks, as our world stumbles around and falls and trips, are we helping them Are we the light that gives them at least opportunity to say, there it is, the hope of eternity, Jesus Christ? Go to him. He will be all you need. He will illuminate the darkness for you. I think I do want to sing. That song this morning. For those of you that want to sing it with me, you can just get your little lights up. Are you ready? This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine. Let it shine. Let it shine. And then the whole thing about the basket, but we don't have time for that this morning. But don't hide it. Stand, give light to all the house. Verse 16, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works, they may see your conduct as kingdom citizens, and give glory to your Father who is in heaven and understand Stand through a relationship with Christ, a worship and submission to the true God of the universe. And you have That privilege to point people to them. So in the end, a simple message, a simple passage, sometimes pastors Take the invitation all a little too long and go on a little too long. I'll just make it simple this morning, folks. It really is simple. If you're a kingdom citizen today, And you're here. And you love Jesus. You're a believer. You've trusted in Jesus Christ. And folks, here is My call for you today. Make a difference in the world for the kingdom of God. Be salty, be a light, point people To the Savior of the world. Father, thank you for this tremendous truth that we can be The saver that is a useful tool in this dark world today. We can be the saver Of Christ, we can help through the power of Christ to be a purifying agent, to stand up for what's right. We could be used Used with our unique personalities and gifts to do marvelous, powerful things for you if we're willing. Lord, there's probably some In here today that just have not been willing to use the gifts and talents that you've given them in a fully committed way. Help them to be more salty, Lord. We need That salt in this church, in this ministry. And Lord, help us not to be a dim light. But help us to be a powerful bright light, a city on a hill, that in this darkness that people know Who we are. They know whose kingdom we stand for. And let us proclaim to this world that we are on the winning team. And they can leave the losing team and join through faith in Christ And have the hope of their sins forgiven, their sin cleansed, and hope of eternal life with you. You forever. Lord, let that truth again sink into hearts this morning. And for those of us who have already done that, help us to be useful people in your service until Jesus returns.