Well, we are into tonight talking about Bible manuscript evidence. I know this is the part that everybody has been looking forward to with bated breath. Um and folks there there is so much to that that could be talked about and discussed in this that it really is difficult. I'm going to do my best tonight. And I think I'm convinced that I have kind of just covered the really basic highlights. And I will say this, I think the main reason we're covering what the manuscript evidence is, is because in actuality, even though there's going to be a lot of details tonight This aspect of God 's preservation, of our translations of these manuscripts, is one of the most debated, controversial aspects of this version debate that sometimes we have in churches. And so we really have to cover this. And you need to understand what what the what the problems are, what the debate is, concerns. And at the same time, we need to come back, and again, my whole goal in this is for us all to be able to confidently say And I am certainly able to say this, that we do have the complete Word of God in our possession, all 66 books. And we can have confidence as well in the canonization of Scripture. Remember that's a process that determined the books. We've gone over that the past couple weeks, and some of the books that weren't. supposed to be in there that somehow kept on lingering on for a while, the Apocrypha and the New Testament and the Old Testament Apocrypha as it's sometimes called. Discovering which books God intended for Scripture And then affirming that , what God had provided for us. And so that measuring rod The books that have measured, found satisfactory, and are approved as inspired by God by the church. So We're going to talk about this, and the major concern really goes back to the concern for accuracy among the manuscripts and versions. And we've covered this before, but I want to, and I'm going to show you some pictures tonight, remind you, because this is going, this is the basis, and everything that we've covered is kind of the basis for what we're going to talk about tonight. So it's all been important. You're going to hear all of what we've covered already in the presentation tonight. So, first of all, let me ask this question again: What are the manuscripts? That is important and you need to understand what that is. Because you're going to hear the word manuscripts a lot sometimes. What are the manuscripts? Sandy, were you reasoning me? Yes. original writings? Okay. But well, they were copies of the original writings or autographs that were in the same Bible languages of Hebrew and Greek, the original Bible languages, those are the manuscripts. Everybody understand that? That is key. Every other translation, Latin. English and all other languages are referred to as translations. They're not manuscripts. We're talking about the manuscripts, the copies. of the Bible that were written in the Hebrew and Greek. Very important. And now also with that they were written early on in a lot of a variety of different materials. common for writing at that time. And that's where I have some pictures here to help us, a lot of their help. One of those men you know well, his name is Damon Amato. He has been very helpful. He provided these visuals for me tonight, and I greatly appreciate that as well. He has actually looked at a number of these manuscripts that we're talking about tonight. Now he's not actually been able to go to the museums and handle them by hand. Facsimiles. That was the word. Of a lot of these original documents, and he's been able to pour them over them in detail. And that that brings me to another important point here, folks, in this controversy. And that is because there's so much detail and so much misunderstanding, some people can come in and make general statements about a highly um detailed um body of evidence that can mislead people. When you have when you have a lot of details and someone comes in who doesn't understand all of that and makes broad generalizations about something that's very complicated. Let's put it that way. You need to be careful of that. Wherever we come from on on the issue of the manuscripts, Let's just be honest, most of us don't read Greek and couldn't read even from this Greek New Testament, or certainly not Hebrew. I have studied Greek and Hebrew, and I am by no means a specialist in this as well. I have a lot more, I'm really on the shallow end as far as that goes, but I do have more understanding than probably some of you here. So when when we start to make evaluations about the evidence. Remember that because most of us don't can't read Greek or Hebrew or have access to all these manuscripts, we have to be really careful about the information that we're taking in. If you have heard something about, we're going to be talking about two different manuscript families tonight. The most important , the ones that are controversial. between the two, the Alexandrian family and the majority or the Byzantine text family. If you've if you can't read those or you've never seen those or have access to those Be very careful about who you let talk to you about those. Has the person that's giving you your information, can they read Hebrew and Greek? Have they seen these documents? If they have it, and they haven't really studied this, and they're giving you information anyway, just be careful of that. Now what I'm trying to do besides give you my own evidence is give you evidence from people, and again I'm going to be quoting a lot tonight from these valuable books. I've mentioned this before from the mind of God to the mind of man Dr. Minnick, Dr. John Mincy, and a man, a pastor named Pastor Ashbrook. all who have written these books and will hopefully make this much more understandable. And then this is another valuable book that's really been helpful to me, God's Word in Our Hands. I would highly recommend this too. This is a more detailed expansion of what's in here, but for those of you that like the details and really want to get in to the specifics This is a good one. I highly recommend that. And folks, these are men that understand the languages well. Dr. Minnick has actually been to one of the museums in London and has seen some of these documents firsthand. And so I'm using information from folks that have seen these firsthand. That is so important. in order to understand all of this. So don't be even some very well-intentioned, good-meaning folks have come up with generalizations about all this data. And yet they really they may not know the original languages or they've never seen the manuscripts or or anything. So we really have to be careful about that. Alright. This is the plant that was woven together. And became some of the first paper that was used for Bible manuscripts. You see here You can see the Greek written on part of this. Sorry about the column there. The moment I've lost my arrow. That is an actual piece of papyri of scripture. That is what it looked like. You could see that the reeds were woven together. You can see them from here. And that was the original paper. We have today, we'll talk more about this in just a minute, documents for remnants of this that are some very small, sometimes only postage stamp in size. And yet they are manuscripts of God's Word written on papyrus. Parchment was leather and vellum. You may have heard that as well. These were the next invention and technology as far as paper was concerned, animal skins, and of course that the writing was clearer and they lasted longer and we have many of these in our manuscripts as well. Scrolls, there's an uh an example of a scroll. Now here's a codex. We're going to be talking a lot about the codex tonight. These were the first books as the parchments were put together, weaved together, they were taped. in the middle here. And when we talk tonight about the Codex Sinaiticus, Vaticanus, and these things, that is in some form or fashion what they look like. Very early books, some of the first books that we have access to. Remarkable how the Lord provided those for us. And you can see there some some a close-up of the Greek letters. Now this is important. You may see this and it may just, as far as your understanding, you may think, what in the world does that mean? The unsealed versus the minuscule. The Uncil was a former type of Greek writing where you would have all these boxymor capital. Greek letters. This was the early form of Greek writing. And so the manuscripts that have this type of Greek writing tell us that those manuscripts were much earlier on were written much earlier on than these that are the minuscules that are like a type of cursive. These were the Greek manuscripts in particular. These are all Greek manuscripts. Greek Unseals, which seem like capital letters, more block type. Minuscule cursive. This is the later Greek writing And you can tell the age of those manuscripts based on the type of brief that you're looking at in these original manuscripts. That's going to be important too as we continue to talk. All right. Scriptorum, this is where they would store and specifically, as we talk about the Hebrew text, The Hebrew scrolls, the scribes had a place where they would store these, and these were especially, we're going to hear about this in Alexandria, Egypt. There were places where these were stored. called scriptoriums, these different parchments and papyrian different things of the manuscripts. A corrector This is where you would have the scribes going through an actual textual criticism and writing Little corrections, things, uh variants where they would read that and say, well, that should, let's consider that it should be this. And actually you have writing The Hebrew Masoretic text, we'll talk about that in a minute, where the scribes would write to the side in a lot of different um extra information and things to let the other stribes know what needed to be done. And that would be written in like that. And that's one way that they would write them in. So we'll there's papyrus again, another block of papyrus. Let's jump into this. Okay? Now that we've been reminded of those materials , Actually, Dr. Minnick mentions even as far as some of the codexes that our oldest and most complete manuscripts of the Bible are those parchment codexes. We'll talk more about that in a minute. The manuscripts of Scripture are then, and this is important, this is basic information, are grouped and classified according to a variety of features. more so even with the New Testament manuscripts. And it's within these groupings or families of New Testament Greek manuscripts in particular, That's some of the greatest concerns come between the King James Version and other modern versions, and that's why it's important, even though it's going to be a little laborious tonight, to talk about these things. So put your seatbelt on and let's get ready for this one way or another. We're going to work through this. Let me very quickly go back over the Masoretic text of the Old Testament. We touched on that. Where do we get our Old Testament from? Where do the versions, the different groups that do our versions, our different translations, versions, where do they get the Old Testament to translate from? Well it would be from the Hebrew Bible. This is a copy of the Hebrew Bible. Where do we get the originals, the manuscripts? For this, well, that's what we're talking about right now. We're talking right now about the Hebrew Bible, the original Hebrew that's behind the Old Testament, that's in all of our versions today And we talked about how in the between times, between the Old Testament and the New Testament, remember how careful the Hebrew scribes were? And we went through that long list. of things that they would do even before they came to the word Jehovah, how they would switch pens, they would wash themselves, and they would go back, they'd have it checked. Well, folks, as history continued into New Testament times and after, especially after the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem in A. D. 70, The Hebrew, the Jewish people were starting to lose a lot of those rituals for being careful with Scripture. And they were also losing something else. Something that originally that these scribes were doing was they were writing what we would call today kind of the capital letters, but the scribes knew What the rest, like like we in our words today, we have consonants, we have vowels. It's not quite what they had in Hebrew, but there was ways that they the the way that they would speak in Hebrew The scribes would write some basic letters or the capital letters in the original Hebrew copies, and they would know the rest to be able to fill in the details, the vowel, so to speak, although that's not really what it was Well, by the time you were getting into the New Testament church and the temple had been destroyed, the Jewish people were losing the specifics about how to pronounce their own language. And so there was a group, especially by the time of 8500, there was a group of Jewish editors that said, we've got to, we're losing our Jewish heritage. were losing because remember they're speaking there's Greek and and then Latin they were losing their language and so that really affects You being able to read your original scriptures in Hebrew. So these Jewish editors called the Masoretes began to devise a complicated system of safeguards against scribal slips, somewhat like they used to do um the hundreds of years before, but with some twists. As these Jewish editors would get together to Check the accuracy of their original manuscripts, but of their older Hebrew manuscripts. They would do things like number the times each letter of the alphabet occurred in each book They marked the middle letter of the Pentateuch, which is, remember, is the first five books of the Old Testament, and the middle letter of the whole Hebrew Bible, plus Detailed calcul other detailed calculations, and they developed a system of vowel type letters to make it readable to an audience who is becoming less and less familiar with ancient Hebrew Now bear with me, I have to read a lot of this tonight to make sure I get the details here. Again, the ancient manuscripts of the Old Testament only included large letters, and the scribes trusted on their understanding of the spoken Hebrew to be able to fill in the rest. So the Masoretic the Masorites came up with this Masoretic text, the Hebrew text that they continued to work on from at least A. D. 500 to 1000 that was very accurate. And it was born out of the need to keep their language, their very language, and also keep an accurate record Of their Hebrew scriptures. They were losing copies as their copies deteriorated. And so all of this together, we ended up eventually with the Masoretic text. that you hear so much about. Now, this Masoretic text wasn't all put together in one basic locale. But it was in different regions. You had different families of scribes that were putting this together and somehow or another they were able to follow the same basic standards that they had. But she would have um different parts of the world, different Jewish families that were doing these things. And so by the end, by the time they had finished this Hebrew Masoretic text, even though it was very accurate, Because you had different families that were doing this and follow these guidelines, again, the human condition, there were slight variations, although slight. And nothing that could not be put or relegated or the word is melded back together into a very accurate trans or a Original language of Hebrew version of the scriptures. Okay? So all of that to say with what the Masorites did. In so rigidly defining the Hebrew Bible's punctuating and wording, they made a copy of the Hebrew scriptures and um copies of the Hebrew scriptures that going forward was understood in the way that the original Hebrew, the writers had intended it to And so even to this day, we've had very little difficulty with the accuracy of our Hebrew, of our Old Testament. Because these scribes spent so much time. And here's another thing that's really interesting. Let me add this. John Mency says the Masoretic text has had no rival since the 12th century, or perhaps even the first century. And has been accurately copied and preserved in the many synagogues and scriptoriums around the world. We just saw a picture of one of those scriptoriums where they stored those Old Testament scriptures. Here's something else that's interesting that Mincy points out. The world's oldest complete manuscript of the Hebrew Bible is called the Leningrad Codex. We have it today. Anybody know where that's housed? You say Russia? Russia. Russia. Folks, there's actually a lot of manuscripts that Russia has access to and that own. And we've actually uh the Britain and uh United States have been able to uh receive and take some of those through making deals with Russia, but it's interesting, we don't think of that many times, but Russia actually has a lot, a number of these manuscripts. And one of these is the Leningrad Codex. It's in the Russian National Library in St. Petersburg So, with all of this, most Old Testament translations today have been translated from a Hebrew Bible text that's actually based on that Leningrade manuscript in Russia. But here's the neat thing. You all, I'm hoping that you all have a little bit of understanding and have followed the history of the Qumran Cave discoveries. Most of us know about that. Um back in in the mid-1800s. Um and uh nineteen forties, not the eighteen hundreds. And these discoveries were made, and I won't won't go into all that later, but folks, here's the neat thing. There were many fragments found from the original Hebrew Translation in the original Hebrew scribes, a fragment of Exodus that was literally dated 250 B. C. as well as a part of Isaiah dating to 100 BC, a thousand years before my understanding is any of our Masoretic text Copies. And they were virtually almost in sync. That is a miracle when you're talking about translations and everything, but that God was able to do that. and allow us to have that much accuracy. So those Qumran cave discoveries were really quite important and a wonderful blessing to God's people in being able to have and being able to check the accuracy. of our scriptures. Alright. Most of the oh, I'm I'm getting ahead of myself here We had talked recently about the Septuagint and the Masoretic text, the Hebrew Bible. Now that I've given you a little bit of background on that, hopefully that's fresh in your mind. Remember I gave you those two scripture passages, Hebrews 10. Go ahead and turn to Hebrews 10, 5 through 7, and then find Psalm 40, 6 through 8. And this will emphasize the importance of understanding the Masoretic text, the Hebrew This was probably even before some folks describe it as a Masoretic text, but actually this would have been pre-Masoretic. What we see in Psalm 40, 6 through 8, and the difference between that and the Septuagint, which is which it translates, Psalm 40, in Hebrews 10, 5 through 7. The author of Hebrews uses the translation of Psalm 40 from the Septuagint, and therefore it differs. And this is going to show us the importance of understanding these things, but also in the end, it's nothing to be concerned about. Wherefore, let's read Hebrews 10, I'm sorry, verses 5 through 7. Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, and this is King James Version, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared for me. In burnt offerings of sacrifices for sin thou hast no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me to do thy will, O God. And the author of Hebrews there is talking, using Old Testament scripture, to show the fulfillment of the incarnation of Jesus Christ, right? that he would be given a body, that he would have a human body prepared for him, and through that miracle of the incarnation. He would become fully human and be able to fully obey God's law and fulfill God's law. That quote that the author uses to describe the fulfillment of the Old Testament is Psalm 46 through 8. So let's look at that. King James Version again. Psalm 40, verse 6. Sacrifice an offering thou didst not desire. But it doesn't say, but a body hast thou prepared for me. Wait a minute. It says, Mine ears hast thou opened. Burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. Then said I, Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me, I delight to do thy will, O God, my yea, thy laws within my heart. Now the rest of that Stinks very well with what the author of Hebrews quotes. But that one phrase is a real bother to us if if you haven't been exposed to this before. It's different. What's the difference between Uh my ears hath thou opened, and a body thou hast prepared for me. Well, I um received this insight from a couple different people. Uh Damon Amato again really helped me with this. He has studied these in some of the original texts. That mine ears hast thou opened. That is from the Hebrew text. And that referred to the process of when a newborn infant, when an infant was born, they would many times clean out the fluid from their ears. So that they could hear better, and so that they would be cleaned up and ready to live life. Or also this is being used as a picture of being made ready to hear and obey God's word. So the Septuagint translator, whoever it was, looked at that and said, you know, that whole process is kind of obscure at this point. And so let's kind of gloss over that. In the end, what is the important aspect of this? That there is a body, a newborn baby's body is being prepared to live life And in context, being prepared to obey God's word. So the Septuagint translator translated it, a body hast thou prepared for me And it still brings across the exact same concept that a body is being prepared to obey God, to hear his word, and then ultimately it's used to describe the perfect body of the one that would perfectly fulfill through Jesus' incarnation, Psalm 40. Now, God used a Septuagint translation that was a little bit different from the original Hebrew. And put his stamp of approval on it, the Holy Spirit, and using it to show that Jesus fulfilled that passage. That's something that's that we can't argue with. It's in our scriptures. Whatever version you have, it's there. And we just see that God uses these types of things. Although at the same time, that doesn't mean that God just fully accepted every aspect of the Septuagint. There were problems that needed to be addressed, and I think in my study, one of the reasons the the Jewish scribes of Masoretes went forward with their text is because they saw and they were concerned about the errors in the Septuagint and it focused people, hey, we need to have accurate accuracy in Scripture. Alright? Now, that takes care of that aspect. Does anybody have any questions now about the background to our Old Testament scriptures in our Bibles? Through that. That's a lot of information. And we're not done yet. So that would be considered a manuscript though, because it's in the original language and it's a copy of it. Yes. Yes. Not not a translation. Right. And if I if I said translation, um forgive me. Okay? I'm not following the my own rules that I that well it's not my rules, but This would not be considered a translation, but this is in effect a manuscript, the original languages. In fact, folks, there's so much interesting history about how God is providing these manuscripts and some of them some of the information reads like a spy novel. Some of these guys in in the eighteen hundreds they started getting excited about archaeology and they started realizing that people would pay good money For early manuscripts of scriptures and other old documents, so they started basically treasure hunting and manuscript hunting. And there's all kinds of fascinating stories. Even to today, we're still finding God. God has through very interesting ways provided us with these 5,000 and more manuscripts that we have today. Anyone else? All right. Let's talk about our Greek New Testament And specifically, we're going to talk about two families of text. Remember, I said already that the manuscripts, right, as they were classified, were put into groups. And there's argument about how many groups there are, but folks, for our benefit tonight, we're going to talk about the two groups that are the con where the controversy has stirred up. And that is the Alexandrian and the majority or the Byzantine text of the New Testament. And we're going to talk, first of all, those manuscripts are where we get the Greek New Testaments that we have today. Now let me just tell you the controversy, okay, between the two. Real quick, and then we'll get into this more. There is some concern with the Alexandrian text. family of text, which is where a number of our modern translations today, which is they they use in majority the Alexandrian text. There is some concerns About some corruption and even some of the people involved with the translating when they first started using that family text in the 1800s. versus the majority, the Byzantine text, where we originally where we got our Texus Receptus, where then we eventually got the King James Version There's more of those majority Byzantine family texts. There's more manuscripts represented there. And folks say because there's more. That they're more reliable and therefore better to go with this family rather than the other. Now, does that make sense? Because if you don't understand that, and the rest of this is there's two basic family texts we're talking about. The Alexandrian, again, is the one that most of our modern versions Where we can trace where where they get from that Greek manuscript where, and this one is mostly based more on the Alexandrian text than it is on the majority text. The majority text family is where we eventually get the King James Version from. Okay? Alright, let's talk about the Alexandrian text. This family is the earliest set of manuscripts that we have. In fact, we have one manuscript or at least a few that are the size of postage stamps, papyri. that are all the way back from AD 125. One author has said in in essence that the ink was barely dry on the original autographs when this copy was made. Well that's a little bit of an exaggeration, but you get the idea. These are early copies. And these New Testament manuscripts, let me give you a little more general information about both of these. They've been categorized through the centuries by a variety of factors and characteristics, and such is the case with all the manuscripts that we still have today. Both of these families of texts are grouped into text, well they're grouped in text families based on multiple similarities. Here are the similarities that these groups of manuscripts are grouped together. Why they're grouped together. Here's the similarities. Geographical origin of original copies. The type of written Greek, and we just saw that. Is it an unseal in the older Greek or is it the later Greek? the minuscules, and that will decide where it what family it needs to be in. Also the age of the manuscripts. Again, the Alexandrian text family has the oldest manuscripts. The majority text, Byzantine text family, has the most manuscripts. Okay? Similarity of variance is also a key element. Completeness of content and number of similar manuscripts. That completeness of content. We've already been asked, people have been asking why in some of my versions. is does it seem like the ending of Mark is contested? Or remember in that beginning of John chapter 8? Where we had the account of the sinful woman, the woman brought that was in adultery. Why is that even in question? It's the simplest way to describe it is in the Alexandrian text family, those portions don't exist, or in some cases, they are in other Books sometimes, probably not in the Alexandrian text. But those are not included there. And so as they look at that grouping of manuscripts and don't see those, Then those, and you do have people on both sides, you have scholars on both sides that love the Alexandrian text family, and those that love the majority family. And those that love the Alexandrian text family, that we'll talk more about in a minute. They say, well, I don't see those passages of scripture included in my family, my favorite family, so therefore I'm skeptical of that. The majority group of texts, all of those are included. And again, we'll describe more about that later. Okay, so that's the basic ways that these manuscripts are grouped. You're still with me? I don't know if we're going to get up through this tonight or not. Does it make sense? Because that's important. Alright, let's talk then about the Alexandrian text. They're considered the earliest manuscripts we have access to today. Their primary source location is considered from Alexandria, Egypt, possibly connected with the church father named Origen. This manuscript source has become the primary source for modern Greek New Testaments, from which we get many of our modern versions. And that would be probably the majority of this Greek text as well, including the NASB, ESV, and NIV The primary reason for emphasizing the influence of this text family is because, do you remember what I just said? Why would you emphasize this particular text family? If you because it's the oldest. And the oldest is always the best. Right? Now I didn't say I agreed with that. But that's the thinking. The earliest manuscripts are considered more accurate because they were copied closer to the time of the original autographs. That old game of telephone that used to play as kids. Now I'm not saying this is a one-on-one comparison. But you know the farther you get away from the original message, the more it gets distorted. That's the thinking with these manuscripts. It's closest in time to the original message, and therefore it's not as distorted. Well that's a simplistic way to describe it, folks. And I want us I want us to come away balanced on this, by the way. I don't want us coming in with banners next week. I'm Alexandrian. I'm majority tax or whatever. I want us to be balanced on this. And part of this is that honestly If you just think practically through, that can't always hold true. Let's see if we find a very early copy of the Septuagint. It may be very early. It could, let's say it's one of the earliest copies we've ever found. There would still be variants in those translation issues that we described already that we'd have to take into account, even if it is early, right? So although in a general sense, yeah, if it's closer to the original writings, it could be more accurate, but that's not always the case. It could be as well that the men that were writing early on had a few variants or had a few subtle errors that had to be worked on. Okay, so is there a problem? Let's get to the heart of this. Is there a problem with the Alexandrian text family? What is the major problem that folks have with this text family? Let's put it that way. Let me give you one of them. It's different in the completeness of text. It does not contain the full end of Mark and the account of the woman caught in adultery at the beginning of John 8. And that should be concerning to us Right? Um when we go to our King James and we have these passages of scripture and all of a sudden we go to a different version, even like Gary pointed out, mine has rackets, Pastor Brock. I don't don't know why that's the case. That ought to be concerning to us. So that's not a small thing. And that is a reason to kind of think with the Alexandrian, hmm, okay. Is that the most accurate one? But here's the other side of this that the Alexandrian text proponents do address. And that is, folks, it's also a problem to add to Scripture. Wouldn't you agree? Did you know that in our King James Version, now this is going to be a little controversial, I know, but even scholars who um are who have defended and who love the King James Version most recognize this now. First John 5. 7. And I forgot to print that. And all I have is my Greek New Testament. Well somebody, um Gary, would you read 1 John 5. 7 for us? That they're reckon in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one. Okay. All right. Does somebody have an ESV version of that? Could you uh Travis, could you read what That verse is not included, obviously, but what it says around that verse, the context. Included is short. Okay, go ahead. Where they're free to testify Then it goes on a per se. Okay. So there are three that testify. The King James has a more fuller explanation of the Trinity. Most scholars, and this does seem to be most uh most people will admit to this and and realize this is the fact. That this was added in. Remember those textual editions that we saw in the pictures of the manuscripts where the editors were adding notes and things? It seems from what we can tell that there was a note that was kind of talking about the Trinity and wanted the full truth of the Trinity. There's nothing in that verse that's wrong. It is true. The Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity is there, but it does seem from what we can tell, the evidence that we have, that that wasn't in the original autographs and the original manuscripts, that was a scribal and editor 's note that eventually got added in. But it is evidence, we are certain, as far as we can be, that that verse Is an addition. Does it change anything about doctrine? No. But it is important. We don't want to add the scripture either. So that's just one of the concerns. Other controversial concerns, cloud evaluation of this group. Some say that this Alexandrian family text type contained doctrinal errors and heretical corruption of Scripture. And they really, there's a man, a couple men called Westcott and Hort. Well, we'll talk more about them in just a minute. I'm getting ahead of myself. But that these men were interested in corrupting the doctrine of Scripture so they they were using these corrupted manuscripts for their own purposes. But folks, there's really there's the problem is there's no proof of that. Really hard, solid proof that that was ever the case in these Alexandrian family of manuscripts. There's a man named John Bergen. who does, who is concerned that there was some corruption in the Greek manuscripts. He says it's a legitimate concern, but he stated about the Alexandrian text that of fraud, strictly speaking, there may have been little or none. We should be very careful or shrink from imputing evil motives where any matter will bear honorable interpretation. He says, let's be careful about imputing false motives to the Alexandrian text group or those that were making copies if we have no evidence of it. That makes sense, right? Okay. There are some aspects. What could some of these doctrinal differences be? Well, some of these concerns have, and um, this is my language, but I believe they've been overblown. In the Alexandrian text type, you might have the title Lord Jesus Christ instead of Jesus Christ. And then the majority text family might have just Jesus Christ. The opposite is true as well. Well, people look at the Alexandrian text type and say, see, they didn't add Lord to Jesus Christ, and therefore they're trying to subtly state That Jesus Christ is not Lord. Now, listen, I'm not saying everybody that has concerns about these issues believes these things. These are extreme. But we need to understand when you hear people talk about corruption of the Alexandrian text type. At least ask them for specifics and then make sure, study it, make sure that those are in reality a real concern. Both text types have different statements of the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. So to make a theological issue out of that really is um damaging to people. Does that make sense? Okay? One i if if you have Christ in one manuscript and you have Jesus Christ in another That's not changed anything. That should be no real concern for any of us. Well, here's one that's a little bigger. Some say in the Alexander manuscripts, the Ephesian passages, the mention of Jesus' blood Is missing sometimes in the Alexandrian text type and it's not in the majority text type. Well, specifically, it's mentioned 32 times in the Alexandrian text type and it it has been removed or it's not there one time that the other text family has it. It folks, if somebody is trying to um promote an attack From the Word of God about the blood of Jesus Christ. They really did a poor job of it. Because there's still 32 mentions of the blood of Christ in Ephesians from the Alexandrian text type. Again, when you look at these variants, you have to look at them honestly and you have to look at all of the details involved with this. But this is the type of thing that people have tried to seize on and say, see This Alexandrian text family is not as accurate and as usable as the other And in reality, these things are small. I think most of us would admit to that. There's also an attack On a number of the men that worked on the Alexandrian text type. There were two Church of England clergymen, Brooke Foss Westcott and Fenton John Anthony Hort. Westcotton Hort. In 1881, after some twenty-eight years of careful textual criticism, they published a Greek New Testament that gave primary, though not exclusive, precedence To the older, this is from Dr. Minich tells us this, Dr. Mark Minick, gave precedent to the older Alexandrian readings when there were variants between them and those found in the majority families Right? People have maligned their character, have said that Westcott and Fort are heretics. Now these are the extreme. These are extreme. Okay, let's just understand this. But these men that made a decision to base their Greek text On the Alexandrian text family, rather than the majority, in the 1800s, were maligned by a lot of people that tried to attack their character. West by the way, Westcott I've been told, and I may even use some quotes from him, although they were both Church of England clergymen, Westcott wrote a wonderful d um commentary on the Gospel of John that I've been told is is Is wonderfully devotional. I'm going to have to look through that and see if that's the case. Even if you read, and we're not going to get into everything, all of their character tonight, but even folks, if you are concerned about their character, There's a lot of people that were involved in these text types and manuscripts that had shady pasts. We're gonna see, we're we're gonna have to um Divide this up. I didn't want to. We're going to have to talk about the Byzantine text next week and the Texas Receptus that was the original Greek New Testament manuscript that was the basis of the Texas Receptus, that was the basis of the King James, was done by Erasmus. From everything that we can tell, Erasmus was never a believer. He was firmly a Catholic till the very end. He had a lot of respect for Martin Luther, but he would never side with Luther on Luther's positions. Maybe secretly he did, but he always held the line of the Catholic Church. And yet he gave us a wonderful start for the Texas Receptus that gave us the King James that we have today. So beating up on people that were involved in this process really isn't helpful. Or their character. Because God can use all kinds of people for this. Let me just give you a list here from Brother John Mincy again of all the different people that were used for the Alexandrian. text family to provide them in the family that we have today. Explorers, peasants. priests, antiquity dealers, theologians, monasteries, politicians, Russian czars, even communists Kings, the Vatican, and even wastebaskets all had a part in the preservation of the Alexandrian text family. The same sort of list could be given about the majority text. There were the Catholic Church There were Russian czars, there were all kinds of people, really good people and shady people that were involved in us having those manuscripts that we have today. God can use all kinds of people to preserve his word, is my point. So let's be careful. Be careful when you hear people maligning some of these men without getting the full information and the full report. That is the Alexandrian family text type. Next or in two weeks, we'll get into the majority text. And that is the text family that has the most. 80% of the over 500 Greek manuscripts that we possess today reflect the Byzantine or majority text type And that is the basis of the King James Version. Again, the other modern versions are based off mostly, not all, but mostly the Alexandrian family text type. And that's some of the controversy. We went late, I know. Anybody have any questions on that or anything real quick? You can come and see me afterwards. A lot of information. Hopefully it made sense. But if you understand this, you'll understand the controversy, and you'll be able to even have more confidence in both your Hebrew Bible. and the Greek New Testament from which all translations are are come from. Make sense? I hope. Alright. I can't wait to hear what Kurt's got for us for our final song.