We're going to continue on about the Bible manuscript evidence tonight and finish up with that. And we're going to start talking about King James Version and other English versions that led up even before the King James Version was translated. was worked on. And I think all of this really we are, I'm so thankful for how patient you've been with all of this At least you've seemed very patient. And I've gotten some good some good feedback. And those of you that are getting a little tired or a little impatient, you haven't made that very apparent. So thank you. for your for your long suffering. Um but we are really in in these next today we to covered two weeks ago and the next few weeks we're at the center of the controversy. This point. We've gotten that point. Really, the manuscripts and readability are where the controversy lies. And so it's very important that as I'm trying to go through this even with the time that we have tonight quickly. I want to make sure that there is a full understanding. So if you remember the last time we talked, remember the manuscripts? What are the manuscripts? I should be asking some questions here, make sure people are listening. When we use the word manuscripts in relation to this topic, what are we talking about? Anyone? The copies in the original languages. Hebrew, Greek. Right? Not Latin. Latin would be a translation. The Vulgate that Jerome did into Latin would be a translation. Some of these others that we're talking about, and we're going to be talking about a man named Erasmus, who in the Renaissance and Reformation history did a Greek New Testament that was the basis of the King James. We'll get to that in a minute. It was from the original languages and his Greek New Testament in particular. was an edition of the manuscripts, the Greek edition. So, okay, that's good. You understand that. Then we started talking about the two most important, I'll put it this way, or controversial. The Alexandrian is the more controversial text. Families of texts And I have a map tonight that I will show in a little bit that I think I've never used this before, and if this is a total bust, you can tell me afterwards. But visuals always help, and we're going to look at that. But the Alexandrian family of text and the Byzantine or the majority text from which the Texus Receptus comes from You can't equate the majority text with the Textus Receptus. I'll explain all that, so don't worry. But we went specifically through the Alexandrian text type, the family text type. What was one of the most important characteristics of the Alexandrian family text type. Well before I even say that, where is the Alexandrian text type? What region of the world is that found in? Egypt. Egypt. Okay, good. I have that on my map here in a little bit. Okay. Move beyond that. What was one of the main characteristics that's important to the conversation? Sandy, did I see your hand up or was that it's the oldest. It's the oldest. The oldest manuscripts that we have today are exal Alexandrian family text type. Okay? And with a lot of people, and I think we all we could understand this and We sympathize with this, that the oldest, many people say the oldest is the best because they're closest to in the originals. which are the original autographs, which are the ones that are inspired. No mistakes in the autographs. And if you have manuscripts that are closest to the time , Of the autographs, then they must be better. But what is one of the main concerns with the Alexandrian text type? May you remember? There's a number, but the main one Standing? Missing text? Missing text. Missing passages. And we're talking now more than just the difference between Lord Jesus Christ or Jesus Christ or Lord Jesus. That type of variant within passages. We're talking about the controversial, the missing ending of Mark, right? We're talking about that very beginning of the chapter of John 8 with the adulterous woman that's brought before. And um but well those those are the main two. We'll just keep to those right now. That is a concern. They're not there in the Alexandrian text type for the most part. Okay? So we can understand part of that, although just because they're not there, and we're going to see this on my graphics soon, we don't know why they're not there. So here's where the problem comes in for those that are really concerned. They start to fill in the gaps with why those passages wouldn't be there. Well, it must be Satan's plot. Well, it must be people purposely leaving out part of God's word in those Alexandrian textbags. Well, folks, we just don't know. So let's just keep it in the realm of we don't know. I'm going to give you, if we're going to conjecture, I'll give you a conjecture that I came up with that would be just as sensational as the fact that Satan somehow used people to keep those passages out. Why those passages in particular? Why not other passages about the gospel? Why the ending of Mark? We just don't know. Okay? So let's be careful not to be unduly critical because those are missing. Now, that is a concern for us, but now as we get to the second family, which is called the Byzantine texts, these are not the earliest manuscripts that we have. But they are the more numerous extensive collection of manuscripts we have access to today. You following me? That's why, even though it's referred to as the Byzantine family text, I'll show you why in a minute. It's also referred to as the majority text because in this text family text type the manuscripts. They are more numerous. And these do include those missing passages. So, in the big picture, all of that is still included. It's all part of God's Word. We have those passages in the manuscripts. Okay, so those that are concerned about them missing out of the Alexandria manuscripts, we still have them in numerous hundreds of manuscripts from the majority family text. So there's really no ultimate cause for concern. They're still in our Bibles. They're still included in our Greek New Testaments. Even the ones that think that those passages shouldn't be included, they include them, they put it in brackets. The brackets may irritate us, but they're still there. So let's go talk now about the majority family in more detail. Over 80% of the over 5,000 Greek manuscripts we possess reflect this Byzantine majority text type. Okay? Their primary source location is not Alexandria, Egypt. But from what we can tell, church history says it's originally the Antioch. The Antioch Church that is actually discussed in the book of Acts. I'm just going to go ahead since we have that and read that passage to you, just to remind you. Remember, after Saul was miraculously saved, Jesus appeared to him, he became Paul, he began his ministry in this new church after the persecution of Stephen. In Antioch, so Acts eleven nineteen. Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen travelled as far as Phineas of Cyprus and Antioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, Gentiles, which when they were come to Antioch spake unto the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned unto the Lord. That was the start of the Antioch Church. Barnabas got involved. Remember Barnabas? And he eventually pulled in Paul, and they ministered for many years I'll show you that on the map in a minute as well. It has been, tradition has said that the copies originated from that area of the Antioch Church But they eventually migrated to Constantinople, which became the capital of the Byzantine Empire. Alright? And again, just wait. I'll bring all this together on the map that I'll show in a minute So that's why it's called the Byzantine Family Text. However, even though that's the case, this is something interesting. We do have some papyri fragments of the Byzantine family text type that actually we are confident originated in Egypt. So those that are concerned about the Alexandrian text type in the locale in that area, guess what? Even some of the other, the majority text types, some of those manuscripts came from Egypt. So it's not just a sinister locale, okay, that's involved here. Just so we have a full understanding there These Greek manuscripts that were centered from the Antioch Church and eventually migrated to Constantinople eventually became scattered all over Europe As now this gets into world history, and I know I'm sure there's many of you that love world history, and you're probably on pins and needles just waiting to hear more. So you remember eventually the um Rome The Empire of Rome became centered through Constantine in Constantinople after hundreds of years, the fall of Constantinople the Crusades and the Muslim conquest overran Constantinople and the Greek manuscripts that were centered there were literally scattered as people ran trying to preserve their own lives and pr trying to preserve these Greek manuscripts all over the known world at that point. Many hundreds of manuscripts. Now the Alexandrian manuscripts were mostly hidden away and secure in Egypt. Egypt has a much more dry, arid climate, by the way. the way, that is very helpful in preserving documents. Now, again, instead of getting more controversial and suspicious uh about um the The trying to think of the right word here. The inaccuracies of the Alexandrian text type and why they weren't used much, it could also be a very legitimate reason that the temperature and the climate in that region just helped preserve those documents better And God provided it that way. They stayed kind of hidden away and secure until there was a surge of archaeological interest in the 19th century. We hear about many people and all the archaeological discoveries in the Holy Land and in Egypt and all these places. And these Alexandrian manuscripts came to light. And there began to be this group of ancient document hunters that found out that there was a lot of money involved in these ancient documents and manuscripts to be sold to the right people. So again, we've mentioned this before, but you could write a whole spy novel or series of novels about how these men and women found these documents and selling them to the Russians and selling to all kinds of different places, but how God miraculously eventually allowed us to have access to all these manuscripts, especially in Alexandria. and be able to use them to examine and to check our own manuscripts that we had and make sure that they were accurate. Alright? Pastor John Mincy describes it this way. God used for, we're back to talking about the Byzantine Majority texts, God used crusades, monasteries, the Greek Orthodox Church, which housed many of these Byzantine family texts, the Roman Catholic Church persecution, libraries, wealthy citizens , ambassadors, and even Russian czars to be channels of preservation for the majority text. All of those people, some of them good people, some of them evil people, God used to preserve family as well. Some people try to say, well, there were a lot more evil, suspicious people involved with the Alexandrian family text type. Well no, there were some characters involved with the majority text type. We're just trying to be clear and objective about all this. God used even Russian Tsars, right? The Greek Orthodox Church, priests from the Catholic Church to preserve the majority text. Well, as those were being preserved, there were more copies, but there was a focus on Latin. Latin was the main language at that point, and people just when they talked about Greek, it's like, why do we need Greek? We have Latin. Jerome has translated the scriptures into Latin for us. We have God's word for over a thousand years, the Vulgate, the vulgar text, and the idea of the text So the common man, we have that. We don't need the original Greek manuscripts, but in the late 1400 and 1500s there was a revived interest with the renaissance of Greek writings and documents. And there was a man that God raised up, although from what we can tell he never fully, he did not trust in Jesus. He was probably not a true believer. His name was Desadarius Erasmus. And if you'll remember, if you remember anything about Martin Luther's story, he's tied to Martin Luther in Reformation history. So we won't go on to all that right now, but God used him to have an influential effect on translation history. Let me just read to you from John Ashbrook and again, from the mind of God to the mind of man, a little bit more about Erasmus. because he was the one that God used to eventually give us what we have as the Texas Receptus. Today that the King James mostly came from. There were many other sources that King James came from besides the Texas Receptus, but this is one of the major ones. He says here, Erasmus was a Dutchman born in Rotterdam in about 1466. He was dis he distinguished himself as a genius wherever he was sent. He was not a reformer like his contemporaries, Zwingui and Luther. His writing was filled with satire. He delighted in exposing the dishonesty and immorality of priests, monks, and popes But he was always loyal, and he intended to remain a loyal son of the Catholic Church. But what he did uh was provide was study and provide textual criticism for a Greek New Testament that became very important. His desire was to search the known world for the best New Testament manuscripts and make them available to translate Scripture in all the languages of the world so mankind could read the Scriptures for themselves. But he never publicly sided with Luther. He did desire to make Scripture available to the common man. And his goal was to publish an accurate Greek New Testament. But the problem with all this is his first edition ended up being rather rushed. And here's why. It was hurried by his printer at this point. The printing press has been invented, and there was a rush and a desire to have a Greek New Testament that was printed and not just written. Right? Are you following me? So his printer knew that there was a Spanish version that was in the works over in Spain, and he basically said, Erasmus , I know that you want to look through a lot of different texts and a lot of evidence, but We gotta hurry up with the first text here because we want to get ours out before Spain gets their Greek New Testament out. Because of him being rushed in this way, his first edition ended up having many errors. He only used out of the majority of Greek manuscripts that were available, only about four to eight, maybe ten, probably four to eight at the most, Greek manuscript sources, all from the Byzantine text site. And in his quick search, he actually had to borrow a Greek manuscript of Revelation from a friend that was missing the last page. So what do you do when you're trying to translate a Greek New Testament for printing and you don't have the last page of Revelation? He took the last few verses of Revelation from a Latin translation and translated them back into Greek. And still to this day we have some remnants in the King James Version. some unusual words that are used in the last part of Revelation that are not found anywhere else because Erasmus did this. To this day, there are several words from the received text that are found in none of the Greek manuscripts. Erasmus did correct many of these in five later editions. Now I mentioned this ties in with the Texas Receptus. When he was done with his Greek text, did we have the Texas Receptus? Actually, no. There were four more editions with textual critical notes, and I didn't bring my Greek New Testament tonight. But I'll bring it later, and I can show you that in the Greek New Testament at the bottom there are hundreds of notes that show variance They show the different variants from different manuscripts. Erasmus included some of these. Others included, including a man named Robert Esteen. He had taken refuge in John Calvin's Geneva. Theodore Beza, who is a well-known name as far as this whole controversy is talked about, he published nine editions Of a revised version of Erasmus Greek text. And then finally there was a Dutch printer and his brother that printed in their second of the multiple Greek texts After a bunch of revisions of Erasmus Greek text, they push in the front, you have now the text received by all. Matt in the Latin is where we get the phrase, the text of the Receptus. Follow all that? That's a lot of information. Anyone busy yet? The Texas Receptus was actually only based on a few. of the Byzantine manuscripts. Remember what I said? Today we possess over 80% of over 5,000 Greek manuscripts we have in the Byzantine family text. And the Textus Receptus is only based on a limited few. And that is the Greek text that was used behind most of the New Testament in the KJV translation. So that tells me something interesting in this debate that I didn't really understand before is that folks today we have a wealth of Byzantine or majority texts that actually still need to be studied and analyzed and should be. And I wonder if even some of these inaccuracies or these variants that we have would take care of. You have literally, my point is hundreds, maybe thousands of manuscripts that people have not taken the time or not had the time to analyze yet. The Alexandrian text type proponents say, just give us the Alexandrian text type. The KJV and those that are that are more um into and more um comfortable with the King James version. That's based on a limited number of manuscripts that are the Texas Receptus. And we have a whole lot more here that still need to be analyzed today. And I wonder if with those we would even have less problems with variants and things once those are analyzed. People just don't seem to be as interested in doing that today, and yet they're available for us to do that. Now in regards and with all of that, with all those differences and all that history, folks, we can say, because of those manuscripts and those different things that we have the Word of God. in our hands. And some have been asking what I mean by that. We'll get into more of that here in a little bit. That's the basic difference though between the Alexandrian family text type and the Byzantine family text type. Now let's do a visual here. And I've got to do this Our folks um On Zoom should be able to see this at this point. Okay, great. Yeah, you can see this too. Great. Let's recap all of this and all of that we've talked about so far. This is where I've not done this before, so if this It's hard this is meant to make this all more easy to understand. I hope that it's successful in this. We've talked about the two main family text types. Family text types means that they were Christian centers where the Word of God was copied and the copies reflected the other copies. These Christian centers in early church history, one of them ended up in Alexandria, Egypt, down here, where there was a large Christian community. And they copied the scripture. And of course it makes sense that as they're copying them, some of the variants and different unique characteristics would be reflected in the copies as well. And so those copies all together then are called the Alexandrian family text type You have then the other, the Byzantine, the majority, which seems to have originated from the church of Antioch and the Christian community there, as they are copying God's word , the characteristics. of those copies would continue to be processed and there would be unique because there's there Uh quite a bit of distance here between the two and there wasn't a lot of checking up with these folks and with these folks. So there was unique characteristics, obviously one of the most unique ones that we have from The Alexandrian manuscripts is that we're missing some of those passages. But let me just throw this out to you. As they're making these copies, eventually the group here they Moved as the Roman Empire shifted. And remember, Constantine, the Roman Empire, that um was the first Roman Emperor to be friendly toward Christianity. He eventually moved the center of the Roman Empire from Rome to Constantinople. It was called Byzantine before Constantinople, and that's where you have the Byzantine Family text type. All these documents from ANIAP, from what we can tell, were moved here and they continue to be copied And some some concerns have been given about the Alexandria family text type that somehow purposely that Satan allowed men to be less careful about these group of manuscripts than these. And these men were somehow more careful. The only thing is we don't have any evidence of that And that maybe even you get the extreme folks that say, well, they purposely left out part of those passages in their manuscripts. We don't have that evidence. If we're going to conjecture, I'll throw out a conjecture. I don't have any evidence for this as well, if it makes sense to me if everybody else is, if other people aren't going to do this. The earlier manuscripts were done when there was more intense persecution of the church. What if I conjecture that someone was finishing copying Mark? And there was some persecution that came and they had to pick up where what they had at that point and maybe even that part in John and the last part of Mark and they had to to move on because of persecution and those were eventually copied without that passage. Again, you say, Pastor Brock, you don't have any evidence for that. You're right, I don't But we also don't have any evidence that there were a group of people that were purposely trying to were trying to provide inaccuracy is the scripture. Just don't have that. So there's no reason to purposely be stick be suspicious of these for that reason. Alright? So eventually then you have the sack of Constantinople, you have the Crusades. That came in and overran Constantinople. You have the Muslim conquest, and people fled with their Greek manuscripts from Constantinople, literally all over the known world, all over Europe. And you had those people that had those manuscripts, hundreds, that's why they're called the majority text type, right? And but because there was such a satisfaction with Latin, nobody really cared about those Greek manuscripts. Manuscripts until a man men like Erasmus in the Renaissance said, hey, we really need to go back to the original Greek and check the accuracy of our Latin translation, the Vulgate. And what was interesting is there was a whole lot of people that said, well you can't do that. You can't make a new translation and show the inaccuracies. We've had the Latin portion of our Bible, the scriptures, for over a thousand years You'll make people doubt. And you know, there's no mistakes within the Latin Vulgate, which the man that created that, Jerome, would laugh at. He knew that there were an act accuracies, a little variance here and there. That's not the case. So men like Erasthemus started translating or or um taking the text that they had in the text example of the Texas Receptus and other things. Erasmus was in Germany, in the area of Germany at that time. And there was more of a focus then on going back to the original Greek and making sure that The copies of scripture that everyone had were as accurate as possible. All of these folks were textual critics. Nothing wrong with that. They wanted to make sure their scriptures were accurate Well what about these scriptures in Alexandria? Now this is my conjecture on this, okay? I mentioned this earlier. But what where did the whole focus of history for the most part go to this point? It went to Europe, then eventually to the New World Alexandria and these manuscripts are kind of hidden away, forgotten of down here, until God in his sovereignty in the 18 and 1900s had a new interest in archaeology, and they started finding more of these manuscripts, and now we have more manuscripts that are earlier, they're better preserved because of the climate Then we have those, and we have now all of those together, over 5,000 manuscripts of the original languages, to um compare and to have an accurate translation from, and so many that we haven't even barely scratched the surface of what we could do in textual criticism. to have the most accurate, variant-free version that's possible. Many of our versions today including the ESV, which you know I I appreciate, the NASB , the NIV. They focus more on the Alexandrian and they just say the Alexandrian's the earliest, so that's what our focus is. And there's hundreds, thousands of Byzantinian manuscripts and aren't even hardly analyzed. I think that's a shame. I think there ought to be more focus on that The King James preferred folks say the Texas Receptus is good enough for us. That Greek translation, even though it was only made from about seven, eight Greek manuscripts Out of hundreds that are available, that's good enough for us. I think there's still obviously a lot more work that needs to be done. If God has given us all these manuscripts, we ought to be taking advantage of them. Is my point. Alright? I hope that was helpful. Now some of that was a little bit of my own conjecture, but hopefully it gives you a big picture. about the whole manuscript issue. Any question about that? Yes, Tom? Well there's uh an argument that the Byzantine case even be because there are so many fragments and manuscripts available, and many of them are in tough condition that the Alexandrian texts being preserved more were more than likely uh some of them were texts that were hidden away because they weren't used Um maybe not to be found correct or suspect. But the uh majority text being uh used by more people and a lot more fragments. It's kind of like uh what I have at home is six or eight Bibles Two of them I've used extensively, and several of them that are very crisp and clean, because I never use them. I think that's the you know the argument the argument that it's made is that perhaps those uh Alexandrian manuscripts were set aside because they weren't maybe may not have been favored or found to be accurate. But the uh majority texts, uh those texts are so many of them, and they're in agreement, and there is quite a bit of textual criticism going on Yes, yes, and that is one of those prominent arguments that people give. And ultimately in this conflict between the two, folks, what is the ultimate uh answer to all this? Is that we still have both of these peck types reflected in our versions, regardless of what version we go to. Somewhere just in brackets, and that bothers someone. But ultimately, we still have those portions of Scripture in those controversial portions in our Bibles. With that specific argument, the only thing I would again say is we have no real evidence of that, that somehow these were put aside because they were inferior or not used as much. And so I could come up with another idea that maybe somebody just had to leave off because he was facing or she was facing, well, be he facing persecution and wasn't able to finish. If if we're going to If we're going to come up with some of these ideas without concrete evidence of those things , I see the history of the world here. There was more opportunity To have these manuscripts spread because of the flow of history. It was away from Alexandria, and these Alexandrian manuscripts were just forgotten That would be my reply to that argument. We just I always want you to be careful that if you latch on to something, or you heard something that sounds good to you, make sure that there is evidence, concrete evidence to support that, or just be careful with that. That makes sense, Rick. I think the most incredible thing about both of these is the commonality between the two. And remember when we're talking about these vast numbers of manuscripts, everybody has to realize these are not full copies of the Bible Maybe missing that. These are just scraps of pieces of paper that we found that somebody takes, you know, just like you make notes at your home for your your grocery list. There are people that did that kind of thing in their homes They would make notes. And we have these small little scraps of these manuscripts. And so we're we're we're we you know just a small little verse or two or part of a verse is what we're talking about. We're talking about all these manuscripts. We're not talking about full and complete, though the Alexandrian text is more complete because it was there. It was all preserved in one spot. Somebody obviously put it there to preserve it there. So it's the it's the uh between the two It's amazing the accuracy even of the old and of the not-so-old ones. That's what we're talking about here. Some some are the size of postage stamp, right? Some are full books. We have a Codex Sinocaneous. I didn't pronounce that right. It was found in a Greek Byzantine monastery in 1844, secured by a Russian Tsar in Moscow from 1933. Here's something interesting in this debate. Another codex that's very important is called the Codex Alexandrias. And interesting when you're going when you're debating one text type or the other, this codex. Has the Gospels in the Byzantine Majority text type and the rest of the New Testament in the Alexandria text type. You have both in the same Codex that we have today that's that's uh preserved for us. It's dated from the fifth century, and both are together. Isn't it interesting? And there's some others as the Vaticanists as well. These include the testaments and the Apocrypha and these things, but Rick's right. There's a variety of manuscripts between size of a postage stamp and a whole codex or a whole book. And it's it's amazing the amount of access how similar they they all are really is uh I see great yeah. So I have for something uh rather good just great maybe comprise the context. Uh the last two uh few versions in Revelation indicate that don't let anyone add to what was written, don't let anyone take away from what was written. And it being written really the last words that were penned from all of Scripture. How does that relate? Because if I read that and I consider it scripture, There is a sect of God's Word that is truth. No more, no less. So that's, I guess, one of the questions that would come to my mind of there is truth. And as we pursue it, There's explicitly God's word. And then there's extra. And there are people that have left things up. Yeah Or or well , if they've left it out in those passages, we don't know why they were left out. I'll just put that caveat if we really don't have any idea. So I don't want to assign a cynical or critical motive to them when I just don't know. But We were going to get into this tonight. We'll just wait until next week, but I will answer that question with a couple things here. Because I just want to put this out as we continue to talk about the manuscripts. In English manuscripts. You guys, we're going to talk about this next week, but there were many English translations before the King James. Everybody understands that. That's right. And we're going to talk more about that next week. Let me give you an example though from one of these called the Coverdale Bible. that I didn't have time to get into tonight, and this will kind of help to answer that question as I think you're you're phrasing it. This is a good example of what do we do. If we have these variants in the different manuscripts, which one is the Word of God? Or can we say any of them are the Word of God? Or am I being nebulous and saying somewhere out there within the 5,000 manuscripts, we have the Word of God. We're going to get to it one day, folks. That's not what I'm saying, by the way. But let me just give you one example from the Coverdale Bible that was the first complete English translation of the entire Bible. by um Miles Coverdale. He revised William Tyndale And he chose to follow readings from Tyndale 's three different editions instead of sticking to one edition. John Hutcheson has written this. This was due in part to the ongoing work of revision that the translators conducted in order to correct any inaccuracies and to make the translation as true to the divinely inspired original wording as possible. Tyndale produced at least three editions of his New Testament, resulting in a number of differences in the wording. And here are the results of what Coverdale did and what Tyndale did. Here's the differences in one verse, Colossians 3. 25 In the Tyndale 1526 edition, it says, for there is no respect of persons. In the Tyndale 1535 revision, It says, for there is no respect of persons with God. So Coverdale saw that, and in his edition, the Coverdale Bible, he put, for there is no respect of persons with God. The Geneva Bible, again, we'll get into all this next week, they looked at the original languages again, saw that Tyndale had not originally translated in that way and they went back to for there is no respect of persons. In the passage cited, there is no support from the Greek for adding with God Tyndale 's first two editions correctly reflected that in the translation. However, in Tyndale's third edition, he inserted with God because he found it in the Latin Vulgate. And Coverdale followed Tyndall's version. Now he says here, this raises a significant question. I think this kind of goes along with what you're talking about, Rob. Which of those above-listed versions is the Word of God? This isn't a trick question. Which one of those? Since the verses differ, which one is really God's word? The correct answer here, there's a lot more, this is very interesting here. I'm trying to go through this quickly. The correct answer is that the translators, Tyndale and Coverdale, believed that they were translating the very Word of God. The differences between the two translations were very minimal, and the revelation of God to man was not affected by those differences. Here's the important part. Not one doctrine of scriptures was harmed by it. Coverdale added a phrase here and they're from Tyndale using his best judgment. But both editions in the English language were the word of God. Now that sounds like a top-out. But folks, I truly believe that. That is my answer. All those additions are the Word of God. Things, and Hutchinson says this, that are different can still be the same, God's Word. Now that may sound like a conflict, but folks, even the King James translators in their preface of 1611 said the same thing. Let me read this to you We do not deny, nay, we affirm and avow that the very meest, that's the weakest, not not angry, but the weakest translation of the Bible in English set forth by men of our profession containeth the word of God, nay, is the word of God. So the very translators of the King James Bible themselves said even the weakest translation It's still the Word of God. Now we want to be as accurate as possible. All of the men and women that are quoted in here, Spurgeon, Amy Carmichael. Many others that you'd recognize, Oswald Chambers. All of them recognize this same thing that even though there are subtle variants in subtle differences , for the most part in Scripture, that each of those translations is still the Word of God. And that is why, that's where I stand, that's why I can say to you as well, I'm confident that we have the Word of God, not one doctrine, not one topic. is affected by any of these little variants. And we have the ability to continue to make more and more accurate translations. We're going to see next week as we continue to talk about English translations. You had a number of English translations all going on, all available while the King James was being translated And they had different variances. And they were all by the Puritans, by the pilgrims. They were considered the Word of God. And we can today too. Uh that record. Well the King James version that we currently have under underwent many editions. Yes. Does not have the first edition of the King James version. We have I think it's the seventh or eighth or ninth, seventeenth? I don't I don't remember how many chairs. There's actually been 108. Okay, so there's lots of different editions. So are we saying that that's violating The passage that Rob just read. No, we're not saying that violates that. We're not saying that because one letter is off, that means you've added two. Depending, even now, you can take out your King James Version, there's actually a passage in 1 Timothy. Is it truly or thoroughly? And some of your editions will say thruly, and some of them will say thoroughly. Right? It's um I have to tell you the passage um truly first and follow the word. That's it. 1 Timothy 3. 16 So what's the difference? Is one adding or subtracting from God's Word? And thus we violated that passage in Revelation? That's not what passage in Revelation is about. No. Yeah, well and that's that's true. And I guess in that description, um I didn't directly address that verse, and I will get back to that. uh next week as far as how to correctly interpret that particular verse because that is important. On a flyby it's talking about the doctrine and the information within scripture that we don't want to add to it. Like God worked in giving us perfect original autographs. But God continues to work through his people today as textual criticizers, so to speak, or textual critics, to provide accuracy. so that we can get as close to those original autographs as possible. And God uses folks today to do that as well. Alright, it's late, I know. So Kurt, would you come on up and lead us in one more song together?