This morning. And if you are a kingdom citizen of the eternal kingdom, Through faith in Jesus Christ, he holds you fast this morning. So turn back to Matthew chapter 5 as we we don't We've just started our series on Sermon on the Mount, but we're finishing up that portion called the Beatitudes. The Beatitudes , the Latin word for blessing. Because every one of these phrases that Christ describes here are started with a blessing. Blessing. Literally happy or fortunate. Because it's so much deeper than just Christians being happy and having a good life. Jesus is referring to those that suffer. And that know their need. But this is blessed, happy, in a deeper sense. That regardless of the pain and the suffering, maybe The self-loathing, the guilt that we face, we know that we have better things coming. And we are fortunate because Jesus Will one day return and usher in this wonderful kingdom. And so our future, our citizenship is truly in another country. It's not even fully in the United States, is it? Our eternal citizenship, folks, is better than being an American citizen. It's being a citizen of the heavenly kingdom. And so Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount is describing the conduct of the people of the kingdom. And any of us here that have trusted Christ, that have faith relationship with Him, we can be confident we're a citizen kingdom, but we can we need to be motivated to act in this way that Jesus is describing. And that he describes in this opening set of blessings. Blessings. So we're finishing this up today. I liked again what a commentator said about this whole passage, that there is a progression. This was Dr. Stuart Weber noted. Notice this Jesus Kingdom servants are those who, first of all, recognize we are spiritually bankrupt. We are needy people indeed. Number two, they are deeply sorrowful for it. They weep. They groan. They sense their unworthiness. And then number three, they have already begun to respond humbly to their trainer, to their king, I might add. And that is the setup then for the rest of the Sermon on the Mount. As we get more into it in the coming weeks and months. So Jesus is teaching on a hill, probably near the Sea of Galilee. And I should note as well, he is speaking to his disciples. There's probably others mixed within the group, but this is mostly a group of his own disciples. He is discipling, he is teaching them how they should conduct themselves. And from what we can tell in the time frame of things, this was beyond just the twelve. But this was at the beginning of Jesus' ministry. And there was probably hundreds of those that wanted to follow Jesus at this point as they saw him do the miracles and the authority of his speaking. The sermon on The Mount then is a sermon that he would regularly preach. We have the full transcript here in Matthew. But if you want to know what Jesus preached while he was on this earth, you Read this passage, and you'll know this was a common theme that he would preach and he would teach to his disciples. So, the first set of beatitudes Are kingdom citizens and their heart attitudes. The second set are kingdom citizens and their conduct. That the heart emanates in doing Doing things that are appropriate for kingdom citizens. With all that, let's go back to verse 2 and read these again. And Jesus opened his mouth Mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. And blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. And now our Father. Final three, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad. For your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And so as Jesus calls the Kingdom citizens, those who are following him today, those who have faith and relationship with him, and the second set of blessings, he is talking about our conduct. That we should be merciful. Of course, kingdom citizens would show the grace of God to others because of the great grace that's been shown to them. Of course, we would be merciful, right? And of course, as we continue to grow in our spiritual walk, we have a desire to be pure because we realize that the impurities that we allow into our lives, it um it interferes with the relationship, the experiential relationship That we have with God. And we can be closer to God. We are always his sons. We won't lose our salvation, but when we allow impurity, whether it's sexual impurity of the world or all kinds of different things. Um the lusts of the world, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, all of these things. When we allow these things to have um Power and control in our lives, it will affect our relationship with God. We will not feel as close to Him. It will fog, it will interfere with us being able to see God and interact with Him in a close personal way because we have sin in between He and us. So we need to strive to be pure in heart. And of course, there is the wonderful truth that all of those who have trusted God Christ are made pure. We're all the saints. And regardless then of our failures on this earth and our weaknesses, we will all see God. We will see God Jesus one day. There is that glorious hope. But why wait? Grow in your purity now that you can have that close relationship, that close conversation, and close Interaction with God. Why wait for glory when we can be pure in heart now and talk with Him? So there are those, and now, blessed are the peacemakers. For they shall be called the sons of God. And hear it saying that these peacemakers will be known as God's children. Now, who are these peacemakers? Well, these are those who actively endeavor to bring peace to the relationships around them in their home, in their neighborhoods. And yes, so very importantly, in their church, in their local church. Folks, we need these people in our lives. And much more than needing them, folks, we should be these people. We should be the peacemakers. We should desire to be the ones. That God uses to dispel conflict and disagreement, those people are valuable and important. And those people reflect whose children they are. Again, as I was thinking on this message, a story came to mind. Many of you have met our daughter. Named Ellie. She is um a Sheltie. She has those instinct herding um capabilities, and she She's a very intelligent dog. But as as kind and she loves people. When she sees you coming, she'll bark, bark, bark, bark, and then she'll run up to you and sniff you to death. I mean, she's a great dog. A little irritated. irritating in at times because the smarter they are sometimes you know the more irritating they can be. But she's a good dog. But one thing that she's very, very careful about is also she And guarding her food supply. And my uh in-laws um had a dog for many years. I recently had to say goodbye to this dog. Her name was Dixie. She was a beautiful girl. Gray, she had a lot of uh I believe the title of the um breed is Wine Rheimer. I got that right. And um beautiful gray dog, and she was the nicest Dog. She loved people even much more than Ellie did. And the first thing you go into their house and she's there and she wants to be petted and she'll just sit by you the whole time and they'd have to tell her to go. Well Well she at times when Leslie's parents uh wanted to go on vacation, uh Dixie would we would house her and let her come over to our house and she had her own place there. Um and she and Ellie Top Some dogs, you know how this goes, those are dog owners. Some dogs tolerate each other more than others. Some get along, well, Dixie and Ellie got along okay. They put up with each other. Except for certain times. When we were all together there at the dinner table, and um one dog thought uh You know, maybe erroneously that somebody might drop some food. Or maybe somebody did drop some food for one of them. And the one dog would see the other dog get that food and there would immediately be Strife and contention. As let's say Dixie goes over, she had a bigger bark than Ellie, and woof, woof, and she would chase Ellie, but Ellie would Defend because she wanted that food, and as you can imagine, the strife and contention would get very um severe very quickly, and so we had to step in as the peace Also, if one of the dogs got too close to the other's dog dish, right? Because you had Ellie's and you had Dixie's dog dish. And Dix and Ellie was very careful. And anytime a Dixie She was kind of sneaky. She would try to do nobody's looking around. I don't know if she really thought this through, but kind of looking both ways, and she would go and she'd eat the cat's food, and then she'd go after Ellie's food, and all of a sudden Ellie would be right there. And um They would almost a couple times we had to kind of pull them apart. But we had to maintain peace among two striving creatures. In order to maintain peace in the household and not to have things damaged, including the pets. It was important. It was funny, many years later, when we were in New Hampshire, we've been having New Hampshire for a number of years. Uh we could still I know this sounds kinda mean, but you know Ellie is such an intelligent dog. We could literally go to one of our windows that were outlooked That was looking out on the driveway. And if if one happened to say, Oh look, Pappy, Grandpa's coming. Look, it's Dixie, immediately Ellie, would run over to her food bowl and guard it already. Even if Dixie wasn't there. She knew. Well, folks, um, it's one thing when you have two medium-sized dogs that are growling. And fighting, you have to be the peacemaker in order to maintain to keep there from being chaos. But sometimes we have growling people and frustrated people. And people trying to protect their things in a church ministry. And there may be two different perspectives, and people may feel strongly about those perspectives. Sometimes things can get personal in ministry. Well, sometimes things can get personal in our home situations, or at work, or even in our neighborhoods. And when we have people that will step in and say, hey, take a breath, both sides. Take a deep breath. Take a moment. Think through what you're saying. Let's just kind of separate. Okay? In a ministry setting, pray about this. Let's talk further on this. And they provide that moment of um of peace and carefulness to reconsider what the two sides are arguing about. Folks, that is valuable, wouldn't you agree with me? In any ministry, in any situation. Yes, these peacemakers that Jesus is talking about, we We need in every church. And really, more than just need, we should all be striving to be these peacemakers. Not just leave Leaving it up to a few. But God ought to be convicting all of us that as strife and contention happen in the church, they do happen. Strife and contention And contention happens in family life. And it hopefully the parents step in. Sometimes families need to go to counselors to step in to help to bring peace. In the midst of the chaos, but so important. And I was thinking through this as well. I really uh So often in ministry you can have when when a when things get divisive, you can have, unfortunately, people take sides. And One side sides with these people and one side sides with these people and whatever. And folks I was thinking about that. Really if if we to strive to be peacemakers, we should never in a child Church have sides. Ever. We should always be seeking to go to the individual and calming both Of uh the the parties down, helping them to think through what they're doing, listening to both sides. That's what peacemakers do. They listen. They carefully evaluate. And then if there's still strife, then you set a time for those individuals to talk. Walk it through and work together for unity and consistency in the body. All of us ought to desire and want to be peacemakers Well we get into trouble is and as happens in a lot of ministries, when we start to take sides and it becomes a war. That's exactly what Jesus is saying here should not happen. But we must dedicate together and covenant together to be peacemakers. Why? Well, ultimately it says, for they What does that mean? That means that those that seek peace in the midst of conflict are reflecting the character of God, of Jesus Christ. And people know whose side you're on. You know, that's really the title of this whole series in Sermon on the Mount, by the way, is Whose Side Are You On? Are you on the side of the kingdom, of God's kingdom, or are you on the side of the temporary ruler in this world? Whose side are you on? Do you reflect as a follower of Jesus Christ the values of the kingdom so that everyone around you knows clearly, oh, I'm a kingdom citizen. I'm on God's I'm with Jesus. I'm on Jesus' team. Or when people see us, do they have to wonder Those people Christians? Do they go to church? They seem to be very comfortable doing the same sorts of things that we do. Whose side are they on? Well, the importance in this peacemakers is that folks, those that strive to maintain peace and help people instead of Of accentuating the differences and stirring up things, those that desire to bring those two sides together and have them talk it out and have them Listen to each other. Those people make it very clear that they are on God's side, that they are the children of God. Oh, they They strive to be peacemakers. When people, when strife and contention, when damaged relationships happen, those people strive Step in and bring grace and care and concern, they must be children of God. That's what Jesus is saying there. That we will know confidently that the peacemakers are children of God. Used to be in small towns, you know, you'd have a lot of gossip, and I'm thinking that's still a characteristic of some small towns, but especially during the World Wars, World War II, my understanding is of of small town life is that you know as people would talk about each other they might be see some young men walk by and those young men might have been soldiers that have just Just enlisted for the war, or they might be back. Maybe they came back from World War II. And uh if they were well respected, people would look at those sons or daughters And they would say, oh, that's so-and-so's boys. That's so-and-so 's daughters. They come from good stock. They're a chip off the old block. They're good, faithful people, and we know whose family they're from. Well, that was always a compliment. If somebody said that about you. In any town. But folks, that's what we want people to say about us. And knowing whose kingdom When people see us striving to um dissolve conflict And to help people put their lives back together, and to help people not fight and be in disagreements, but be a part of the solution and helping bring people together. Together, we are making it very clear whose sons we are, whose daughters we are. When people see us Actively promoting and making peace, they know that we are children of God. And we're members of another kingdom. That's very convicting, isn't it? As I think through that even as a pastor, do people see in my care, in my concern, in my patience and my carefulness with my words, do they see that I am a son of God? That I'm a child of the king? We sing that. Do we reflect That in our lives? Or are we very quick to take sides and help out with the war? Well, let's get to verses 10 and 11 here. Those who are persecuted will be a part of God's kingdom. So you go through the rest of the list of those beatitudes. Right? Okay. Porn spirit. Those that mourn. Those that are meek. Remember, that's strength under control. That's not wishy-washiness. Those are hunger and thirst for righteousness. Who desire to please God in their lives, those that are merciful, those that are pure in heart, those that are peacemakers. You might think that those people that have those qualities would be love. Loved and revered in our society today. Who wouldn't want people with that kind of character in their neighborhoods, in their communities, in their families? And yet, here is the reality that we would expect that people and act and behave in this way would be welcomed and appreciated in the world, and yet It's sometimes a shock to us that the children of God are many times reviled and disparaged, that they're literally hated. People that know how to bring peace and care and concern to their community and to their world. They're despised. Why is that? It's upside down. And so verse 10, Jesus is making life real for these followers, and he makes it real for us today. That those who are persecuted, and that means that their life is made hard through slander, through maybe physical violence. Through maybe torture for doing what's right, for following God's commands. And yet, all of those that will go through all those great difficulties. Difficulties and be mocked and disparaged, and literally reviled and hated by their world, by their community. They have a wonderful thing coming. And that is the eternal kingdom of heaven. Folks, let's be honest, as we see the political scene change and as we get ready for the elections and we see the media ramping up and different things. It can you feel that again? That out of all of the voters' groups, that the Christians are the least respected, that were disparaged, that were not appreciated? And they really would rather not hear about our values at all. Yeah. We can look in our own culture and see that very clearly But we also know that around the world things are even more intense. Here's just a couple examples. The country of Yemen, I so appreciate Our missionary Jonathan Bishop bringing the plight of this country and his burden for the people of Yemen. It's a country about the size of Texas. Texas, it's in the Middle East, the Arabian Peninsula, one of the poorest countries in the Middle East, one of the world's least evangelized countries. It's another reason why Jonathan Bishop Has the burden he does for that country. It's been beset by wars, civil conflict, and conquest for most of the last century, and one constant factor has been its radical must Muslim legal system. The state religion is constitutionally mandated to be Islam. The population is ninety-nine point ninety-two percent Muslim, and evangelism Sharing God the gospel with Muslims is against the law. And as a result, by the time I found this study, there was only four thousand evangelical Christians in Yemen and all in no indigenous church. Most of the believers were first-generation Christians who were being under constant surveillance. And those that converted to Christ Which was legally and still is legally punishable by death. How's that for taking a stand for Christ? I proclaim Christ. I proclaim my citizenship in the kingdom of God, I could lose my earthly life. And it's a legal mandate. If that's not the case, then they also have the powerful wrath of the clans in their own families. It's not uncommon for new believers to even be kidnapped and killed. And there's a great need for the fellowship among these believers there because it's very difficult, fears of being discovered, even by their own family. Is it true, as Jesus said? That there will be those that are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for his sake? Certainly. Another country, Malaysia. Malaysia has three major ethnicities. The Malay, 60%, the Chinese, 30%, and native tribes. And the Malays are the most powerful group in the country. Being Muslim is considered an important part of their identity And so there is also a majority of the population are Sunni Muslims, but there's also a Buddhist population. Only 9% are Christians. And the government severely punishes Christian converts and strictly opposes outreach and evangelism among the people. Christianity is not necessarily illegal, but Christians are marginalized by the ruling Muslim ethnic groups and have difficulty acquiring building permits for new churches. So no none of these Christian churches meet openly and it is illegal for Malays Christian converts who are caught are confined to so-called re education claps that use twenty Torture and propaganda to force them to return to Islam, and many indigenous people have come to Christ still in Eastern Malaysia. It is true that people will be terribly persecuted for desiring to follow after Jesus Christ and desiring to please God by Following that. But folks, listen, don't feel too badly for those individuals. It's terrible. We don't know as of yet what could happen in this country and what Folks, remember in the end that all of these world systems are temporary and these are Suffering persecution will have all eternity to enjoy the freedoms of living under the reign of Jesus Christ. Jesus doesn't Promise happiness and comfortability in this life, but he does promise that the best things are coming. And so endure, be patient Put up with the persecution. Put up with it when people revile you and have no time for your values. Be patient. Share with With them Christ. Better things are coming. Verse eleven Blessed are you when others revile you. Revile is a very strong word that says literally it's literally hate speech. We like to talk a lot about uh not having hate speech in politics today, but those that oppose Christianity are actually, according to Jesus, involved in hate speech. They don't seem to be bothered by that too much. Many people seem to be okay with that kind of hate speech. But people will have hate speech. They'll revile you, they'll persecute you, and they'll even slander and Utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Have you ever had your reputation slandered just for doing what was right and following after Jesus Christ? Then you know what it's And in the midst of all that and and and experiencing all that, what does Jesus say? Almost Unthinkable. The last thing that we want to do when we are slandered and when we're reviled and when we experience Persecution, but he says, rejoice and be, I think the King James says, and be exceeding glad, be very glad. What? How's that possible? Because you know that better things are coming. Your reward is great in heaven. And by the way You aren't the only ones that have had to go through this. God's people throughout all history, the prophets, the apostles, other people have had to go through this too. So rejoice that you are counted worthy of suffering as our Savior suffered. What does this mean in practice? Don't be surprised or dismayed when people speak evil of your good done for God. When people Don't give you the credit or when people slander the good things that you do. Don't be Dismayed or surprised. Jesus says, actually, you're in good company, folks. You're in good company, the company of the prophets, the company of the apostles. They've had to go through this too. And what does it mean in the end? He says, For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. I really believe That's what Jesus is saying is that those, no matter what the slander and the persecution is that God's people have to go through , those that are willing to go through it, And are waiting for Jesus to return, they are making it clear whose kingdom they're a part of. Those Christians in Malaysia And Yemen, and those heavily persecuted countries all over the world, as they stand strong for Christ and as they go through the worst of it and lose their lives and are Are tortured, people look at them and people understand these people aren't of our world. They're different. To have a courage and the boldness to stand for God in the midst of all this, they must be citizens of another kingdom. There's no doubt. When we go through persecution and we handle it in the right way and we trust God and we point people to Christ anyway, folks, we make it clear there's no doubt whose kingdom, whose side we're on. When somebody's willing to give their life for Christ, he or she is making it clear, I'm on God's team. And better things are coming for me. And they will be greatly honored in God's kingdom. We may be reviled and despised in this world, folks, but one day As believers in Jesus Christ who have put our faith and trust in Him, we will be honored and we will experience peace and joy. Rejoice Rejoicing for all eternity. Wait for it. The best is yet to come. That's how you could describe what Jesus said. is saying here. So as we finish up these beatitudes this morning, now we know the type of person that is a member of God's kingdom. All these things, poor in spirit, those that mourn, those that are persecuted, those that persecuted So now that we know that we're supposed to act this way, we should just be able to do that, right? Shouldn't be any problem. Shouldn't be any trouble. Just just act this way, folks. As we leave here today, if I were just to say, just do your best to act in the way that Jesus has prescribed here. You might try to do that, but in reality, you And it's a reminder that we can't in and of ourselves We can't work up. Without Christ, we can't do these things that kingdom citizens are expected to do. No, Jesus is pointing and will point As we continue in this sermon, to the fact that we need Jesus and we need to follow Him and we need His righteousness. As we said last week, folks, and we put our faith Faith in Jesus, He took our punishment, our sins on Himself. We get His righteousness, and we get citizenship in the eternal kingdom, and He then gives us the ability to recognize our deficiency in our sin, to mourn over our sin. He gives us the ability to put our strength and humble those strengths under his control He gives us a hunger and thirst for righteousness. Oh God, please come and make things right. It's my greatest desire. He gives us the power to be merciful, to uh rid ourselves of the impurities of the world, to be peacemakers rather than strife makers, and to endure persecution. Jesus does All of that through a faith relationship with Him. And He can then enable us to live in this way. Not perfectly But consistently. One day when Jesus returns, we will be able to live this way in a perfect way. But until Until then, we depend upon Him to help us to do so. Because, folks, we don't dwell in that kingdom yet. We dwell in a kingdom of darkness. Can you sense? Can you feel the darkness in our But we must live anyway as residents of the kingdom of light. Whose side, whose team you're on? Should be apparent to your family, to your neighbors, to your community, to your church. We ought to know what side you're on, who your loyalties Extend toward. Now, folks, that's intimidating. If you think about it, it's intimidating to declare in hostile territory, which is what the world we live in now that we are players for the other team. I'm on God's team. I'm on Jesus' team. And the world says, get out of here. That's intimidating. But God, by his grace through Jesus Christ, he will give us strength, courage, and endurance to do so. We can be bold and confident and say, hey, I'm on the right side because ultimately I'm on Jesus' side, I'm on the winning side. I know who wins the game. I know who is the dominant conquering kingdom, and it's not this world And so God can then use us to greatly influence this world for his purposes. Whose side are you on? I hope your testimony is that you're truly on God's side. That you're a citizen of His kingdom. If you're not, folks, come talk. To me. Come talk to one of our leaders. Through a faith relationship, through trust in Jesus, you can be a part of God's kingdom and team forever. Make that choice. Today. Father, it's intimidating. It's hard. Because this world is so hostile To your truths. It's so hostile to Jesus. It's so intense Antagonistic toward what is right, that it literally our world and the values turn around what you say is right and call it wrong. And people don't want to play by your rules. We live in that kind of world. And yet, Father, we understand, even as we start this Sermon on the Mount, and we see that the true blessings for those that will Put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, and that our citizens of the eternal kingdom that you will strengthen and give us boldness and confidence to live in this world. And that's what we need. And so, Lord, I call, I ask and plead with you this morning that you would give us that boldness and confidence To live in a world that hates you. Help us not to be surprised and dismayed that we live in such a world because this world hated Jesus and crucified him And help us to remember that we then give ourselves up in our lives for his glory and his purposes, knowing that the best things are yet to be To come. And we have an eternity of comfort and rejoicing in place of this short time of persecution. And opposition. Help us not to falter. Help us to be a valuable member of the team as we serve you faithfully until Jesus returns.