Back to Matthew chapter five. Begun this series, The Sermon on the Mount. It'll take us a few months to get through the whole thing, but Folks, this this remember, this is the only full, if I could say this transcript of a full message that we have from Jesus. And so obviously the truths here are so important to us to truly understand. So many times the Sermon on the Mount and Especially this passage on the Beatitudes is treated like poetry. Oh, it it's beautiful poetry. It's well written. And we love it especially in the King James, right? It's just beautifully written. But many times we can look at this as something that might be nice to frame, words to frame and hang in our house somewhere. But I think we misunderstand. And misapply its truths. Jesus taught these things for a purpose. He, as he begins his ministry And he's preaching on the kingdom. Something God's people have looked forward to for, I guess, a thousand years or more at this point. God continued to give them more revelation that one would come, he would establish a kingdom. And the Jewish people said, When, Lord? When will you come? And they looked forward to that. And Jesus' Is now teaching among them and saying, the kingdom is coming. But really he's saying, Are you ready? And And his listeners might have said, What do you mean? Of course we're ready. We've been waiting for this thing for a long time. But what Jesus really meant And as we continue to go through this sermon together, he's pointing to himself and the reason he came so that they could be truly Prepared to be citizens of the kingdom of heaven. And so the Sermon on the Mount then is a description of how kingdom people conduct themselves. themselves in the kingdom. But it's also for citizens who are promised the kingdom. We haven't experienced it in its fullness yet. But we still ought to conduct ourselves in the way that kingdom people are expected to live. To please their king. So, this is a description, this whole sermon of the conduct of people in the kingdom. Don't wait till the kingdom returns, folks. Jesus comes and establishes it. Let's even as we start this series now, let's uh covenant together that we will be through the work of Jesus Christ on the earth Our lives, wonderful testimonies of kingdom conduct. Our world's broken. Our nation is broken I think we know even with elections coming up, whoever ends up in office isn't going to fix the depth of the brokenness within our world today. Folks, people need to see those that are citizens of another kingdom, eternal kingdom, and their conduct ought to be becoming of that so that we can be attractive and people want to know more about the eternal kingdom and how can they be a part of that. So I've called the study on the Beatitudes as Jesus begins this very famous message and sermon. I've called the studies on Blessings in unexpected places. Because Jesus, as he preaches the beatitudes, blessed are the poor in spirit, and so on, he's actually turning upside down Upside down the current mindset among people, and he does so today. Our culture Today says go out there and do the best you can, put your best self first, and you gain the prize and you promote Promote yourself and you take of the fruit of success. It's on you. And Jesus says, In my kingdom, the only success Success will be from those that truly realize that they have great need. That without me they can do nothing. They literally mourn. Over their sin and weep over their sin. They are meek. They're not bold and arrogantly trying to win life and its rewards for themselves. But they take the strengths that God has given them, and they're willing to humble themselves and put them under the control of the king of their kingdom. I read a um a Helpful commentary this week that helps express meekness as we described it last week. I'll go ahead and read it here. Meekness is not weakness. Quite the opposite. It is strength under control. Horse breeders used to have a phrase: the meekest horse wins the race The meek horse is the one who has most responded to his training. All his obvious and inherent strength is harnessed and brought under focus control. Moses was referred to as more humble than anyone else. Else on the face of the earth. But this is hardly a description of weakness when you consider the incredible personal strength required to lead over a million people on a long term camping trip through the wilderness for 40 years. That, folks, that takes some patience and strength. And yet he was referred to as meat. This author also says, this is Stuart K. Weber. Note the progression thus far. Jesus' kingdom servants are those who Recognize they are spiritually bankrupt. Number two are deeply sorrowful for it. And number three, have begun to respond humbly to their trainer That's a great description of the first three beatitudes that we went through last week. People realize they're spiritually bankrupt, that they have great need. They're deeply sorrowful for it They don't trust in themselves. They have no faith in themselves. That's my addition. And they've now begun to humbly respect So let's look at the first three Beatitudes again, verse 3, chapter 5, that described, Blessed are Are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. And blessed are the meek, those that are putting their strength under God's Control, for they shall inherit the earth. We'll continue today with verse 6. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. For they shall be satisfied. These first four are a mindset, a kingdom mindset that God's people must have. The last of the Beatitudes are Actions that God's kingdom, that the kingdom people of God, the citizens of the kingdom of God, must exhibit in their lives. As I came to this next verse, I have A wonderful reminder of this truth, of being satisfied. As I believe it was last week, we, my family, and I went to the Orioles game. against the Boston Red Sox. Since we have recently lived in New Hampshire, in New England, we always feel it appropriate to try to go to one of the games where So we can just rub it in a little bit more, hopefully the Orioles win. And as you know, with their record recently, that's kind of a toss-up. You don't know. But thankfully When we were there, they had a wonderful game. Now I'm not trying to be too hard on them. The last two games they've had over the weekend were wonderful. So, you know, go O's. Don't lose hope. But the The game that we were at over a week ago, um, they won and it was a wonderful and we we had great seats, but it was interesting we had a family sitting in front of us where they had the mom and the kids, and then we had the grandparents or the aunts and uncles that were sitting behind us and we kind of felt like we were the interlopers in between and then the dad just kind of ran back. Back and forth, back and forth to both groups, and he was passing out all kinds of food. As we were watching these folks, we realized and were um impressed. They were prepared to be satisfied during this game. As you know, you can, if you bring your clear bags, you can take things into the stadium. That's something that not not every uh ballpark allows you to do. So thankful for Candom Yards that let you do that. But these folks have really taken advantage of that. They had a big Big bag of hot dogs. They had a big bag of hamburgers. And then the dad was running out um outside and getting all the free uh Um uh uh ketchups and and mustards, um all the sauces and everything. The condiment, that's what I was trying to think. And he was bringing it back in so yeah, you know, uh the mom was like, Okay, somebody Something over there and oh Aunt Gertrude some back here needs something and this guy was running himself ragged, giving them all the sauces. Well, it was interesting. I mean these these folks look like they're having a great time and they were really enjoying We had a one of their daughters right in front of me, a little girl in a beautiful um like print flowered um, I think it was a dress or a blouse. And I noticed she had something in her hand and I looked closer. I'm like, well that's really and I looked and she had a full piece of steak. Just sitting there in her hand. And all of a sudden she just bit into that room, just bit a piece right off. And I thought, wow, hot dogs, hamburgers, and steaks, but what do we have? Well we had a few things, but nothing like that. Uh this was a family that was totally prepared to enjoy the game and be satisfied, and everybody, right down to the youngest little lady. was happy and mom and dad made sure that they were. I'll I'll never forget that picture of that little girl clutching that piece of steak as long as I live. What does it have to do with this beatitude that we're looking at this morning? Well, look at it again. Verse 6. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be Satisfied. Folks, this is describing the citizens of God's kingdom that have a great hunger and thirst for something. That even a even ballpark food can't satisfy, can't satiate. This is something much more meaningful and much more important. And it's in Interesting as well that these people are described as not having been satisfied yet. Well, what is this righteousness that they refer to? Well, I believe in the context of what Christ is teaching here, but also in the context of the New Testament, there's two aspects to that this righteousness. And they are these, and when it's described as, I think we understand this, but hunger and thirst, these are dis this is describing people. That are literally famished to have this satisfaction in their lives. This describes a strong desire to want to see something happen. And so you You combine that then with this word righteousness, and this is a picture of kingdom citizens who are not fully in their kingdom yet, but want to be. They want to see God's righteousness in themselves and in the world around them. And as they look around the world, they know that that hunger for God's righteousness will never be filled totally in this life. In one sense. Because there is a sense, let's make sure we understand what God's righteousness is. What is God's righteousness? Why are these people so hungry? For it, they're a part of God's kingdom. Well, first and foremost, it is a righteous standard that we cannot meet. It is Is something that is unattainable to mankind because mankind is broken and lost and has rebelled against God in his sin. All the way back from Adam and Eve. Man rejected God. And by the way, I'll just throw this in. Sometimes we blame Adam and Eve, but really, folks, Adam and Eve were the best chance that mankind had. Because they'd never sinned before. And if they messed it up, there was not one of us who'd do any better. And they did, and they rebelled against God and they went their own way. And so we have this sin problem that keeps all of us from reaching God's standard of righteousness. One sin blows it. One Disobedient act of the Ten Commandments, and we cannot be considered righteous. And Jesus, as he's preaching this, is pointing, I believe. Because as he continues to teach, we'll see this later. But he points out to the people that they need a righteousness that exceeds the righteousness of the best people in their community, the scribes and the Pharisees. And Jesus is going to say, you need a righteousness that's better than the top-tier people that obey all the rules, and people would have marveled and been shocked by that. How's that even possible? Jesus would be the one that would provide that kind of righteousness. That he would meet God's perfect standard by perfect God 's servants all throughout the Old Testament, well at least many of them, sincerely desired to want to obey God and the old Ultimately failed. Think of David. David, a man after God's own heart that sought after God. Didn't that man, didn't that king, have a sincere desire to serve God and to obey him And yet he deviated tragically from the right path for a while. And so Jesus had to come and he first Perfectly fulfilled God's righteousness. And so, as a spotless lamb, he would one day, about three years from when he preached this, he would be the sacrifice. Of the world, and he would rise again. He would not be kept in the grave. Sin wouldn't and death would not conquer him, but he would rise again, and therefore Therefore, he could then uniquely, according to God's standard, he could give us his righteousness because he took on all of our sin. The great cosmic Exchange. Never been anything greater. And so, in that sense, folks, those who hunger and thirst to be righteous can experience possession. Positionally, you can have the righteousness of Jesus Christ the Son through faith in him. And God counts Jesus' righteousness to us when we put our faith and trust in him. Jesus took all of our sin and our rebellion on himself and took the separation from his father that we were separate supposed to experience for all eternity, and we can have his righteousness and have reconciliation with his father for all eternity. Oh glorious truths that these are And so there is a sense where kingdom citizens now in this juncture can experience righteousness, but we know in an experiential Sense. We are made righteous positionally. God counts us as righteous, but we don't always act like righteous people, do we? Even as Paul said in Romans, he talks about the struggle. The things I want to do, I can't always do. It's so frustrating. And the things I know I'm not supposed to do, I seem to do them all the time. That describes our struggle. People that have trusted Christ, that are truly God's children, that look forward to being citizens of the eternal kingdom. Kingdom. We struggle in the now and now with not being able to be fully obedient to God. And it should bother us. Many times it does. And we hunger and we look forward to the time where we can do that. But there's another aspect as well. That God can give us what we need to please and serve Him faithfully if we've trusted in Christ. And so, yes, we wait one day the great satisfaction that we will have in the kingdom of God as we're able to serve Him fully and unconditionally and perfectly in a way that we can never serve him here. But folks, there is the aspect for kingdom citizens right now that are awaiting our King's return, that Jesus and the power of Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit Spirit can enable us to serve, to live, and to be good examples, faithful examples of the conduct of kingdom citizens even now. And as we obey and as we follow our Savior, we can be satisfied. Not fully. Not like that little girl with the piece of steak that looked like her stomach was full. In that regard, the people of God wait for Jesus' return. And so there's the contrast and there's the hope that Jesus is saying for all of us who hunger and thirst to be Be, to do right, to be obedient to God. Folks, there's a coming a day where you will be perfectly satisfied. It's coming. And that is our hope. Have you failed God? Have you messed up this week? Have you looked at your relationship with God and said. Boy, God must be so impatient and frustrated with me. Here I am, I've stumbled again. Folks, that's the dissatisfaction of those that look forward to the The eternal kingdom. Don't lose hope. God will finish the work that He's going to do in each and every one of us, and we will serve Him. Faithfully forever. That is a promise that we get all the way at the beginning of this sermon, this Sermon on the Mount, from Christ Himself. For those that have relationship with Christ, you will be fully satisfied. And we can just taste the beginnings of that even today. A wonderful promise. And so these are the promises that Jesus offers the kingdom. Citizens, even now. Well, let's look at a couple more here. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. And so now we move from the heart attitudes and the attitudes that kingdom citizens ought to have to the actions. And along with there's a hard attitude and Involved in this as well with Kingdom Citizens, but there's more actions involved in these last, the last part of this list. Kingdom citizens not only have a Different mindset. They have a different conduct. Those that have received Jesus Christ's righteousness have the power. Power to live in the way that God wants us to live, even in this broken world. And so here's the description of these things: this these merciful, who are they? Well, folks, they're really just the children of God who are able to effectively show compassion and are willing to Willing to forgive others. And that may sound like a simple thing, but really, I think in our churches today, in my experience, that this is one of those things that Many people in our churches struggle with. Are we willing to forgive others? Are we willing to do acts of mercy to People that maybe have hurt us, that have done things against us, that we're frustrated with. Are we willing to go the extra mile, like the Good Samaritan, to help those that need help within our church family? And then within our community. Do folks, here's a question: Do we even have many times just a compassion? When people are hurting. Do we see people that are going through difficult things and think, Oh, I need to pray for them? I wonder if God would use me to help them, encourage them. I have A burden, a compassion. Now, folks, I understand there comes a point where we just hear about so many terrible things that it's like we feel like many times, and I'm totally with you on this as a pastor. It's like my emotional cup is filled up. I don't know that I have any more room to feel badly for anything else. Sometimes uh my wife will be reading the local news and find Following some national events, and I'll just she'll sh and I could tell that she's reading something that's tragic. And she's like, Oh no. And so I realize what she's doing. I just kinda kind of say, you know what, I don't need to hear that news story right now. I'm kind of at my fill. And I just don't know that I have the emotional capacity to even you know, commit to something like that. And it sounds terrible. We know what that feels like. But folks, it shouldn't be that God's people are described as Never caring or never being concerned. Kingdom citizens ought to have the reputation. Kingdom citizens of the sink of the kingdom of Jesus Christ Ought to have the reputation of being concerned, of caring, of wanting to help. That's one of the things that we were We're attempting to do in our recent community picnic as we invited people to come to our church. Uh, one of the things that we were burdened for is just to let our neighbors know that we cared about them, that we had compassion for them. Them that here within their very street and community were people that were merciful and were concerned for the heavy burden That our neighbors are carrying. So the merciful are those that show compassion, but are also willing to act on it. And they are willing to act on it even sacrificially, they're willing to forgive in order to help others. And that's the rub, as many times we can feel For other people, but there's people in our lives and in our church where we've just put up boundaries and said, Lord, I just can't. I can't forgive. I can't help that person. Somebody else is going to have to. Folks, we're not really being merciful if we have that attitude. Work through your disagreements, work through your concerns. Concerns, talk to that person. Show mercy and grace toward them. Well, I know what happens. I know what happens when I give in and you know know I ask for forgiveness. They're not gonna change. They're not gonna care. Well you don't know that for s certain, folks, but what does it say at the end of this verse? Ultimately, is that when you're showing mercy to others, it's not even that those people will show mercy to you, sometimes they might, and that might be part of a fulfillment of Of this verse, but the greatest fulfillment of this verse is that God has shown mercy to us and will continue to show grace. So you go ahead and show grace and mercy to that person that you're You're frustrated with, and you leave the results to God, knowing that God will show you mercy and grace regardless. That's the promise. Folks, hasn't he already shown the greatest picture of grace and mercy that he ever could in sending his son to die for our sins? He's already shown us the greatest mercy that anyone ever could. And so we need to be merciful to others. Because blessed, fortunate are the merciful. I can put it this way: for they've already received mercy, and they will receive mercy. One more this morning. Verse 8. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Now what does that mean? That almost sounds like a description of Perfection too, does it not? Many of us would like to think that that even as God's people, we're good people, that we're likable, that we may have Some rough edges, but overall we're pretty good people. But when Jesus puts it to us like this, can we really say that we are pure people? When we're when we are immersed in the impurity of the world, we go from here and it starts even on a Sunday and it continues throughout the week. And the evil And the impurities of the world, and so many of you go into that and you're affected by it, that can rub off on us. It's kind of like living in the world. The sewer almost. That impurity rubs off on us, and it's hard, it's nigh impossible for us to be totally pure So again, how if those that are fully pure, perfectly pure in heart will see God, what's the hope for the rest of us? Well, I've already described that, right? And that is that we are given when we trust Jesus Christ, we are given his righteousness, and we Are given the status of saints. And what is the meaning of saints? The holy ones. We're positionally made pure and sanctified. And made holy. And so, in one sense, the pure in heart are those who have trusted Jesus, or will, in this context, as Jesus is preaching us, those who have Who will follow him to the very end. Right? And isn't it true that all of us that have trusted Christ in a real Confident sense, then, that we know we have the confidence, we have the full hope that we will one day see God because of the promises Jesus has made to us. us and that we have in scripture that when we put our faith in Jesus, we receive his righteousness. We are made holy as his saints. And we are in a progressive state of being made more and more holy until we see Jesus again and we are guaranteed an inheritance that is ours that we will be with God forever. And so we rejoice in this. Yes, those that are pure in heart, maybe not experientially, but positionally, I am a saint of God, and I will see him again one day. I think Jesus does directly point to that hope. But there's another aspect of this that I also, as we finish up this morning, want to point out. that I think is very important that we may miss sometimes. That even the saints of God, as I just mentioned before, can have impurities in their lives Life. These are those who are sincere in their desire to want to live pure lives with a pure Pure heart, but experientially they haven't arrived at that level yet. They haven't had the satisfaction of being totally pure. And they await that. Folks, the best that we can do now, though, is trust in Christ and help us not to be hypocritical and to be shallow. And to be stained by the things of the world. Have you come this morning, and you can still, as you look into your heart, you see the impurities of lust And desire, desire for money, sexual desires. There's probably people here today that if you were to be honest, you You struggle with pornography. You struggle with a desire for things and a a a covetousness for um for money. You have an inordinate love for money, and all of these things and many more make us impure. We love the world and the things of the world more than we love the things And so what happens is it's I think in an experiential sense in this life, it gives us a grainy picture. It interrupts That impurity that we allow into our lives interrupts our communication and our closeness and our relationship with God. I can explain it this way. I think still many of you of you today know what a radio is, right? I our kids still do because we still uh from time to time use the use those things. And uh remember we were talking about baseball earlier Earlier there was one point where if you wanted to listen to the baseball game and you didn't have access to a television set, you'd turn on the radio and it was on AM dial, right? And be a lot of times there'd be a lot of static. If you you if there was it was a cloudy day or there the weather wasn't permitting you'd turn on and you'd expect to hear the game and And you try to turn the dial, remember, just enough to try to get the best signal that you could. And it was frustrating when you couldn't hear the whole game. So let me try to give a more adept, modern illustration. You know when you have your cell phone and you're in you're you have communication or you've got Good Wi-Fi signal, not Wi-Fi signal, I guess, but that's but data signal. Um, and you're talking to someone or you're listening to your favorite toon list or whatever, and all of a sudden something interferes with that and you can't it interrupts the song or it interrupts the the phone call or whatever and we get frustrated because the signal's interrupted. Is that a little bit more Modern day for our young people. Either way, the point of the illustration is that it's frustrating when the signal gets interrupted because we lose communication. The ability to communicate. Folks, that's a great picture of God's people who allow impurities into their life, and then they're static. We can't hear God like we should We're not reading his word because we're looking for satisfaction in the impure things of the world. And so, in a very practical sense, we need to understand. That Jesus, as he's talking to these folks, yes, he's pointing to the ultimate sacrifice and for the kingdom that he will be establishing, but he's also talking to his folks followers and his followers today that need to make sure that they are living pure lives so that they can hear God's signal and he can communicate clearly. That there's not anything intercepting or interrupting that. Folks, that's our responsibility even today. Do you have a good Wi-Fi signal when it comes to your relationship with God? Is it strong? Or have you allowed sin? And the impurities of the world to taint it. Let's just be candid. We all have those times where our signal's a little weak. Where the AM signal just isn't coming In like it should. Or the data reception isn't what it should be in our lives. And when that's happening, folks, if you think to yourself, you know, I just don't feel as close to Jesus as I used to. One of the first things we ought to do is look into our own lives and say, I wonder what I'm allowing into my life that may be affecting the Signal of my purity of heart. And I guarantee when you ask that question, the Holy Spirit would be glad to point it out. He's very good about that. He's good about pointing out. The interruptions of my signal in my relationship with God, and he can do that with you. Now, to be clear, we don't lose our relationship with God. God when sin interferes, right? We've trusted Christ. Positionally, we are pure of heart, we are the saints, and we can confidently expect that we will trust See God and be with him forever, but relationally, sin affects our communication with God. And so we can't hear or see God as clearly. When we have sin in our lives that we won't repent and turn from. One of the greatest lies that Satan uses And it's an ancient lie, and he still uses it today, as if the things of the world will somehow bring more satisfaction than the things of God. And we pursue the things of the world, and yet we're miserable and we're dissatisfied. And all we really need to do is turn back to God and say, Lord, I I've been worshiping these other things. I've let these sins and these habits control my life. They're not bringing me the satisfaction that I expected they would I should have known better. Lord, help me to repent and return to you. Clear the communication pathway for us. And folks, that's the way to real satisfaction. Those that are truly joyful and satisfied in this life are those that keep clear communication. Channels open with God. And we are then blessed. We're fortunate. Because we hear the clear signal. Of the guidance of the Holy Spirit, showing us where to go, helping us make those tough choices, helping us to know what to do. Rather than Relying on our own way. You see, the people of the kingdom truly are blessed and fortunate. Because they will see God. They have received his mercy. And they are satisfied. And we will be gloriously satisfied. Even more so than holding on to a piece of steak, will be satisfied with the presence of Christ forever. Do you feel fortunate as a kingdom citizen today, folks? You should. We have eternal blessings that go far beyond the temporary satisfactions of the things of the world. Be proud of your citizenship in the kingdom. morning and if there's one here that has not trusted Christ and you're not a citizen of God's eternal kingdom yet, the good news is you can trust Jesus this morning. You can come here, you can talk to Me, you could talk to some of our leadership, and we would gladly explain to you how you can trust and depend and have faith in Jesus and get receive his righteousness. Righteousness, have your sins cleansed, and know that you're a citizen of the true kingdom of God for all eternity. If you don't have that confidence, Confidence and hope this morning. You can, and you can be truly blessed. Father, thank you for the great privilege of Studying these truths, these beatitudes, these blessings, that we, that those that have trusted Christ that are kingdom citizens, are truly the Father, my prayer simply today is that if there is one here today who is not yet trusted in Jesus, Does not have that satisfied center in their lives that today would be the day they would trust Christ. And Lord, for all of your kingdom citizens that are children, your children here today, may we be reminded again of the true value of our citizenship and try stop trying to act like the citizens of the world or stop trying to um build a utopia or try to build your kingdom in this life. But remind us again that That we are servants, we are citizens of another kingdom that's yet to come, and we are strangers in this world, and renew again our combat confidence in our hope in the return of Jesus Christ