Jesus does reign. He is our King, and we are thankful for that. And we should give praise and honor to Him for all that He has done That goes right along with our series right now as we continue to, well, we just began a series in On the Sermon on the Mount. And Matthew chapter 5 begins that, and you can turn there this morning. Jesus is talking about the kingdom in the Sermon on the Mount. And now that he has offered himself as a sacrifice and has risen from the dead and now is with the Father on the right hand. He rules as King. One day he will return And that final aspect of God's plan, that physical kingdom, will be inaugurated, and we look forward to that. But he does reign as king. And Jesus and the Sermon on the Mount, as we go through this together. The main purpose for this is to remind us, to show us how kingdom citizens should live. Those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. All of us who are children of God, we are also kingdom citizens. There's two kingdoms, right? We've talked about this. There's the domain of darkness, where before we've accepted Christ, that is where we live. And where Satan is temporarily in charge, and there's the kingdom of light that Jesus rules over. Jesus wants us to know how to live as citizens of that kingdom of light, even though we're temporarily here in the kingdom of darkness. This world continues to get darker and darker And it needs the light of the gospel. It needs the light of Jesus to shine. And so we're looking at these things. Jesus is showing us. And we ask the question: what kingdom are you then living for? What kingdom are you a testimony of? And Jesus is calling us to be a testimony of the kingdom of light. These first few verses that we're looking at together last week and this week are called the Beatitudes, Latin for the word blessed. And Jesus is talking about blessings in unexpected places. Jesus is saying, if you are a kingdom citizen, you will be blessed. for having certain attitudes and doing certain things. It's the exact opposite of what the world thinks is a success. And what the world offers praise and adoration for. Jesus is going to turn all that world thinking on its head as he continues, as we continue through the Beatitudes this morning. And he's going to show us that what's important to the world, what the world says of success, and what how the world says for us to exalt ourselves is the exact opposite of how Jesus wants us to live. We looked at the first few of these together, the first four. And the first four last week had the idea of kingdom citizens having a different mindset, a different attitude. As those that have put our faith and trust in Jesus and recognized and have submitted to Jesus' authority, we ought to be acting different. We ought to have a different mindset, thinking differently. Thoughts that then motivate our actions and what we do. And we looked at these last week. First of all, we saw the poor in spirit will be a part of God's kingdom. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And we saw that the poor in spirit are those this can refer to those that don't have a lot of money, that are financially um in fact this term did in Jesus' day refer to those that had no sustenance whatsoever, that they were destitute. That they were dependent upon someone else to help them. Now, this description can refer can include those that are poor. And we and in our culture today there's an emphasis on helping the poor, and that's not necessarily a bad thing. That can be good. But what Jesus is really getting at is here is poor in spirit, destitute in spirit. In other words, a group of people who have realized that they have nothing to offer, that they're fully dependent on someone else. And they are leaning. Of course, on Jesus, and depending upon God because they know they're poor and they have no way to live life in and of themselves, certainly spiritual life That they're destitute. And so these that are poor in spirit, they recognize their poor spiritual standing before God. They recognize and dependent upon their need for God. And of course that's right where they need to be. Because then Jesus says those that recognize their need Will put their faith and trust in me. And they will become kingdom citizens. And they literally will have the kingdom of heaven. We'll continue to talk about this in a little bit. We're just doing review here. The next, verse 4, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. The mourning here doesn't refer to just those that maybe are more emotional and tend to cry a little bit more than others, and so Jesus says, well, they're blessed. If those that cry a lot more than other people, then They have a special blessing. Now, what he's referring to here are those that are weeping and mourning over their sin. And they recognize their devastating spiritual state before God, and they're ashamed. And they're concerned because they know that sin separates them from God. And Jesus says, those that mourn over that They will what? They shall be comforted. It's a promise. And we know that when we go to Jesus with our sin and recognize, Jesus, I need a Savior. He says, I will give you eternal life. I will give you righteousness that I earned, that you couldn't earn, and you'll have my righteousness, and you will be comforted For all eternity. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are the meek. And this is, again, it's not the characteristic that our world looks at today with fondness and says, wow, out of all the Strong, the strong strong characteristics that I could have in my life, I want to be meek. And in Jesus' day, meekness was considered weakness. Why would anybody want to be meek? Even among Christians, that probably wouldn't be among our top ten spiritual attributes that we would pray. Lord, I really, really pray that you would help me to be more meek. What is meekness though? It's strength under control. It is submitting our strengths to Jesus Christ, to the Holy Spirit. and letting him use us for his purposes, those are the meek, submitted to God. And those that are meek, well, they shall inherit the earth Again, turning the world's ideas up on its head. What does the world say? You have to promote yourself. You have to get yourself out there. You have to talk yourself up. Let everybody know how your talents and your abilities. So that you can get ahead and you can get fame and fortune. And Jesus says, no, humble yourself. And one day you'll rule and reign with me. And we literally will inherit the earth. We'll rule and reign with him forever. Then Blessed are they, verse six, that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. And these are those that desire to see right living in their own lives. but also a righteousness in our culture today. And those words are so intense and so strong. Hunger and thirst. My boys tend to come to me on a regular basis, you know, at this age, especially some of the older ones, it's harder to keep them filled. Or at least they act that way. We can have a big meal and my wife I'm so thankful for her cooking and all that she does. She cooks well. Even after a big meal though, they can come away and even after 15, 30 minutes. A couple of them, and we'll keep them nameless, will come to me. Dad, I'm hungry. Well, son, okay, I think what You really in a in a larger sense, you're not um hungry and and what people around the world that don't even have food and what they experience are hungering, okay. You're just experiencing some stomach issues where you think that you're not hungry and it's still working through the food that you just ate. You're doing okay. But there are literally people around the world who know what it's like to not have meals for days sometimes, maybe even a week. And if you've ever gone without food for a while, that intense hunger, or been without water for a while, that intense thirst, I've got to have something to drink soon. I say we're dying of thirst. And we can be a little melodramatic about that sometimes. But those concepts are what Jesus is saying here, are those that Seek after this kind of righteousness. They're hungering, they're thirsting. Oh, I must have righteousness in my life. Lord, please help me to live in a right way. It's the greatest desire of my heart. Father, I want to see a world that submits itself to you and does things right. I want justice to be done against all the evil and wickedness that I see around me. Lord, I thirst, I hunger for this. Jesus says, those that have that kind of hunger and thirst, they shall be filled. Of course, ultimately, Jesus would have had in mind the fact that he was going to offer himself up as a sacrifice, that he would be able to fulfill God's law perfectly in a way that no one else, no other human being, could The perfect Lamb would be sacrificed for our sin. And then he knew he would be resurrected. Victory over sin and death And that then people could come to him in faith. And they couldn't earn those that couldn't earn their own righteousness, that couldn't be righteous, that couldn't do right things. We give his get his righteousness. And he, of course, took on himself all of our sins. Jesus knew all of that in the future. But these people that were listening to him didn't have that understanding yet. They just wanted justice. They want to be able to live right before God and Jesus has told them, follow me. Remember, he's talking to his disciples. And it's not just the twelve But it's a large group of people that say, hey, I'm really interested in what Jesus is doing and who he is. I think I'll follow him. Many would leave later on. But Jesus is saying, for all of those that follow me, One day this will happen. I will provide righteousness for you, and you will be able to then live righteously. You will be filled. Follow me And he calls us to do that today. Now the second, the second set is not just having a different mindset. But kingdom citizens also have a different conduct. They act in a different way than the rest of the world. And he's going to show us this together. We're going to go ahead and read the entire passage here of the Beatitudes with that in the background, that review from yesterday. Have a word of prayer. And look at these, the last of the Beatitudes together. So read with me chapter 5, verse 1. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Father, thank you for your word. Help us as we go through the rest of these this morning to have true understanding. Help us to be submitted to the Holy Spirit this morning as we look into your word. May the teaching, the preaching be clear. and help us to have a desire, a hunger to live as citizens of the kingdom of light The kingdom of Jesus Christ. And help us also to look forward to the day that He will return and institute fully what we experience imperfectly right now. Help us to desire, to want, to see justice done, and to live in a kingdom where everything will be done the way that it should be. And help us to be good representatives of that now and understand what that is as we look into your word. For it is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. So as Jesus continues in these beatitudes, he's pointing out, again, kingdom citizens will act in a different way from the citizens of the domain of darkness. Verse 7: Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Those that give mercy will be given it in return. Jesus promises that. Well, what is mercy then? Mercy is more than just sympathy for other people. Mercy is more than just feeling bad when you see someone hurting. Mercy Says, I see a situation, I see someone who has done something wrong against me, or I see someone who is hurting. And I can't just stand still and watch that happen. I've got to do something about it. I've got to act on that and help that person. If God will enable me, I need to show mercy to that person. Not just say, feel really bad for you, buddy. Sorry that happened to you. You know. Um gotta go. Got things to do. We'll see you later. But it's how can I help? I see you're in pain. You know, you've done something that's aught against me, you've hurt me, and yet I see you're going through something that 's difficult. I want to help you. I want to show you mercy. These are the actions of those that are citizens of the kingdom of light. Those who show compassion and are willing to forgive, but also willing to act on it. To put into act what they're feeling, to put into practical application of how they can help other people. We see people that are hurting every day, don't we? As citizens of the kingdom of light, we ought to be praying, Lord, what can I do to help that person? People on my neighborhood, on my block are hurting. They're going through difficult things. Do I even care about what's going on? Do I want to show mercy for other people? Should I at least pray, God? Not sure what to do in this situation. This is pretty awkward. God, what would you want me to do How would you want me to act in this? God will answer that prayer. He wants us to show mercy to others But then God says, you give out, and I will make sure that you receive in return. Because Jesus says, they shall obtain mercy. God will show those people compassion now and in eternity. And you think of the most caring, most wonderful person in your life that always seems to be ready to give compassion, that always cheers you up, and think of your Savior, Jesus, one day. Seeing him and knowing Jesus can provide compassion far greater than anyone else on this earth. Does Jesus know how to show mercy? He does And he can. For those that are willing to show mercy to others, Jesus says, I'll show you my compassion. I'll give you my comfort. Even now. The world needs comfort. The world needs compassion. And what do they do? They reject God and they reject Jesus Christ. The very person who can give them that comfort, that compassion that they need. They reject. You know another thing though, though, in a practical sense, is that those that show mercy Other people around them will show them mercy back. It's a kind of a practical application. But even believers, sometimes we can get a little ornery, a little grumpy. But there's always those in our midst that always show compassion, that are always cared for are careful and gentle. And you always notice people want to be around those individuals? They want to hang around them. I know that I could talk to that person and they have mercy. And they don't ever like you know tease or they don't ever give me a hard time. They're just, man, they're just a breath of fresh air to be around. And people give mercy back to those that are willing to give mercy. There's so many aspects to this, and we need to make sure that mercy is a characteristic of our lives. Continue on, verse 8. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Those who are pure in heart will know God well. Well, the purity here in heart, what is Jesus referring to? He's referring to, first of all, those that have a strong desire to live their lives in purity, in moral purity. following after God, being obedient to Him, where being obedient to God and acting that out on a daily basis is really important to them They want to be pure in their thought life, pure in their actions. And don't we need people in our culture today that think and act in a pure way? It's garbage everywhere. You can just no matter where you turn, you can't get away from it, right? We've got our smartphones here that are such a blessing to us, and yet so quickly Things can come up and be broadcast or we're not even expecting, and the filth is there. Billboards, advertisements, television advertisements, you name it. You guys know. Impurity is everywhere you look. Don't we need some people, some citizens from another kingdom in our society today that are examples of purity? Moral purity, the purity of Jesus, the purity of God. Those that are pure in heart desire that kind of purity. And they're devoted to God. But there's another aspect to this too. They're sincere. They sincerely want God's best. They sincerely want to serve God faithfully with all their being. Because the purer you are, the more that God works in your life and removes sin habits and removes the sin that we struggle with. The more we find we want to serve and desire to serve and be sincere and follow him faithfully, that's how that works. This is the exact opposite of hypocrisy. Because sometimes we as Christians put on an act, put on a show. Yeah, sooner or later all of us do. This pure in heart Is shies away from that, is disgusted by that, and says, Lord, I know that I was being hypocritical today, but I don't want to do that anymore I want to be pure in heart. I want to be who I really am. I want to be a real example for Jesus. And I'm not going to be a hypocrite any longer. We can do and act in it and act in a certain way and act like everything's okay. In reality, we may have some real sin problems we're struggling with, and we know we're not pure the way that we need to be. Well, we can confess that, can't we? And Jesus can help us to have victory over sin. We can experience purity, that purity in heart. The more we have this, the less that sin is in between our relationship with God, the closer we feel to Him. We'll know God well. I thought of um AM radio in response to this point. And that um if you've ever now, people, I don't even know if some of you younger people even listen to AM radio anymore, but If you listen to talk radio, those kinds of things, and you still listen to AM, you have to turn the dial or or seek out on um on the panel or whatever to get to the right station or channel you're trying to get to, and there can be a lot of static in the meantime. And sometimes on AM radio, there'll be some stations that are so distant that you can kind of make out what they're saying and hear and and and say and what they're trying to bring across and broadcast, but you can't get a real clear signal. I remember one time when I was a kid, uh my parents got for me one of those electrician sets where you put all the wires together and put things together and you can make all kinds of really cool project with all kinds of really neat annoying noises that can annoy your parents to death and that was so much fun. And now my sons have some of those and it's coming back to haunt me. But one of the things that I was really interested in, the last project in the book that they had that you could do, because they had a book of projects that you could you could do. do You could make this little noise, you can make this light flash up, and uh, you know, that got old real quick. But the last project was you can make an AM radio. Oh man, I can make my own radio. That's cool. So I did everything the way I was supposed to and put everything together. And do you know it didn't work at all? Not even any static. Nothing. Like, oh, this is so disappointing. I must not have a right connection or something. And we read in the fine print And my dad and I, and come to find out it says, if you really want a clear signal, then you might have to go ahead and purchase an extra radio antenna. that you have to put on the top of your home. And then you have to wire that all the way down in a special way and get these special wires. And then wire it into that. And, you know, we thought, oh, that's that's going to be. Fun. And Dad said, Well, we'll do that, and we never got around to it. It was just too much work. Um I didn't want to have to put in that much work to get a clear signal. Well, what's the point of all this? The point is that those that operate are pure in heart have a clear signal to be able to hear God, to know him well. See, sin gets in the way of that. Sin provides static in our lives. When we sin, as those that have put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we have the confidence. We're going to be in heaven one day. We are a citizen. of the kingdom, but we can allow a lot of static to get in between our relationship with us and God. Those that ask Jesus, Jesus, help me with my sin. Forgive me of this. That remove the static then. Jesus removes that. You can know God better as you read his word, as he makes it clear who he is. And so the promise again here, Jesus says, those that are pure in heart, they will see God. You know, regardless, we're all going to see God one day. As kingdom citizens, regardless of how much we allow sin to affect us as his children in this life, One day Jesus is going to return, and he will do that work in our hearts where we will be what the Bible says we'll be glorified. will be perfected. And we will all have that intimate knowledge of God. And we'll continue to learn about God through all eternity. But we'll have in fullness what Jesus is referring to here. Well, here's the point. Why wait? Why wait for Jesus to return? Seek to be pure. Seek to ask for forgiveness of sins and ask Jesus to clear the static so that you can know God more closely now. Don't wait for Jesus to return. The pure in heart will see that. Verse 9, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Peacemakers will be known as God's children. Who are these? Well, they're a lot different from what our world says today and the world seeks for when it says peace. The world wants peace from wars, wants peace from politics, um, wants peace from anything that's that they don't believe is right and you hear today about people saying, well you've got your truth and I've got my truth. Well if we're all operating under a different set of truths, that's not a good recipe to have peace Because we're all thinking different things about what's best. And if you um if if you cross somebody else and what their truth is and what they think is best, Then there's dissension and argumentation. And so what people really mean a lot of times when they say I just want peace is they say I just I want to be left alone to believe what I want to believe and don't tell me what you believe. And then we'll have peace. It's not what Jesus is talking about here. But peacemakers are those who actively endeavor to bring the peace of God into relationships around them. What is real peace? It's being in right relationship with God, being close to Him, and knowing then that whatever happens, the frustrations, the hurts, the difficulties, whatever goes on in our lives throughout the week. God 's with us, his presence is with us, and he will use those things to help grow us into spiritual maturity. He's got a purpose for everything that he lets into our lives. And what does that bring? with that knowledge. Real peace. God, I don't know why you're allowing this to happen, but I know you have a purpose for it. And I can have peace and comfort. I can be consoled in that. Well, this world needs people who are actively bringing that peace to them. And ultimately we do that by telling them about the gospel, about Jesus Christ, right? But in a practical sense, we we need people in this world who just know how to Bring peace in difficult situations. All the striving, all the fighting, the politics, and all those kinds of things, people are more at odds with each other than ever before Don't we need peacemakers in our culture today who know how to talk to people in such a way that they don't set flame to gasoline and to the fire of an argument, but they know how to calm people down? And how to get them to work together. Ultimately that can only happen in the lives of believers, but we ought to be endeavoring to Show the world what real peace is all about. And certainly as a group of believers in a local church, even a village chapel Baptist Church, we ought to be seeking to be peacemakers with each other. Because if we can't practice peace at Village Chapel Baptist Church, how are we going to go out there and be an example of Jesus Christ? We need peacemakers among us. That when that irritating person comes your way that you know is just going to say the wrong thing in the wrong way, and they're going to bring up something that you wish they would never bring up, and they're going to stir things up. You say, Lord, help me to be a peacemaker. Help me not to get into an argument. Help me not to be all riled up. Help me to remember that I have access to your peace. And I don't have to get into an argument with this individual. I don't have to act in the way they want me to act. But I can be a peacemaker. I can help soothe the situation. Those people reflect God's character in their lives. People know whose sons they are, and that's why it says there, they shall be called the children of God. When you practice peace, when you're a peacemaker, the people around you know that you're a son of God, that you're a believer. It's one of the indications. It's in small towns back in another century or another decade when Men would come home from war or even from college. Many times you would hear as the people out on their porches, they would see um certain people walking by young people and they would say, Oh, that's so-and-so 's boys. I know them because they knew that they resembled them and the way that they act. They knew in that small town that they were sons of so-and-so and so-and-so. Really, that's what Jesus is saying here. That as we practice peace, people then know, oh, those are the sons of God. know that. Are we reflecting peace so that people can see the testimony of the children of God? And also Jesus is referring to the fact here that those that are kingdom citizens truly are the children of God. Right? Because we've accepted Christ. We've accepted accepted his atoning sacrifice for us. And God has made us children of the kingdom. And Jesus says here, then we ought to be able to reflect peace. A couple more verses. Verse 10: Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now, do you realize what Jesus is saying here? He's saying, Blessed are they, first of all, when you're persecuted. Does that sound strange? Does that sound like something that you're looking forward to that makes you happy when persecution comes? It's kind of hard for us to swallow. And then he says, for righteousness' sake, what really Jesus is pointing out here is you follow all those things that I just mentioned. Sometimes we may think, you know, if I do this and this, if I'm merciful, if I'm a peacemaker, if I am meek , Then certainly I'll be the type of person that people will want to be around. They'll see I'm a good person. They'll see I'm a nice guy. But Jesus says here, no, you follow after all these things, and guess what? The world's going to give you persecution. They're going to see the way that you act. They're going to see that you're a child of the kingdom, and they're not going to like it. They're going to turn against you. They're going to persecute you when you do what's right and live in a right way. When they see your righteousness, it's going to appall them. They're even going to speak of your righteousness as sin and as wrongdoing. And you're going to experience then persecution. And Jesus says, those that experience that are blessed. Why? Because theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Those who endure hardships when the world sees and hears God's likeness and testimony reflected in them, they're going to go through difficult things. But you know what they do? They reflect the truth of whose side they are on. There's no doubt. If you're willing to go through persecution for the cause of Christ, you're making it very apparent about whose kingdom you're a part of. You're making it very apparent about whose side you're on, whose team you're on, whose children you are. When people go through intense persecution, there's no doubt. Wow. Those people are of a different world. Those people are of a different kingdom. And Jesus says, you are. So act like it. We don't experience what we would consider intense persecution in our country today. But I could go all over the world and give you examples. This is just one example that I got from frontline missions a few years ago. In the country of Yemen, you know where that is? It's about the size of the state of Texas. And it's one of the world's least evangelized countries. This small country in the Arabian Peninsula is also the poorest country in the Middle East And yet it's constantly going through turmoil and strife, beset by wars, civil conflict, and conquests for most of the last century. One constant factor is its radical Muslim legal system. The state religion is constitutionally mandated to be Islam. Population, 99. 92% Muslim, last time that I looked. And evangelizing Muslims is against the law. And as a result, there are only about 4,000 evangelical Christians in Yemen and no indigenous church there at all. Most believers are first generation Christians who find themselves under constant surveillance. Those who do convert to Jesus Christ, to Christianity, it's legally punishable by death And also face the powerful wrath of their own families. You even hear many times of people losing their lives from their own families because they chose to follow Jesus Christ. It's not uncommon for new believers to be kidnapped and killed. There's a great need for healthy fellowship among these believers because it's so difficult in the fears of being discovered. Does that kind of persecution take place in our world today? It does. And yet, Jesus says, those people, those Christians in Yemen that go through that, they're blessed. Because you look at them, and there's no doubt whose side they're on. There's no doubt whose team they're on. And so persecution, as hard as it is, it's the ultimate way, so to speak, to show whose kingdom we're living for. Verse 11, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now, isn't that a great way to end the service today? We can go out and be happy and be filled. Rejoice, because people are going to revile you. What's it mean to revile? It means the Ugliest, most nasty kinds of things they can think to say, they're going to say to you. They're going to persecute you. They're going to say all kinds of evil. And Jesus says, rejoice. Be happy. Well, that's kind of hard to do, isn't it? Can we really rejoice in the midst of that kind of evil against us? We can, for Jesus says, great is our reward in heaven. And so persecuted the prophets. You know what? Our culture today, believers today, have not gone through anything that people haven't gone through before. Even the Old Testament prophets, Jesus says, it's happened before, it will happen again. But this is really difficult, isn't it? To as we go from here, and we're going to talk about persecution tonight too, to rejoice in that? Jesus, how do you do that? One of the things you have to keep in mind is how wonderful the kingdom of God is that we're a part of. And we forget that. You know, the Bible doesn't give us as much detail about what the future kingdom will be like that we would like to have. We would all like to know more about what it's going to be like. And we know that it's going to be glorious and streets of gold and all of these things, but you realize that uh God is really literally going to remake the whole world, not just his kingdom. And the whole world is going to be renewed, and all the things that you enjoy, as far as what I can understand in the study, the things that you enjoy even here in New Hampshire, the woods. The nature all that. Can you imagine enjoying that and there being no sin presence? And to enjoy that in the purity of a rule of Jesus Christ over the whole earth. Everything that you enjoy now, enjoying it to the umph degree because sin has been taken care of. That would be a kingdom that would be exciting to live in, right? But we don't know all the details. But we have to trust when Jesus says, great is the kingdom. What's the kingdom going to be like? That we're being persecuted and reviled for as we serve Him faithfully? We don't know all the details, like I said before, but we can trust Jesus. When he says, it's going to be incredible. It's going to be great. These people then are greatly honored in God's kingdom. How do we rejoice? Remembering and trusting that the kingdom. The kingdom's coming. But it's already in our hearts. We can experience the love and peace and calmness. And security of having a relationship with Jesus as our King right now. And that will help us when we are persecuted. And then that way we can have joy. Well, as we finished up the Beatitudes, we could say that now we know the type of person that is a member of God's kingdom. So we should have no problem living that reality out in our lives, right? We know it now. We've gone through. This is what God expects. This is what a person, a citizen of Jesus' kingdom should act so you guys go out and you just live like we just talked about today. Well that might not be so easy. That actually would be a daunting task, except for the fact that Jesus is our King and as believers He enables us to live that way. Jesus doesn't call his citizens to live in a way that he does not equip them for Jesus will equip us to live in this way that the beatitudes single out, and he will help us. We dwell right now in the kingdom of darkness, right? But we must live as residents of the kingdom of light. They must see our light. Whose side we should we are on should be apparent to everyone. Is it intimidating? Is it intimidating to be on Jesus' team in the midst of a hostile territory in the kingdom of darkness? It can be. But Jesus can empower us to live in the way that He wants us to live, to play on His team, and God, by His grace, through Jesus, will provide us strength, courage, and endurance to do so. God can use us to greatly influence this world for his purposes. So the question then, as we finish up this first part of the Sermon on the Mount, is whose side are you on? Whose kingdom are you living for? You can live for Jesus, and He'll help you to live out these things in your life if you ask Him. Ask Him today. Lord, thank you for your word. Father is kingdom citizens, those who have truly put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we can live this way. It may seem daunting, it may seem impossible at times. Father, to carry these things out, to rejoice in the midst of persecution, to be patient with other people. Father, these things seem daunting, but Jesus says to follow me And he will enable us for these things. He will equip us to be on his team. So help us then to go in light of that. and the knowledge of that truth and that reality. And be, Lord, the lights we need to be for this culture and this society that gets darker every day. They need the light of the citizens of the kingdom of light as we show the light of Jesus upon a world that has rejected you.