Well, good morning, everyone. And good morning to my extended family. Okay. Samuel, Maddie, and uh Steve and Carol. Great to have you. It's always a great opportunity to preach the Word of God. And I'm going to talk this morning about bookends. How many of you have bookends? Yeah. Bookends are kind of important. Now over the many years, either in seminary or teaching, Sunday school classes, Uh by I just lost count. I have fourteen or fifteen bookcases and I'm probably pushing close to two thousand books. Uh that doesn't mean anything because I just spent a lot of money and just buy this stuff and it accumulates. over the years. But I love bookends because bookends, these are two bookends. This is a, they're heavy, you know, and uh You know, this is George Washington and this is Franklin Roosevelt. I'm not pushing them politically, but they're very heavy, so depending on what shelf there is, I have all these books lined up and I have bookends And the importance of bookends is that rather than just take books and just throw them on the shelf, how many of you do that? How many of you are totally disorganized in life I'm just Amen. Praise the Lord, brother. We have an honest man over here. Okay? Okay. But rather than just take books and just throw them on the shelf, Uh particularly if I have a series, you know, whatever it is, it's a uh a Hebrews commentator, whether or whether it's John MacArthur and his twenty-five volumes or Nikot, the new international national commentary, whatnot on the Old Testament. I like to put them in order. I like to have systematic theology in order. I like to have the Psalms in order. So if I wanna if I want to get Charles Spurgeon, incidentally, for those of you that like Psalms, we started a new Sunday school classes morning on the psalms. It's a great, great, great study. And I would encourage you to come out at 9. 45 for this. The Psalms is the Bible in miniature And it talks about the very character of God and who he is. But I can always go in my library and I can find a bookshelf. I have like systematic theology here. I've got New Testament. I've got Old Testament. And it helps me chart the path of what I'm going to study. Bookends are kind of important. at least to me. They give order. They they give structure. And I would like to think, although totally imperfect in every way, I would like to think that I have bookends in my life And that what I do has a sense of purpose, mission, vision, values, and goals. At any age, I'm just I'm just not a puzzle that's just kind of thrown together on a table and little pieces get scattered. And you know, it it takes a while to to come to that realization. That you want to have structure, you want to have purpose. Every day is a special day. It's a day not to be wasted. It's a day just not to go on retirement and just Just collect your social security. Although we do that. I do that. You know, I'm I'm 76 and I'm going to Armenia. That's where God wants me to go. I love to serve God. I truly do. With all of my frailities, I can't get enough of serving my God And sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. When we come back, and when I come back at the end of August, I get a September break We have a missions conference, and then I'm going to go to Africa, and I'm going to fly across Africa. I'll be in Liberia, near the Gold Coast. uh Liber uh Liberia right on the far west and then I gotta uh I'm gonna fly after ten days and I'm going to Uganda And I just can't get enough. I'll be we'll be in evangelistic rallies. Okay? The evangelistic rallies are very interesting. They don't have podiums like this. You're kind of in the bush. People lived in in huts. You know, I could really it's kind of fascinating to live in a hut for a while and see how people live in a hut. You know, and when they walk down the the trail and they they've got bananas on their head or they're carrying big buckets of water. That's a fact. And if I'm walking or running, they'll stop and they'll get a smile on their face and they'll talk with me, and I just love it. I love the African people. I truly do. You've got to have a heart for that. You know, you really, you really do on that. But there's just there's structure, and I want to be used in whatever we do this morning uh at nine o'clock. Uh I give my my sermon. I give my sermon on via Zoom. Everybody use Zoom? I had a packed church in Pakistan. It's just packed. And they're all there and the pictures come across clear. And we actually talked on a psalm. We gave a psalm. And and you know, I always look at them and I go, I love you. And halfway around the world, they look at me with a smile and they go, I love you. They do that in unison. It's just it's fun to serve God. You get it? It truly is. And whether you're helping out next-door neighbors or you're meeting young people or helping people from a church, it's a joy to serve God every day. day every day that we have and so there are some bookends that are important to me in scripture and there's two of them and uh one of them is Psalm 90 verse 12 can we get show that on the screen 90 verse 12. Yeah. Teach us to number our days that we may present to you a heart of wisdom. Yeah. And there's a second bookend. And what I'm going to present to you is two verses that for me personally They represent, when you really study them, they represent some very, very key bookends that I can look at my life. as a guide on the first book end and I can pattern everything in between. All the books, the journals of my life and what I endure, what I struggle for, how I orient my mission, vision, values. I want them to be in line with these bookends. Does that make sense to you? And my prayer, this is the theme of the sermon. Do you have bookends? Or even at your age, are your motives, are your works, are they just books thrown up on a shelf? Maybe you don't even have a shelf. Maybe you just do it, you just exist. Or is there some purpose, some structure, some orientation that goes from left to right at any age? It's important. I see some young people here. It's important for you to have bookends and to chart the course that God is going to guide you on. That's really important. When I was young, my father would tell me that. He was a World War II vet. He was very quiet. He was very humble. I look back on it now and I wish I had all his attributes. You know, I probably fall so short of my own father, but what he did was he he had a purpose. He had a set of bookends, and everything he did were laid in logical order Order from chapter 1 to chapter 15. It was in line. And that's the first bookend. So I want to talk about this first bookend. So teach us to number our days that we may present to you a heart of wisdom. And the context is this is from Psalm 90, 1 through 11. eleven, dealing with the sovereign power and the might of God and his awesomeness. So that doesn't surprise us when we deal with the book of Psalms, and I hope some of you come to the Sunday school class. Special handouts, special material, and we're going to get into it. It's very exciting to get into the Psalms and see how the character of God opens up. So let's take a look at some of the words here. So teach us to number our days. What does this word teach? Well in the Hebrew, if you looked at it, they had your Hebrew Bible open, the word they use is yada. Yada. And it means to know. And what's interesting is the tense of this word. Although we translate it as teach us, it really means cause us to learn It's in the hyphil. It's in the causative form. And it really means cause us to know, cause us to learn, teach us. A good teacher will cause the students to learn. A good teacher is not someone who just stands up and rattles off information. Did you know that? Yeah. I mean, I suppose anybody can do that. Just get up and read the old Reader's Digest and just read an article from the Reader's Digest. No, but through motivation, through through teaching, through passion. And in this case, the Holy Spirit is involved. What the psalmist is saying, cause me to know, cause me to learn. You know, teach me, teach me. And so how many of you are teachers? Let that be a motivation to you. Cause your students to learn. Put your heart and soul into that teaching, lift them up and cause them. You're just not an information conduit, that you just pass on stuff. That's the feeling that the psalmist has. has here. Now notice what he says to number, to number our days. That's another interesting word in the Hebrew Yeah. It comes from the Hebrew word mana. And it means treat everything as special. To number your days means to treat each Each day as special, to count it, to number it, to reckon it, to assign it. Assign value to each day Sad is the situation. Unbelievably sad is the situation where, say it, I don't know, a person retires They fought that battle, but they get up in the morning, they brush their teeth, they take a shower, they watch TV, maybe they pitle around the yard, they have supper at night. Brush their teeth and go to bed. There's nothing wrong with that, and we all do that at various times. But each day is special. Reckon it. It's almost like an accounting. Term. The auditors, the accounters, they open up the books and they reckon the value. They reckon the numbers. They account value to it. Do you follow what I'm saying? Meaning the easy way to say it is just don't waste a day. But it's more than just not wasting a day. Wasting a day simply means you're occupying time. That's not what we're really saying here, just to occupy time. I'm not going to waste it. I'm going to do something. I'm going to cut the grass for the third time in the week. You know, that's energy, that's motion. To number your days is just to treat each day special, to number it. That's what that is. God gives you life. God gives you a chance, the water and the plant. He gives you these opportunities because each day is spent. To number is not an arithmetic exercise. But you know what it is? It's purposeful designation. There's purpose behind it. That day. It's protected. It's special. It's ordained. To number something is to ordain each day. I'm going to do something for the Lord I'm going to reckon that day and the accounting ledger as something that's really important. Yeah. See, this is a real challenge. This verse is a real challenge to me. Sometimes, how many of you like me sometimes, you just you don't feel like doing anything? Right You know, I rode that horse. You know, I I I worked in Ameco Corporation for 30 years. Enough is enough is enough. Well, but you're still alive. And as a believer, God has given you a set number of days. And it's not an arithmetic exercise. It's purposeful. It's meaningful. Each day is ordained that God has given us. to you and to me. Let's look at that expression, our days. Teach us to number our days. Now that goes right with the number. The word number means to reckon, to appoint, to make sacred, you know, to treat special, to protect us. Protect each day that you have, but in the context of serving the Lord. So what does the days mean? The days really refers to the number of days that God has sovereignly granted. Did you know that? God has given you And it's written in the book of life. He knows when you were born and he knows when he's going to bring you home. I got news for you. You're not going to live forever. Did you? know that. You know, you can go on all the diets you want. I suppose you can take all the Botox treatments. You can do everything you want to look pretty and nice. And just stand tall. But the fact of the matter is, is your days are numbered. They're really numbered. So, you know, lose a little bit of weight. Do some Exercise. Do all these things, but your days they are numbered, but they're special. And how do I know that? It's Psalm 139. 16. We read this to the uh we discussed this with the the church in Pakistan this morning. Incidentally, Psalm 139 is considered out of all the Psalms the most beautiful. Beautiful the Psalms. Twenty-four verses, four stanzas. Each stanza has six verses. And it deals with the attributes and the work of God. We're going to cover that in Sunday school. I hope you're there for it. Psalm 139, 16, and in your book were written, were all written the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there was Not one of them. The days of your life, they've been ordained. They have been set. They have been set. They're fixed. And I don't know, I 'm 76. Do I have another ten years? Well I go to ninety. How many of you want me to go to a hundred? Yes, yes. You passed. That was a key. Test that I gave you. But I don't know. I don't know how it's going to play out. But whatever time that is, treat each day as sacred. as protected to serve God, not to waste. But our time is limited, and God has set it before we ever lived one. And in your book were written all the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there was not one of them. And then what for? Well. Teach us the number or days that it's really the Hebrew is so that for the purposes We just throw in that you know the conjunction, that. But really in the Hebrew and the Greek, in the Greek, the Greek word is hina, hinah, and it means so that. for for the purposes. Why the question is why should we why should we have God cause us? Why is it so important for the psalmist to say, uh Father, cause me to learn? you know, cause me uh uh uh to learn, teach me to number my days. Why would the psalmist earnestly beg God uh In the hiphil that God is causative in this. Well, so that for this purpose that we may present to you a heart full of wisdom. See, that's the end result of this. But even that has meaning. Oh. When you get into the Hebrew, that's a lot deeper than what you really think. The idea here in the English is we say present to you a heart of wisdom. The Hebrew word, it's very simple word. It's monosyllabic. It's bow. That's what it just is, bow. And it has meaning. Uh it means to to to to come in, apply, gain. And it's It's Hithil again. Cause me to gain. This is so special, Father. Cause me to learn. Cause me to apply. Cause me to gain, you know, a heart of wisdom Now, even this is kind of interesting because, you know, what is wisdom? Well Uh we have to unpack that a little bit. You'll see where we're going with this, you know. Fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge and wisdom. So wisdom is the practical application of knowledge. There are a lot of people that have a lot of knowledge, but they're not they don't apply it right. Wisdom is applying it right. There's a lot of very intelligent people who really act very stupid, quite frankly. I mean, they have a lot of knowledge, but they don't use it right. And so the idea here, a heart of wisdom, we have to look at wisdom in the context of fear of the Lord. Fear of the Lord. That's the context. Proverbs teaches us this. Proverbs teaches us this. And fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And wisdom. And fear of the Lord, many people think it's just shaking. I'm afraid, I'm scared. The Hebrew word there is uh phobos. And what it means is deep red Reverential awe and respect. When you have fear of the Lord, it's not that you're shaking in your shoes, but you look at God with reverential awe. Just the name of God. You know, the Kathiv Karay, the the Septuagens. What they did was they they that's why in your Bible you see the word Lord, the Lord. It's three quarters of the way up. Everything is capitalized and so in the Hebrew Bible it may say Yahweh but they don't say Yahweh they say Adonai and that's why in all the translations in the Bible when you see the the capital all capitals the Lord it's really The Koray. Kathiv is what's written. The Lord is what's translated. They're not allowed to speak the name Yahweh. And it's out of the fear, the deep reverential awe and respect that we have for God. See, that should guide us in all of this. Oh, that should really guide us that at the very name of God, it's not that I just crumble and I'm afraid. It's uh I do things out of awe and respect. See, motives are important here. You know, when you do things, are you doing things so you don't get caught? When we act, are we doing things to avoid the punishment? As a Christian? Are we doing things that we just don't want to get caught at and look bad or be embarrassed? Or is our motive really just out of awe and reverence for who God is? God who sent his only begotten Son to die for us, who chose us before the foundations of the world, who guides my life, who created it. He spoke it by divine fiat. He spoke it into existence. This is the God of life, the God of hope, the God of trust. So my motives change. Fear the Lord is my deep reverential offer. For God, not that I just don't want to get caught and have him punish me. You know, that's kind of the immature way to look at it. The spiritually mature way is to look at it because I love God. He's awesome. This is who he is. It's this deep reverential awe and respect that I have. Yeah. Present to you a heart of wisdom. May I go in. May I apply. May I get A heart of deep reverential awe and respect for God that leads me in the wise paths. So now that we know what this verse really means, can we put it together? I'm going to retranslate it, can I? Because we just read it in the King James or Nazareth. Or whatever, go, okay, that's fine, that sounds nice. But what what does it really mean to the psalmist who said it? So now I'm going to give you the Dr. Erickson translation. Okay, you ready? You're gonna write it down, right Bob? You're gonna write this down. You're gonna make a note of this. Okay, he's got his pencil out So teach us to dedicate, ordain each day that you've allotted to us so that we may acquire a heart of wisdom that reverentially honors and Glorifies you. That's what that means. We expand that because that's the meaning that comes across on this. I want to read it again. So teach us, cause me to learn, cause me to know. Teachers cause students to want to learn. So cause me to learn. So teach us to dedicate in each special day that you've allotted to us so that we may acquire a heart. of wisdom that reverentially honors and glorifies you. That's the first bookend. That's the first bookend. And I want you to know as I stand here today, even in my life, that bookend is a key bookend right now. I hope it is for you. And every day when I get up, I think about that. What am I doing for the Lord today? Is it part of my mission, vision, values to serve God? Just simply on retirement, am I whatever? And there's nothing wrong with that. I mean, we've worked hard, we deserve that. Don't get me wrong, I don't mock that. I I I need that too. But the reality of it is, is each day is so special That God has given me. And I want to reverentially be in awe. I want to rever him. He is my God until he brings me home. You know I we just finished the series on Philippians. And you know, Philippians is one of the six books that I always tell people. There are six books If you were on an island, you should read. All you had was six books from Scripture, six books that define the character of God and who He is. Genesis, the beginnings, the plan, the character of Yahweh and who he is Job, the total, complete, absolute sovereignty. Of God in every way. And Psalms. And Psalms. This is one of the Psalms. And then in the new Testament, we have the book of John, the Gospel of John, we have Romans, and we have Philippians. When you bring all three of these books together, Together, you really see the character of God and who He is and comes out. And this thing about each day, when you treat each day as special, Paul was in prison in Philippians. This is a quick review. He didn't know if he was going to live or die, but he treated each day importantly. And even the household of Caesar. There were people in the household of Caesar that trusted in Christ. They were believers. I mean, read Philippians. What did Paul say? He who began a good work in you will complete it to the day of Christ Jesus. Yeah. And even though he was facing death, Yeah. Even though he was facing death, he could say with confidence, to live as Christ, to die is gain. What's there to lose when you're honoring God. To live is Christ, to die is gain. See, even in Philippians, Paul is manifesting the teaching of Psalm 9012. And Paul talks about death. And he says, even though I may be poured out as a drink offering, you know what that drink offering was? It was a symbol of death, of dying. And he says, even though I pour out, I may be poured out as a drink offering, I rejoice. I say again, rejoice always in the Lord. Rejoice! God has given you special days. I can't make this application any clearer to me anyway. To live is Christ, to die is gain. You know. As you know, in January and over February I was in the Ukraine and I was right in Kharkiv. I was to the E the car kid and I had all these people. It was very, very moving for me. And there were Russian rockets that were flying over. There were alarms going off on the phone. And there were there were destroyed buildings all around. And all I could say to them was, I gave the gospel message. About 30 some people came forward and trusted Christ. It was very moving from me. But the point of it is, the point of it is to live as Christ, to die as game. Every day is numbered. And it's fun, even to go in places that are difficult, to serve God. You understand that? I think that's part of who we are. We want to serve God. The Holy Spirit lives in you. You want to teach, you want to cause people to learn, and you want to be the example that God has called you to be. And so how do we apply this? How do we apply? How do you apply this thing in your lives? I would say there's a couple things here. Number one, plan and execute wisely unto the Lord. Verse 17 is a good verse. Psalm twenty. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and confirm or establish for us the work of our hands. Yes, confirm the work of our hands of our hands. Serve God and ask God to bless and confirm what you do. The work of your hands. Just treat each day as special. Do work for the Lord, whatever that is. And the prayer is, God, confirm, establish. Please bless what I'm doing. I think that's important. That's really important how we do that. And I think the second thing. I wrote this down. Just appreciate and reflect on the special people that and events and places that come Brings into your life. What a gift from God to have special people that God brings into your life. Value them Value them. God does bring special people, places, events. They're from God. Taken advantage of it. Honor him. Treat each day as an opportunity to build and confirm the work of your hands within that context of special people. places and events. And the last thing I would say, and it's hard, this is the most difficult thing, you're going to have changes. Accept changes Accept them. I've said this before in the uh Sunday school classes. I had cataract surgery. It drives me nuts to have to have these glasses on to read close but see 20-20 far away. I don't like that change. I have hearing aids. It drives me nuts. You know, sometimes when you have hearing aids, people don't realize that, but that's I don't I'm not I'm not even going to ask you, but for many people, hearing aids are kind of a handicap. They speak slow, they don't hear you, and they kind of make they I I think they make fun of you, kinda And sometimes it's easy to isolate. It really is. It's easy to isolate. But these are changes. And just accept these changes. that God gives. And in spite of the hearing aids, you know, in spite of uh the cataract surgery, go forward. Treat each day as being special. It's ordained of God. And there's some things I can't change. I can't change. Accept them with the spirit of honoring God. Does that make sense Yeah, it really does. Well, let's go. This is the first bookend. Yeah, thanks, George. Let's go to the second bookend. This is Franklin, Franklin Roosevelt. Okay? I could have I have just bookends all over the place, but I just picked these two because I didn't want, I was lazy, I didn't want to carry a heavy set of bookends. But the next book end is a fascinating one. And ha it It happens to be Esther 414. Would you put that on, Esther 414? Yeah. For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place, and you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not attained royalty for such a time as this. For such a time as this Now you've got to understand, God gives me each day. He calls me to honor him. He calls me to rever him. He calls me to treat each day as being sacred and to do the work that he establishes for me. And I'm to do it. And I do it out of love and reverence. See, that's the whole point. It's not a payback. I'm not expecting anything for it. But each day is the gift that I have. He created me. He created me. He's sovereign. I didn't create myself. So this is a chance for me to honor God in reverence and in wisdom. Okay? So what's the backdrop of this? Well, there was a man by the name of Mordecai, and he gave a servant named Hatach a copy of the text. And the Jews were going to be killed. And he asked Hattach to show this to Esther and inform her and ask her to go in and plead before the king. Everybody got that? And if Esther went in and if she made a plea before the king, the Jewish people would be spared. Okay? Yeah. Well, what does Esther say? Well, Esther kind of chokes at this, and this is her response. She chokes. It's dangerous for her to go in before the king because she hasn't been summoned. Okay, Mordecai is asking her, go in, do something. Make a plea for your people. Be positive. Each day is special. Honor God in reverence. Okay? Take the risk. Take the risk and do something. And in verse 9, and Esther spoke to Hattach and ordered him to reply to Mordecai, Hattach is a servant, and Esther says, Go back and tell Mordecai this. All the king's servants and all the people of the king's provinces know that for any man or woman who comes to the king, to the inner court who's not summoned, He has but one law that he shall be put to death unless the king holds out to him the golden scepter so that he may live. I have not been summoned to come to the king for these thirty days. Esther, out of fear, says, I haven't been summoned. You want me to go in and plea for the Jewish people and I can be killed? I mean, it's a risk. Maybe he holds out the scepter, or maybe he doesn't. But that's the king's law. The king is the king. The king is sovereign here. And she responds, treating the king as sovereign. And she says, I can't do it. I'm afraid There's no other way to say it. Is it understandable? Yes. Would you feel sorry for her? Yes. Would you act the same way in her place? Probably. Who wants to play that kind of risk? Right? 50-50. Flip the coin. If I go in and make a plea, I haven't been summoned, I can be killed. In verse 12, they related Esther's words to Mordecai. And then Mordecai told them, the servant, to reply to Esther. And this is what Mordecai says. This is really a very courageous man, Mordecai. Do not imagine that you in the king's palace can escape any more than all the Jews. If you don't do it, this you may be in the same boat as all the other Jews. You know that? You've got nothing to gain by being silent. You've got nothing to gain. You think you do, but you don't. And then he says, for if you remain silent at this time. Relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place. Mordecai is confident that God in his sovereignty, he's going to save the Jews. That's the whole point. I'm going to read that again. For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from just another place, and you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not attained royalty for such a time as this? What is he saying? Esther is invited to participate. But regardless, God will save the Jews. You get it? God is going to save the Jews. And God has a sovereign plan, but he's inviting you, Esther, to be a part of that plan. He's inviting you, you know, to get up, take a risk, have courage, and go do work. God has a sovereign plan. He will save the Jews. But you've been invited. You now can participate. And salvation for the Jews does not depend on us. Simply God. God invites you to participate. You get it? That's the whole point. Salvation does not depend on us. God simply invites us to participate. What does this really mean? A lot of detail here, isn't it? But it's really important detail to understand The big picture, the really big picture. Esther is invited to participate in God's plan. In the same way, we're invited to evangelize and share the gospel of Jesus Christ. But God's plan, one way or another, it's going to be accomplished. If you sit on your seat and don't do anything, God is still sovereign. But 1 Corinthians 3 tells us to protect. Participate, to water, to plant. But who causes the harvest? Who causes the harvest? God causes the harvest. So you know that's my chance. That's my my challenge to you as we close. Mordecai is making this real simple. make this real simple to you because this is my bookend that I apply to me. Esther, you have an opportunity. God is inviting You. My plan is in effect, God is saying. The train is moving. Get on board or get out of the way. The train is moving. Are you going to be a participant? Are you going to worship the God of heaven in reverence and in awe in the days that he gives to you because each day is special. Yeah. God is sovereign, but you're invited. My challenge to you would be this: as we leave today, and as you go home, I want you to really think about this. What things could I be doing? What things could I be doing with each of these special days? What could I be doing that I'm not doing? What could I be doing that really shows my deep reverence to God? That I'm I'm counting each day from an accounting point of view as special, as ordained on this. And even though it may be worthless in even in the sense of not accomplishing everything, What are my motives in this? Am I participating for the Lord? Am I evangelizing to my neighbor? Am I going on trips to help youth people? Am I am I supporting a cause, neighbors that are in difficulty? I mean, what are these things? There has to be more to mean them in life than just sitting back and not doing anything. That's how I would sum this illusion. thing up. Mordecai, in effect, he shames Esther. He really does. He shames her. He says, this is God's plan. One way or another, he's going to save the Jews. Either be a part of it or don't. But I'm inviting you to participate in the plan of God. I'm excited about that. And I leave on this note today before heaven and earth, and these are two bookends I believe in both these bookends. And I don't know what days I'm gonna have left. I really don't know. It may be shorter than I think. I may have things like And hearing aids, but God has invited me to participate and serve the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords in my life Amen. Let's close in prayer. Father God, we thank you. We thank you for the bookends of life. And each person is going to have their own special set of bookends. But Father, I ask you to bless us , to teach us, cause me to learn, cause me to know. I want you to be in charge of my life, Father God. And just move me and teach me and shake me in every way that I'm a worthy vessel for you in using each day that you have given. And Father, just help me to participate. And help me love those around me. Father, I thank you for the special people that you've brought in my life. I thank you for my children. I thank you for neighbors. I thank you for in-laws. I thank you for uh people at work, people that you've brought in my life, and Father, help me give back to them, help me sharpen them, and help me encourage them in the difficult moments that they have. Even that is your work, Father. Help me be a source of love and encouragement in all ways, but with the motive that I'm honoring you in reverence and in worship. As the creator God of heaven and earth. And Father, I would pray that if there is anyone here today, and I don't know, but if there is anyone here today Who does not know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior? If there's anyone here today who may they maybe they've just played church all their life, I don't know. A lot has But if there's someone here who has never come to that point, under the power, the power of the Holy Spirit, who Father who does not know that Jesus Christ is Lord. that he is our propitiation, that he paid the price of sins for mankind, that Christ sacrificed himself for us. And that he's died, buried, and rose again, and that by believing in his death, burial, and resurrection, we are adopted children. We are children of God, and you are our heaven. Heavenly Father, if there's someone here today who is struggling with that or does not know that, then Father, I would pray that this would be a day that a real blessing would occur. your sovereignty would be manifested. All this I pray in Jesus' special name. Amen.