Ephesians chapter 2, looking through verses 11 through 16 as we continue to work through this really magnificent opus This magnificent book that we have in the middle of our New Testament, this letter written by the Apostle Paul to the church in Ephesus. of faithful believers who are faithfully showing the love of Jesus Christ and faithfully ministering the gospel so that the whole surrounding region is also. uh benefiting from the fruitful ministry. And these are the folks that Paul um writes to. And he reminds them of all the blessings that they have in Christ. Read through that first chapter again. sometime soon folks and be amazed. And if if your if your thankfulness um meter in your heart is not where it should be, a great cure and fill up for that is a Ephesians chapter 1. There are many other passages, but Ephesians as well, as Paul reminds us of all that we have to be thankful for, for those of us that have put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Truly, God the Father has done all the work. It's a part of his master plan. And Jesus sacrificed himself. So it's no work of ours But it's merely our trust and dependence in Him that new life is transferred. to us. And so he gives these blessings, but then he also reminds us of our past and a humbling Path that he takes here is he reminds us that we were spiritually dead and that we were rebels against God, shaking our fists against God, and yet Jesus came anyway. to bring new life and to change those that were formerly rebels. And providing the power of God. So that we can be victorious in all of the struggles that we face. In fact, look at the end there, that last verse of chapter 1, Ephesians chapter 1. And he talks about how Jesus Christ was raised from the dead and sits even now at a position of authority that the Father has given him. And he has put all things under his feet, and that includes Satan and his dark forces. All of those have to submit. to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and gave him his head over all things to the church. So that means that Jesus, folks, I hope this doesn't bother you this morning. the statement, but Jesus gets to tell us what to do. We don't get to just operate independently of our head, Jesus Christ. But he is in authority over us. And so our goal as a local church body here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church is to seek every day. And on a regular basis as a church family, how can we submit and follow what Jesus Christ wants us to do in ministry efforts in this community? And in one sense, that makes it really easy as the pastor and his leaderships and as those leadership and as those under that leadership is, it's not all on me. It's not all on our leadership here, but it's merely our saying, Lord Jesus, what do you want us to do? And we'll do it. Because you're our head. And that's wonderfully simplistic, but we need to remember that. Because verse 23, we are his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. And Jesus as creator has power over all of creation. And another thing to connect in Ephesians 5. folks is this. The first three chapters is theology describing God the Father and all that He has done for us and what Jesus Christ has done for us. And the last three chapters is practicality, practical application, where Paul starts being, if I say this, he gets into our business. He gets personal and says, because of the power of God that you have access to in your life and what Jesus has done, yes, you should be able to have to be the parent that you need to be to be the spouse that you need to be. You should be able to um reconcile with other people. You should be able to be a good example of Jesus Christ at your workplace. And you can be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. These are all things that in our daily lives we struggle with. And Paul says clearly that Christians can be victorious in these areas of our life. Because we have Jesus who is all powerful over all creation ready to help. So there's no excuses, right? And we must remember that. Well, chapter two, we find out that there we're reminded again of what we used to be and the brokenness that we used to be as Gentiles. And Paul approaches the gospel from the aspect of God's work in relation to the church and how he tears down walls of hostility. amongst different people groups in an application today, maybe relationships within this church body, and he brings peace I'm a student of history. I like to study history. And I remember in 1989 watching the videos of the walls coming down in eastern Germany. Maybe you remember that as well. Some of our kids might have seen the pictures and the passion and the excitement as these young people were tearing down this wall that had kept them divided as a people. from uh what was considered the free world to communism and and socialism and there was a lot of thrill the excitement but there was a backstory that we didn't always we don't always hear and I found that really interesting It says here, the announcements of the regulations which brought down the wall there in East Germany took place at an hour-long press conference led by Günther Schabulski. The party leader in East Berlin and the top government spokesman beginning at 1800 hours on November 9th. and broadcast live on the East German news stations there. Shebowski had not been involved in the discussions about the new regulations and had not been fully updated as he got ready for this newscast. That might be a problem Shortly before the press conference, he was handed a note from some authorities announcing the changes, but given no further instructions on how to handle the information. The text stipulated that East German citizens could apply for permission to travel abroad without having to meet the previous requirements for those trips. and also allowed for permanent immigration between all border crossings, including those between East and West Berlin. However, at the press conference that got a little switched around. Shabowski sat for an interview with NBC reporter Tom Brokol. in which he repeated that East Germans would be able to emigrate through the border and the regulations would go into effect immediately. And the news began to spread immediately. News bulletins went around. People heard this over their televisions and over the radio. And as the population heard the news, they heard that this would take place immediately and right away, which was not at all what the authorities had had in mind. One of the anchormen proclaimed this day on November 9th is a historic day. The GDR has announced that starting immediately, its borders are open to everyone. After hearing the broadcast, East Germans begin gathering at the wall, at the six checkpoints between East and West Berlin, demanding that the border guards immediately open the gates. The surprised and overwhelmed guards made many hectic telephone calls to their superiors about the problem. At first They were ordered to find the more aggressive people gathering at the gates and stamped their passports with a special stamp that barred them from returning to East Germany, in effect revoking their citizenship. However, this still left thousands of people demanding to be let through, as Shabowski said that we can It soon became clear that no one among the East German authorities would take personal responsibility for issuing orders to use legal force, probably because the television cameras were right there too, right? So the vastly outnumbered soldiers had no way to hold back the huge crowd of East German citizens. And one person wrote later, one of the most momentous events of the past century was, in fact, an An accident, a semi-comical and bureaucratic mistake that owes as much to the Western media as to the tides of history Finally at 1045 p. m. on November 9th, the commander of the border crossing yielded, allowing guards to open the checkpoints and letting people through with little or no identity checking and they swarmed through. They were greeted with waiting flowers and champagne amid wild rejoicing. And soon afterwards a crowd of West Berliners jumped on top of the wall and were soon joined by East German youngsters in the evening of November 9 , 1989 is known as the night the wall came down. Well A bureaucratic misspeak was responsible for that climactic and epic event. But folks Uh we're not misspeaking anything when we are talking about the truths of God's Word this morning, because God is saying here, or Paul is saying through the Holy Spirit. That even more poignant is the walls are broken down among believers and among relationships because of the power and full authority of Jesus Christ. even more monumental than what happened there in 1989 in East Berlin. Well, let's look again At Ephesians actually chapter 2, verse 11. And Paul is going to remind us that before Jesus came, We were alienated as people from God. We had no claim or authority to have relationship with God because of our sin. And we were divided by ethnicity between the people of God, which were the Jews, and the Gentiles who had no part in the promises as far as the Old Testament. Spoke and addressed. Look at verse 11. Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, that's basically all of us who aren't Jewish people. called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands, you remember That you were at the time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. Paul is reminding us here that as Gentiles, and here's something, a real simple fact, real easy to understand, folks, either as we come to this passage, you're either a Jew or a Gentile. That's how it's always been divided. Gentiles are those that are not Jewish people. Now I don't know if we have any uh people of Jewish descent here. But Paul is making it clear that for the longest time humanity was divided in this way, evidenced by God's expectation for his people in their very bodies. And so that's what that long description is, talking about circumcision there. In verse 12, he says, again, remember that you were at the time separated from Christ. And because of this separation. in the Old Testament and on into New Testament times, there was a great gulf between the Jews and basically everyone else. The Samaritans were a particular hated group by the Jews, but the Gentiles in general were not considered as having a part. in the promises of God and from a logistic or a legal standpoint At that time in the Old Testament, it was very true. And so the Jews tended to look down on the Gentiles because, well, they're the uncircumcised heathen. We can't have a part with them. We can't um Soil ourselves by having a part in fellowship with them and extending ourselves to them. And the Romans and the Greeks looked at the Jews and they found circumcision abhorrent disgusting, how strange, how weird. Why would we want to be a part of that? And so Paul is describing this very real barrier between two people groups. That seemed insurmountable. In fact, you might say it would take a miracle to bring these people together. And Paul's going to describe that here in a minute, but to verse 12, there are actually five specific things that Paul addresses here that Gentiles could have no part in. And I want you to note these. Okay, let's read that verse again. Remember that you were at the time separated from Christ. That means that you did not have access to the blessings of the Jewish people, you were separated from that. You were alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. And strangers to the covenant of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. Five things. First of all, they had no hope in a national messiah. The Jewish community was awaiting the day that Messiah would come and looking forward to that day. But they thought that Messiah would save them from all the other hostilities around them. They had no idea that that Messiah would actually save them from the sin within and provide salvation to those hostile people as well. But I'm getting ahead of myself. They had no hope in a national messiah. So all of us as Gentiles, we had no hope, in a legal sense, according to God's law, to look forward to a messiah that would bring salvation. Number two, Gentiles, and that's again most of us here, could not claim citizenship in Israel with all its God-given privileges and status. Just as they were living in Rome, in Roman provinces, without any guarantee of citizenship, Gentiles had no guarantee. of the God-given promises that have been offered to the Jews. Number three, because of that they could not lay claim to the benefits of God's promises to his people, such as the Abrahamic and Davidic covenant promises. And then four, that resulted in their not having a hope of God's future plans for them. And five, because they did not have a relationship with the one true God. This is the difference between the visible entity of Israel and everyone else that Paul is describing here. See, the Gentile world had a lot of gods that they worshipped, a lot of false idols, but they did not know the one true God. And then Jesus came and changed everything. We were as Gentiles alienated in a real sense from the blessings of the Jews. Jesus had to come not just to be a Messiah and Savior for his people, but to reconcile those people with the people of the world and provide salvation To those folks. And Jesus' sacrifice then allowed us, draw us as Gentiles near to God in a way that we could have never been before. Look at verse 13. But now in Jesus Christ Jesus, you who were once far off, who had no hope of the promises of God's people, now You have that hope because you've been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace. who has made us both one and is broken down in his flesh, the very flesh that we're going to signify and remember as we get ready for communion this morning In his flesh, the dividing wall of hostility. See, folks, there was an almost, there was really an uncrossable Gap in the bridge between the Jews and the rest of the world until verse 13. But Jesus Jesus initiated salvation. He activated hope for all of us. The situation would not stay hopeless. But Jesus in his sacrifice provided a way for Gentiles to also experience the blessings of the promise of salvation. And because of Jesus' sacrifice, Gentiles can now, we can all draw near to God and experience the benefits of relationship with Messiah. And really, even though everything that I just said, folks, this was always the plan of God. This wasn't a hybrid. That as God got to the end of the time of the Old Testament, he looked around and said, you know, I'm feeling kind of bad for the rest of humanity. They don't have these promises. I'm going to go ahead and divert from my plan and provide salvation for them too, for them as well No, this was always the plan of our Heavenly Father from before time began, as our sovereign God. This was always a part of his plan. Even look at Isaiah 56. I'm going to ask you, sometimes I read verses, I don't ask you to turn, but I'm going to ask you to turn quickly to Isaiah 56. See, the Jewish people missed this very important fact. As they were Expecting the blessings of Messiah for themselves and looking down upon Gentiles. And we weren't any better, folks, as I just mentioned before. The Gentiles looked strangely and with disgust at the Jewish people as well. It was a hopeless situation. But the Jewish people missed the promise of Isaiah 56. Look at verse 6. Also the sons of the stranger. That join themselves to the Lord, to serve him and to love the name of the Lord, to be his servants, everyone that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it and taking hold of my covenant He's referring here to those that are not Jews, the Gentiles. Even them will I bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted upon my altar. For mine house shall be called a house of prayer, not just by a small group of people, but by all people. All people groups. You see, it was always God's plan to unite us together. And it was through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. The shed blood of Christ, folks, never forget this. It's a great thing that we have communion this morning to remind us Jesus had to shed his blood on that cruel cross so that we could be redeemed and be given the benefits of salvation and experience benefits of relationship with him. It was the only way that he could offer reconciliation between ourselves and God, a people that were not God's people, were made his people through the sacrifice and the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Because we were all sinners. Whether we were Jews or Gentiles, we all were permanently condemned in our sin and faced the curse of eternal punishment apart from God. Forever. And yet God's wrath was satisfied. As amazing and as terrible as it sounds, his wrath against sin was satisfied. As his son was made the propitiation, and his shed blood met God's holy demands. And since his son Jesus Christ was willing to sacrifice himself, And accomplish what we could have never accomplished. Remember recently in our study in Ephesians, Paul makes goes to great efforts to say there's nothing that we could do. To merit God's favor. There's no work that we could accomplish. It had to be through the death and the shed blood of Christ And so, folks, even those of us here that are Gentiles this morning, and we do have access to the inheritance of the saints, would you agree with me that this was no small thing? One scholar said the cost of bringing the Gentile near was dear. And it was. Cost Jesus everything. So does Jesus care about Gentiles? I'd say he does. He was willing to die. So that we could be drawn together. And he could be the ultimate peacemaker And that's where we have verse 14, for he himself is our peace, who hath made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. That's remarkable. How could Jesus bring two groups that were so adamantly opposed to each other together? He is the ultimate peacemaker, to the point where it says in verse 15 that he would create himself one new man, that he would make both one, that they would be unified, and these two people groups would be unified into one spiritual group with the same um Blessings and the same equality through Christ. Remarkable. Amazing. Let me just again highlight how great the gap was before Jesus accomplished this. Some of the scholars, Jewish scholars, in their teaching of the law, in their commentary on the law, in the Old Testament and in the time before the New Testament, wrote things like this. Gentiles were only fit to fuel fires of Gehenna. And like this, even the best of Gentiles should be crushed, just like you would any serpent. In fact, within the temple complex, there was an outer court of Gentiles where they were allowed, but separated from the inner court, which was for the Jews only. by a four and a half foot barrier called the Soric made of lattice. And there were 13 stone slabs set at intervals in the barrier that warn Gentiles not to enter, not to step one toe or one foot. And in fact, archaeologists have found two of these in recent years And they were described as such. They said things like, No foreigner is to enter within the partition and the enclosure surrounding the temple. Whoever is caught will have himself to blame for his subsequent death. Wow. Isn't that a fitting symbol of enity and hostility between these two groups? You would look at that and say, there's no hope for that kind of hatred. There's no help for people that hate each other and are that opposed to each other. But oh folks, there is Because Jesus came and died and shed his blood and unifies groups of people that hated each other and wanted nothing to do with each other. And he did away, God's word says, with all the ceremonial laws, all the things that the Jews held up and said, we're better than you because we have to do this. and we have to do this. And Jesus came and said, I'm just going to do away with all of that. Look at verse 15. By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace. And Jesus fulfilled God's law and therefore took away all of those requirements of the law and abolished the law. On a side note here When we talk about the law being abolished, we need to make some slight differentiations here. Because you might think, well, isn't Pastor Brock, isn't the Ten Commandments in the law? So does that mean Jesus got away of the expectation, put away, destroyed the expectation of following his moral law, the Ten Commandments? No, the moral law actually is not abolished. It's an expectation that we can follow through on through the power of Jesus Christ in our lives that we could never follow through before. You see, before Jesus as our Savior and before our new life in Him, we couldn't follow those Ten Commandments. They might have sounded nice and they might have been great in a courtroom or you know, read them on a plaque or something, but there's no way that we could be obedient to even ten commandments. Even ten, there's no way. And yet Jesus came and gives us through faith and trust in him the Holy Spirit that enables us to obey those commandments in a deeper way. Not just not murdering someone, but not having anger for someone in our hearts and dealing with that anger First Timothy one, eight through nine says, Now we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully, understanding this that the law is not laid down for the just, but the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, there is a moral aspect to God's commandments that is eternal. The expectations are still there. But there's no way that we could have followed the law and saved ourselves, and Jesus did away with all of that so that we might come together And have peace. I don't want you to miss the amazing aspect of that phrase at the end of verse 15. Look at that again. that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace. Here are two obviously hostile groups, ethnically, spiritually And Jesus made them new. So that two groups that were hostile toward each other became a new group that were brothers and sisters in Christ. How's that for amazing? How's that for a powerful peacemaker's work? Really, it's almost saying here that a new body of unity was formed, and it's called the church as well. A new people group that is equal in all ways and has equal access to the inheritance that God provides. Would you not say that Jesus is the ultimate people? peacemaker folks. And isn't it foolish? Really, isn't it foolish then for Christians to be divided along racial lines? and racial and ethnic groups and all the struggle that we have with racism today. You know, it marvels if you're a student of history that we ever had a time in our our country, although we did and even worldwide where um people that referred to themselves as Christians also looked upon their own color and their own race as superior to another race and another color. And folks, God's word will not have that. That is not true Christianity because we come together, Jesus shed his blood so that we would put aside all of that silly, evil comparisons with each other. And we would realize we are all on equal footing by the mercy of God. And there's no room for partisan and and um evil warring about racism and and different things like that. I should never have been a cart part of a Christian's vocabulary. And they're thinking. Because Jesus did away with all of that. And brought peace. That's why it's so important to value the church. I've heard people say before, been in teaching situations where we were divvying divvying up lessons, and I've heard people say, well, here's this lesson on the church. Pastor Brock, you can take that because I'm not really interested in the church. Church. Doesn't really excite me. Church kind of frustrates me actually. Don't have a lot of appreciation for that doctrine. And I marvel at that. Because the church is a miracle of God. That any of us ornery divided people could get together and be unified and in peace and worship Him together. We ought to marvel at that every week. And yet that's exactly what Jesus has provided. No matter your background, no matter your color of skin, no matter your ethnicity, we can come together in equality and worship. Jesus Christ in his authority and his place in what God has given him because he shed his blood His sacrifice took away the hostility of God toward man. And so therefore there's no place for us to have hostility towards each other. Folks, if there's walls here today between you and other people, just know that's unnatural. That's not why Jesus died. He came to bring peace and reconciliation. So we can never be comfortable with those walls because Jesus, if he broke down the walls, seemingly impassable walls of the Gentiles, the Jews and the Gentiles. Wouldn't you agree with me? There's no reconciliation wall or wall between reconciliation that can't be broken down. Jesus can provide what we need for that reconciliation. Through faith in Jesus, our relationship with Jesus, we're reconciled to God. and to each other. And so there may be all kinds of division and dissension and racial division outside of these walls in our community and ethnic division. But that should never be the testimony of the church. That should never be named among us because we are equal in Christ. And we are brothers and sisters who will worship Jesus forever. And that was a sovereign plan of a God who looked down and saw such great division between his people, the Jews, and the Gentiles. He said, just wait, because in my eternal plan I'm going to send my son and I'm going to blow up those walls of division. And there will be peace Is there peace in your heart this morning? Or is there bitterness, strife, toward others You don't have to live that way. Jesus can provide the reconciliation that you need with others. Paul makes it clear. There's no excuse. Church of Jesus Christ should be the representation to the world that we are a miracle because we are such a virtual Variety of people and backgrounds and ethnicities. And yet, we come together in love. We recognize the value of each other. And we worship the Lord Jesus Christ together. That is a miracle. You are a walking miracle. This church is a miracle of God's goodness and the sacrifice of Christ. And so as we get ready for communion, let's remember all that Jesus gave to bring us peace. And ask yourself this question. Are you at peace today? Are you at peace with your brother and sister in Christ because of what Jesus did? Father, This is convicting on a number of fronts. I pray that As we meditate on this truth and the reminder that there is no need for walls to continue to be up and barriers between relationships. Because your son came and did all that was necessary to break those walls down in an even more dramatic way than what happened in West Germany, East Germany. Your son broke down, tore down the walls of partition between Jew and Gentile, and made peace. So Lord, I pray today if there is one who is still not trusted in Christ and does not know the peace of the true peacemaker in his or her heart. Today they might put their faith and trust in what Jesus has done and experience true reconciliation with you, the Father, so that they can show the love of Christ and be reconciled in their relationship with others And for those of us, Lord, that are truly your children, let us not be satisfied until we break down the walls and have reconciliation between us, because it is possible, and we have seen that this morning. Let us have unity. Let us have peace. Folks, as Leslie plays, I want you to pray that God will bring you peace and bring to mind anybody that you need to reconcile with. If there's those in here today that don't know Jesus, my prayer is today that they would put your faith and trust in Jesus. But I also want you to take time to prepare your hearts for communion. as we get ready to do this in a few minutes. All of this, talk to the Lord as the piano plays