Answers. Sometimes we don't even have the questions, right? The kids are running down for their children's Search, we're thankful for those that are teaching this month. We have our own teaching this morning as we go back to Matthew chapter 6 and the Sermon on the Mount and Christ is calling us to some choices. We saw some of these choices next week. He continues. Matthew chapter 16. Really the whole passage is 19 through 24. We looked at 19 through 21 last week. And we talked about a lot of different choices in this old world that we have options for. Really, it's remarkable. If you are A student of history, which I love to be a non-professional student of history. I love history. We have more opportunities, folks, and abilities to To choose in all kinds of things than we've had in the history of the world. We really are spoiled when it comes to where we're able to Travel to and where um what we're able to eat and what we're able to drink and all of these things. We have been blessed with More opportunities for choices than at any time in human history. And yet, at the same time, these choices that Jesus brings before us are the most important The most consequential of any choice that we can make today, this week, throughout our lives I 'm going to simply title this message this morning, Choose Whom You Will Serve. Who are you going to serve? There's a lot of things that enam enamor us. A lot of things that we that take our time and that we give over to our time in our lives. And if we're not careful, those things become our idols. We become servants to so many things in our world today. With the options and the privileges that we have of so many choices, we become slaves many times to those things. So, folks, I'm just giving as a reminder to us what the Savior has put before us, and that is, will we choose to serve him? Or some other thing. We saw last week in verse 19 that we are to choose our treasure. Do not lay up for yourselves treasure. Treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither must moth, nor as we well, we saw in the Greek, we could probably We better say worm, where neither moth nor worm destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. That's a good introduction because Jesus continues that theme. Have you thought about that this past week, folks? I hope that it was a little reminder last week. To really focus in where is our treasure? Where is your treasure? What is most important to you? Maybe one way. A modern day way that we describe what's most important to us is talking about making a bucket list of the things that we must almost demand to see before Or well we don't know when we're going to die, but before that happens, uh a perusal of that list might give you an idea of who you tend to serve and who tend to To be most important. And Jesus calls us to right choices in this regard. Where is your treasure? Where do you spend your treasure? Where do you spend your time? Your money, your resources? As I just said, God has given us Opportunities in this culture for so many things to spend our resources and our time and our money, and those things aren't bad. But when they're overwhelming and we're obsessing over them , Those things. It's time to ask ourselves where our treasure really is. So he's called us to choose your treasure, and I hope that this morning that you inward Are you choosing wisely that you are choosing Jesus Christ as your treasure? There's an old VBS song that we sang many years ago: Jesus, you are the treasure, treasurer. That ought to be our anthem, folks. Is he the treasure of your heart this morning? Choose your treasure, but then choose Choose next in the next few verses, twenty-two and twenty-three, choose light or darkness. Now this is a really interesting verse because I'm I'm sure a lot of us could almost Quote this by heart, maybe in the King James, or maybe your translation. But do you really understand what it means? So let's read this together. Verse 25. The eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad Your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness? Now we can tell that Jesus is calling us to something a sober decision. Here. And we might read this and say the eye is the lamp of the body. Yeah, I want my whole body to be full of light. I don't want my eye to be bad. I don't want to be full of darkness, but how do I follow through on this? It almost sounds like, you know, maybe Jesus is asking us to get that eye check up. That we've been putting off for so long. We need to make that appointment with our ophthalmologist and make sure that our vision is as it should be so that we have light and not darkness so that we can see in the way that we need to see. And those of us that are getting older in years realize that that's more of a challenge than it ever has been. I'm Realizing pretty soon that I need to go to my ophthalmologist and have a prescription for glasses. I can read go and tell That's good. The clock's a little fuzzy, which that's not always bad, right? But really what what is cra Christ talking about here? We need to understand this verse, and I think many times we don't. But he's calling us to a choice: choose light or darkness. And he's not talking about necessarily physical sight, although he's using that as an example to illustrate and promote a much greater spiritual truth, as you would expect. And Jesus in verse 22 talking about the healthy eye and your body being full of light is really saying a righteous perspective provides you. Spiritual health, that we need the righteousness of Christ in order to be spiritually healthy. Jesus has referred to himself, if you remember in the book of John. Do you remember in the Gospel of John? Jesus referred to himself in many ways, the bread of life. The light that shines in the darkness, Jesus is that light. And here I believe he's referring to his work and to his person. Now again, very simplistically, our eye is the receptor of light. It's how we see. We don't see through our face. Through our kneecaps, through our ears, all of that would be really weird. The eye, very simply, and Jesus uses these simple pictures so that we get it. Sometimes we need ultimate Simplicity to really get into practice what Jesus is saying. So we see the light through our eyes. It enables the rest of our body to be able to maneuver And when we can't see as well, we're not able to maneuver as well. And those of us that struggle, or those that have um eyesight that's impairing Prepared, they have to make other ways in order to adequately uh provide and um compensate for not being able to see as well. As they should. But again, this isn't a comment on our physical health. What is Jesus saying here? He's pointing to his followers that we need His light. We need his work within us. The work of God through the sacrifice of Christ. That changes our lives and helps cure our spiritual blindness. Folks, we are so blind in our sin, we can't See the way. We can't see the dangers around us. We think many times as we pursue life that we're doing okay and we're making the right decisions And if we haven't um if we haven't sought after God 's viewpoint or his ways, we can many times be very close to making Detrimental or very destructive mistakes because we need the light that is Christ to do that changing work Within us so that we can see spiritually. We need bodies that are full of spiritual light that only comes through a relationship with Jesus Christ. To be spiritually blind is truly a terrible handicap. I'm sure many of you have gone through this experience. But always the especially the older you get, the more you have to be careful about even getting up at night. Something wakes you up and you think, you know, you've got to um Something's on your mind, or you need to feel like you need to get out of bed to take care of something, you hear a noise, whatever. Um and as we get older, we have to be even more and more careful because you know things get blurry and it's dark. Well we I don't know about you but we have an extra um extra couple of obstacles and that that are make things challenging for me um and that is when I get Get out of bed. We also, you've many of you met our dog and our cat, our dog Ellie, and our our cat Tookie. Um, Ellie has been increasingly finding more consistent And sleeping in our room on our floor. And many times the cat will come in, and they're good buddies, so you know they boom, right next to them. And so not only When it's real dark and I can't see, do I have to navigate, you know, the bed and trying to get past the dresser and then trying to get wherever I'm going. But now I also have this dog that's somewhere out out there and I don't know where she is because she's mostly black with a little bit of white and in the light in the darkness you can't see. But she will let you know, I can promise you and tell you from experience that if you Do find her and you step on her, she will make her annoyance and grievance very well known to you. And the cat will as well. You might even get a hiss. And so So trying to maneuver all these things in the dark is very challenging. You don't want to hurt the animals, you don't want to hurt yourself. It's scary. Sometimes, folks, even as believers, those that are children of God who have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, do we try to maneuver life without Jesus? We ought to be scared of that We ought to be fearful of that. Not only for our own spiritual harm , the fact that we could harm others. Because we may be spiritually blind in the specific area of our life and we can't see things and yet we haven't sought what God wants us to do. I've got this covered. I'm okay. I don't need to pray and ask God what He wants me to do. I don't I I know I haven't been reading God's word much lately, so I'm not really that in tune to his expectations for my life, but you know, this is an area of my life that I'm I can handle. I'm I'm I don't need his help. And we're stumbling around in the darkness hoping that we don't get hurt or hoping that That others don't get hurt. Or many times, folks, we really don't care as we're stumbling around in spiritual darkness if others get hurt at all. And that's a No, we need the light of the understanding of Scripture. Of seeking God's will in prayer and understanding from Scripture to guide us every day so that our body may be full of light, and so that we can illuminate Illuminate for our own protection spiritually, so that we don't lose our testimony, but also for those around us. We have family members, we have friends that can be Seriously damaged and hurt by our lack of trust and faith in the light of Jesus Christ. Do you care this morning? Do you care that many times we still try to function on spiritual blindness when we have the light of Jesus Christ? We have His Word, the Word that we can access. At any time. And we can know daily how to serve God and how to make right choices. We need that right righteous perspective that only comes from a close relationship with Christ in order to find our to find our way in the darkness because it is exceedingly dark out there. Isn't it, folks? Every day, every week seems to get more and more terrible. And we need to be the testimony of light. Bodies that are full of light and testimony How are we doing on that this morning? Would you not say that an eye that is fully functional is a tremendous help to the rest of the body? Body, and so a life that is fully functional in being a proper testimony of Jesus Christ, one that is fully devoted and committed to Jesus and is shining in the A lighthouse, the light of Christ, is more uh of a tremendous help in ministry and in our community than those of us that have a dull light or are trying to hide that light under a bush. That light is necessary. Because the opposite of this, verse 23, then is but if If your eye is bad, if it's deficient, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, If it's quenched, how great is the darkness. Christ is calling us here to be very fearful of operating without his light and without his understanding. We know that the more we study God's Word, the more he gives us wisdom and understanding and how to live out his word. But if we're lax and we have uh a lessened commitment to the things of God, uh that spiritual darkness can And those that have evil intent, if your eye is bad, it has the idea of evil intent. Your whole body will be full Full of darkness. And in the end, you will be headed toward eternal spiritual destruction. I remember uh many years ago, well this of course it was many years ago because it was college, undergrad, I was going attending a Christian university or college in Pensacola, Florida. Florida. And there were some great aspects to that, some some um wonderful opportunities that uh that uh came up as a result of being that close to the Pensacola beaches. Beautiful beaches, but they also had Pensacola has some really interesting historical forts. And so me and some buddies decided we we heard about one fort called Fort Pick. I believe it was a it was an old fort that was even pre-Civil War and it had a number of advancements and add-ons to it. And we decided to go and we thought it'd be really cool to go at night. Night because what young people wouldn't find adventure in a over a hundred and fifty year old fort in the dead of night? Why not, right? Uh we decide There was tours going on, candlelight tours, but of course, young, wise men that we were, we didn't want no silly tours. We wanted to be off on our own and be adventurers. Fort at dark that we'd never maneuvered before. What could go wrong? And as we maneuvered, we came a con upon Some some um tunnels and some different things that we thought that would be fun just to check out. And one was really uh this wouldn't be any surprise to you, I guess, but as young people We saw this um tunnel that we actually had to it was about half of our size. It came up a little bit past our our waist. And we all had to crawl down and Bend down and go single file into this hole in the wall at night. And we thought, why not? What we want to find out what would be at the end of this hole. No idea. But of course, none of us wanted to be the first guy in the line. So thankfully we had one guy that was stupid, I mean, wise enough to be the front guy, but he was also in the having the flashlight and he was also kind of the wise guy of the group. And there became evident why he wanted that position of being up front. Because as we got halfway through that tunnel, he thought it'd be funny just to turn off that flashlight. Now, we were we were um we were inhibited by that small space. We weren't going very far unless we wanted to back out. But it did get a little bit more More difficult and more challenging and a little more precarious without that light in a dark tunnel that we could barely fit in. And there was a guy ahead of me. And all of a sudden, as we were trying to move, and the the two of us in the back, I was at the very back, were like, hey, turn the light back on. This isn't funny. We can't see. And the guy in front of me, all of a sudden, I heard a thonk. And come to find out in this tunnel that there was a part where the brick came down another half an inch or a whole full inch. And the two guys in front of us had seen That because they had the flashlight. Once they turned the flashlight off, my friend in front of me, thankfully he was there and it wasn't me, he couldn't see that ledge, and bam, he smacked his forehead right into it. And he was in a lot of pain. And at that point, he wasn't finding the whole experience fun anymore. I was thankful that it was him because I didn't have a goose egg on my side. And at that point we got to the end and it was it was just a bare wall. Like, well this wasn't much fun, and we kind of backed out and we went our way But it was the the whole point of that story was the travail and um the uh the difficulties that we put ourselves in by Being in a dark place that we really had no business being in without light. Folks, I think we tend to live that way. That we're willing to live without the light of Christ and his counsel and his guidance. We're willing to turn that off and turn the flashlight off and try to go it our own way. And it's just as foolish Is trying to go down a tunnel in an old fort that we've never been in before. Because we can't live life effectively without Jesus. We need his light. Even more significantly than that, I think Jesus is calling those who have not committed to following him. To follow his light. You see, he's also, I think, talking to some that were expressing desire to follow him, but they weren't really committed And so therefore they didn't have the light of Christ within. They were living in spiritual darkness, and they needed him, and he was calling them to commit to him. To trust in him so that they could have his light within. I'm pretty confident that there's someone here this morning who Maybe acting like they know the light of Christ, but they really don't have a relationship with Jesus. And you are living in spiritual darkness where you You could stumble and trip at any moment and experience great spiritual devastation and tragedy. Yes, I'm convinced even this morning they're very well con Be someone who doesn't have a faith relationship with Jesus Christ. Jesus is the light that has provided everything that we need, the righteousness. To make us whole. In his death, he took our sins upon himself. And his blood provided cleansing for that sin. In his resurrection, he provides true life, restorative spiritual life, new life in him. And all of that We can access and he gives us his righteousness as he took on us his sins. He gives us his righteousness when we put our faith and trust and we depend upon On all that Jesus has done. We take in the light in the work that He does within us. So if there's someone here this morning that's still struggling in their relationship, they don't know that they have a relationship with Jesus Christ, I would call to you: are you tired of stumbling around in the Today, will you not come to me? Will you not come to uh Brother Mike Erickson or some of the other spiritual leaders in this church and find out and talk to us and uh we can pray with you and you can know for certain by trying Trusting in the work that Jesus has done, that you can have his to spiritual light and his spiritual renewal that he gives, and you don't have to stumble around at the darkness. Because the fact is It is, folks, at some point you're going, if you haven't trusted in Jesus and He's not your Savior, at some point you're going to make the fatal trip into eternity of hell. And as we've seen this past week, none of us knows the time and the hour of our days, do we? We've seen many people that have gone into eternity, and our prayer is that they knew Jesus. But my call is to the living today. Are you living In spiritual darkness, at a moment's notice, ready to make that fatal trip into eternal darkness that will last forever? Or will you Place your faith in Jesus and allow Him to do that work in your lives that gives you spiritual sight so that you can see your way. One more here, and that is choose your master. And it ties right into this. Verse twenty-four No one can serve two masters, for I Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. I like the translation mammon or possessions because it goes beyond money. It be go basically it's saying here, you cannot serve God and all your stuff. All the stuff of the world. Whatever your stuff is that's more important to you, that you cling to, that you buy with your money, your possessions. You can't be devoted to two. It doesn't work out well Jesus is not saying here by the way, as a side note, he's not saying that those of you that have a job and you've taken on a Another job or maybe even a third job that somehow you are doing wrong because you're not able to give full attention to the work at hand. That's not what Jesus is is referring to. I think we understand that, right? He's referring to something much deeper. And that is, and especially in wartime, and we are in this day and age, we're in a spiritual battle. And folks, what is a person who acts like and states that they are fighting for one side and yet they're secretly working for the enemy, the other side? What is our term for a person that would Do that. They're called traitors. Divided allegiance between the one side or the other That can never give really effective service to the one side that they're supposedly devoted to. No, that causes war and chaos. We heard that old quote, I'm sure, Jack of all trades and master of none. And we understand that when it comes to our physical limitations and our abilities. But folks, we don't want that moniker when it comes to our spiritual lives. That, oh, we fool around a little bit with Christianity. With following after Jesus, but we're not really devoted or master any of those things that please God. That's not a good testimony. Would you agree with me? Because we can't be devoted to Jesus Christ and give him our full commitment and allegiance and also be aligned with the things of the world Which is just not possible. We have to be all in one or the other, or we're ineffective, and we're a traitor. And we're not able to serve God very well. That's why we had the quote from Joshua this morning that Arden read. That's why Joshua Joshua called God's people to choose this day whom you will serve. Serve the God of your fathers, served in the region beyond the river, or the God of the Amorites. You guys Choose, are you going to serve the gods of this world or are you going to serve Yahweh, serve the Lord? And Joshua says, I've already made my choice. I'm serving God. Will you come with me? Jesus says, Who are you going to serve? Don't fool yourself that you can serve both. Do you realize, folks, in this simple verse these simple verses here that Jesus puts to bed, he deals with you can't serve both sides. You have to choose. You don't get a It out on this because you can't really be devoted to one person when you secretly love another. That's why In our marriage vows. We vow to love that one person for the rest of our lives. And if there's a secret love that we haven't told them about, uh, everyone understands that is A violation of the marriage vow because we're supposed to be dedicated and loyal to that one marriage partner. We get that. Why do we have such a hard time understanding That when it comes to our relationship with Jesus Christ, He must be first. If we're not devoted To him, then ultimately, folks, we're despising him. Because we're not giving him all the attention and the glory and the love and the affection, the devotion that he deserves. And so Jesus again says, you gotta choose serve God or serve the things of the world. The mammon is the idea of riches. And possessions. Would you not agree to me that really, if you're going to say I'm devoted to something, that you really do have to make choices To spend your time then in that activity or with that person, and you do have to make sacrifices. You do have to make choices. I'm not gonna spend, I'm not gonna do This it would be fun, it might be helpful, but in all order to be totally devoted, I'm going to choose to spend time doing this or with this person. The same thing with our relationship with Christ. There may be a lot of other good things, folks, that we want to do with our time. But as you look over your life the past couple weeks, would you serve Say ultimately you've been devoting and committed your time first and foremost to Jesus. Is He your master, or have you been a servant of another master of a false God. Any servant who is serving anyone other than Jesus Christ is serving a false God. Whether or not you have the idol in your in our homes. Whether I have the idol in my home or not. We're serving false gods when we're not serving Jesus. You know what is a deep and um Important truth is that God has made each and every one of us deep inside of ourselves a desire to serve something. Did you know that? God has put within our heart Hearts, the desire and the need to worship something. It's supposed to be Him. It's supposed to be our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But in our brokenness, so many of the times we take inferior things and we follow after those things, and they never bring the meaning and the satisfaction that follows Following after Jesus brings and relationship with Him and commitment to Him, but we follow them anyway. And Jesus says, Stop doing that. Decide if you're gonna be divided Voted to me or not. We had a children's book that the boys used to love, and it was called If Everybody, I think it was called If Everybody Did It. And it was a humorous thing, but it made the point. It had a lot of different things that young that children shouldn't be doing. And it's like, okay, if you did this, just one person did this, and maybe not seem like a big deal, but what if everybody did it? And then it shows the consequences in a humorous way of what would happen if everybody rubbed the cat the wrong way. Or if everybody did this enormously annoying thing in your home and the chaos that that would bring. And I I like that concept. It made it very clear to our kids. You know, those little things are Important. But how about this, folks? How about if everybody just decided to serve themselves rather than serve Jesus Christ? Can you imagine the chaos that that would bring in a local church? Can you imagine the spiritual damage that that would make in a home? And isn't the chaos and the destruction that we see in our world today really a direct result of everybody serving themselves rather than God As God's people, we don't want that testimony of bringing more chaos And destruction to an already dark world. But we should want the testimony of wanting to serve Jesus with full devotion, with full heart. And again, if there are those here this morning that don't have that don't have relationship with Jesus, my call is to you that you would choose that you Would put your faith and trust in him and accept the work that he has already done so that you can have his light within and he can renew you and you can Can be a devoted follower of God, which is what you were meant to be. You were created to follow and glorify the God of heaven. And you can only follow Follow through and do what you were created and called to do if you have a faith relationship with Jesus Christ. The gospel is clear. Each of us In this room needs Jesus. And I call you to understand that need this morning. And to give him your full commitment. I read this song last week, the words of this song that was such meaningful to me in the eighties. I'll read part Of it again. I won't sing it. It's called Choose You This Day, and it says, Choose You This Day, he said, whom you would serve. Give me a heart to always choose you. Open my eyes. Help me to understand. Make me a holy man. I want to know you. Deep in my heart, Lord, you're all that I need, but this heart of mine Wander so easily. I long to be free. Give me the strength to stand. Make me a holy man. Woman, I want to know you. And the chorus says, Fill me with hunger, so I will no longer desire all the things I see. Now in your holiness, cleanse all my stubbornness. Make me what you want me to be. If you are a follower of Jesus this morning, that should be your heart, folks. Serve the one who is perfect and just, who created you and loves you and always wants what's best for you. Don't give in to the desire for the temporary Things of the world, they'll never satisfy. Whatever you have a tendency to make as your treasure, you will never find true satisfaction in that. Apart from commitment to Jesus Christ. They're all temporary pleasures. But Jesus will remember the good that his servants have done And he will one day reward it. Your committed service to Jesus will be rewarded one day. It'll be worth it, folks. Your commitment to other things will dissipate and will not be remembered, and it will be a waste. But your commitment to Jesus will have have eternal value and glory. Do you know Jesus this morning? I hope you do. If you don't, will you consider putting your faith and trust in Him, in that cleansing work that He did on the cross, and believe that He can Provide you new life, eternal life, superior life to the Temporary things that we tend to serve in this world. If you need Christ this morning, come talk to me. I'd be glad to lead you to the Savior of Your soul this morning. Father, as we think and we make these decisions, forgive us for so Often walking in spiritual blindness. When we have the light of the world, for those that have trusted Christ, we have access to his light, and he can Guide our way, and yet so often we try to turn off the flashlight or cover the bushel and try to do it ourselves. Forgive us of that. Help us to repent of that And turn and project the light of Jesus in our lives again. Help us to renew our devotion to Jesus To make sure that he truly is our utmost, our primary devotion, that we are serving him as our master fully and devotedly. And Father, if there is one here who doesn't have a relationship with Jesus, may today be the day that they turn to Him and trust Him so that they can have and live a life That's truly worth living for now and all eternity. Folks, as I mentioned, those decisions and those desires to repent. And you take time to search your heart and think through these things as Leslie plays