All of our worship helpers today, so appreciate them standing with me. Turning back to the Sermon on the Mount. And we are in Matthew chapter six, a message that is A template for all of what Christ preached. Christ would preach upon these themes and upon the themes Of the kingdom of of heaven, the kingdom of God, throughout his ministry. In the Gospel of Luke, we have some of those themes um presented again. I don't know that it was in the same um venue as a Sermon on the Mount, but it's a reminder that these are things that our Lord regularly taught to his followers, to his disciples. And so, folks, if you love and are trusting in Jesus today, you are a follower that needs to be reminded of these things as well. We all are And these are glorious truths. When our Savior speaks, we listen. And I hope that you have attentive ears to hear this morning. Matthew 6, Lord willing, we're going to be looking at verses 16 through 21 this morning. And Jesus. Jesus is going to put before us a choice. A choice that we have to make. Some of you out there love making having choices. Some of you, it drives you crazy. You know, you can't order a hamburger with at some places without all these different choices that you can have or not have. Some choices are more important than others. We face very serious sobering choices every day, don't we? And that is as we get up and we get dressed and we get ready for the day and we go out in the community, we think to ourselves, I've got a choice today. Am I gonna have Dunkin' Donuts or Starbucks coffee? It's a tough one. Bob says both. Some of you say neither. And you have your own coffee place that you go. to maybe a local establishment. But it's a choice. Or not to get too controversial here, but we have a choice, wah wah or royal farms. It gets a little tougher. How about we just had pizza this last weekend because we were waiting for Leslie to get home. Papa John's or Domino's? For us, it depends on who's got the deal, right? You there with large families, you know what I'm talking about. Walmart or Target, Wendy's or McDonald's. Now I know we're getting close to dinner or lunchtime, so you're probably getting hungry. Let me give you a choice that has nothing to do with food. Verizon or T-Mobile. Or maybe there's not ATT. We have a lot of choices in this life to make. Sometimes it can be hard. Now I'm having a little fun with you. But folks, the choice that Jesus is talking about here is so far superior and more important to any of those rather mundane things. He is causing us to make choices based on life's spiritual priorities. And Jesus is focusing on On our most important spiritual needs here. And he's calling us to choose the eternal over the temporary. Now, verse 16 starts out, we start out with the topic of fasting. Now, I'm sure that's what you came to hear this morning: how to better fast, especially after 20 Talking about all this food. years. Uh actually there's been a resurgence and entrance and entrant interest in fasting. It's becoming something Something that people are more interested in, something called intermittent fasting. It's not really what we're talking about here, but maybe that sparks your interest. There's a reason why Jesus included that This in his Sermon on the Mount, and that we need to understand is fasting represents one area that we can show Our devotion to Christ. But we can also misuse that opportunity. And I don't believe from what I read here, I don't sense That Jesus is giving a command to fast, but he is saying, if you do this, that this is beneficial. He's recommending it. To our consideration. But there's a right attitude and a wrong attitude to have while fasting. So, really, as he discusses this further, he's asking us to choose Who is going to receive our devotion? Who are you ultimately devoted to? Yourself or to Jesus Christ? Those that have claimed faith relationship with Christ will be devoted to Him first. That's what kingdom citizens do. He will return and be our kingdom Our king, excuse me, and will reign. And so certainly we should be devoted to him, and many times those still in our brokenness in this world We get these things mixed around. Look at verse 16. And when you fast, do not look gloomy like hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fast May be seen by others. And truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen by others. Others, but by your father, who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. Now to understand the background To what Jesus is referring to when he says fasting, we need to understand the common practice of the Jewish people at that time. And fasting was a common practice. At this time. The abstention from food, or in a broader sense, maybe something that was very important to an individual that they committed to st Stay away from for a certain period of time, and it was commonly practiced by the Jewish people in New Testament times. And actually, in God's law, there was Required a time of fasting, but it was only one fast per year that was actually required by Jewish law, and it was on the Day of Atonement and the New Year When God would call his people to put aside these other needs of eating and other things and focus totally on him, be devoted to him. We know that Jesus fasted in the wilderness before his temptation. And so there is an aspect of fasting that Is appropriate and devotional and helpful. But unfortunately, as they had done with so many things, the religious leaders of the Jewish people had twisted this into a spectacle. And they actually had a regular pattern. They would focus and they would excuse me. Me fast on Monday and Thursday twice a week. Not just once a year, like the law prescribed, but let's go over and abound. We fast twice a week. And therefore, we have A greater depth of devotion to God because we're willing to give up things in order to seek Him in prayer. Now, even if they wanted to do that, that would be fine, but it was the way they went about it. Look again. Jesus says, When you fast, and he's talking to his disciples, He's saying, I know that the religious leaders promote fasting. But if you're going to fast, here's how you should not do it. He says, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites. Hypocrites, the Greek word is one that wears a mask. One that hides their true self and they put up a mask, a smiling face, a pious face, and they say, This is what I really am and they're all they're doing is living life as a sham. They're living life masked, they're not showing Who they really are. And yes, Jesus is referring to many of the religious leaders in that way. They are hypocrites. They're putting on a good face. And what is that face? Well, it looks terrible actually, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. You imagine these Men that are supposed to be dedicated to God and they're contorting their faces in weird ways, and people come up to them, Rabbi, what's wrong? Oh, I've been fasting all day and it's hard. It's hard. Would really like a hamburger or a cheeseburger or a piece of pizza right now, but I'm not gonna do that because I'm fasting. Praise God. But it's It's so hard. And they literally would disfigure their faces so that people could see the pain of what they were going through. And people would marvel. And say, These are the most devoted in our society. Look at them. They're marvelous. They're wonderful. And Jesus says, actually, they're not. They're putting on a good show. But inside they're not devoted to me at all. They wanted people to see their devotion so that The people would not honor God. But in reality, these people, these men, wanted the honor. They wanted people looking at them and saying, Such devout men That would give up meals and would give up uh maybe even water and give up the needs that they have in order to seek God And it was all an act. It was all the drama being put on by religious leaders so people would look at them. They didn't care about people looking at God You know I think we have to be careful. Now I don't know anybody in this room that I've ever seen that's guilty Of that. Okay? I've never had anybody come up to me and say, Pastor Buck, I've been fasting for three days now and it's tough, but praise God, I'm going to keep going. And even then, I don't know your heart, right? So if you did say that, and I would maybe remind you of these verses, but I don't know your heart. But sometimes folks, even Even though it doesn't apply to fasting, in a broader sense, I do think we have to be careful sometimes with this general principle. And that is, as believers, that we're not Going around complaining, maybe we don't have a disfigured face or gloomy face, but we have a grumpy face or a discontented face And we love to tell people about all the hardships of ministry and the hardships of serving Christ. And there are hard times. In our Sunday school class today, uh Mike Dr. Mike Erickson pointed out that Philippians is actually the the truth, the focus there is joy, but it's joy in the midst of something Suffering. So, folks, from the teaching platform of this ministry, I don't want to ever give you any false idea that there's not suffering. There's hardship. It gets hard. It gets Difficult at times. But if we seek to gain attention from that and we seek to put the focus on ourselves by what we're going through, or maybe what we say we're going through. We have to be real careful, don't we, that we don't fall into this same hypocritical spirit. Now that doesn't mean at the same time that you can't share Your burdens with others, we should. If you're going through a hard time, to share that burden with fellow believers is one of the privileges of meeting together and worshiping together. For you and seek God's face for you. So please don't misunderstand me as well that I'm saying don't ever share your burdens. No, we want to help you carry your burdens at Upper Crossroads Baptist. this church. We really do. But we must be careful that it doesn't become an opportunity to showcase ourselves rather than our Savior. And that's what had happened with these men. And so Jesus says they're seeking reward from God, but they're already, in effect, glory thieves. They're taking that reward for themselves. So that's it. That's the only reward that they will receive for their dramatic act of suffering. Suffering. They are seeking the temporary glory, and they were getting it. And folks, sometimes we seek the temporary Temporary glory. And we may get it in this life. But if you are one that's all about uh if it's so important for you in this life to receive the Respect and the glory of men. If that has become your um your desire and your lust And that is your most important thing. Then you are, if you achieve that , you are achieving all that you will get in this life and the next, because God's not going to reward you. That. And folks, wouldn't you say that really that human respect and honor is fleeting in this life? Some days people love you, some days they hate you. It's a fleeting Thing. But God deserves all the honor and the glory. And so Jesus says to his followers , You are looking for the eternal reward. That God will give his followers in the kingdom, these will not receive that. They're receiving their reward in this life. So when you fast, when you give up these things and Devote yourself to God. This is what you do: anoint your head and wash your face. That your fasting may not be seen by others, but by your Father who is in secret Well, what's he saying here? If you're going to fast, well, make sure you take a bath. Well, that sounds strange. Why would Jesus say that? What's the purpose of that? Well he's really what he's really saying here, if I can summarize. Now personal hygiene is important, don't get me wrong. What he's saying here is if you are fast You present yourself to society in public as you would normally every day. Get a shower. Anoint yourself This oil may have actually been a scalp lubricant. Now we don't know what that oil was today. I'd really like to know what that oil was actually. I don't know if that would help some of us. A little bit more. Um I don't know what the I guess Elisha uh wasn't considered bald as well, so maybe he didn't use that oil. I don't know. But whatever they used it for, um They were supposed to get ready as they would for a normal day and just act like everything is normal. And not promote their own devotion. Because God says, even though those around you don't know that you're fasting or that you are involved in something that shows devo Towards me. Nobody else may know about it, but God knows. My heavenly Father knows. He is the God of In secret. And he knows those things that are done solely toward him. And Jesus knows the things that are solely done toward him. Without us having to promote it today, folks. He knows your sacrifice. He knows your service. He knows the pain that you've gone through in order to serve him well. He knows the hits that you've taken. He knows the persecution that maybe you've undergone at work. He knows all of that. And folks, rewards are coming. When we We hear of rewards and God giving us rewards and Jesus dispersing those rewards in the future kingdom. He's no Piker when it comes to giving rewards. We will be eternally blessed by those rewards and treasure. And that's why we must be so careful not to treasure the um the honor and And the respect of people in this world, or the treasure, and the money and the physical things of this world, over the things of Christ. We must be careful. You know, that takes faith to expect future reward, doesn't it? It takes faith to think that God The Father is there. He's in secret. But he's watching. I can't see him. But I believe. I believe that he's watching my every move. And that He knows that I'm devoted to him and he knows what I'm doing. See, when we seek the respect and honor of others in this life, that shows actually a lack of Faith. I don't know if God's catching all this or not, so I want to get all the honor and respect I can from other people in this life and enjoy that. And really, folks, doesn't it show a lack of faith? But when we really truly devote and give of ourselves to the God who is in secret that we can't see, we have to in faith realize one day He's going to reward us, and he is. I can promise you that. It is something you can be confident in. That the reward that you will receive one day, and even in this life, in some regards. Will far outweigh any earthly reward. Well, what was the purpose of this fasting, anyway, that Jesus is talking about? Well, really, it wasn't for outward show. It was for private communion and intense seeking of God. And therefore, I believe that fasting Is presented, folks, in the scriptures as an intensely personal activity, not a public one. I believe it is a healthy Helpful discipline, whether you're backing off from food or from other things that are important to you, other needs that you have, if you are giving that time over to the Lord, I believe That it is helpful because it reminds us of the importance of God above every aspect of life. If God is calling you to fast or you want to partake And fasting , , then it is basically saying, Lord, right now you are more important to me in my seeking your face than even my bodily needs. For food. And I'm going to take time to closely connect in prayer and seek your presence. We're going to sing a hymn in the At the end of this service today, nearer, still nearer. And it is a desire to be closer to God. And one way that we can seek Him in devotion is to put off all the other things that take some time to To pray, say, Lord, I want to be in close communion with you. That is how fasting ought to be represented. Another wrong way of thinking about fasting is this: that if we fast and we hold off on eating or other things. That it would be a magical surefire method way of getting God's attention. God obviously is not listening to my prayers. He's obviously He's not taking me out of the situation. He's not helping me. He's not giving me what I need. So maybe if I fast, kind of like a pouty child who refuses to eat. You know, and they get the attention of their parents. Maybe sometimes folks think fasting that's a good way to get God's attention. And that would be a Terrible application of what again is a very private, intense desire to seek close communion with God. It is a good thing. But folks, it's something that you have to make a decision on on your own. That is why you'll never hear this pastor From this pulpit, call us to any sort of public fast. Because I believe that it is a personal thing between you and God. And I don't need to know about it. Now, if you tell me about it in a humble way, you're not going to lose your reward. Don't misunderstand. And Pastor, will you pray for me? Because I'm really going to try this. It's going to be hard. Now there is a popular thing. Right now, it's called intermittent fasting. It's the rage, right? And I will admit, I'm not losing reward for this. I'll explain it in a minute, but I have um been doing some intermittent fasting myself and it's basically just staying away from food in the mornings and a certain amount of time so that your body can process the fat that's stored within and um Hopefully, maybe help you to be a little healthier. There's a lot to that. Some of you have read up on this and know more than even what I'm talking about. Now you may hear that and say, Pastor Brock, you lost your reward in Well no, I'm not bragging because I really haven't I'm trying to do it better. But the purpose of that is it's personal. There is a personal objective to that fact. And that is that it will help lose lose weight and help me not to eat, maybe as much as I'm prone to do. But it's all focused on A personal goal. Now, in the midst of that fasting, I when I pray and I devote time to God, there's an element to that, but it's mostly self-oriented. So that's why I tell you of that. And if you're if you are doing intermittent fasting and you want to go that route, that's fine. It's a modern thing that well, it's been around a long time. What am I saying? But people are into that, and that may be very helpful to you. That's not quite what Jesus is talking about here, though, right? It's a personal thing. Here's something. Here's a good way that might be a a way that God uses in your life to consider this. Let's say I get up from the pulpit and I say, so-and-so, we've uh found out has been died. Diagnosed with cancer. They only have a little bit of time left. We want to pray devotedly and diligently that God would heal this individual. And maybe some of you would say in your hearts, you know, I'm going to go the extra mile on this because I just really, really want to devote myself to prayer and this need. So I'm going to go, I'm going to fast, and I'm going to be even more serious and devoted at this time in my prayer. That would be a good example. Of how Jesus is describing how to do this. Because the focus is then not on the act, but it's on my devotion to God and my desire to commune with Him. You see the difference? You see See those that are fasting in the way the Jewish leaders, these hypocrites would do, some of the Jewish leaders, they were seeking the temporary glory of this life. But Jesus calls us to seek the eternal glory that He will give that really is only His, but then He will also reward us. And that's why then He goes into These well-known verses in 19-21: Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart Will be also. Jesus is pointing out in verse 19 that earthly treasures are temporary. Says, do not lay up, some translations Say do not store up. This has a picture of those that would have a box or a hole in the ground that would they would store their treasures to keep themselves. Safe. It'd be hidden away, but they really wouldn't be of any valuable use to anybody. They would dig a hole in the ground. And this really then would represent laying up treasures on the earth would be an action to stop doing or never start. Enjoying those things, but just putting them away. And Jesus is pointing out here where moth and rust destroy And where thieves break in and steal is that earthly things are temporary, and uh that you have the susceptibility that someone could take them away from you. This is interesting. He says moth or rust destroy. That Greek word for rust is interesting. Because if you'll remember in New Testament times, they didn't have a lot of metal objects. They didn't have hardly anything that could rust. That's a more modern translation, but you'll have some notes in your study Bibles of Also use a different word for that. It says where moth and worm destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. What's that all about? Well, have you You ever opened up your closet door and a couple moths flew out? And you thought, uh-oh, somewhere, at some time in the future. I'm going to put on a favorite shirt or favorite pair of pants or sweater and I'm going to find a hole in it. Because the moth doth corrupt. Well, the worm was a type of caterpillar that at the time would also um munch and snack on people's clothing. Now doesn't that make much more sense in context than the word rust? I really think that That's more appropriate for this, and it's basically the destruction of fine garments. We lose this in our modern um affluence. But folks in Bible Bible times having garments was very important to people. They didn't have a lot of garments because having a lot of garments meant that you were very wealthy. They had an outer robe that protected them from the cold and uh from the elements and would also be a blanket for them. They had an inner robe, and uh the these were very important because they were very few in number. And so if you had your garment spoiled, that was a real loss. And so people would many times go to extremes To protect their clothing from the moth and the worm. The wealthy would lock up clothes for fear of damage. I remember it seemed like And sooner or later every one of those sweaters in that period I put one sweater on, my favorite, and all of a sudden I notice, oh, there's a hole. I go to put another one on. A few days later, my wife would say, Oh, there's and I'd say, Don't Tell me. There's a hole in the back. Yeah, there's a hole. And I had all the almost all my favorite sweaters that ended up with holes in them. And it was Was frustrating. But it was a reminder that those things are temporal. Maybe they shouldn't have been so special to me as what they were. It also says thieves breaking in. Well, don't think of them trying to pick a lock or you know trying to get past your um your video security system or whatever. Remember in these times people People's homes were made of mud and bricks, so thieves, a very persistent thief, would literally dig through the dirt or underneath or through the house to And so the picture of some of a thief digging in and breaking through and stealing really the Greek means digging through was very difficult. Real. And Jesus is saying, you get worked up about all these things because they're the most important to you, but they shouldn't be. Followers of Jesus. Christ has other treasures that are so much more important than worldly goods and honor and respect And so he says, lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where none of those things that you're concerned about, none of those things can touch your heavenly treasures. And then he says that wonderful, well-known phrase, For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And what Jesus is saying is there, what you choose to love will be Will rule your life, folks. The heart is the whole being of the person. And so what's most important to you in your heart this morning? As we end this morning and we get ready for this baptism, Jeremy is coming up before us with a testimony that he has chosen what's most important to him, and that's his religion. Relationship with Jesus Christ. What's most important to you in your innermost being this morning? We'll have a few minutes for you to reflect. Reflect on that. Folks, if you, if anything is more important to you in your life than Jesus Christ, that tells us a lot about ourselves, does it not? It tells us what's really important. There's a VBS song that we sang many years ago, and it was basically it's very simply Jesus, you are the treasure, the treasure of my heart. See, all the other things aren't wrong. It's not wrong to have a few favorite sweaters. It's not Wrong to have wealth, it's not wrong to have these different things, it's not wrong when people give you honor, but when those things become an idol And they become our most important treasure, that is when we err. And that is when we stop reflecting the character of kingdom citizens. Because it becomes all about us and not all about our Savior, Jesus Christ. There was a beautiful beautiful word to a song that I wrote. Really enjoyed in the 80s. I'm not going to sing it for you this morning, but I am going to recite the words. It just still to this day the words are very meaningful, and I think you'll find them to be the case as well. So still Simple title, Choose You This Day. And the song said, Choose You This Day, he said, Whom you would serve. Lord, give me a heart to always choose. You open my eyes. Help me to understand. Make me a holy man. I want to know you, but I need to love you, Lord, more than my life But to die to myself isn't easy. How long, O Lord, will I bring you a heart that's not broken? Of all the pride, help me to choose you. And the chorus then went, Fill me with hunger so I will no longer desire all the Things I see. Now in your holiness, cleanse all my stubbornness and make me what you want me to be. Is that your hard attitude this morning? That's what Jesus is calling us to, folks. We must choose. What's going to be most important to us? I should mention one other thing as we finish up here. What are these treasures? Well, the treasure most importantly is Jesus, but there are treasures, spiritual treasures that we can enjoy in this life, and Jesus has already mentioned them to us in this Sermon on the Mount. How about meekness? How about righteousness? How about purity? The ability to be a peacemaker, to be honest , sacrificial love, meeting The needs of the weak, prayer, and yes, even fasting. All of these are spiritual treasures that we can Can enjoy in this life. And they're far more meaningful and productive than the Things we normally set our hearts on. You see, God expects our faithful service to match up with faithful devotion to Him. And ministry service that's done for our own glory, folks, it's ugly And really it's almost blasphemous because we're glory thieves taking the glory that belongs to God and trying to put it on ourselves. Devoted service for God should flow from a heart of love for Him. Not for a love for ourselves. Let's serve Our Lord Jesus with love and sincerity. Serve the one who is perfect and just, who created you and loves you and always wants what's best for you. Don't Don't be devoted to those temporary things of the world, but remember and have faith that God sees the good that you're doing and He sees the spiritual fruit in your life. And one day your spiritual treasure will be remarkable and beyond your comprehension. Folks, it's worth the wait to Choose the eternal over the temporary and choose Jesus, a faith relationship with Him. Even as Jeremy is giving testimony this morning, you can come to a knowledge of faith in Christ today by coming and talking to me and others And you can have and hope for eternity and your sins forgiven by putting your faith and trust in Christ. He is truly the greatest treasure, folks. Do you treasure him that way? This morning. Father, as we get ready for this baptismal this morning, and we see a significant test Testimony of one who is saying, I treasure Jesus above all others. Let each of us today examine our hearts. Where is our treasure? Are we seeking it in the honor and the glory and the wealth and the material possessions of this world? Or are we waiting for a better country and a better Treasure and a better reward? Are we content with seeing spiritual fruit grow in our hearts and our lives? And know that we are becoming like Jesus Christ. Are we content with a faith relationship with Jesus, even if we have to give up all else to have it? Father, my prayer today is that Jesus truly is the treasure for all of those within the sound of my voice this morning. Folks, you take Some time to ponder what your tra your most important treasure is in your life right now. And maybe you need to repent and seek Jesus again. Again. You take some time to do that while Leslie plays