I love that song and I needed those words in that message uh this morning. And I'm sure that you did too. The Lord knew that. And his grace is there for everything that we face. Whatever you're facing, whatever we're facing, and the changes that are coming. Christ is there shepherding us and providing his grace for us. And so now We get to turn to Revelation chapter 22, the last chapter of the book and the last chapter of God's Word. You know, there's even grace in the prayer today. The Lord just planned it that I maybe get all my crying out during the prayer where everybody's eyes are closed anyway. Or your eyes were supposed to be closed. But uh folks I can't think of a better, more encouraging chapter uh to leave you with. than this one. The reminder that Jesus is coming again. The Alpha and Omega, the faithful and true. And so many other, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. He's coming. And we need to be ready for that. And we can be. We're going to see here. We we last uh Wednesday we went through more of the picture of the New Jerusalem and discussed that, and maybe you weren't able to be with us. We saved A little bit of the description of heaven here in chapter 22, we'll go through that, and then John has some final words for us from Christ himself and from the angels. uh that we need to be ready for. I've been titled this message this morning simply, Come, Lord Jesus. And let's just start reading from verse 12 of 22. Behold. I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me to repay everyone for what he has done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life, and they may enter the city by the gates. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for this book, The Revelation of , we many times say John, but this is the revelation of Jesus Christ. And we're so grateful to have studied and to plumb many of the depths of these truths. You you've promised us that we'd be blessed if we did this, and so we've done it. And uh Lord, there's some things that we struggle understanding, but we know this. We know that The coming of Christ is coming, is is going to happen soon. It's eminent. In your time it will happen, and he will return. And judgment will come, but believers will be raptured away. And we will enjoy unity and communion with you forever. So, Father, as we finish this chapter, And are reminded just a few more flashes of the beauty of heaven and the sobering reminder for Jesus to be ready. Help us to make sure that we are truly in a faith relationship, trusting Christ. And that we are one of your own. And looking forward then to the return and to eternity with him. So encourage us today, Father, as we continue to read, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So As we start chapter 22, we've seen the beauties of the new Jerusalem, and we've talked about that, and really the creation of the new heavens and the new earth. And the light that will be the Father and the Son that will light the whole world. And the glory of that um situation and the reminder that only those that are God's children through faith in Christ will experience that one day. We've seen all that, but we have still more of the picture here. Verse 1 Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb. No that the throne is now described as of God and of the Lamb. Why is that? Because he'll continually sit on the right hand in the eternal kingdom. They will both be there, and isn't it fitting that Jesus, who is the water of life, that the stream, and I do believe it's a real stream, will come forth from him and will provide sustenance will provide everlasting sustenance so that we never have to experience spiritual thirst again. It'll be there for the taking. And it continues. It flows right through the middle of the street of the city. This will be noticeable. This will project that Because our eternal life that we're experiencing is because of what Christ has done It's a gift from God. And this river will be that picture throughout all eternity. Also, on either side of the river. Not just the water of life, but now we have the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. Now we've heard of that tree of life before. Isn't it fitting? In the last chapter of this book, we go back to something that we heard about in the first book, in Genesis. And the tree of life that provides eternal life, and yet man in his rejection and rebellion against God was thrown out of that garden, and we lost that access to the tree of life. But again, because of what Jesus Christ has done We will access it. We will access it for all eternity. And this picture here with twelve kinds of fruit, it will replenish. This probably is the idea of an orchard even. more than one tree as a representative that we have eternal life that can never be taken away from it. And maybe it also is indicating that we will be able to eat in heaven. I certainly hope so And I'm sure whatever fruit this is, it will be marvelous. And we there will be no restrictions on this fruit. Twelve different kinds of fruit in this beautiful orchard surrounding The water of life yielding its fruit each month. There won't be any seasons. It will be constantly replenishing. We won't have to worry. We won't have a harvest time. Every day will be harvest time And that will be glorious. And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. Isn't that interesting? Well, are there pe will there be need for healing Well, I don't think so. Uh in the eternal state there'll be no need there'll be no more hurt. There'll be no more illness. Well why would we need healing then? I honestly folks it yet there are aspects of this that as I study it is We still kind of are are in a mystery. I don't know that I could fully tell you why this is here, but I'll put it out this way for my thinking. It's to remind us That this tree, if somebody needed it, which they don't, but if they needed it, God would be everything that they need, and the healing would be there as well. If they, let's put it this way, if they needed health care, which they wouldn't, it would be abundantly available at all times. Now wouldn't that be a nice thing? health care that's immediately available if you needed it, but you don't. There's nothing today that can provide that. And there we have this picture that there's no more illness, no more sickness, because God provides. S fizz not just spiritual, but physical health as well. And maybe spiritual health is also in uh the picture here with the leaves of this tree. No longer will there be anything accursed. Everything will be open for our access and for our enjoyment, because it will all be pure and free of sin and brokenness. But the throne of God, here we have that description again, and the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. You see, we're going to be serving, we're going to have responsibilities, folks, throughout all eternity. And one of the most important ones will be worshiping him. Remember, these angels throughout this book have had multiple responsibilities One that's going to talk to John here in just a minute has had multiple responsibilities, but all of them, their most important responsibility, is worshiping God before his throne. And that will be our greatest responsibility as well. And it will be a glorious thing. And here, verse 4, they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, as the owner. We will have, I don't know what that will look like, but we will be marked that we are the Lord's. And we'll be with him. And I really think, even as mysterious as the whole concept is about the bride of Christ, I think the main aspect of it is that we will see him and be communion with him directly and immediately for all eternity. And that's another wonderful thing to meditate on. And night will be no more. And they will need n they will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. Does that mean we'll never get to see a moon or stars? Oh, I don't know. There's beauty in that, right But I think certainly there will be no more dread. And I think night is also a picture of the darkness that we are in through sin. Doesn't it feel like so much of the time right now in our world today it's just dark? It's morally bankrupt and dark out there And what a wonder to be reminded that there will come a time where we will no more dread. We will have no more fear of crime or sin. or brokenness, it will all be gone. The night will be over, and morning will dawn forever. What beautiful, wonderful truths these are, folks. And really, isn't that kind of the best way to end the description of heaven? Doesn't give us everything. I know there's lots of things we'd all like to know There's been some books written on things, uh on aspects and questions about heaven, and some people have given some really creative and I think helpful answers, but we just don't know for sure. But to end the description knowing that God and the Lamb will be at the center and their light will go forth. And we will worship them and never be in dread of sin or darkness or death again. Isn't that the best way to end the description of heaven? That's something to look forward to, and we all that have a relationship with Jesus Christ will benefit from heaven. So whatever it is, don't be nervous. Don't be afraid. It's going to be wonderful, folks. And the communion with God will be eternal. It will be glorious. And it's so glorious that then seems um the uh Either the angel or Jesus himself says to John, these words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place. Yes, this seems to be Jesus Christ Himself. They're saying this. And he, because this is so glorious, John may almost be thinking, is it too good to be true? After all this, here I am exiled on this island and all I'm going through. Will this really happen? And Jesus says, count on it, and you tell everyone that is reading this book, this will happen. My words are trustworthy. I'm true. You can count on what I'm saying. It will happen And the God, the spirit of the prophets, sent his angel again to show his servants. This message has come from God Himself, folks. So don't doubt. Full confidence, full faith, this is our inheritance. And Jesus says himself, behold, I am coming soon. And I know this was almost 2,000 years ago, and to us that doesn't seem very soon. That seems like a long time. But again, that thousands of years, the whole time that the earth has been created and been in existence to God is just like a snap of the fingers, right? It's a twinkling of an eye. And so Jesus says, you act as if I could come back this very minute, this very hour, this very day. It will be soon, and you need to be ready. And so a blessing is pronounced on the one who Hears the words and keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. We had a blessing at the beginning of the book for those that hear, and hearing meant not just listening, but comprehending and understanding. And now there's a blessing for those who act on what they've heard, who keep it, who believe it, and go forth and serve Him. I know the Lord is leading our family elsewhere, folks, but we still have the same mandate. We still have the same commission And that is to act on the words that we've heard from the book of Revelation here, that Jesus is coming soon. So tell people about it. Let them know And then John finishes, he has this final signature on the book. He just wants to remind everybody that he's the author. I am the one who heard and saw these things. And, you know, as as wonderful a ministry as John had, and he gets to write scripture, right? The Gospel of John, the letters. Revelation, I've had the privilege of taking you through all of John's writings in this ministry. I think that's neat. As wonderful experiences as John had. He's still flawed. He still has his struggles. And so he even writes those down. This had to be humbling for him because I think this is the second time. That he had to be reprimanded. But he said, When I heard and saw them, and he saw this revelation, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me. Now I I'm one that wants to give John the benefit of the doubt here. I just think he's overwhelmed. I think he's confused and he has all these voices coming, right? The angels talking. And then Jesus and even the voice of God the Father from the throne. And John has just heard the words of Jesus so maybe he's confused and he has taken opportunity to bow and worship Jesus already. Maybe he thinks with this angel That he's doing that, but the angel again quickly reminds him, you must not do that. Your worship must be focused on God. Folks, our sight must be focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. There are so many other things that can distract us. And so many of the things that we're tempted to worship. And this verse is counters. It helps us, um, it helps us, oh, what's what's the word? Get accurate our scope, like the scope of a gun or something like that. That we get accurate we have to get our focus back on God, on the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and off of all these other things. And so the angel reminds him of that. Don't do that. I'm about a fellow servant with you and your brothers, the prophets. John has wonderful company with the other writers of Scripture and with the other servants of God. And even this beautiful angel reminds him, I'm just a fellow slave, really, like you You, your brothers, the prophets, and those who keep the words of this book. We're in that company, folks. We get to be considered and put in the same company as The angels and John and the writers of Scripture, yeah. All those who are committed and faithful to Jesus Christ, we're all in this group. Of those faithful servants. And he says, all of those folks must worship one person. And it's not me, it's God. Worship God. And as our time of ministry ends up here, folks, that's what I would remind you. Wherever we end up and wherever God takes us in the next few years, worship God. Do all for his glory. Honor him. Well he continues, the angel, and he said to me, Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. And this is if you remember in Daniel, when Daniel had his visions, he was told to seal up those for a time But now at the end, things have been more fully revealed. The mystery of the end times has been revealed, and the angel says, we're not going to seal these up. This is going in God's word, and it will be available for all to read. and they must read. So these will not be sealed up. The time is near. The time is approaching. And it is imperative that people be able to read and to know what's going to happen. And John, through your words that you have written down, God is going to use them to warn and to tell many people about the coming of Christ. And yet, he wants him to be realistic about what that ministry is going to be like. Now that the scriptures are finished and they're be they're they're John is writing these last words and the canon is about to be closed. This is the final book. The angel reminds us that even with access to all of God's word, what that means is at this point as John distributes this. That all of God's word is now, although it needs to be put together still in the form in some sense that we have today, that all of God's word has been written And people have access to all of God's word. And yet even with that precious, precious privilege, there will still be those, like he says here, the evildoer will still do evil. The filthy will still be filthy. But the righteous will do right, and the holy still be holy. With the completion of God's word, each of us has a responsibility, folks, to believe it. To trust in Jesus and to turn from our sin. Can you imagine even today with all the access that we have to God's Word? Even so much more than in John's time and in the early church and in the early church history. We can bring it up right on a device on our phone. Bring it up on our computers. We have access to it at any time. We don't have to unfold a scroll. Folks, that is an amazing responsibility. John and the angel reminds us today that we must turn to Jesus for righteousness and not be comfortable in our evil any longer, but there will be those who have all this privilege and still reject God and still stay in their filthy clothes. And they'll spend eternity in that horrible place called the lake of fire. Terrible, terrible thought. But we are to take warning from that, this message. Jesus himself speaks next. A lot of voices going on here for John. Verse 12. Behold, I am coming soon. Again, a reminder. The second time in this passage, he will be here, be ready as if he could come at any time, bringing my recompense with me. To repay everyone for what he has done. For those that continue in evil, I am coming. Be ready, and you will receive the wages of sin. But for those that are committed, that have the righteousness of Christ, that can be called, we just we sang the ensemble this morning, Lord Most Holy. Folks, we can be the holy ones because of what Christ did. And Jesus will bring and give us everlasting inheritance, and we will be repaid for our trust in Him. Another description, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. I am before time, and I'll be throughout all eternity. I'm eternal. I am before the creation And I'll be there at the end and beyond. I am the most prominent. He's preeminent. He's above all. All of these have these concepts in mind He was the one that was the creator. He is the one that will end through judgments this creation and bring in the new creation. He is giving his credentials here that we must listen to him. Woe to the person who rejects the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. Submit to him. Obey his words. Listen to what he has for us here. He deserves it. He's worthy of our submission. And so blessed are those who wash their robes. has the idea of doing his commandments regularly, making sure that we're walking in purity. We can do that Through the purity that Jesus Christ has given us through um through uh his atoning sacrifice and our acceptance of that sacrifice We can then, of course it was Jesus through his blood that cleanses us from our sin. We understand that. Folks, at the same time, We need to keep short accounts of sin and make sure that we're walking in a right way. Walking in a pure way. And so we can literally say they're washing their robes. They are. walking in the commandments, the ways of God, faithfully serving Him, and those, those true followers of God , Who have trusted in Christ, they will have the authority to eat of the tree of life. And they'll have full access. To the city and to God's kingdom by the gates. You know, everything more and more as technology increases, um, there's uh When you buy certain things, whether it's it's software or access to something online or or a computer or even now I understand some cars. that uh and I I heard this the other day and I I'm not so sure I'm real excited about this but they're talking about buying uh you can buy cars very soon where you can only access certain features of that car Unless you're willing to pay more money. The more money you're willing to pay, the more access you will have to the features. Now I would expect that you would still have access to the brakes and the gas pedal if you've bought that. I hope you don't pay extra for that But really? You buy you spend all that money on a car and then you still don't get access to all of it. You have to pay more for more features and and whatever. Well when we get to heaven We get to access it all. There's nothing held back. There's no further payment. There's no extra options. We get it all. For all eternity. Now outside, those that won't access the kingdom, again another reminder, these are sober warnings. Outside are the dogs. That's not a very nice name for someone. Well, especially in Bible times, this was a very um a name with very evil connotations that you were the lowest of the lowest as dogs were scavengers, dogs and sorcerers. And look, and this is now a list of those who have chosen their sinful ways over Christ. The sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood Now these aren't people who sin once in a while and mess up. These are people who have actively rejected Christ and said, I want my sinful lifestyle. I want my immorality. I want my hate and bitterness. I want my freedom to worship whatever I want. And so on and so on. He says those folks will have no access, not even limited access, they won't have any access. There'll be an eternal punishment forever Jesus speaks again, verse 16. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. There's no excuses. You have the full testimony. I've sent my angel to John. John has written these things. And whether he's um Maybe he's even referring to the angels that lead the churches as far as saying John and the other leaders have testified to you of these things. There's no excuse. You have the information. You have to make a choice. And then he says something here that ties right into our recent study with David. Ties it in. This is not all uh tied up in the heavenlies, but there is a direct tie to earthly physical things here. I am the root and the descendant of David. I am the legitimate heir to the throne So don't argue. And I'm the bright and morning star. Well, of course he would be if his light shines throughout the whole of creation and the new heavens and the new earth. Of course he would be the bright of morning star. What a beautiful description of Jesus as the He was the light of the world, right? John begins with that in the Gospel of John. And now in his last writing he gets to remind folks again, he's the light of the universe. He's the light of the new creation. We like to look at pl planets and constellations and stars and all these things and these telescopes that they have now just have these amazing deep space pictures of galaxies and it's just like God threw paint in the universe and painted all these things. Well actually he did really And we marvel at those things, but none of those celestial sights will compare with the bright and morning star that we'll have communion with directly for all eternity. Well, we have some testimony to confirm in witnesses. Here are the witnesses that say you need to listen and trust in what we've heard. The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, and the bride say, Come. The bride, God's followers. That includes us. And after we've studied this book, what should you do? You should say, come to a world that needs to hear. Come enjoy. Come taste of the waters of life. Come experience the light of the world. Come. Join, experience these things, prepare yourself, and let the one who hears, all of those that hear this message, come, witness, testify these things. And let the one who is thirsty come, let the one who desires takes the water, take the water of life without price. Folks, God is still giving grace to all of us, to this world, anyone in this world. This invitation is an open invitation to all of those that hear and read this. We don't have to. Here's the um the most ironic part about eternal punishment is here's a clear invitation for people to come and quench their thirst with the water of life for all eternity. They don't have to go to hell. They don't have to spend eternity in the lake of fire. They can come, they can taste of the waters and experience the presence of God for all eternity. Here is the invitation. And that really describes, that sums up our responsibility. Invite people to come. Taste of the waters of life, a relationship with Jesus Christ. Some more warnings here. Verse 18: I warn everyone who hears the words of this prophecy of this book. If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book. And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book. Now those are strong, strong warnings indeed. And although I think that surely in in in the spirit of this I think we can read this and realize that accurate translations of God's Word are very important. to help us to understand the the message of this book. Certainly that is the case, but I really think in context here What this is talking about is those that teach God's word, those that proclaim proclaim God's word, must make sure that we're not adding to uh the information, to God's word, to the information of who God is, to theology, to doctrine. Don't add. Just teach. That's my responsibility. In one sense, the pastor's responsibility is simple. I don't have to make up anything I just proclaim what God's given us here in His Word. Don't add to it. Also, make sure that you're reading all of it. Now, Pastor, I can't even in a lifetime say everything about God's word that I want to. There's some books I may never get to teach. That doesn't mean that God holds me accountable in any way, but he does. It is a general admonition to us to make sure we're reading all of it, to not be content with just reading part of God's word. I remember as a young man, I got to almost my thirties in the seminary and realized there was a portion of the Old Testament, the major, some of the major and many of the minor prophets, I don't think I'd even read through one time. And as I read and studied those books, it was wonderful. It was marvelous. Here is God's word that I'm learning from that I just had never comprehended before. We need to know all of it, folks. Now that it's coming to an end and the final chapter has been written Um prize it, um treasure it and Make sure that you're in God's word studying it on a regular basis. Don't neglect any part of his word. He who testifies to these things says, surely I am coming soon. That's the third time. That Jesus reminds us that he's coming soon. And what is our response? Amen. So be it. Lord Jesus, come, come, Lord Jesus. And John expects us after reading this book to have a desire to see Jesus Christ. Oh, come, Lord Jesus, come today. And then he says, What until that time, verse 21, the grace of God, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all, or be with all the saints. Folks, we want them to come. It's hard. There are hard things that we have to deal with. There are disappointing things that we have to deal with in this life. There are there are there's pain and there's separation. There are difficulties and illness and death and all of these things that we have to. This road is a hard road that we travel. And so John says, remember. The grace of the Lord Jesus is with all of his saints, all of his followers. You can keep going until he returns. He's coming. Be ready, and yes, you can be ready and be faithful to him because he will give you the grace as we just heard sung just a few short minutes ago. Jesus will give us the grace to continue until he returns. Surely I am coming soon. Let those words resonate. Be faithful. And then we end the book. We all say together. Amen. Lord, thank you. Thank you for the privilege of being able to end on this wonderful note. It's hard. It's hard being separated. It's hard moving in a different direction from people that you love and that you care about. And yet we know that you will give us the grace to move forward. You will give us the grace to minister. And that you have given us the hope that Jesus will come again and come again soon. And that will give us the motivation to continue to serve Him with our whole heart faithfully. Wherever you call us to go. Help us to do that in Maryland, Lord. Help Village Chapel to serve you faithfully here. And whatever you have for us, let us rely on the grace of Christ. And we know that we will be successful in depending upon Him. So strengthen us and enable us for the mission that you've called us to. And we ask for this help in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.