Oh this is rather a strange feeling this morning. And uh having not been here the last couple months and uh We do miss you folks very much, and yet we are very thankful that the Lord has sustained us by his grace. and continues to do so day by day. I'll just say that much, but I do appreciate your prayers for help and uh and opportunity of ministry. We actually uh spoke the last couple of weeks at Northside Baptist Church Not North Hills, but Northside Baptist Church in Greenville. I don't know if any of you are familiar with that ministry, but their pastor resigned the end of July. I told them I could help for a couple of weeks and we were able to do that before making our trip up here. All right, would you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Thessalonians chapter 1? 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. I'm going to read two verses and have prayer with you. And the title of the message this morning is Counted Worthy of the Kingdom of God. Counted worthy of the kingdom of God. And a subproduct for that would be getting ready for his coming. Getting ready for his coming. And we read first of all in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, and we read in verse 5 these words, which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God. that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffereth. And then also, if you'll notice verse 11 , Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of his calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power. Counted worthy of the kingdom of God, getting ready for his coming, shall we pray? Our Father in heaven, we ask you to bless this time that we're in your word, to keep our minds from distraction to guide my thoughts by your Spirit and to be able to have us enter into a profitable time of being ministered to by your Spirit. Lord, you know the need we have to be ministered to, and we thank you. Your word does that to your service. In Jesus' name, amen. In October 22nd, 1844, something very unusual happened There were actually tens of thousands. Now the number back then couldn't be nailed down specifically, but they said it was anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 people. in the state of Massachusetts, actually gathered together for the end of the world and the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were following a Baptist minister by the name of William Miller. And William Miller had convinced the people through the scriptures that October 22nd 1844 was the day that Jesus would return and take them to be with him. In fact, they believed it to the extent where people actually sold their shops and sold their crops People actually sold their farms and they actually sold even their furniture. One man actually sold his livestock, but he was concerned after his disappearance that they wouldn't be cared for properly. And these people took this very, very seriously. In fact, they also put together what were called ascension ropes. They took white material that flowed from head down to the feet and they made ascension robes to wear on October 22nd, 1844. And not only that, but they actually climbed mountains and even climbed trees to be closer and to be able to go up quicker. Can you imagine that? That was in 1844. And that's how they thought they needed to prepare for the coming of the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Well obviously that did not happen. In more recent days, I think you'll remember, for example, a man by the name of Harold Camping. Harold Camping was a radio man, had the family program, the family radio program And he actually predicted that September sixth, nineteen ninety-four would be the day that Jesus came. And when Jesus didn't come that day, then he moved it to September twenty-nint. When he didn't come that day, then he moved it to October 2nd, 2005, and then he eventually moved it all the way up to May 21, 2011. In the process after that he had a stroke and since then he has passed away, but obviously those dates didn't come to pass. Now the question mark would be, then how do we prepare for the coming of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ? It's not by pegging the date, for even in Matthew chapter 24, verse 36 it says this, but of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my father only. In fact, as we're here in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, you can turn back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and remember what we learned there when we went through that series with you a few months ago. But the things, but of the times and seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you, for yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord shall comeeth as a what? The passage goes on from there. So when you're talking about preparing for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, what do you do? Do you do like the Millerites and get yourself all prepared in that fashion only to be disappointed? Or do you follow the example of the Apostle Paul as he outlines here in 2 Thessalonians? I went through 1 Thessalonians with you in all five chapters, and I thought that this opportunity this morning would give me opportunity to go through 2 Thessalonians, all three chapters, at least to highlight them for you so we can understand how they fit together. Now, when you go in the 2 Thessalonians, you have to remember what they're thinking at the time of Paul's writing. And what they're thinking at the time of Paul's writing is in air. It was wrong Look if you would in chapter 1, or excuse me, look if you would in chapter 2 and read verses 1 and 2 with me. Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto Him That is the rapture, the gathering of the church, that ye be not soon shaken in mind or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, and by letter as from us. as the day of the Lord is at hand. Apparently after the Apostle Paul wrote 1 Thessalonians and sent it to that young church to encourage them in their walk and way in the Lord Another letter was sent and somehow it was given the forgery to show it was from the Apostle Paul and the other servants of the Lord. And that letter was being sent and it basically implies this Apparently from what we can see it was saying, you are now in the tribulation period. Look at how you're suffering. Look at how those who are dying If you were with us in that series of 1 Thessalonians, you'll remember back in Acts chapter 17 that the Apostle Paul was only able to be in Thessalonia got three Sabbath days. And things were so hateful and the persecution was so intense that he had to leave the city. But the believers stayed in that city and operated under that tension. In fact, the tension that we believe was even implied in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, where they were sorrowing for those who. had died wondering what happened to them now that they weren't alive for the rapture of the Lord Jesus. And that's where that beautiful passage unfolds saying both the dead and live in Christ will be raised when he comes. So this epistle came in and troubled these people, and they thought, wait a minute, we are in the day of the Lord, we are in the day of Christ, we are in the midst of the tribulation, and the Apostle Paul is writing with them and saying, oh no, we're not. We're not But in the day that we are in, we still have a responsibility to prepare for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. He does three things in this epistle. Number one, in chapter one, the church is comforted. Number two, in chapter two, the church is cautioned. And number three, in chapter three, the church is commanded. We can highlight that briefly by looking at the comfort the church is given in chapter 1 when you take a look at 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 7. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 7, which says, And to you who are troubled, rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. When you take a look at the church being cautioned, you can look at chapter 2 and verse 2, which says this, as we read a moment ago And that ye not soon be shaken in mind or be what? Troubled, neither by a spirit nor by word, nor by letter, as from us, as at the day of price is at hand. Let no man, verse three, deceive you by any means And then we take a look at chapter 3, the church being commanded, and that is actually found in four different verses. The first one is introduced in verse 4. And we have confidence, 2 Thessalonians 3, 4, in the Lord touching you, that ye both do and will do the things which we command you. You do them and will do them as we commanded you. Also, you'll see the word command in verse 6, you'll see the word command in verse 10, and you'll see the word command in verse twelve, we'll look at those just a little bit later So, when these Thessalonian believers were awaiting the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ They had some of them the wrong idea that he was coming at any moment and therefore they didn't need to work, they didn't need to own homes, they didn't need to plant crops, they didn't need to raise livestock, because any moment he was going to come. You can understand how they got that impression because every one of the five chapters in 1 Thessalonians ends with a promise of his coming. You may remember that. Every five of the chapters in Thessalonians, they were a what? They were a hurting church, and yet they were what? A happy church, and yet they were what? A hopeful church because Jesus Christ was going to return. And this letter that came after 1 Thessalonians, according to verse 2, chapter 2, it seems like it just kind of promoted that. That, okay, let's just stop everything and let's just get ourselves ready for his coming. But the Apostle Paul says, sorry men, sorry ladies, this isn't happening yet, and we have to repair in a proper way for his coming. Now let me stop here just for a moment and say this. How many of you have talked to someone who has said, oh, we're in the tribulation period? He's coming in moment Or how many of you have thought at times that we are in the tribulation period and wonder if maybe the eschatology we teach is not accurate? How many of you think that we're already in the day of Christ or the day of the Lord because of the judgments we're hearing about today? We talked about this in some people last The fires, the hail, the earthquakes, the tornadoes, and on and on the list goes today. And you might think, wait a minute, maybe we've missed something, maybe we are in that day of the Lord. Well that's not true. That's not true. And we're going to see that as we go back over this for a moment, and we take a look at three things with each one of these three points. You ready? Number one, the church comforted. The word comforted means this, the easing of a person's feelings of grief and distress. The word comfort means the easing of a person's feelings of ease or distress. And we got two things to look at here. Number one, why did they need to be comforted? And number two, how were they comforted in Thessalonica? Well, first you can see the reason why they need to be comforted summarized in verse 4. Notice two words with me. And that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience. and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure. You see those two words there? Persecutions, that's the word that means to put the flight or to drive away. And the idea of tribulations is the idea of being pressed or pressured in regarding something as a burden to your spirit. And certainly the people of Thessalonica were suffering persecution, as we've seen, and were suffering tribulation, as it's seen, and they were enduring them. Now you know what happens when you endure something? It begins to wear away on you. You can endure it for a while, but after it goes over a long period, your strength just kind of begins to wane and you kind of start getting into it And he's writing to the Thessalonians and he's comforting them because they had the need to be comforted because of the persecutions and tribulations that were not letting up, but that they were needing to endure. Thankfully, in verse 4, he says they were doing it what? Patiently. They didn't start at the point yet where they're complaining to God. They didn't start at the point yet where they're denying God. They are patiently enduring these things, but in the process, they're getting twisted thinking, well, we must be in the tribulation. But as I mentioned, there were two points under the church comforted. The first point is, why did they need to be comforted? Because of the persecutions and tribulations. But number two, how were they comforted? How do you comfort people going through such a difficult time? And if you're the Apostle Paul, how do you comfort people that are still at a place where you have belief? He was there, Acts 17, three Sabbath days had to leave. They were still there. How do you comfort them? Well, there are three things I think we can see just looking as they skip a stone over the chapter. And the first thing we can see is this. In verses 1 through 4, he is basically saying, we are proud of you. We are proud of you. You are holding fast, you are enduring. The word enduring means to hold up. You're holding up under these persecutions. You're holding up under these tribulations, and we are proud of you for doing so. Look at verse 3. We are bound, I'm in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 3, we are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is me Because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity or love of every one of you toward all aboundeth. Isn't that wonderful? He was proud of them Don't you feel that way when you see someone going through a hard time and they make it through? For a number of years, I didn't want to use that word proud. I felt that and somehow when you use the word proud, you're discrediting the Lord. You know what I've learned? I'm old enough now I can do this. You know what I've learned? I love contacting young pastors and I love talking to them and saying, I'm proud of you. I'm proud of what you're doing. I'm pleased with what you're doing. I just talked recently to the pastor down at Florida, Victory Baptist Church, and that church is pretty challenged because they have a Christian school. And that kind of moves them into a whole different realm. And I was talking to Pastor Aladdin and I said, Pastor Ladd, I've got to tell you, I'm proud of you. I'm proud of what you've done with that church over these last few years And I'm proud of what you're doing this year, and I want you to know I'm praying for you. Doesn't that just lift your spirit? That's exactly what the Apostle Paul was doing here to the Thessalonian believers. But the second thing he does in the way of comfort then is this. We face the same trials as you. When you take a look, for example, at verses 5 through 7 Paul says, which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye may become unworthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer Seen, verse 6, it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulations to them that trouble you. Now listen, and to you, verse 7, who are troubled, rest with us. You're going through it, we're going through it too. You're making it through, and we're making it through. Rest with us For when the Lord shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, not only is he proud of the people of Thessalonica and comforts them, but he also comforts them with the fact you're not alone in this. We're going through it also. And as you're enduring, we're enduring too. And then thirdly, when you take a look at verses 8, 9, and 10, and following the rest of the chapter, you can read that later. It's rather interesting because he is saying to them, you know what? Our suffering now is temporary, but those who do not believe in God, their suffering is going to be eternal. I can summarize that for you with the verse. Look at verse 8. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on them. Here's the description. that know not God, and number two, that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me stop there for a moment and say this and see if you agree, but don't say anything verbally, okay? You can people can know God but not know the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. They can know about God, they can know what the scripture teaches about God. But there's a second step, and that is when they actually obey the gospel and confess their sin and receive the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. I would hope there would be nobody like that in our auditorium this morning. I hope there is nobody here who would say, oh, I know God, but you've never obeyed the gospel of Jesus Christ and received him as your personal Savior. Now the odds are someone could be like that. It could be a young person, it could be an older person, it could be a visitor, it could be an old-timer here. Think about that for a moment. You know God, but have you obeyed and received the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? If not, you can do that even today. But you'll notice here that those who know not God, verse 8, and who obey not the gospel of God, look what their future is who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord. They're not destroyed when they don't exist anymore. But they're destroyed in the fact that they're no longer in the presence of God and from the glory of his power. And you could read the rest of that later. So when you take a look at the Apostle Paul, and as he has written to the church in 1 Thessalonians and said, Jesus is returning, five times over, he's coming. And someone slips this letter in with his signature on it saying, oh, it's already here, you're in the tribulation now. Now he's comforting them and saying, no, that's not true. The tribulations and the persecutions you're facing now are the same things that we are facing, and we're proud of you for facing it, and we recognize this is only temporary for us But it's going to be permanent for those who know not nor have obeyed the gospel of Jesus Christ. So he comforts the church in that way. As those in the church await Christ's coming, the days become more and more difficult. A fatigue sets in, and patience is needed, and patience is harder and harder to exercise. And it's a it's harder to endure and hold up under what you're facing. And yet God clearly says to the Apostle Paul in his first chapter, there's great reward for those who will be comforted with the truth. that Jesus is coming again and will release us from all persecution and tribulation and take us into everlasting joy. But remember, I said there were three things, there's three chapters. Not only do we see the church comforted by the Apostle Paul, but secondly in chapter 2, we see the church caution. Now, what is the idea of the word caution? Well caution has the idea of a warning, advice against, to say something as a warning And the Apostle Paul feels led to warn them in chapter 2 in regard to this subject of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. We'll follow the same two points here. Why did these need to be cautioned? Why did they need to be cautioned? Well, it tells us in chapter 2 and verse 3, they were being what? They were being deceived. They were being deceived by a letter telling them that already the tribulation had begun and they were going to have to wear through that. In your Bibles, you'll see the expression in verse 2 that the day of the Lord is at hand. Also, I'm sorry, that the day of Christ is at hand. That is also the idea of the day of the Lord is at hand. It's also the idea when you look in Scripture that the tribulation is here and these different things. It's all talking about the same time. And basically what they've been told is, we're in the tribulation. And the Apostle Paul is saying, no, you've been deceived. We're going to be delivered from the tribulation. to the rapture, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. You say, well, how does he caution them? Well, I can give you two points here. Are you ready? You'll have to read through them later, maybe read a commentary about them later, but let's highlight them this morning. The first point is this In verses 1 to 12, he clearly says to them, we are not living in that day. We are not living in that day. What day? The day of the Lord or the day of Christ? or that tribulation period. We're not living in that day. How do we know? Well he outlines it here starting in verse Psalm. Let's see if we can highlight a little bit of this at least. Let's start in verse some Let's look at verse 2. I'm going to watch my time here. In verse 2, that ye be not soon shaken in mind. He talks about that. We read that earlier. Take a look at verse 3, for example. He tells them, let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there be a falling away first. and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition. So in essence he is saying to them, we have not seen that falling away yet, and we have not seen the man of sin be revealed yet. Look if you a little bit further. When you take a look at verses 6-12, and now ye know what with excuse me, now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time For the mystery of iniquity doth already work, only he who now led it will be left until he be taken out of the way. And then shall the wicked be revealed. Now what does that mean? Well the Holy Spirit is a restraining power. If you were to look at John, for example, in chapter 14, John chapter 16, the Holy Spirit is a restraining power in the day that we're living in today. However, when the tribulation comes and the rapture takes place, he will no longer restrain, and evil will have a free reign. And you think we're in the tribulation now, wait till you see what's going to happen then, which we looked at a little bit this morning in the book of Revelation and the trumpet judgments. So he's saying the Holy Spirit is still here restraining. He is saying that the man of sin has not been revealed yet. He is saying, for example, a little bit further on, uh that there's no strong delusion yet. People are still getting saved without the strong delusion. He is saying, don't you understand This day of the Lord is not happening yet. It will. And when it does, it's going to be far worse than what we're facing now. Boy, I went through that really quick, didn't I? But I wouldn't do that quick because I want you to catch the overall point here. Can you do that? And the overall point is this. How would they caution? They were cautioned to say, we are not living in that day. We are not living in the tribulation yet. Every one of my points in my outline, I have a comma and the word yet. However, we are living in this day. We are living in this day. What is this day? I believe we're living in this day. We're not in the tribulation yet. How does he encourage them regarding this day? How does he caution them? Well, look if you would beginning in verse 13. But, here's the contrast, we are bound to give thanks always to God for you, brethren, beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation Through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth, whereunto he called you by this gospel to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, brethren Excuse me, therefore, brethren, steadfast and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word or our epistle. Now our verse 16, Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God, even our Father, which hath loved us and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace. Comfort your heart and establish you in every good word and word. What he's basically saying is this. We're not living in that day, so let's not be all tied up with that thinking we're in the tribulation. Well we're living in this day. It's a day of salvation, verse 13. It is a day of standing fast in verse 15, and it's a day of being established in verse 16 in our testimony for the Lord Jesus Christ. I shared an illustration in Sunday school. Many of you weren't there, so I need to share it with you here this morning. And I'll be brief with the illustration here this evening, or this morning, our service. But the illustration goes like this. I was saved back in the 70s. And when I was saved back in the 70s, there was a very aggressive spirit in regard to studying and preaching about prophecy. You had all kind of prophetic teachers, all kind of prophetic conferences, all kind of prophetic preaching from the pulpit, and everybody was trying to nail down all the details of Revelation and Ezekiel and all Daniel and things and trying to show how we were in that day and such and such and such. And I had a dear friend that was very involved in that. I mean he was immersed in that And then he went they had a conference, he was there at that conference. He had all the books filled up his shelves and all these different things and his preaching reflected that so much. And then all of a sudden one day there was a change in him There was a change. I noted the change. I was thankful for it. And I asked him what happened. And he said, Marty, I'm going to tell you what He said, I was so immersed in all of this about the prophecy and the tribulation and the rapture and the judgments and everything else, he said, I forgot why I'm here. I'm here to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and bring men and women to repentance that they can have eternal life. He said, I got wrapped up in that so heavily that I forgot my main calling, which is be the preacher of Jesus Christ. This is what Paul is saying to the Thessalonica Church in chapter 2 I'm going to caution you. Don't be deceived. Don't get so tied up in that. Know about it? Sure. Think about it? Yes. Wonder about it, that's okay. But don't get so wrapped up in it that you forget your responsibility, which is to bring people to salvation. It's your responsibility to help people stand and you to stand and it's your responsibility to establish people in the faith. Isn't that wonderful? And uh that changed that man's ministry. In fact, uh the church I was actually his assistant, and the church was running about fifty people And within a couple of years we saw that go up to 250 people. Many of them were getting saved. I was teaching a reconverse class, a new believers class, and we were just so thrilled. And he wasn't doing it through prophecy. He was doing this through preaching for people to know God and obey the gospel of God. What a blessing. So the Apostle Paul Cautions them, be careful. We are not in that day, but we are living in this day. That brings us to our third chapter. In our third chapter, we see this. The church commanded. Now a command is something very serious. A command is the idea of a military term where there is an order coming down from a superior officer. And if you don't obey that order, you pay a penalty for not obeying that order. uh in the military is called you get court-martialed for that or you get written up for that. And the Apostle Paul is using that word here under inspiration of the Holy Spirit And the idea that we are commanded certain things that we need to follow through with those things. Now, when you look at this chapter, you recognize that it's not because they're not doing them But you recognize this because he wants them to continue to do that. What I mean by that? Well take your Bible look in your Bibles, if you would, at 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. And take a look at verse 4, and you'll see outline what I just said. And we have confidence in the Lord touching you. That ye both do, that's active, you are currently doing it now. And will do, that's future, that's projecting ahead. The things which we command you. The Thessalonian believers were known for having for in the process, in the present tense, doing what God has asked. And looking forward to them will do in the future the things which God has commanded or he's asked. So it's not like they're in a mess. It's not like they're not living for the Lord and he's trying to rattle their cage and get them back on track again. No. They're living for the Lord, but he's encouraging them now because there's something taking place in the church that needs to be dealt with. What is that? Well, remember what I did in the way of an outline here before? Why did they need to be commanded? Well, they needed to be commanded because there were those in the fellowship that were walking disorderly. Let's follow verse 4. And the Lord direct you and your hearts into the love of God and into your patient waiting. Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, verse 6. that you would draw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us. I'm going to use a word that some of you are going to bristle at. I hope you don't, because it's not a bad word when it's put in the biblical context. Basically, what the Apostle Paul is saying here to the Church of Thessalonica, you've got a problem because you have some brethren that are not being obedient to the Word of God. And what you need to do is separate from them. Or what you need to do is discipline them. If you let that continue, the little leaven is going to leaven the whole loan. Now how are they being disobedient? Well, our passage tells us Look a little further with me. When it uses the word disorderly in verse 6, that means they're out of step. They're not doing something they should be doing For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us, for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you. We were disorderly. Neither did we eat any man's bread for naught, but wrought with labor and travail night and day that we might not be chargeable to any of you. So the Apostle Paul is saying, even though we could have depended upon you for our livelihood, our food and water and shelter, we didn't. We worked for it. He said now, verse 9, not because we have not power, we could have had that, but to make ourselves an example unto you to follow us For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he what? Eat. Now notice the wording there. If any if it commanded you, if any would not work, it doesn't say could not work. The church has a responsibility to take care of the brethren who cannot work. It talks about the special blessing of taking care of the widows and the fatherless. It talks about a special blessing, taking care of those who are sick, and in the whole house. The Good Samaritan is a great example of that. Not if they could not work, but if they would not work. Now we come back around to what we started with a little bit ago. That was what the problem was in Thessalonica, just like the problem with the Millerites that we talked about in 1844. These people had got it in their mind that Jesus was coming and they didn't have to do anything anymore, didn't have to work toward anything. didn't have to own anything. They could just climb that mountain in their white robe, climb that tree in their white robe, and just wait for him to come. And that was wrong and needed to be what? Needed to be corrected That's why he gives these commands. Now you say, well, how severe is this? Shouldn't we just kind of shide them a little bit? Shouldn't we just kind of encourage them along the way? Well, you would hope that that would work. But notice that our passage continues. Verse 11. For we hear that there are some which walk among you Disorderly. Remember the idea of disorderly means out of step. Working not at all, but our busybodies. Now them that are such we command, there's our fourth reference to the word command, and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ. that with quietness they work and eat their own bread. But ye, brethren, be not weary in well-doing. Now, what happens if someone doesn't listen to what you tell them to do? Verse 14. And if any man obey not our word by this epistle Note that man. The idea of note is tag that man. Use a name. Tell who it is. Note that man and have no company with him that he may be what? That he may be ashamed. that he may be ashamed. The other aspect of that was they may start getting hungry and realize he's got to get busy and get to what? And get to work. But, verse 15, the caution, yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a what? As a brother. You know, I wish I had more time and we could do a little bit of series on this because the Bible talks about other instances also. where people are not walking right with the Lord, they're walking disorderly, and they need to be disciplined or need to be separated from the church. They need to be made ashamed. They need to be admonished so they can get on track. You may be thinking about someone right now, possibly from your past hopefully not in your present, that wasn't doing right with the Lord and people just let him go. And they actually kind of supported him in it. They took care of giving him money, they gave gifts, they gave whatever. That's not a good thing When you look at Luke chapter 15 and the prodigal son, he took his inheritance, he left, he wasted on righteous living, he was then feeding corn to the pigs And the Bible says this, and when he came unto himself, he said, I've sinned against my father and against God. And he got his heart right. If somebody would have been feeding him along the way and clothing him along the way and housing him along the way and providing for him along the way, he never would have come to that place of repentance. But because they separated from him and let him sow his wild oats and let him suffer the consequences of that, what happened? He repented and was restored to his father. We live in a day and age today where many people are supporting those who don't deserve to be supported, even in the church. But the Apostle Paul says, oh no, no, no, no. Be careful here. Be careful. We're commanding you. There are things that they should be doing and continue to do. And we are commending you and telling you to go ahead and deal with that person, to make them ashamed, and to admonish them and bring them back to the place of blessing where God wants them to be. You know, when we look in Scripture, we must separate when a brother is involved in immoral living. 1 Corinthians chapter 5. We must separate, as we're seeing here in our passage, when a brother is involved in idle living. And we need to separate when a brother is involved in inconsistent living. Titus chapter 1, verse 13 is a good version regarding that. We have a responsibility to encourage people to do what God has commanded us as well as them to do. And sometimes that takes drastic measures, but there are drastic measures that must be followed. You know, without turning to it, I think you can think about this in your mind's eye. Do you remember in 1 Corinthians chapter 5 that there was a sin that the church was puffed up over? A man had his father's wife, and he was being immoled. When you read 1 Corinthians chapter 5, the Apostle Paul says this. He says, you know, I'm not there, but I've judged already. When you're gathered together, that's the church. Cast that one out for the destruction of his flesh, that his soul may be saved in the day of judgment. That's a pretty harsh measure. But that's exactly what the Apostle Paul is talking about in this chapter. And you remember that when he did that, and in 2 Corinthians chapter 2, we find that man repented And the Apostle Paul is encouraging them to receive that man that you did that to, because he's repented, and now he's being restored to the church. Isn't that beautiful? It works, folks. It works. There are times when someone needs to be told what you're doing is wrong. I want to help you do what's right, but I'm not going to be eating with you and keeping company with you and encouraging you in your ways. Oh, I've heard the stories over the years. They're flashing into my mind right now. But I I've heard I've heard stories over the years about sinful things that are being allowed in the church or have been allowed in the church, and no one in the church has had courage to deal with it. And as a result, the churches just corrupt and become very corrupted. We need to deal with issues in the church as we await the coming of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Not giving up on love, but remembering that love requires what? Love requires discipline too. So I'm very thankful what the Apostle Paul wrote here. Kind of an interesting chapter on Labor Day, isn't it? And the idea of working. We also saw that back in 1 Thessalonians when I talked about working with your own hands to be quiet. We saw that a few months ago, and now we see it here again. So, the question mark is this: how do we prepare for the coming of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ? Not getting rid of everything, not putting out our gown, not climbing up the mountain, not climbing up the tree. But We find ourselves comforted. Verse 7 of chapter 1. To you who are troubled, rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. We find ourselves what? Cautioned? It says verse 3 of chapter 2, let no man deceive you by any means. For that day shall not come, except there be a fallen away first, and a man of sin be revealed, the son of the perdition. And then number three that we are in a position where we are to be what? We are to be commanded to not only in chapter 3, as we saw in verse um, whoops, I just missed it. There we go. Verse 4. We have confidence in the Lord touching you, that you both do, that's a wonderful thing, but then will do, that's a future thing, that which we've commanded you. And if you don't, there's something that needs to be done. All right. Let's have a word of prayer together. Our Father in heaven, thank you for being able to give us this epistle to clarify uh some of the erroneous thinking of the people of Thessalonica. And word that erroneous thinking was not intentional on their part. They didn't just part from you and come up with their own ideas. They were led astray. They were led astray by a letter that was given credit to Paul, which he never wrote. And Father, certainly we are led astray today. There's all kinds of false teaching going around today to kind of deceive us. And we are so thankful that we can be in our Bibles, that we can be in a Bible preaching teaching church That we can be surrounded by Bible-believing Christian brothers and sisters that can help us discern what is true and not true, and help us, Father, to keep our lives doing and continue to do that which you want us to do. But Father, I think as I preached this this morning, even as I prepared it myself, some names have come across my mind and heart of those who are not doing and are not continuing to do what they should Help me to know what I can do to cause them to return to the way they know is right, the way we know is right. Help me, Father, not to forget about these brethren who have drifted away, but help me, Father, to encourage them. and help them to return to thee. Lord, we thank you very much for your word and thank you very much for the promise of your coming. And do pray that we will be found worthy and ready when you return. In Jesus' name. Amen. I understand that you have a couple of stanzas of a song where things are kind of quiet, you're sitting where you're at, and then uh Tim's going to come and leave the closing hymn, and then he'll also close us in prayer. But uh you remember what I've said over the years? Uh you remember what I told you? Ask yourself the question while we're having this song play. Why did the Lord have me give this message and what would he have me do? Why did he have me hear this message? What would he have me do? I hope you're not going to go home and sell everything and make a world and go up on a mountain. That's not what to do. But it's a wonderful thing to be living for the Lord and him to find us faithful when he returns.