Appreciate the theme in those songs. We sang tonight that last one. He knoweth the way that I take, a new life within he'll create, that I may walk worthy. And that goes along with this study and the passage that we're looking at tonight in the book of Philippians, and you can turn there. That Jesus knows the path that He wants us to walk. It's not true to think, as a new believer, well, I've trusted in Jesus Christ. And I guess I can just kinda live life however I want and make sure I read the Bible once in a while and eventually Jesus will come and that's the end of it. No, Jesus has a plan for our lives, a plan where we are supposed to be walking daily in step in the power of the Holy Spirit under the Spirit's guidance. Walking worthy. Jesus has things that He wants to accomplish in us on this earth. He has a plan for us. That's what that song referred to. He knoweth the way that we take. He has ordained that. And he directs us. And we're grateful for that. Well, it's really neat when this works out this way, but the themes that we talked about this morning really mesh with what we're talking about tonight in a way that I may not happen again between The Sermon on the Mount and our study in Philippians, but you're going to see this here in a few minutes. However, it's also true that the theme that seems God has for us today as we're looking at verses that talk about suffering and persecution. I didn't plan for that to be the theme for the day, but God understands and that was what he wanted. I guess though as far as thinking ahead, it probably doesn't do us very well to proclaim to the community that you know this Sunday is Persecution and Suffering Sunday. And so inviting people to church, hey our theme today we're going to talk about persecution and suffering all day. Come and join us. Although they need to hear God's word as well. It's one of those things that doesn't exactly thrill our hearts. And so that's why we need this at the same time, though. This morning, Jesus talks about rejoicing in the midst of persecution. And we, especially the Western Church, the church in the United States, even the fundamental Baptist churches, that kind of suffering where we're rejoicing just really sounds kind of alien to me. Us. And I think in a lot of ways, this message we need as a church in the modern day more than ever. To be reminded that there is suffering involved and persecution will come. And Paul wants the people of the church of Philippi to understand this as well. Last week. We looked at starting at verse 18 through verse 26. That Paul was explaining to the people in Philippi that God was using him in the midst of his persecution, in the midst of his prison trial, literally being put in prison. For proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that famous verse that we talked about again last week, for me to live, for to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. And the ramifications of that in each of our lives, we realize many times, I've got a lot of more growth to do in my own life and understand This and applying this to my life. But as you would expect, Paul isn't comfortable or he isn't set just to explain his own philosophy about this ministry and his own philosophy, biblical philosophy about how to endure under trials But now, in these next few verses, as we're going to see tonight, this courageous service for Christ that Paul has talked about, that he is living out in his life, he's now going to turn around and say, Oh, and by the way, Philippians church. You need to live this way too. And he's going to say that to us tonight, Village Chapel Baptist Church. By the way, the same spirit that I have You need to have that as well. Let's look at this passage together. And we'll, since it kind of cuts in the middle of this our study tonight, we'll start in verse 20 20 and we'll read all the way to verse 30 of chapter 1. According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed. But that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by my life or by death. For to me to live is Christ And to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose, I want not, or I can't decide. For I am in the strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you for all your furtherance and joy of faith, that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me. by my coming to you again, and then the passage that we're studying tonight, only let your conversation or manner of life be as it becometh the gospel of Christ That whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel And in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake Having the same conflict which you saw in me and now here to be in me. Lord, help us to understand your word tonight. This is a message that, in some ways, it's hard for us to relate in the comfort that we have in our churches here in the United States. But, Father, at the same time. We see the dark clouds ahead of persecution for even our own country and for people that have sincerely undergone persecution in different Aspects worshiping even here in the United States of America, we know we don't experience the severe persecution That is going on around the world. And yet, Lord, we need this message too, to prepare our hearts. To pray for the persecution of believers around the world, but also to ready us and steady us, and at the same time help us to be thankful for the situation. you've given us and help us to realize in the troubles in our life that you are in those and you expect us through your strength. To move through and to do what you've called us to do. So help us to have that understanding tonight as we look at this passage together, Lord. Give us understanding from the Spirit, for it is in Jesus' name that we pray Amen. There's some understanding that I still need to give you concerning the background of even the town or the city of Philippi and how it came into existence. And so that you understand as we go into this passage now that what the Philippians were facing as they served Jesus Christ in their community. And what Paul's referring to as he's calling them to be faithful in the midst of persecution. Philippi was located in central Macedonia and founded by some early Greek colonists. Okay? But was eventually taken over in 356 B. C. by Philip of Macedon. Now that's exciting, isn't it? Well who is that? Well, that might help to tell you that he was the father of Alexander the Great. I don't know how many of you enjoy history. I enjoy learning and reading history books and reading biographies and things like that. So things like this are always really interesting for me. I'm sure there is interesting for you too, but it does give us a good background. Eventually , it was well actually Philippi was strategically located on a hill, a city on a hill that was referred to as an Acropolis. Near mountains and important agricultural plains, and there was a possibility, it was even rumored that there were gold deposits nearby So it was a strategic and important town, and eventually it became under Roman control as everything else did in the Bible world and the New Testament world in about 168 BC And it became one of the main colonies that was connected by the Roman highway there in Macedonia that Rome had established to quickly get to its colonies. In uh it was called the Ignatian Way in Macedonia. Some major Roman battles were fought, and the victors were two men, one was named Octavian, who later became the Emperor Augustus. The Roman Emperor Augustus and Mark Anthony, you might remember him. These battles were fought. These men won, and Octavian in particular. With his victory and now his new leadership with Rome, he refounded Philippi as a Roman military colony. And its populace was then endowed with Roman citizenship. And that's important to understand because Philippi had the distinction of all of those that were citizens and And lived there at Philippi, they were now given that very highly desired status of official Roman citizenship. You were in Philippi, you were considered a Roman citizen. And that was no small thing. That gave you access to all kinds of freedoms and accessibility that you wouldn't have had otherwise. The people that lived at Philippi then were blessed in that way. But with that freedom, there were some strings attached. By the way, he also, Octavian, populated the town with war veterans to ensure allegiance to the government And so Philippi was especially, the city was devoted to the Roman emperor. They literally owed him their existence as a Roman colony. They were devoted to him. And it had gotten to the point where at the time of Paul's writing, that in the town of Philippi and others that were Roman colonies, they referred to the emperor as Lord and Savior. That was the common designation. Isn't it interesting as Paul goes through the book of Philippians that he centers and he uses those words for Jesus, our Lord and Savior? many times. They were words that were familiar to the people that lived there because there was someone who was ruling over them, the emperor, that they referred to as Lord and Savior. And this was a common thing. In fact, he was almost worshipped as deity. Every time there was a special event within the city, they would have to, at the beginning, acknowledge allegiance. to the emperor as Lord and Savior. So now we have a problem, don't we? Because those, as we talked about, as Paul came into Philippi and met Lydia and her friends, and they trusted in Jesus Christ. The jailer, and so many others, some that we're going to hear about as we continue to study this book. These people put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, and now they're citizens of a new kingdom. They have a different Lord and Savior than Caesar. And they proclaim a different Lord and Savior than Caesar In fact, they look forward to the coming of Jesus Christ to rule. And in that sense, they don't recognize Caesar as their ultimate authority. All of them know they're subject to him. So you can imagine with those kinds of conflicts, there's going to be all kinds of situations that come up where persecution might really be a reality. The Romans actually looked at Jesus, for those that knew who he was, as many of them thought of him as a crucified criminal, right? They had crucified him And he had false charges brought up against him, but as far as Rome was concerned, this guy was taken care of. He was considered a criminal. Why would people be devoted to someone who'd been crucified? It didn't make sense to them. It didn't even seem right to them. So if you were a believer in the town or the city of Philippi, you were running against some very strong currents. That certainly would bring about persecution and the potential for persecution. It was real and it was something that Paul needs to address with them. Paul knows that as much as he's going through, he knows that his people and his beloved believers in Philippi are going to be going through difficulties too And he has people like Timothy, and we're going to meet some other young men that are helping him, and they're bringing him messages from Philippi. And I'm sure that in the midst of those, he's hearing so-and-so was put in prison Because they told others of Jesus Christ. The jailer there in Philippi, who was a believer, knew about people put being put in prison for their faith because he'd been over Paul. In the midst of that earthquake, and he had seen firsthand. Was he a bold witness for Christ? I expect he was. Did he suffer persecution? I'm sure he did. And so Paul is now reminding them. He's saying, the same attitude that I have here in prison, you need to make sure that you have. As you are going through your own difficulties and persecution. So that's what verse 27 is all about. Let's look at that again together. As we see here Paul has an expectation of faithfulness that comes from his faith in God's power. Paul expects the people of Philodopi to be faithful, not through their own strength. But he knows that God can give them the power to be faithful even in very dirt difficult circumstances that they're facing. Their power to be faithful comes from God. And so Paul can call the church to faith Consistent, faithful service, even in the midst of very difficult circumstances. And again, verse 27, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ That whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, and with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel That word, let your conversation , could also be translated as your manner of life Or even in the Greek, and here's the tie-in with what we talked about this morning, as only let your citizenship As a citizen of the kingdom of God. I think Paul remembered well, he was taught either from Jesus directly or from the other apostles. Jesus' sermon on the Mount and the material that Jesus taught. And I think it's a good possibility that Paul had in mind as he's saying this. He's saying, make sure that your testimony, your conversation, That's uh we think of that word today as like talking to each other. All right, and maybe there's a connection here as far as what the old King James word has here, as far as when we talk with other people, they find out more about what's really in our heart. But a better way to think about this is let your manner of life or your citizenship in the kingdom Be proclaimed to others as becometh the gospel of Christ Paul says, I know I'm not the only one going through tough times. I know you are too. But as citizens of a different kingdom, we no longer serve Caesar as Lord and Savior. We serve King Jesus as Lord and Savior. And our manner of life needs to reflect. The gospel of Christ, the fact that we're new creatures. And we need to proclaim that as well in our deeds as we go through these difficult things and in our words. And so he's calling them in three ways to consistently live as members of God's kingdom, as those again who would play who are on God's team. He calls them to be faithful in three areas. Number one, he says that they stand fast in one spirit That they stand firm together in unity provided by the Spirit. Now I think the King James here doesn't capitalize the word Spirit And so it may come across as Paul is saying, you know what, you all just need to be unified in some sort of team spirit together. Remember, we're going to go out as God's team. And we all need to have a unified spirit. Um, so let's get out there and let's serve together. And certainly there is some aspects of that that he's referring to. But as I study this, I really feel like he's saying this. That you stand fast, firm, together in unity, empowered by the Holy Spirit. I think he's referring to the Holy Spirit here. And so Paul's not sure when he's going to see these people. He's hoping it'll be soon. And he's just told them. In a few verses before this, that I'm confident that I'm going to see you again. But now he says, but I'm not sure when that will be. It could be soon. Or it could be later than I'm expecting. So, Philippian church, whether I come or whether I'm absent, if I'm absent, I'll still know. I'll still hear from my friends how things are going. And he says, I want to be encouraged by hearing that you're standing firm in unity. You're not bickering or arguing. But you're submitted to the Holy Spirit's work in your lives. The more we're submitted to the Holy Spirit's work in our lives as village chapel Baptist Church, the less there'll be arguing, the less there'll be divisions. And trite or shallow things that won't bother us as much because we know that we can put up with those things, so to speak. Because the Holy Spirit is reminding us our purpose of serving Jesus Christ faithfully. Paul says, I want to know that you guys are unified through the power of the Holy Spirit. And really, isn't it true? You get any group of people together, it's a small miracle, or maybe more than that, for people to be unified at all. Different personalities, different points of view. And Jesus has made each of us with a different personality. And with, in some ways, a little bit different point of view, so that we all can serve together and function together as a local body. But it still takes a miracle for that to happen, for unity to take place. And that's why we need the power of the Spirit for that to take place. Are we submitted to the Holy Spirit? Are we letting Him help us be unified as we stand together? for the cause of Christ. Also, number two, to be unified in their thinking as they defend and proclaim the gospel, with one mind striving together. for the faith of the gospel, working together, putting our differences aside, not to just get along like society says. Society says, oh, just kind of put everything that's important to you as far as what you believe to the side, and let's just try to everybody love each other and get along and um You know, if your Christian morality doesn't fit well with what we're trying to do, then you can guys just kind of put that off to the side so we can all work together and get some things accomplished. Well, that's just a recipe for chaos, by the way. That's not what Paul's saying here. But he's saying put aside your differences as a church family, remembering that the gospel is the most important thing. thing, and that we need to come together and serve faithfully as a church because the gospel is that important. And people need to see us in unity, defending, proclaiming the gospel, striving together. This is an effort that is Strong in nature, that we're putting forth effort, again, empowered by the Spirit to get forth the gospel to our community. We don't have time for bickering or arguing. We need to be unified. And then he also says, and in nothing terrified by your adversaries. He's saying, Don't fear the opposition. Paul knows about opposition because he's in prison for what he believed and for proclaiming the gospel. And he's not making light, by the way, of what they're facing. As I just described for you, there was an environment there in Philippi that could be right and ready for severe persecution. Paul knows that. But he's saying, don't let that terrify you. You're going to have opponents. If you're proclaiming the gospel, there are going to be those adversaries and opponents that are going to fight against you. But don't Fear them. You have the power. You have the power of Jesus Christ working in you as a church. You can go boldly forward and proclaim truth. There's so many different ways that we could do this, right? And I know that Village Chapel, even in the past couple years, has had opportunities in our community. I think there's a parade that comes um in July, later on July or September, where we've had the opportunity to um get involved and do some face painting and some different things as a church to let our community know who we are. But that takes unity. Those events take unity, us working together so that our community can be community, so we'll have opportunity to give our community the gospel and to tell them about Jesus Christ. At our church in Maryland We had a number of opportunities. A number of years ago, one of our members looked into, we had a local Christmas parade in a town near us called Bel Air, Maryland. And it it was becoming a more popular thing. Christmas parades were being renewed in popularity and excitement. And so one of our members looked into possibly getting the opportunity to do a float. in this and they said actually said yes. We told them we're going to have a nativity, we're going to have all these different things. And they agreed to let us do it, which was not a small miracle in and of itself. But it took our church coming together in unity to get it all done. We had a family in our church that had a ministry. They had a farm. where they raised alpacas and different animals and they used that farm as an opportunity to give the gospel to local public school groups as they would come in and and teach them about the different farm animals and uh and and everything. And they donated their animals to be able for us to walk them behind the float as a little extra PR, because people always love animals, right? And you never know what's gonna happen when you get a couple stubborn goats and a couple alpacas in the mix going down a main street with hundreds of people on each side and everybody's like, Oh, what's gonna happen? you know. We got some funny pictures in the local newspaper But we had that. We had somebody that had to be in charge of costumes. We had to have somebody that was helping the small children get into those costumes. We had to have somebody It was providing dinner for those of us on the float. Because every year, of course, the pastoral staff had to be on the float, dressed as shepherds. amongst the angels and little cherubs. So every year I perfected my wave. And it was you know, uh leading up to it, I looked at my wife and I said, Oh man, you know, with everything else going on is this really what we want to do again this year. When we actually were doing it and I was and we were waving to people and we were just even it you know how crazy our culture is today that even saying Mary Christ Christmas is a bold proclamation of of Jesus Christ, but it is. And so it just I tell my sons, hey Merry Christmas. Christmas. Merry Christmas! As loud as he can. And uh waving. And we were we were unified together, coming together. Not just for the excitement of being on a prayed float, because trust me, there's lots of other things I'd rather be doing than that. But it was to proclaim the gospel. Through that nativity to remind people that it's not all about Santa Claus who was coming up behind us in the next float, but it was about Jesus Christ. And in unity, we came together, and the Lord used that, has used that for many years. I hope they're able to do it this year as well. Can a church with one mind strive together for the faith of the gospel? We can. If we're depending upon the Holy Spirit. So Paul calls the church to consistent, faithful service. But Paul also wants to remind them: expect suffering, because suffering is a part of God's work too. Verse 28, and in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God Don't be afraid of your enemies. And then he says, and again, these words in the King James, it's kind of hard to even say, and you kind of stumble over them, an evident token of perdition. Well, what does that mean? It sounds ominous. Well, it is. Look at it this way. You can translate it this way, that it is a bad omen Or a bad sign for unbelievers. That as they're seeing the power of the Spirit working in people and unifying them And seeing the gospel go forward, that actually those that have rejected Jesus Christ should take that as a bad sign or omen that destruction is coming. Perdition has the idea of eternal punishment. Now, why would Paul say this? He says, but then to you of salvation and that of God, as the Holy Spirit is working through Through you all, and you're unified, and you're giving the gospel, that is a sign of your salvation. That is a sign that God is working in you, that you're his children. But what does he mean about the others, the unbelievers, that that should be a sign of destruction for them? It's kind of strange. But I think what he's saying in here First of all, opposition and suffering can actually be indications of God's power in your life. God can use opposition and difficult things in our lives. To show through those things that He has power to get us through and that He, through those things, can still use us for His work That nothing that comes into our lives can keep us from ministering faithfully about Jesus Christ. Of Jesus Christ. That's the power that we have, and that can be a testimony to even our opponents. Here's the thing: the opponents of the Philippian Christians probably looked at them as weak, All those Christians they're serving, they they proclaim that Jesus Christ who was crucified and you know they th many of them are poor and they don't have a lot and yet they're always coming together. Uh you know, they're easy victims. There's nothing special about those people. And in persecution, persecution would come to try to be keep them quiet. And their opponents looked at them as weak, when in actuality they should have looked at them and saw their unity. And their sense of mission, and listen as they proclaim their status as a heavenly kingdom citizens, and it should have been assigned to unbelievers or an omen of defeat for them Here's a group of people that can work together in the power of the Spirit and have had their literally their lives changed as they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And that power is the same power. One day Jesus will return. And those that are belittling and persecuting the Christians, they will have their end. And so literally, the testimony of these Christians should be an omen of defeat and destruction for their opponents. I hope that makes sense. So often unbelievers laugh and mock and boldly proclaim their um Lack of faith and rebellion against God. And yet one they are looking as they look at Christians at the power of God that will literally one day come back and condemn them eternally. It should sober them. It should sober us that we want to continue to be that testimony Because when we're a testimony of Jesus Christ, it's a testimony of the power of God and what he's doing in our lives. So Paul's saying, don't be afraid of them. Go in the power of Jesus Christ. Proclaim the gospel. Verse 29. For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, But also to suffer for his sake. And here is that part that, you know, it's just when we hear it, it's hard to fully grasp. And yet we need to understand. That Paul is saying here, suffering for the cause of Jesus is a privilege. And even more so, it's expected Why? Because we believe on him, we also suffer for his sake when we put our faith and trust in Jesus. Paul has said in Romans that we are unified with him. We are one with him. And if that's the case, we're going to experience the victory when he returns, and we're going to be victorious. But don't you think then on this earth That if Jesus suffered, that we're going to have to suffer too. And Paul says it's a privilege, because I know all that Jesus has done for me For me. And if this is hard for us to grasp, and let's admit it, it is, it's hard for a lot of us to really get to that point. Persecution, it's a blessing, it's a privilege. Not feeling it. We need to remember all that Jesus has done for us, and what He suffered for us, and be thankful that at least we're not going to have to be crucified to a cross. We may get teased, we may get mocked, someday we may be put in prison. Could happen. But our suffering that we'll probably experience will be nothing compared to what Jesus And when you're going through that, it's almost one of those things that you have to go through something to really appreciate it. So if we don't totally understand what Paul's talking about here. When we're going through it, we'll know what he's talking about. Because as we're going through that, we'll realize I'm going through this for the cause of Jesus Christ. And praise the Lord, I get to do that. This. I get to be a testimony of him through this suffering. So Paul says, expect it. You know, to suffer for nothing is pointless, right? But suffering for a mission is inspiring. And we have the greatest mission. Don't look at the suffering in your life as pointless It's fate. I don't know why bad things always happen to me. Is there a God? Well, of course you know there's a God. You put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, you believe that. Be inspired by the mission that Jesus has for us to proclaim Him to the world that will one day be judged by Him and that need Salvation and forgiveness of sin that only He can offer. Go forward. Don't be intimidated. But through the power of the Holy Spirit, proclaim Jesus. And what happens, happens. Paul says one more thing here. Having the same conflict, verse 30, which you saw in me, and now here to be in me He's basically saying, he's reminding them, you know what? We're in this together. We're in this together as we both serve Jesus. I'm going through my hardships. You're going to be going through your hardships. But I'm with you. We're in this together to serve Jesus Christ. Um, when you're in the military, my understanding is That one of the things that they tried to build, they they they tear you down, so to speak, to build you back up. My father-in-law was in Vietnam. He was a Marine. And uh he he ended up with a purple heart for getting shot in the arm and in the chest. And just really appreciate all, of course, that our military does, but he He explained to us um what they went through in the training there in South Carolina at Ellis Island, not Ellis Island, um Parris Island, sorry. Island. And we actually he got us onto the island one time um to see what they went through and and they go through all kinds of difficult things. I mean, they really they they put them through the ringer, so to speak, and I get to see that. But it was for a purpose. And those men, as they went through those things, were more unified because of what they'd experienced together. And they were ready to go forth then as a unit to serve their country faithfully. Paul's saying here, we need to be unified working together because of what we're going through right now. And God is using it to help us to be better servants, better proclaimers of the gospel. So, in the end When suffering comes, when persecution comes, and it will come in all of our lives, even here in America, even here in New Hampshire. We can continue to have a right attitude about it, to ask God to continue to help us to grow spiritually and to become useful for Him in the midst of suffering. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, Jesus will be with us. His presence will be with us. And we can remain faithful. I'm not sure that Paul's audience in Philippi that as he was writing to them these things, that this would have been the biggest challenge for them because they were so used to persecution. But I think it's one of the biggest challenges that we as a church today face. And that as we read these things, Paul says, you can do this too. If you're relying on the power of Jesus Christ. I'm going to do something really quick that I have never done before. This is a first. But there was a song that I read for you last week. And I just this it stuck in my head all week this week as I was preparing for this message. And the words are actually the words of this passage. And so I thought we would end by my singing this and just listen to the words. They're scripture, they're taken from this passage, to be reminded that to live or die. We can live for Jesus Christ, and then we'll pray together. It's called to live or die. To live is Christ I long to spend my might and time to worship him I'll give my all for him who died To bring a rabble to his sign Lord, help me use my fleeting breath to honor you through life or death. And when my heart drums its last beat I'll lay my labors at your feet To die is Christ's eternal gain, to wake and never sleep again. I will not fear the feeble grave, the pathway to my Savior 's face Lord, help me use my fleeting craft to honor you through life for death. And when my heart runs its last beat, I'll lay my labours at your feet. To live or die, it's all the same For Christ consoles me the way. If I should live I'll live for him, and if I die, I'll live again. Lord, help me use my fleeting breath to honor you through life for death. And when my heart drums its last beat I'll lay my labors out your feet Let's pray, Lord