Turn to 2 Samuel chapter 4, and just a little bit more insight of how I think the Lord is bleeding on Wednesday and Sunday evenings. We're going to continue the next. stories, narratives in the book of 2 Samuel are rather short, kind of short. So they'll be appropriate even though I'm trying to kind of trim down our time on Wednesday nights to continue to work through some of these stories about David. And then my plan is After a few weeks here, we switch uh the day that study to Sunday evening and then start uh You could say the minor letters, the smaller letters, certainly not minor in emphasis, the smaller letters of the New Testament. Sometimes letters that we we tend to breeze over have not noticed as much. So we're actually going to start that study this Sunday night and then we'll swap it out eventually in a couple weeks and we're going to start with the book of Titus. for the Sunday night. And then Titus by Lehman. First, second, and third John and Jude. Okay , we're kind of our focus on that. So looking forward to getting into these studies with you. And we're still doing David, so don't be concerned about that. We'll have to get through this one way or another. So a shorter story tonight, but one that is very important , and an interesting contrast between what we talked about last time, and you'll see that here, chapter 4 and verse 1. We have Team Isposhe, who remember will refers him as the puppet king We're not trying to be unkind, but even we'll see here in this narrative, even all of Israel recognize this, the northern kingdom. Abner is dead, Abner the General Skull 's general, who established his remaining son Ishposheth as king. And Joab, unfortunately, made sure of that, the killing of Abner. And Abner was the real power behind Ishbox Chef. And now that he's gone, it's what Chef is very anxious and very concerned, as well he should be , and very fearful. What is he going to do next? And so with that, we'll look and see what what we have here in this story, verse 1. When Ishbosheb, Saul's son, again making it apparent, this is the last of Saul's son. that still survive, heard that Abner, and that was his general, the real power behind him, had died at Hebron, and of course that was through Joab. So Joad's treachery, and remember, David made it clear when he found this was not what David wanted. David said, in fact, let's just look at a couple A couple verses before chapter 3, verse 38. And the king, David, said to his servants, Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel? And I was gentle today, though, in the way the kings, these men, these sons of Zariah, Joab and his brothers, are more severe than I The Lord repaid the evildoer according to his wickedness, and you can just hear his frustration. It was not at all what his plan was, and he knows it's not God 's way. God's sovereign plan is obviously allowing these things, but he knows it's not God's way, and the people under him aren't following his example and following God's way, and it's making him very frustrated. Obviously, we can understand that He's trying to be gentle and careful. Got these vengeful, angry guys that serve with him, and he's frustrated by that. But even more than David's frustration is Israel's chest fear now. Instead his courage failed. I mean, this man is terrified. And the all of Israel was dismayed. Why would the whole country be dismayed about this? Well, like I mentioned just a few minutes ago, both Ish Bashem And all of Israel know that the power and strength behind his authority has now collapsed. I mean, they don't have any structure. They know that Ishbush is a people. David's going to refer to him as a righteous man. He's a nice guy, but he's a weak king. He's powerless. And his officers, those under him, begin to realize this as well. And we're going to find two that may plan to capitalize on his weakness. Let's continue to move on, verse two. Now Saul's son had two men who were captains, Saul's sons referring to Ishbo Sheb again, had two men who were captains of raiding bands. The name of the one was Bana, and the other was Rechab, sons of Remon, a man of Benjamin from Bero. That's a lot of names and places. Obviously the narrator is really trying to If he's giving us this much detail, he wants us to pay attention to these details. For Berah also is counted part of Benjamin, the Beerothite. fled to Gideon and have been sojourners there to this day. Okay, that's a lot of information. We'll just sum it up real quick. These two captains are from the tribe of Benjamin. And it seems a group of these, maybe a rogue group of Benjamites, had left their tribe and had lived in a separate town, lived apart from the tribe for a long time. So I think it's partly here to for the narrator to point out that these men, even though they live in a town apart from their tribe, they're still Israelites, and that's important. These are countrymen But they were leaders of guerrilla bands because they were captains. These were bands that would go out like we've described before, even like David and his men would do, and they would go out and fight the enemy, defeat the enemy and take all the plunder and bring it back. And that was the main source of income and wealth for the whole country. So they were very important in what they did. And these captains then, these guys, again, named Rimon and, or I'm sorry, Rekab and Bainab. are these captains and they get their own idea about what to do about Ishpa Shift. And we understand from what's going on here that they are definitely countrymen, they're Israelites, and they're getting ready to hatch a plan to rise up against their leader. But before it gets any further into that, isn't it interesting here? Verse 4 makes this random segue into a totally different story here, gives us random information in the midst of the story. Verse 4, Jonathan the son of Saul had a son who was crippled in his feet. And he was five years old when the news about Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel. And his nurse took him up and fled, and as she fled in her haste, she fell, he fell, and became lame. And his name was Musbiblosheth. If I remember that name, if you know these stories well. And we know that eventually we're going to get to that famous story about his interaction with David. But why put this part of the story and then insert it in the midst of this narrative where it doesn't seem to fit at all? It's really kind of strange. It does give us information about Jimishev's background. This means that he's Stahl's grandson. He's Jonathan's son. And what it's saying is when the Philistines overtook and defeated the Israelites, and of course Saul and Jonathan and his brother were killed. that there were people in these towns, if you'll remember, that had to leave the towns in a hurry and flee. And McFiddlesheft was in one of these towns with his nurse, with the woman that took care of him, and she was in a panic kicked him up and she went to flee and as she ran out of the city she fell or she dropped him and it damaged his legs for his lane So that helps set up the story later on and the opportunity that David will have to follow through and make good on his covenant with Jonathan That's important. David made that promise, very serious covenant with Jonathan. And now we can get an idea of how he's going to follow through on that. That still doesn't make sense Doesn't really tell us why in the midst of this story. So I think basically what the narrator is kind of saying here is he's trying to make clear if by chance something happens to Ish Boshet. As we'll see in just a minute, I think he's saying something might just be happening to Isposcus very soon. And I want everyone to understand that doesn't mean that the end of Saul's, that doesn't mean that that's the end of Saul's line of descendants. There's still others like Mathible Shep who will carry on Saul's lineage. So he's already kind of setting us up that something's going to happen here. with the Ishpo Shep in the midst of all this, and that's why that's placed there. Now back to the story again. And we're given the names now the sons of Riman The Barathite, again, making it clear where they lived and that they are Israelites, their countrymen, Rechat and Banah set out In about the heat of the day they came to the house of Ishbasha as he was taking his noonday arrest. So they are intent and They are committed, even in the heat of the day, to make their way to Ishbotshe's house for a particular purpose. And they made sure it was about the time that he's taking a nap, his royal nap. I don't know that this scripture would be the basis of supporting mapping, but maps do help. And if you want to take it that way, I guess you could certainly is look. Did this regularly. It's not going to help them in this instance though. And they came verse 6 into the midst of the house as if to get wheat. So they end up under false pretenses of getting food. And we may have some indication here of some of the notes and some of your translations that there was a doorkeeper of the house that had fallen asleep. uh they would have had easy access if that's the case to IshpoShip and uh it says they went in under false pretenses and then just very direct And this gets a little gruesome. They stab him in the stomach. And then Rekab and Bana Bana, his brother, escapes. Now it's interesting, don't misunderstand here, because verse 7 says, but when they came into the house, now it's like Okay, did they run away and then come back? The narrator is using a specific story device here, and that is he's giving us the summation of what happened, and then he's going back and expanding it further, giving us more details. kind of like, okay, here's the quick version. This is what happened. They killed Expert Chef. But now I'm going to explain further about how they did snow. Okay, so that's what's happening in verse 7. When they came into the house, this is the more detailed explanation, as he laid on his bed in his bedroom, they struck him and put him to death. And again, Bruce was here, beheaded him, but this Was one what you did with chains back then to let people know that you had killed the king and ended his life Um so gruesome, yes, but we see here that they're very intense upon Yishboshef not reigning anymore and David taking his place. And so then they they sneak back out and they go a separate way to get to David. And a way that actually would take them around the Dead Sea, an alternative route, reached David at Hebron. And so they've done this thing and they they've gotten away with it first. End of verse 7. They took his head and went by the way of Arabah all night through the desert around the Dead Sea and brought the head of Ishboth Sheah to David at Ebron. And they said to the king, here is the head of Ishbosh, the son of Saul, your enemy who saw your life. The Lord has avenged my lord the king this day on Saul and his offspring. You can imagine as they went through all this effort to do this, and they finally come before David, and they're excited, they're proud about this. David! Guess what we did? And again, the gruesome aspect of providing the evidence was at this time a normal way of letting you know that they weren't just boasting. They did do this thing. And what are they thinking here? They think that they're going to present David with this trophy of war. And that they have, they say here, the Lord has avenged my Lord, the king this day, on Saul and on his offspring. They deluded themselves into thinking that they were God's tools of vengeance towards Saul's house. Well, this plan may have seemed well prepared and successful to them, but they obviously don't know. We know this, but they don't know David very well, do they? But they would have realized this was not the right choice for them to make. And I can even imagine those that were around David, as soon as these men come up and they're like, uh oh, get ready, guys. This isn't gonna happen. Exotic guys aren't going to be around much longer. And what is David's response here? Verse 9 David answered Rechab and Bana, his brother, the sons of Riman, the Barathite, continues to give us that information to remind us that these are Israelites As the Lord lives, who has redeemed my life out of every adversity. Now, David is making it clear right up front that he's not pleased. And something else to point out here is I just said, the text, the author is obviously making it clear that these men are fellow countrymen, that they're unlike, remember the story of the Amalekites that Um killed Saul and came back and David thought he was going to win David's favor and we David will bring that up in a minute. Well the Amalekite was a foreigner. These men are Israelites. David has already made this clear he's not police. And he points out the Lord has redeemed him out of all of his troubles. David says, God has saved me. And taught me much, and I will follow his way, basically what he's saying here. I will be consistent in carrying out the way of the Lord. God has been faithful to me, men, I will be faithful to him, and you need to have that understanding up front here, because what you have done is wicked. Right? Verse 10. When one told me, behold, Saul is dead, and he thought he was bringing good news. I seized him and killed him in Ziklach, which was the reward. I got tongue in cheek there that I gave him for his news. The Samalachite came to meet, men, and he thought that he had done a good thing by killing Saul And so they want he wanted a reward, so I gave him a reward, and he's no longer living. Right? And so He says, verse 11, how much more when wicked men have killed a righteous man in his own house on his bed? Shall I not now require his blood at your hand and destroy you from the earth? Why would these men be considered more wicked, his own countrymen than the Samalekite? Well if you remember, Saul asked. So what we can tell. I think the best explanation of what happened at that time was Stall tried to kill himself, wasn't totally successful, and now one guy came and saw asked him to finish the job. So it wasn't premeditated murder on the Amalekites' part. But with these men, no excuse. This was premeditated, this was planned, and David says, this was wicked. You men are wicked. And you've killed, this may surprise you, but he's killed a righteous man. He describes Ish in that way. And in a cowardly way. Well the man taking a nap, that's not a valiant way to dispose of your foe. And he says, if I did, if I ended the other man's life for how he handled Saul I have to be consistent with the way of the Lord and require Ishma Shef blood at your hand and destroy you from the earth. He's asking this in the question and we know the answer to this. These guys are in a lot of trouble. They thought that they were going to be in good standing with David. Instead of verse 12, and David commanded his young men, and they killed them. And again , a little bit of Gorinas here, cut off their hands and feet and hang them beside the pool at Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbalashev and buried it in the tomb of Abner at Hebron. The wicked men, they were executed as criminals and treated as such. When a criminal was executed in this way, again, it's a And a gross description here, but they would do this. They would hang parts of the body outside the city to let people know that this person was taking care of. And don't you dare do this By the way, isn't that the same reason why Jesus was crucified right outside the city as an example for other people? Like the other criminals, he was prosecuted as a criminal to proclaim to everyone that For most criminals, they didn't want to be involved in that, but remember then Pilate said, but this man was guilty for being the king of the Jews. The same with this. David is making it clear with these men. He's letting everybody know, don't you dare do what these men did. They're wicked. That was wrong. They acted against God's man, God's anointed man. He still looked at Ishboshev, even with all the frustration that I'm sure took place with the kingdom being divided in all of this. And and I don't think that David even really blamed Abner in this. He looked at it as God's work. And so of course when he looks at King Ishbusha, Saul's son, he's going to look at him as God's anointed as well. And then it is wrong to take his life. And then he treats Ishroshe, his remains, with respect, the respect and honor that he would give an anointed leader. David gives that to Ishvoshe. And that's the end of our story here, but let's give a couple applications. I don't know if this comes across to you, but as I was studying this, one of the first questions I had, if you'll contrast this to our story last week. Why was David's reaction different here than with Joab? Joab didn't do right either. He didn't follow the way of peace that David wanted him to. He tricked Abner into coming back and called him aside and got rid of the sample and stomach. I mean he basically did the same thing, but he's not good to ish for itself. Uh why didn't David just have Joab executed with that point as well, making a point an example of him? I thought through that. You might have some of your own ideas, but you can let me know there. But I do think it is the beginning. It is true that this is the beginning with Joab of a double standard. with this particular man and David. I think we're going to see that later on. And Joab is going to cause David a lot of grief later on as well. David doesn't handle Joab, and this is going to be a pattern with Joab that he basically he'll do what David asks him to do and is convenient for him But we're going to see also when Joab wants to do what he wants to do like with Abner, he's just going to do it. And David really doesn't deal with him like we think he should. In fact we'll find out later on that Solomon comes along and his king and David says to Solomon, would you be able to do it? I haven't done such a good job of that. Um, I do think that there is a type of double standard that David has here, and he's not perfect. He did deal with Joad. But not the same way with these men. It's interesting. Remember Jonathan, obviously. Jonathan was David's friend in the Lord, in his past. We're going to see with Joab, he's going to have more of a negative influence on David in the future. He's going to act more like David's accomplice And a lot of things that David shouldn't have been involved with. And Joab 's going to go along with them. So Joab 's kind of the anti-Jonathan of this. And really in the end, he's going to be less helpful for David. is going to be more trouble for David than help. So I do recognize that I think this is the beginning of something where Dave is kind of blind to how he treats Jill. But let's go back So the question on the technicality, Abner, Saul's general, did instigate a war, right, with Judah. And even though accidentally he did kill Asahel Joab's brother. Abner was involved in these things. And so maybe David thought with Joab. Well, I can let Joab skate on a technicality. I won't take his life, but I'll still condemn him. And remember at the end that we just read, he calls on God. He's still angry with Joab and says, God, you deal with him You make him know that he's done wrong. So he still does that, but he doesn't end his life like he does with these other men. Well what's the difference? Well Israel said, in contrast, was never accused of any sin. David calls him a righteous man. Now he you might say, well, he was a weak leader, and he was. It's not a sin necessarily And he may have been envious and he jumped to conclusions with after, so those are sins, but there's certainly not anything to execute someone over. And so what you have here in the end, a rechal and Bana were guilty of premeditated and calculated murder against a man that David calls righteous, and doing it in a cowardly faster. But there's nothing there's nothing honorable about that. These men did this to get something from David. And so it's more of an open and shut case with these guys. if that makes sense. So here's what I think we need to learn from them. And that is, I don't think any of us in here are gonna we're worried about one of us going out and killing someone. But there are times where we act rationally out of anger and with little thought. And sometimes when we do that, we can even bring God into it like these men did. With little consideration, just acting out without thinking about it or in prayer, and we just sometimes kind of expect, well, of course God's on our side. You know, he's we're on his team, so of course he's just gonna go along with whatever I do. And these men thought that God was on their side and they committed a wicked act. And I don't cause us um A moment of thought there. Could I actually be involved in sin and thinking because I haven't prayed about it? Because I haven't given it much consideration. I could actually be thinking that God approves, and because I haven't thought it through, be actually committing sin. Well, we could probably look back at each of our lives and think of times where we thought we were doing what was right and later on God pointed out to us we were wrong and it's like, how did I miss that? Well I guess I didn't pray about it I guess I really didn't give consideration before I acted on what I thought was best. And these men weren't acting for the good of the kingdom when it comes down to it. This is for their own benefit and gain. And so certainly we need to be careful that before when we get very worked up or passionate about something, still take time to pray about it before you act. Take time to think it through. Is this really what God wants me to do? So that I don't make that kind of error. And another aspect of this, and then we'll go to prayer, is this whole thing about, again, David honoring God's man David was careful to do this, and he expected the people around him to honor the man that God had anointed as a leader. God 's anointed in David's mind, and this was the right take on it. God's ban still needed to be respected and unharmed Because he represented the authority of God to the people. And David looked at Ishmael Shep and said, you know, this kingdom's divided. I don't like this situation. But God's in control. David had seen enough of God's work in his life. He knew God's sovereign control, and he says, God's going to take care of that. That's not my business to take care of it. He was waiting on God's timing. But you could say this. I think that David did recognize that Ishbot Shep's kingship was illegitimate. Because even Abner and the elders in Israel made note of the fact they knew that God's choice was David. Remember that? So I think David could have looked at Ishmael Shep and said, you know, it's illegitimate. I know God wants me to be king, but I'm going to wait for God's priming. So here's the application for that. leaders today that we tend to without getting too specific we look at is illegitimate and we look at a number of leaders even in in in our nation things and were frustrated. We maybe are concerned about how they got into power. Look at them and say they're That's not right. We're not supposed to be the leaders. And that frustrates us. But I'm reminded as I look at Ishvan Chef's life and David's response to it, even when we think that leadership is illegitimate We still need to honor the position because God has allowed them, even though we don't like to think about this all the time, God for some reason has allowed them to lead over us, so we need to be careful. And that's hard for me too. It angers me, and it angers us when we look at leadership where we kind of question how we got the leaders that we did at times, and say, that's not right. But God 's still sovereignly in control. And if he didn't want them in leadership , could have made a different outcome on those things. So let's remember God's sovereignty and the leadership that we have and remember David's commitment to honoring them. Although, remember again, that doesn't mean that we agree with everything that they do. David pointed out, Jonathan pointed out when Saul was wrong. That's not wrong to do. I need to do that, and we need to do that when people are making choices and legislation that goes against what God's word says we don't allow us. But at the same time, they realize, and yet God has a purpose for them being there, so Lord help me to honor their position, you know, honoring you Your ways ultimately in your sovereign control of it. So I hope that's helpful.