And you might be wondering, well, I remember Pastor Brock saying that we were through the series of Ephesians. And I think I remember that he said something about the book of Revelation. And I did. And we are going to start a study in the book of Revelation. In a few weeks. But as I was thinking through and getting ready for that, you know, there was just something in the back of my mind that's been in the back of my mind for a while now. Just kind of percolating. And I just felt like now would be the time to share this. So uh some have asked, so what are you preaching on this week? I didn't intend for this to be called the mystery sermon. But it's not in your bulletin that I'm just kind of working through some some last minute things. And I just I want to focus the next maybe Two, three weeks. Something that is very much known in our culture. And I think it is important for us to be aware of these things. um these you know these current event issues. Um and though I just as I was praying about the Lord has just kind of given me the freedom to address something uh again that comes up quite a bit. Actually I've mentioned this before. I we all have most of us have smartphones, probably all of us do. And for those of us that And have iPhones, we have this Apple News feed, and I have other feeds as well. One issue in particular, just articles kept popping up. I know that the when you click on one and then you start reading it then the AI technology brings more. I get that. But I still feel like uh This particular topic is popular to discuss right now, and there are certain buzzwords that are associated with it. So we're going to dive into this, and I'll start out with this introduction. Okay. Our culture is a wash with a plethora of popular disorder labels that are attempted and many times a Uh valiant attempt to categorize personality issues that are concerning among people and certain traits that are concerning And these labels are efforts to try to struggle or personalize, categorize, excuse me, struggles and provide solutions to the brokenness of the human condition. And in that regard, they are attempting to help. And whether we're not going to get into today whether that whether they're successful in the help that they offer in many of the these disorders. We I think would all agree that sometimes we can get into in our culture can get into a disorder fixation that can become excessive. And we never want to have In other words, uh as your pastor, I could tell you that we're never going to be standing at the door ready to, as you go through, hand you this is your discipline. label order this this order label and you have been Pastor Brock has been observing everyone and we've been observing and folks and we that you have this disorder, so we want everybody get a disorder. Here's your disorder label. Boop, here's yours. Okay? Now we're gonna have support groups within the church. They're all gonna meet together. And you're going to do Bible stuff. Well, no, we're not going to do that. Okay. That can be a little excessive, as you would expect. But that doesn't mean that these things aren't totally without value. Folks, as we think on them. I think there is still good value in an attempt to point to attention To negative personality characteristics that even the unbelieving world recognizes can be damaging to interpersonal relationships. Folks, I think when the world's concerns do match up with Christian concerns, I think it's something that we ought to take notice of. And as a pastor, that I should address from time to time. And so some of these disorders do address these concerns. And so the next few weeks is going to be centered on one particular one. Um even as I say this your ears might perk up, but one of the popular disorder concerns, again I've seen this multiple, and and probably the reason that the the greatest reason that I bring This up is because I've seen so much material on it recently. It's not that I've been looking around the church and I've been seeing a lot of this particular disorder, and so boy, you folks need this. But it is something that the people around you are talking about Talking about, and when we can look at this and say, you know, and as I was studying this and reading about this, I realized, you know, all of the traits of this disorder, they're really addressed in Scripture. And so these are things that we can all struggle with from time to time. This particular one is called NPD. You're like. Well, I'm still not following you, Pastor Brock. Well, that stands for narcissistic personality disorder. Many just use the buzzword narcissism. And when we use that word, I want to dissuade us from thinking here. Actually, we have to be careful when we heard hear the word narcissistic or narcissistic Narcissism. I actually, in a weird way, think it's a fun word to say. That is not a trait of a narcissist. Let's be clear on that right now. But when people use that word, it can be a very broad brush in which to paint a variety of negative characteristics within people, but actually that are common. As I've been studying this, to most, probably all of us, in one form or another. Now that doesn't mean that what I'm saying is we all need To be clinically diagnosed as narcissists. That's not at all what I'm saying. In fact, it's interesting that in our country, only a little over five percent of people People within the US are officially diagnosed with this label or this disorder, and uh that professionals say there is a list of these traits that is included in this disorder in a narcissistic dis a um functioning narcissist. And there we will we were we are going to carefully but briefly go through Through these traits. But you have to be you have to be characterized with at least five of them or more in order to even be officially clinically diagnosed. Diagnosed in this way. So that means that it's not just you have one of these traits. And you're automatically labeled in that way. Let's be clear. Because as we're going to find out, folks, and what I find interesting that I think will be helpful for us, we're going to find that these traits individually, that all of us to one extent or another struggle with. And if the world is pointing to these struggles and saying that's a problem, then as Christians I think we ought to look at and say, Yeah, I need to be careful. Because the world is watching. I need to be careful Just a little bit more information here. A narcissist, by definition, is someone with a pervasive pattern of grandiosity, need for admiration, and lack of empathy. There are many theories as to why people Will develop this disorder. Perhaps they were, here's a quote from one article, someone was super indulged, always told that he or she was special or better than other kids. And never given limits, whatever. Again, our goal here is not to clinically diagnose. I wouldn't be interested in that anyway. As a pastor, I I am thankful and glad to offer biblical counsel. That's my wheelhouse, that's what I do. And we can do that with this this morning. So don't worry. We're not going to be passing out labels. I don't have anybody in mind. I'm labeling a narcissist this morning. Okay, let's be clear. But we are from a biblical perspective going to look at the common traits in this disorder that are prevalent, and we're going to see actually are prevalent in at least one or two or more. in all of us that we struggle with. And remember folks, the world is watching. So we need to be careful. So I want as we start this this brief series, I do want us to make a play Okay, now I'm not gonna have you raise your right hand and repeat after me. But I do want us to be willing to do something, which is actually the attitude that I actually expect every And that is that as we hear these things, we're not thinking of all the other people in the room that need to hear hear this message. Because one thing that you will find out, and somebody that's clinically diagnosed as a narcissist is that they never think it's it's them. They always think it's everybody else. So we're not doing ourselves any favors, folks, if we're not looking inward. So please don't be out there saying it's about time somebody tackled this within the church. I got a list. No, no. We're going to pledge that as we look at these things, we're looking at each of us because folks really every message that I bring, this is my philosophy, just in case you didn't know this, is that everything that comes from God's Word from this pulpit are things that each of us need To examine every time. We don't just clock out in a certain message and say, oh, that's not for me. That's not applicable. I don't struggle with that. No. No, not at all. But we're always looking inward. What did the disciples say when Jesus announced who the betrayer was, Judas? Each of them didn't say, I knew it, I knew it was him, the way that he had shifty eyes and the way that he looked and acted. No, each of them said, Lord, is it me? That's the attitude that we need to have as we start this study together. So, one of the common attributes Of this particular disorder, and this is the one we're going to talk about today, is a high level of self-importance. Today we're going to talk about the delusion Of high self-importance. And we're going to look at a number of passages, okay? So get ready. Because folks, Scripture does have ways to address. These traits. And we all need to be aware of them. First of all, humility versus an exaggerated sense of one's own self-importance. An NPD trait, number one, is an inflated sense of one's own significance and achievements, often leading to an excessive boastful behavior. Like, I'm the one. And folks, this isn't really, we're not just saying, let's be clear here. I want to be careful. Um we're not saying that if if you uh we'll let's put it this way, we're not saying that uh anyone that feels like they're special or distinct is special. Struggling with this, right? Let's be clear. God has given each and every person in the church distinct and special gifts and has a unique and specific place for them to serve in the church. And each of us, if you want to put this away in a general sense, are special not because of our own intrinsic, because we're sinners. Our in our intrinsic righteousness are deep. But because Jesus died on a cross for us. We're valuable. Okay? But when we start to get the idea, well, I'm not just special, I'm really special. In fact, I don't know how this church ministry or this business or this family could get along without me. That's the type of thing we're talking about here. Reminds me one time, um, many years ago, uh I've been in ministry for a long time and I was ministering to a group of young adults and we were headed to an amusement park. This is like decades Decades ago. And we were coming back and one of the moms was driving, and the van on the way back from this amusement park was having issues and was smoking. And so we had to pull off. Um, and I I think I mentioned there was a dating couple in this group, this ministry group. We were having a good fellowship together. I pulled off Off with them. I was driving another vehicle. And um the young man in particular, because they had just he had just started dating and was very interested in this young lady, he had um a important desire to show himself off as knowledgeable. So I remember him immediately going underneath the hood. They raise up the hood and he's He's looking around. He's like, well, could be the carburetor. Could be this. Well, you know what though? It could be this over here, the starter. You know, there might be this issue. And, you know, this young lady that he's dating is looking at him like, Wow, he really knows what he's talking about and is still smoking. And I you know, I didn't now trust me, I'm not like the auto mechanic of all auto mechanics are Okay, once in a while I can get something right, and I just happen to get it right this day. Most of the time I wouldn't. But the way it was smoking and everything, I thought, you know, this looks like it's something much more simplistic. And so I checked it, and sure enough, I just pulled out the dipstick, the oil, and it was totally dry And you know, the mom was all concerned and everything. And then when I just said, well guys, I said it's none of that. It's actually much more simple. Um, you don't have any oil in the car. And you could tell the mom was relieved, but the young lady was like, oh Here's this guy that passed himself off as the expert in giving all these different things that could be and it's just the oil? Man, you can just hear a little bit deflated or and he was very sheepish at that point and just kind of went back But he had been trying to portray himself as an expert or one that was important and um very, very needed in the situation and he had inflated his value in that moment. That's what this people these keep this character trait, what they tend to do. If we're not careful, folks, and we see God use us in ministry, we're gonna we're gonna keep this in a ministry setting but in family as well. And God uses us and we're successful. If we're not careful, there can be times where we think, you know, the way that God is using me, I'm obviously Obviously, I am very needed in this ministry. And you know, you you get a lot of, you may get some compliments And you may get some fame and popularity as a result of whatever God has done in your ministry. We have to be careful to never place ourselves in the The position where we think we are necessary for God to do his work. That ought to be a red flag. Let's look at some verses that help us. Not that we aren't important in ministry, each person that administers in the church Each member of the body is important. But how do we keep from inflating our importance to where it becomes Noticable to all that really we're just kind of indulging pride and arrogance. Turn to Romans 12, verses 3 and 5. Romans twelve verses three and five. Three through five. Most of these verses are verses that we know well, but they really help us to get a handle on struggles. that we have. If we think, if we have an exaggerated sense of our own importance , Like we are the VIP in this church, or in this family, or in this business. Paul says, For by grace, the grace given to me, I say to everyone Among you, not to think of himself or herself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. Paul starts right out in verse 3. He says, I say to everyone in the church, do not think of yourselves more highly than is appropriate. Wow. Paul was addressing this whole, these narcissistic traits before it was cool to talk about it. But he says, whoa, think with sober judgment. Be realistic. This doesn't mean that you can't be thankful, folks, for how God is using you in the lives of your family. In the lives of your ministry, in the lives of your community. Be thankful for that. But with sober judgment, not an attitude of arrogance. Remember that this is all God's work. If you have an automatic back pattern that you're using all the time Need to put that away. Because a reasonable assessment is thankful for what how God has used you and And is thankful for the gifts and all of us are gifted. God gives some more gifts than others, but they're all gifts from God. They're nothing that we deserve a huge amount of praise and recognition. It's all God. So Paul says, be careful. This is a common problem. This means that even though this is a trait of this disorder, we all have a tendency to think Think we're more important than we are. Be careful. And then he gives the counter to this For as in one body, we have many members. The members now all have the same function. So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individual members one of another. Folks, if you Are in a particular ministry saying, Well, I am more important in my position in what I do than everybody else, you are at fault and you have a wrong attitude because every member is important. That's what Paul is saying here. Don't assert yourself and be prideful and think that you have a that you are more necessary than anyone else in this ministry because God has a lot of people working and serving, and they all have value. And so to counter this trait of an exaggerated sense of self-importance, one One of the things is to look around you and make sure that you are not looking at yourself as superior over others. That would be a false view of your own importance. And it would be wrong. And the world notices things like this And so we want to be a proper representation for Christ. Philippians 2, 3 through 7. Let's continue. Again, I warned you, we have a lot of verses to go through. Philippians 2, 3 through 7. It says, Do nothing from selfish ambition or consent. deceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Look each let each of you look not only to his own interest, but also to the interest of others. Have this mind among yourselves which is yours in Christ's Jesus, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of Amen. the city of the world. Paul is so apt to do this, but he points to our ultimate example in Jesus Christ. And this is so important, folks. If you struggle with a sense of your own importance that's um that's higher than it should be, always remember Jesus. Christ. Who is the one human being who lived on this earth that was totally worthy of all praise and honor and glory? It was our Savior Jesus Christ. And he left the throne room of heaven where he was receiving constantly all of that glory from the angels. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Jesus appropriately deserved all of that praise constantly. In a way that no one else ever does on this earth. That's another sign, a red flag, folks. If you think you're worthy of honor and glory. Be careful. There's really only one person worthy of that, and that's Jesus Christ. And he was worthy and he received all of it, and yet what did he do? He humbled himself. He took the weakest, lowest stance he could from the glories of heaven and became man, became fully human Furthermore, he gave himself up for us on a cross and died a criminal's death. If you struggle with this trait, folks, oh, let Jesus be your example. And so Paul says, be humble. Count others more significant than yourself. yourselves. Stop being the one that you feel is the most significant out of the whole group and the most important. But look at the value and significance of others and recognize that. Don't just be all about yourself. But notice that other people have interests and have concerns and have struggles too. Get your focus off your own self-importance. And notice, really notice people around you. Their gifts, their contributions , their struggles. minister to them. Jesus is our example. And I should say, to be clear, as we go through the traits, the world can kind of tend to look at this and and look at this disorder and say, well, you know, in some cases there's just no hope. Probably the best thing you want to do is just avoid them. And not be around them. Well, is that really helpful for the person that has the disorder? No, folks. I want to confidently say that there is hope for For all people that struggle with all different kinds of sin struggles, and it comes from God's Word. So you can be victorious over these things. You don't have to be defeated by an exaggerated sense of self-importance. Quickly go to Proverbs 6, 18 through 19, Old Testament. Oh, it is Proverbs sixteen through nineteen. Here is one of the sobering things about pointing out out these traits, folks, as they they are very damaging to families and to relationships. And even the secular world notes these, that great damage can come From people that don't deal with these traits in their lives. Proverbs 16, verse 13 Verse 18 Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the spoil with the proud. This is such interesting verses but here it says that if you don't deal with your own sense of pride and self-importance you will cause great damage to yourself but I think all Also in context here to others. And it is noted by the world in all these articles that I've read about narcissism, about narcissistic personality disorder. That one of the reasons the world warns of this is because it does such great damage within families. Let's say you're a husband, a father, and most of your life you spend focusing on yourself and your own accomplishments. There's damage done to your family. There's damage done to your kids. Because you're so self-absorbed that you can't notice those around you Get ready for the fall, folks. If we don't humble ourselves and repent of this, get ready for a fall. And then it says something interesting here. It's better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the spoil with the proud. This is what I kind of, I'm not reading into this too much. One of the applications I take from this is, hey, the poor, those in a low lowly spirit, are the humble, okay? They may not experience all the successes That those that are wealthy and in the know, and what the world says are the truly gifted and talented people, and the Uh the the man who wrote this proverb is saying, you know, it's better for you to be humble and maybe to be in a group that isn't as successful as far as the world's concerned. Because one of the things that a narcissist struggles with is that they have to be successful. They just have to succeed. I mean, there's there's just there you you if you fail, it's all over for your reputation, for your life. And yet, this proverb says, hey, sometimes it's better to be with those that struggle and that are poor and that are humble than to be with all the successful people. And divide the spoil the spoil together from your all of your successes. In other words, better to be humble before God and not be a successor As the world says you are, than to be proud and arrogant and exaggerated self importance and always be among the ones that have success. Oh, it's great marketing to be able to point to yourself and say, hey, look at all my successes. Better folks. to be humble. Let's look at one more trait. And again, that's why we have a number of weeks to get through all of these Concern for many rather than the special association with a few. NPD trait number two is that these folks maintain selective associations attempting to only associate with high status or high-achieving people. You know, when I want an answer, I only go straight to the top. I want to go to the one who's on top that I can get the answer from. And folks, that's not always a bad thing. I understand sometimes practical, I understand the need to do that. Sometimes it's the people at the top that I only have the answers. But what this is describing is, hey, I'm I'm important and special enough that I should only have to talk with those that are as important and special Special as me. That would be a wrong attitude. Let's just look at a couple verses. James 2, 1 through 4. The sense of because I'm so important and special, I really, most of my time needs to be devoted to those that understand how special and important. I am and who are successful and have achieved things in and of themselves. That's where I need to spend most of my time. Really? James two, one through four. My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in. And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, oh, you sit here in a good place. And then by the way, the context is, and I will spend most of my time with you. While the other one says, the poor man, you say, uh um, just just go over there. Yeah, just just sit over there. Somebody will get to you. Won't be me, but somebody will get to you Or sit down at my feet. Oh, we don't have enough seating. Just the floor will be fine for you. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil Thoughts. Pastors on down can fall prey to this. Or we look at the people we think are the most successful, the most wealthy, the most accomplished, and oh, I want to spend time with them. And if I only have enough time after a church service To get to those people, those are the people I'm going to make a beeline for, and everybody else, well, somebody will minister to them. I mean Pastor can't do it all. And that's true. The pastor can't do it all. But if the pastor is focused on only getting to the people that he thinks are important and successful for the good of the church. He's falling prey to this negative characteristic that shouldn't be a part of his life, and the world is watching. I guess that leader doesn't have time for these folks over here, for these hurting folks over here. Did Jesus make time for the successful and the hurting? Oh, he did. In fact, you can make an argument that he spent much more time with the hurting and the humble than he did with the arrogant and self-absorbed. Romans twelve, sixteen, we'll end with this Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. What is Paul saying here? Don't miss this. He's saying, in order to have harmony within the church, but I'll take it further, I think, in application. In your home, among your friendships? He's saying, Don't be prideful. Don't be filled. Haughty means filled with your own self-importance. But associate with the lowly. That's how you keep the peace. That's how you keep a unified group together is when you may have some accomplishments and God maybe has elevated you to a certain stance, but whether you are a part of that group or not, people know you care. The people in this church ministry for our leaders, do they know you care? Or is there a sense, well, those folks To everyone in this room, do others look at you as one that cares For them, even though they may not have as many friends and aren't as important in some ways? Or are you known as a person that just talks to certain people that they're familiar with? Concern for the many rather than special association with a few We need to be careful, folks. One that has this difficulty and these challenges. Tend to act something like this. Hey, you never you ever know notice I guess um in fast food is more common now, but they always talk about hey limit time offer You better get it now, because it's only gonna be here for a certain amount of time, and then you're gonna I think uh the Chick-fil-A peach milkshake is like that. And I look forward to that time of year. And I don't care that maybe what the ingredients are of that milkshake, I just know it's good. And I look forward, but they always around you, it's a limited time. And we get that. Folks, I'm not trying to be too tongue in cheek here, but we have to be careful as individuals that we're not acting like Like, hey, church family, hey, my family, I'm a limited time offer. You better do your best to try to make the most of your time with me now. Because who knows how long I'll be here. Folks, that is arrogant. That is prideful. God help us to be careful to not have these attitudes. And I will warn you, if this was convicting today, we've got to A few more weeks. But we need to hear these things. Did I mention the world is watching us? Yeah. Now we made a pledge at the beginning. Let's pledge it in here. Here, that we're going to find a balance. I just heard, even in the past week, a story of a young pastor who was deemed by the congregation that he was, whatever, too prideful, too. Arrogant, a little too self-absorbed. So they asked him to step down. But then they publicly labeled him as a narcissistic behavior and said, You can't be in leadership again for another five years. That's a little excessive, in my opinion. Okay? Not a clinical diagnosis, and yet this man is suffering the consequences. Folks, we don't want to go on a witch hunt for the narcissist. in our ministry. We're not going to do that. We're going to be careful. Because as you're already hopefully already see, hey, these are traits that we we all struggle with. Now there's a balance to this because as we continue to go through this study and you're checking off these things and you're like, yeah, I struggle with that. Yeah, I struggle with that. Wow, I struggle with that. Wow, uh six, seven, eight of these so far. And man, Pastor has feel I feel like I've been nailed on all of these. Well then, folks Can I ask you, do some humble self-evaluation and repent and seek at least biblical Counsel. There may be other things that you need to do for the sake of your family, for the sake of your community, for your friends. There may be other steps you need to take. But if you're finding as we go through this study, wow, I really relate to a lot of that, you need to be honest. There's a problem. But the power of Jesus Christ can give us victory over it all. And that's our hope There's hope for the narcissist. There's hope for all of us as sinners before God. And that hope is found in Jesus Christ. Father, thank you as we start down this road and we're honest. We're really having an honest conversation. Lord, because we understand that the world has honest conversations about churches, not just about communities and about corporations and businesses, but the world has honest conversations Conversations about about churches and are watching to see if these concerns that they have are a part Of the Christian community. Lord, I pray that you would help us. We all have a tendency to self-exaggerate our own importance. Where we all have a tendency to, whenever conversation we get into, take the oxygen out of that conversation by making it all about us. Help us to do better. Help us to be more reflective in humility of Jesus Christ, who really truly did deserve all the honor and glory. And gave it all away so that he could die for our pride and our arrogance. And Father, if there is one here today that still needs Needs to trust in Jesus. May they see their sin of pride and arrogance and the sins that keep them from a relationship with you and condemn them for all eternity, and that they would trust Turn to Jesus, who provides everything that they need, to have forgiveness of sin, to have victory over sin, and have eternal life. With you forever. Lord, if there is one here today who has not put their faith and trust in Jesus and relying on Him for their eternal salvation, may today be the day Day that they put their faith and trust in Jesus. And so, folks, as I say these things, you take some time and reflect as Leslie plays.