The glory belongs to our Lord Jesus Christ, our Heavenly Father. Our children have gone out for children's church. Again, with this series the next few weeks, we're going to be turning to lots of scripture. So Just kind of go ahead and limber up those fingers, get them ready, do some exercises or whatever, so you're ready to turn to the different passages. We just didn't have, I didn't We didn't have the ability, or maybe we we do, but it seemed like a lot to try to promote, project all of these scripture passages. So just get ready with your Bibles And as I was preparing for the series again today, I have to go through something that is not enjoyable per se. on a regular basis as I am uploading messages to the server. Many of you have asked about last week's message. It is up online. It's on sermonaudio. com, which is where we stream and where our the sermons are stored. You can also go to our website and uh click on the website and find the sermons that are available But one of the lamentumal things I have to do is actually listen to myself, at least partially. I don't listen to the full message because there's just something about Not that I'm um trying to be delinquent or anything about scripture and and but just hearing yourself, right? So I noticed um at the beginning of last week's message that I spent a long time in the prelude and I almost felt I felt like I needed to apologize for that. I didn't announce the topic until five or more minutes in and kept you all on edge for a while. So today we're going to jump right into it. And it is this thing, as I mentioned last week, that um it has continued in my reading. and tracing of popular trends and and hearing buzzwords and things in our society today, this topic just continued to impress itself upon Upon me, to the point where I prayed and said, Lord, is this the time? And I believe the Lord gave me freedom to touch on this particular, what the world refers to as a disorder. We're not trying to diagnose disorders this morning by any means. As I said last week, we're not going to be standing at the door passing out disorder labels to everyone. one that goes through that would be a little excessive. Okay? But the the world is cued in to a number of, shall we say, negative character characteristic negative character traits that even though they may excess on these sometimes, there is some value in noting, as I said last week, if the world has concerns about particular character issues, and those concerns line up with Christians' concerns Concerns, we ought to take notice. It is valuable to do that. And so as I looked at this particular, what's referred to as a disorder, NPD , Known more characteristically as narcissistic personality disorder. Narcissism is a buzzword. You hear about it a lot. And I think it certainly is appropriate to address it from the pulpit as well because as I was doing some reading and studying on these things and reading the the traits of one who is diagnosed in this way I began to realize you know In a more general sense, these are traits that we all tend to struggle with. Now, in order to be diagnosed with NPD, narcissistic personality disorder, try to say that fast five times. later after the service. We're not trying to diagnose , but remember that you have to have at least five of these. We may go with eight to nine Traits that we may cover in order to be clinically diagnosed as a narcissist. So we're not trying to do that this morning, but each of these Traits are, I believe, are common and are a temptation to us at particular times, and we need to note them because the world is noting these things. And if they are seeing any of these traits in our life and wanting to put a label on us, even if unfairly , We need to do our best through the help of the Holy Spirit to get victory over these things in our life. And the Bible does address all of these character traits. that are a part of this personality disorder. The Bible has things to say very clearly. Many of these verses are verses that you know well. But we don't always apply to ourselves. So I want to take some time to look through this this morning. So I I have, I don't even think I came up with the official title last week. But this series is biblical insights on narcissistic traits. And we're working through what's what I call destructive, exaggerated self-importance. Now again, remember our pledge, okay? If uh there is one that is a clinical diagnosed narcissist, that person will never admit it because they really they have a strong tendency to never see this in their own. lives. So what we don't want to do during the series is say it's about time somebody, and I'm glad Pastor Brock is finally preaching on this because I got a list of people that need to hear it. And folks, I don't have a list, to be clear, of people that I was thinking needed to hear this. This again w was born of realizing that I hear about this a lot, that I read about it a lot. And I think that it is valuable information. So our pledge again is to consider our own hearts. To say as we go through these traits, do I have a tendency toward this particular trait? And if I do, Lord, help me to be more humble. Help me to be more focused on honoring God than I am about trust. trying to promote myself. So we looked at a few of these traits last week. The NPD trait number one. an inflated sense of one's own significance and achievements, often leading to excessive, boastful behavior, thinking that You are the most important person in most situations, whether it's ministry, whether it's your family, whether it's your work, the whole idea of this these people can't get along without me. And sometimes we say that, sometimes we feel that because we end up in situations where we have been put, a lot of responsibility has been put on us. And we wonder sometimes, man, if I wasn't here, how would this? We're not talking about that kind of helpful meditation. Meditation on, you know, I think I might be doing too much and if if I you know left to have to do something else or or moved on um there would be a a real void here. We're not talking about that kind of evaluation but it is a wow I I really am a very important person no I really am I should have a VIP label or plaque on my desk. A number of years ago in one of our vacation Bible schools, our church loves vacation Bible school. And there was, I I forget the theme actually. Oh, it's called Incred World, and it was about an amusement party. And I remember joking around, we always have a really fun play that goes with the theme of the BBS. And I was working with the players for that VBS drama. And one of them, you remember, Pastor Condic's daughter, Amanda Kondick. conduct. She had a part in it that was a media person. And we would joke back and forth because one of her lines was just epic. I mean it was just and she she enjoyed I she just it was just a fun one to say. If I had had her part I would have loved to say it to. She said she would come into a situation and she would repeat, you know, I am a pretty important person. And so every time I would see her, I would say, Hey Amanda, I've heard that, yes, that you are a very important person. And she would say, Yeah, no, I remember was it was I'm kind of a big deal. And I would say, are you kind of a big deal? And we would joke about that. But folks, really, if if we're talking about somebody that really truly in any situation is standing there talking And thinking, yeah, I'm kind of a big deal. I really am. That's the kind of trait we're talking about. That God says should not be a part of our attitude or a part of our outlook. Again , He says in Philippians gives us the perspective of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who really truly deserved the glory and the work of God. Of heaven and left it all to die a criminal's death on a cross for our sin. One that truly deserved the praise. And how dare those of us who do not deserve the praise, who are sinners and who are broken and have many needs, to take on the idea that we are always thinking that we're the most important important person in the room. We need a humility check because pride goes before destruction. We also saw another NPD trait that these folks maintain selective associations attempting to only associate with high status or high-achieving people. And we saw from God's Word where it says we need to be willing to minister and serve and fellowship with all kinds of people, not just the VIP click within the church that you know we're we're more important than everybody else and this church. can't get along without us, or or at work where we only hang around with the people that we know can help get us farther up the ladder. And so we think in our own minds, I'm important, they're important, let's hang out together and help each other. In an excessive way when we when we're consumed by that. And thus we only hang out with the particular group of people that we have um We have already checked through and made sure that they they can help us to be successful rather than just noticing the people around us who need ministry, the people that are poor, the people that need help. And be willing to minister to all kinds of people. We need God's intervention in our lives when we have that kind of attitude. Well, here's another one, the third trait. This is new today. I want to encourage us to choose meekness and contriteness over excessive recognition An MPD trait number three is that these folks crave constant admiration, requiring excessive attention and praise from others. And there's different aspects of this. Some people can be constantly seeking praise, or at other times there are other people that struggle with this trait. Again, we're not diagnosing. But if you struggle with this trait, it may be the exact opposite, that you are always seeking to have people feel sorry for you. Either way, it's desiring excessive attention on yourself. rather than noticing other people around you. Sometimes we seek praise and there are some that seek sorry. They want everybody to feel sorry for them And that's a trait. These are things that are not appropriate. It's not appropriate for God's people to be obsessive about seeking attention. Are you an attention seeker? When you come into the room, is it become very apparent very quickly or in a conversation that you consider yourself The most important individual in that group? Well, God has some things to say about that, as you would expect. Turn to Matthew 6, and this is one that we know well But it's a good application. Matthew six, verses one through six Jesus says, He's giving a warning here, beware of your of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they might be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that you may be giving may be in secret, and your father who is in secret will reward you. And he goes into the same thing with prayer. I'll get to that in a minute. We might tend to scoot by this, and there's a lot that I could say about this. We're just not going to take time today because we're talking about the general principle here. But we might look at this and say, yeah, you know what? I don't make a big deal about my giving. In fact, Pastor Brock, as you know, we have an offering box out in the foyer. and you just put it in the box and really nobody except the budget and finance people that are counting know. And so yeah, I think I'm pretty good on that. But folks, it's much more than just one example. It is a spirit of one who is ministering to others and doing what they're doing in church to receive their praise now. And one that is obsessive about making sure that everyone in the church knows what they're doing and what they accomplished And making sure, you know, that they're that they're recognized. Jesus says, No, no. Here these religious leaders were giving and they were making it clear as the as it was announced the opportunities and the times to give at the temple, these leaders were making it clear, look how much I'm giving. Aren't I a wonderful person? Don't I deserve your admiration and respect? Really, if we want to diagnose anybody as narcissists that might be the religious leaders at this time. Right? They wanted all the attention on themselves. Jesus says, No, no, that's ugly. And if you do that, don't expect reward from your heavenly father. You've already sought that out. No, the Father rewards those Who do things and let's just say we don't don't misunderstand. It's not as if everything that you do in ministry you have to shh Shhh! Don't tell anybody because if they find out what I did, God's not gonna honor it, He's not gonna be pleased. That's not what we're talking about, right? But we are talking about just serving with people know about it or not. Sometimes sometimes we do mention these things. Sometimes I as a pastor have called people up and in a humble way recognizing that God has accomplished. the work. I've said, I'm thankful for these people who have done this and have served faithfully for many years. That's not wrong to do that. But when those same people also do and serve in other ways and nobody ever finds out about it, that's the type of spirit. Whether you get on it or not, it doesn't I don't care. Really, God deserves all the honor anyway. He's the one that did all this through me. He's the one that accomplished all this. So, I mean it's wow, thank you, Lord, that you know I probably the best thing about if you're honored in public is not to feed your own um grandeur and desire for self self-exaltation. No, the greatest thing about being honored when God chooses to honor you in his time is that you get to see, wow, my service for God was valuable. God used me. That's awesome. Thank you, Lord, for using me. And take that time when you are recognized to say thank you. Thank you, Lord. It's just good to know I'm being used. And folks, if you have that attitude, it makes all of service so much more wonderful. Let God be the one that exalts you in due time. Don't seek that excessive attention and praise yourself. And God in his due time will seek. The same with your prayers, and when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners That they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. Okay. Again, is this saying that we shouldn't have public prayer? Well, absolutely not. Or I'd be the biggest violator of uh what I'm saying right now when uh I ask Someone else to pray publicly or when I'm praying publicly. But it shouldn't be something where we're like, wow, the opportunity to have all eyes on me, and I better get this prayer right and I better memorize it and and And I'd say everything just right to really impress people. Oh, what a great opportunity. That's not what our attitude should be. But it is, praise the Lord, I get to lead The people in worship and point people to him with my prayer. What a wonderful thing. But now I'm going to go back and just pray to him every day quietly, not expecting recognition. Because God's called us to pray. That is the humble spirit that God blesses. Not seeking grandiose attention From large groups of people. Turn to Galatians one ten. Galatians 1:10 For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. Paul says here. That he is an error. If in what he was doing for the Lord he was seeking approval from man Now Paul talks about a lot of things that he did in ministry. In almost every letter that he wrote, he will give a list of some kind of things that God enabled him and allowed him to do in ministry. But his point here is, I do none of this to please man. To get the praise of men. But I am doing this because God's called me to serve His Son, Jesus Christ. I'm a humble servant. And I get to do a lot of cool things. And I get to tell you about them. But I'm not trying to seek anybody's approval or recognition in God will handle all of that. Because we might say and think thinking through this, well Paul, what what do you have to talk about? You're you know, you might if if you misunderstand what Paul is doing in all of this, and um you're thinking about this principle about bringing constant attention. to yourself. You might look at the letters of Paul and say, well, Paul's always talking about himself. Paul's Paul's many times going through lists of things that that he did and things that he did for the Lord. And is isn't that Pastor Brock then what you're saying that that we shouldn't be involved in? No, it's it's good. It's good for us to be able to give accounts to our local church body. In trying to bring application to this, we would never say anything ludicrous like, well, you know, folks, for missions conference this year, we were going to have our missionaries come. and give testimony. But we realized after Pastor Brock 's message on narcissism that we really shouldn't um be putting attention on anybody's deeds or or anybody's ministry. So um we're just gonna try to have a Bible conference with without anybody talking about what God's been doing in their lives. So the missionary comes on up and don't they don't know what to say. And I mean, you get the point. It's ludicrous. No, there are appropriate times to mention what God is doing in our lives, to give a report, to help people to understand and to honor God. It's a beautiful thing when myself or one of our missionaries, Dr. Erickson, gets up and just recounts everything God Did. And we just say it was all the Lord. But isn't it wonderful that He used broken vessels like us to be able to do that? That's a humble presentation. Somebody might look at Moses and say, didn't Moses write the first five books of the Pentateuch? Or not the Pentateuch? The first five books which are the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Old Testament. Yeah, Moses wrote those books, and you know, most of those books are all about Moses and his leadership. Man , what a self-promoter. Boy, he must be a narcissist. And yet that's not at all what's going on. The Holy Spirit might respond with, no, actually, uh Moses was one of the one of the weak the meekest the meekest man in his generation. Um I, the Holy Spirit, told him to write those things. So don't question it. You see the difference? It's good to give testimony, but it's wrong to seek, and it's ugly. To seek recognition for your own sake and your own self-aggrandizement. Turn to 1 Peter 5, verses 5-7. It says, likewise you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourself, all of you, with humility toward one another. For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you Casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. What is Peter saying here? He's saying, you serve in humility. Not to promote yourself. Not to use ministry as a vehicle to show people how wonderful you are. Peter says, No, you serve in humility, submitting to the Lord, and God will in due time exalt you. Let him do the honoring. And again, folks, it's beautiful when God allows opportunity for his humble servants to be honored. Because then the right response to that, and for those of you that may be mentioned in the future, for things that you have accomplished for the Lord. Lord, if I mention you as the pastor, or we ever have some out here and honoring them for their long life of service, don't be embarrassed by that and say, oh no. I look, everybody, I'm not a narcissist, okay? I know I was called up here, but please don't think no that you don't have to worry about that. Because the point of it is, is that we're saying what these folks have done for God is valuable. We're recognizing God's work in them. They have accomplished needing needy, valuable ministry, and we praise God for that. That's a good thing that encourages the whole church because the church sees people like that and says, Wow, maybe God can use me too. Yeah. Maybe I can take a trip. Maybe I can get more involved in church. I've kind of just been sitting back and listening a lot. Maybe I can get more involved and God can use me too. Not so that I can self-promote myself and get more friends and um you know uh Just d try to get my name out there more, but just so that I can be a useful tool for God's purpose. You see the difference in the attitudes? Let's look at one more here real quickly. These traits, there's another trait. That these folks trait number four, they live life with a large sense of entitlement in which rules don't apply to them, and there is little expression of gratitude for what others do for them. And folks, I want to admonish us we should choose gratitude and humility over a sense of entitlement in this regard. Turn to Luke 17. Luke 17, verses 7 through 10. And it says in verse 7 , Will any of you who has a servant ploughing or keeping sheep say to him when he has come in from the field, Come in at once and rely recline at the table. Will he not rather say to him, Prepare supper for me and dress properly, and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you will eat and drink? Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded, say, We are unworthy servants. We have only done what was our duty. Again, there are a lot of things that I could say about this particular passage, but this is the one I want to focus on. And the the point is Jesus in this description here, uh this illustration, is talking about those servants that he has called to serve him. And the concern that some might have that some people get had to work this long and some Some people get to do this, and what about me and why are I not honored in this way? Jesus is saying, No, that would be the wrong response. The only right response is, hey, we're unworthy servants. We're all unworthy servants. We've only done what was our duty. So instead of a sense of entitlement rather than a ministry, or in our friend groups or in our workplaces. Now I don't mean, I'm not talking about a sense of expectation that if I do good work work and I'm an honest person and I have good character, that I should get a raise and and be promoted and and those those are acceptable things to expect. But when you're just walking around with a a sense of hey I I'm an important person, a very important person. And I of course I should have this level of honor and this position because I deserve it. Don't you know who I am? And it certainly that gets ugly when we are in ministry situations. Don't you know how long I've been serving in this church? Don't you know what position I have? Why I can name off for you a dozen different things that I've Done in this ministry, and you know, we wouldn't say this, but in effect, what we're kind of saying is, hey, you know, in this ministry, uh, people know me. I'm I'm kind of a big deal. And actually, what we should be saying is, hey, we're all unworthy. I don't want to be too glib about this, but in one sense you can kind of say I'm just doing my job. I'm just serving. Look what all of Jesus Christ has done for me. Well, of course I would give my life back to Him and serve Him. Um I I'm not going to wrangle about what position I have. Whatever we should have this attitude, folks, in the end. Whatever God wants to do with me or how He wants to use me in this Ministry, that's fine. If it's cleaning bathrooms, or if it's teaching a class, or if it's leading in a particular way Wherever God calls me, whatever part of the body, whatever organ of the church body with Christ as the head that God gives to me or calls me Me out to do. I'm fine with that. Because whether from the pastor on down, we're all in the end sinners saved by grace. We're all unworthy. There's not a one of us that are worthy of exaltation and worthy to demand that we get a certain position within the church or whatever. The right response is I just serve. I'm a servant of Jesus Christ. Whatever he calls me to do, I do. Because he gave his life for me, and he gave me grace and has given me eternal life. And I wasn't worthy of any of that. So I'll serve the best I can, knowing I will get in line and do my part. First Corinthians. Look, let's let's finish up with First Corinthians four, six through seven. Turn there. And while you're turning there, just thinking through that whole thing about entitlement and finding out um You know, and did you do you ever have a point in your life where you started to realize, you know, this hopefully it's not ministry, but sometimes it can be a ministry. or this corporation or this place where I work, there are there are rules that are they say are expected of everyone, but they don't seem to always apply to everyone. Like some seem like they're More important and get they they raise themselves above the rules or or they're considered above what their expectations are of other people. I remember that experience as a middle school age child in ministry. And that was, I remember that my parents were very faithful in a lot of A lot of different ways in church ministry, and one of the things that they loved, especially my mom. I think my dad just kind of did it because my mom was there and he just wanted to kind of make her happy and sing with her. But they would both sing in our choir. My mom Loved to sing. And the church choir met specifically on Wednesday night after the prayer meeting, you know, which is a bigger deal then than it is today, but there was a good portion of people there at the church afterwards, uh the parents, the the folks would stay behind for the choir, they'd practice. And what that meant for the kids for a while anyway was that the kids then had the run of the rest of the property. 'Cause mom and dad was too busy following the director and they weren't able to keep tabs. And so I think I was in fourth grade and uh we made the most of it between myself, my three brothers and the other kids' family families and maybe we got into a little bit of trouble. I won't go into all the detail of that. But we we really stretched that freedom to a point where the adults and the pastor said, look, if you're going to have choir practice this time after Wednesday night prayer service, you'd better figure out something to do with your kids. They were getting a little out of control. So they did. They came up with this idea, but they didn't tell us about it really. I remember finding out we were getting ready to do something that was or just you know kind of ta we were talking with our friends and and roaming around the church and one of a young man came up who was college age or maybe he was in his mid-twenties and he said guess what guys we've got a brand new class for all you rebels. I mean kids. And we're gonna meet at the same time that your parents are are uh practicing for choir we're gonna to meet up in this room and we need to come with me now and we're gonna we're gonna sing songs and we're gonna have a good time. Well for those of us that had enjoyed that freedom that really didn't sound very interesting to us. And so he had to be a little bit more adamant, know um the leadership and your parents have decided that you're going to enjoy this special class. Okay. And I remember him coming to me and said, Brock, here you go. Now Now there was, I was standing and talking to, let's just say, a son of a ministry leader. And this same young man turned to him and said, Hey, so-and-so, are you coming? And he kind of looked and said, Well, he's like, um, I got some other things that that um I really need to do. And he turned around and just kind of stared at a wall. And I remember him the young adult looking at me like, well, he'll he'll come. He'll come soon. And so he marched me on up to class. And do you know the son of that ministry leader never showed up? And as I was as a fourth grade young man, having to do songs with hand motions along with kind Kindergartners of and six year olds. I began to think of my friend that somehow got out of having to be a part of that class and wondered if he was just roaming around still looking at walls while I was having to do these hand motions. And it began to dawn on me, you know, sometimes there are rules that don't apply to everybody, including obviously this Ministry leader's son. Well, we can have a little bit of fun with that, folks, but you know that when in a ministry, when we have um situations where there are expectations in a ministry and some people put themselves above that and say, well, that's for thee, not for me. There can be a lot of contention. And a lot of concern. And especially if we have that attitude of, well, you know, I'm part of this group where the rules don't apply And if we tend to live our life that way, whether it's the speed limit, whether it's local government, whether it's rules within our workplace sooner or later we're going to find ourselves in conflict and contention. And it is, the world is watching. It is one of the characteristics Characteristics that people will tend to label as narcissistic. That's unfair, but it happens. So we need to be careful. Look at 1 Corinthians 4, 6 through 7. I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written. That none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as you did not receive it? Paul is very pointed here. That people are puffed up and expect recognition from others because they're more important and what they're doing is more important. And he reminds them that every gift and everything that we do in ministry has been given to us by God. So what's the point of bragging and trying to promote ourselves when Paul says you didn't come up with that? God gave that to you. Why do you boast as if that's a gift that that you came up with yourself or that you inherently have? God Gave you all this. So be humble. Don't expect special privilege because of your gifts over the gifts of others. But let us have gratitude. Thank you, Lord, that you're using me in all. How ugly for me to promote myself and expect special Favors and privilege. No. Lord, thank you. I'm thankful that you were willing to use me at all. And however you want to continue to use me, that's up to you. I'm your humble servant. Faithfully yours, Brock Modsley. Or so and so. That's what our response ought to be And so you see, folks, as we continue through these traits. Now again, if you match up with one of these traits, don't be paranoid and think, oh no, I got the diagnosis, I got the disorder. Okay. Remember, it has to be five or more to be clinically diagnosed, and we're not trying to diagnose you anyway. But if there are, I have a feeling that, like me, that you may Start to see, you know, these traits are much more um are much more common. Common Struggles that all of us have, and that need to be addressed by the Holy Spirit. The world is watching, and the world is quick to give us away. label and to be cynical and to be criticizing us or call us hypocrite or narcissist or whatever. We need to do better and by God's grace and humility and gratitude. Just Be thankful we're being used in ministry. Be thankful that God has given you breath. Be thankful that God has given you a family and a job. And don't seek your own promotion, folks. But seek the glory of God in your life. Father. Help us. Help us to continue to give us understanding. Lord, these are traits that we all struggle with at one time or another And yet can be very damaging to our families and to our ministries and to our communities. So Lord, convict us even today. Help us. Give us victory over the need to constantly promote. And constantly seek special treatment. And constantly be the ones that are that are the ones that are talking in the conversation. And not listening to others. Give us victory over these things that we might be known as people that love the Lord humbly, that are grateful, thankful people, that are sweet and gentle. People, and that love others sacrificially as Jesus has loved us. Father, if there's one here who has not tasted of the love of Jesus Christ, may today be the day that they put their faith in Trust, that they ask for forgiveness of their sins that keep them from relationship with you, their pride maybe, their arrogance. And they would fully trust not in their own works, but in the power, the work of Jesus Christ. Father, if there's one here who needs relationship with Jesus, Jesus this morning, who has not put their faith and trust in him, they would do so today. Folks, if you need Jesus and you realize that your pride and your arrogance and your sin is keeping you You from relationship with God. Come talk to me. Meditate on this. You can trust Jesus today. For the rest of us, let's just admit we all struggle with times with problem. And a desire to promote ourselves. And let's ask God to give us victory over that. Think on these things as Leslie plays this morning.