So thankful for that song. We could add to that, I do need yes, the the children are going out. Uh Miss Tammy 's already down there with Daniel. Ready Ready, ready to teach. So kids are headed out and we're glad for the opportunity to minister to them. But I should add, as we were just singing that song. Um, you know, that's the same thing. And that's what we're going to see in the life of Paul as we have this introduction now to the series on Ephesians. I I really don't like to start into a New Testament letter, especially, uh, without giving some of the background. Uh sometimes I don't like to take for granted that when you Read and you could turn to the book of Ephesians, but I will tell you that we're only going to spend a few minutes in the first few verses, and then we're going to jump back to the book of Acts. Acts 18. So you can be prepared for both of those this morning. But we may come to the title of this book: The Letter of Paul to the Ephesians. So yours might read a little differently than in my Bible, in my ESV. And we may think, well, okay, Paul is writing to Ephesians. Whoever those that is, or where that is, or whoever those people are. And so I think it's good to have this background and be reminded of what happened. Why is Paul writing to this group of people? And where are the Ephesians? Where are they even located? And uh as we go back so often, most of the time Time for the background of these letters, we go to the book of Acts. Um, that is Dr. Luke's second book. He wrote the book, The Gospel, his gospel after his name. Christ. And then part two is how Jesus worked in the lives of his disciples that became the apostles, and how The gospel of Jesus Christ, the message of salvation, spread throughout the whole world. So it's a marvelous book in that way. And it's where we get our background for Many of these letters that we have written, and that's certainly the case with the book of Ephesians. There is a lot of well, it's not background material, it's the Word of God. But we Hear a lot about Paul's ministry in Ephesus. That's the city that the people he's writing to resided in. So Ephesians. These are people that live in Ephesus. This is the church in Ephesus. And the Bible has a lot to say about Paul's ministry. But as we're going to see this morning, it's not so Paul's ministry. Paul is so moved and motivated and driven by the truths of Jesus Christ That he travels the world, the known world, and he proclaims Jesus, but he doesn't leave people. You trust Christ? Faith in Christ. Okay, you believe, great. Now let's start a church. Okay, we'll see you guys later. No, Paul also, besides leading people to Christ, he disciples them. And if you've known our ministry since we've been back, in my heartbeat, one of my major concerns and focuses is discipleship. Relational evangelism, being aware of the people around us being aware of opportunities to introduce people to Jesus Christ. But then not just leaving them there, but once they trust Christ, discipling them and helping them to grow in their faith. If you were in Sunday school this morning alone A lot of what I'm saying was buttressed by Dr. Mike Erickson's um information, and I so appreciate that. As he's finishing up Philippians, it's a great uh background As well for Ephesians. And he talked about a team of the Trinity, literally the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, but also using us. And that should humble us, but the very fact that God uses us as instruments to help others see their need for Christ, but also to grow Row in their relationship with Christ. All of that we're going to see in this first introduction that will take a number of weeks. And so Ephesians. Let's start there. That'd be a good place to start in a study of the book of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. And through this study this morning, we're going to see. Fruitful discipleship ministry. And we're going to see as well that God expects for all of us that believe and have a relationship with Jesus Jesus Christ, he expects all of us to be disciplers and disciplees. Many of you have probably word read the works of A. W. Tozier. He's he was uh a powerfully used man, wrote a lot of good things. One very simple quote that uh really goes well with this. He said, Only a disciple Can make a disciple. And that's our responsibility. So Paul, in this book of Ephesians, he begins at As he does with all of his books in one form or fashion or another, with an introduction. And yet it's a very small introduction. It's one of the smaller introductions of any of And I do think that there's a reason for that. I think that because Paul had such an effective evangelistic And discipleship ministry, that he didn't have much to say as much as an introduction, and he's able to get right into the glorious truths that he begins in verse 3. Because the church in Ephesus at the time he's writing are very faithful sir servants that are discipling each other and growing in the Lord. So Paul doesn't Have to mince a lot of words at the beginning of this. And he says then in his introduction, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. Very simply put, very straightforward. Paul's describing here God's work in his life. He's used by God to lead. Ministry servants. And notice that he gives all the credit to what he's doing and his very position in Christ. In his office, he says all of this is by the will of God. It's all God's plan. I could put it this way, Paul's saying, I I didn't write my Own story here. I couldn't have come up with a story that I've lived out in my life. I am an apostle, and he is he is putting forth his authority But in many of the other letters, as Paul has to begin writing, many times he has to defend his authority because people in the church are rebelling against it or questioning it. It. Notice there's no question here. These folks know, oh yeah, God has given the Apostle Paul to us as our authority. And so he just simply puts it. I have the authority, but I haven't chosen that. God chose this for me. I'm an apostle of Christ Jesus. And also , Of course, the son. How could you not think back of Paul's experience on that Damascus road where he is seething and fighting against God? He thinks he's on God's side, right? At the beginning of his story in the book of Acts , persecuting and probably responsible for the death of some believers. And he's on fire. Fire for God, but in a totally wrong way, in a different direction. And as he heads down that Damascus road, he is confronted with the glory of the Son of Christ Jesus. And in that moment, Paul had a choice to trust in Jesus on that Damascus Road experience, and he did so. He put his faith and trust in Jesus, but he said. Jesus called me. This apostle, this office of an apostle is nothing that I came up with on my own. This is all the work of God. And he says, I'm I am I have this position of authority over, and I'm ministering to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus And so this is a, again, a beautiful word that he describes the believers in Ephesus. The Greek here has the idea of the consecrated ones, those that have been set aside. The sovereignty of God and the election of Paul and his salvation, also the people that he ministers to, the saints, they have been called by God. To salvation, and they are being faithful in Jesus Christ through the power of Jesus Christ. And so these are Christians who live in the major metropolis of Ephesus. And they're faithfully, just simply Paul says here, you are faithfully serving God. And he really doesn't say much else about their service. It's almost, it seems as in this case, as Paul just says, you're doing well. You're faithfully serving. You have a wonderful testimony. I don't need to say much more. And all of this is the power of Christ working in you. Paul, when he's writing this letter at this point, would have been imprisoned. He's probably writing this letter at about A. D. um year sixty two and it was a group of people these these Ephesian believers the church was powerfully working and serving and And Paul had had great influence in their lives as he's writing from his prison cell. But it wasn't just him alone. Paul had the help of a whole group of people That God had used him the disciple to carry on the work. And so as we finish up this greeting, Paul said Says verse 2, Grace to you and peace from God our Father. Notice he gets the position of the Father first, God the Father above all, even in the Trinity. There is levels of authority, in essence. God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. He'll speak later. Later about the Holy Spirit, but he reminds the people that he's writing to that you have all the grace that you need, the undeserved favor from God That you need to serve to continue to be faithful in serving Him. Really, these people are able to be faithful, gloriously faithful, as they serve in this large City because of God's grace. By God's grace he saved them. By God's grace, he's using them, but he's also calling for peace. These aren't just words that Paul Paul just threw in at the beginning of an introduction. Yeah, that's what I always write. I try to be nice. Grace and peace to all of you. Alright, now let's get to the real stuff. No, for Paul, these are things that That he is truly praying for. God continue to work your undeserved favor in their lives so that they can serve you. And Lord, give them a peace in the Greek And in the Hebrew, this word for peace had the idea of full life rest. That you would have rest and have peace in every Aspect of your being, spiritual and physical. And folks, whether it's Christians in uh Ephesus In the first century, or it's the church today. We all long for that peace, do we not? As this world gets darker and things careen more out of control. And things are constantly changing and being disrupted. Oh, we long for that peace and rest that only comes through relationship with Jesus. And so Paul Paul at the beginning of this letter prays for that. And he says it's a gift from the Father, and it comes through your relationship with Jesus Christ. And these are things that Paul Paul is praying for them, but he's confident that God will provide for them. And you can be confident here today in this sanctuary if you are Following after Jesus Christ, God will give you grace, and He will give you rest in peace to accomplish what He's called you to do. So never doubt that. Well, let's turn back, let's turn to Acts eighteen as we again get into this introduction. We have here then, as we begin the letter of Ephesians, it's obvious that God has produced some faithful servants in a church in this large city of Ephesus. How did this all come about? Well, it was through committed evangelism and discipleship. And so I want us to see this this morning. We're going to try to quit Quickly go through Acts chapter 18, and we're going to focus on the verses that focus on Paul's ministry in Ephesus. But we're going to do that, and then I say that in Acts. eight eighteen verse one we actually find Paul in Athens and Corinth. Now um for our guys that are in the back and our s our sound table I have a special slide. Now I know that you all have maps in the back of your Bibles. But in case you know you struggle finding the back of your Bible, or maybe you don't have a Bible this morning that has maps, I included Presentation. Can you find that, Luke? There we go. Uh because I just find that as we work through Paul's missionary journeys, uh I don't know about you but I have to have a visual. There's so many to cities that are mentioned. It just helps. And I found this map that has really big arrows and really big lines that basically covers the whole Second missionary journey of Paul. So at this point in Acts chapter 18, we have Paul in Athens. You'll see that to the far left toward the bottom on actually it'd be on my right side but it's the left of the map there the western area there You should see Athens. Paul is ministering in Athens. He's by himself at this point. He's left his entourage to do other things, his group of servants. And then he goes to Corinth. That's in the corner, the lower hand corner there, Corinth. And Paul had wonderful ministry there. But notice immediately, uh the at at this time as Paul's Taking this tour. Um, he certainly, as he's seeing many of these marvelous cities, and maybe in some cases seeing some of the wonders of the ancient world. He surely was impressed by these things, but we never hear about that. We never hear about Paul's sightseeing. We don't have a PowerPoint presentation of the pictures of Paul took while he was on vacationing on these different um seaside, he wasn't staying in a resort or different things. Because Paul wasn't there to sightsee. He was there for a purpose. And so when Paul comes to a new city, immediately he's all about finding people to minister to people. So, verse 1. And Acts 18. After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth, and he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, recently come from Italy with his wife, Priscilla. Because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome, and he went to see them. Now I know a mixed among you, there's a mix here of folks that love History. I love history. I love to read uh history books that are well written and that draw me into the historical events and what happened, not just a bunch of dates. Some of You your eyes just kind of glaze over when you get through all a number of the details of what happened in history. Well, we have a lot of historical data here. And just bear with me It's all an important part of the emphasis here. Paul's in Corinth and he runs into this couple that uh had come from probably from Rome. But from Italy, and it even tell us uh this couple's name is Aquila and Priscilla. Um Aquila, a native of Pontus, that was new So he had lived initially uh near the sea. Don't know what his occupation was, you know, when he uh as he grew up, but at this point he He's become a tent maker, as we'll see later on. And he met this woman named Priscilla. And somehow they came to Rome into Italy and they were living there. And uh it seems as if, well, uh whether they had trusted Christ at this point, we don't know for certain. But the Emperor at that time The Roman Emperor Claudius, all of those that were Jewish people, and that would include Aquila and Priscilla as well. In A. D. 49, which was a few years before Paul had shown up there in uh in Corinth, uh, they had been expelled from their homeland. For some reason, the Roman Emperor uh got tired of the Jews, got miffed with them, and he just kind of threw most of them out and said, get out of here, find another place to live. And actually, at the time that that took place, there was almost 50,000 Jews living in Rome and around those precincts. So you can imagine all of those people having to find new homes. Sure, things were a little chaotic. Things were turned upside down. And this couple ends up there in Corinth, and Paul bumps into them, runs into them, a divine appointment. And it says he stayed them, he went to see them, verse 3, and he was of the same trade. He stayed with them and worked, for they were tent makers by trade. And he also Also reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and tried to persuade the Jews and the Greeks. So I think there's a good possibility that Paul is looking for this couple, they're well Known as tent makers. Paul has an occupation as well, besides being one of the religious elders of Jerusalem In all of his background, at some point he's learned how to put tents together, how to weave the cloth, and to do these things, and so he's looking for someone else that he can work alongside And I think there's a good chance that Paul's also looking for a good start for his evangelism program. And so as he finds this couple, he starts working, he asks Can I work alongside of you? I do the same thing? Sure, we'd be glad for the help. Maybe at that point, if they didn't know Christ already, actually I'm pretty sure of it, Paul would have shared the gospel of Jesus. Jesus and they were saved. And then Paul continues in the Sabbath because whenever he would enter, remember a new city, Paul's uh way to handle things was to go to um the synagogue first. And of course you would do that on the Sabbath. And it says he spends time. It you has a word here that says persuading. He is reasonable. With them. He is pleading with them. He's showing them the truths of Scripture and their need for Christ. And he's ministering Both the Jews and Greeks. And Aquila and Priscilla are ministering along with him. You see, when Paul shares the gospel, he doesn't just leave people where they are. But he says, come along and serve and minister with me and help me in presenting the gospel, proclaiming the gospel to others. So He continues to help others to grow in their faith and then brings them along for the ride, so to speak, of serving Christ. So he's involved from The get-go as he goes to Corinth. That reminds me again of the really the only uh trip that I've had the privilege of leading, a missions trip to Ireland. Many years ago, and I've told you some of that. Many of you remember our group, the Howards, the Kleins, the Watkins, and some others. Um and we visited the Moors uh a number of years ago. So we really enjoyed that trip, and there was a lot of beautiful things to see and a lot of sightseeing to kind of take in. But we mentioned this at the end And this is the case with probably every good missions trip. And even today as we talk about it, we lament, you know, we didn't get to see much of Ireland. We were in the country of Ireland and we had a Like a day or so where we got to experience some of the beauty and some of the things of that beautiful coastal island. But we didn't get to see nearly what we would have loved Love to have seen. We spent, can you believe it? On a missions trip, we spent most of our time ministering to people. That may come as a shock. To you, probably not, but that's what you do on missions trips, is you're more focused on the people. Well, I don't think that Paul had much time for sightseeing. is he's going through all these different amazing places. He'll eventually end up in Ephesus. He's not, you know, he's not looking at all. He's not got his tourist map and all the places that I need to eat and see. Oh, here's my bucket list. I gotta check this off. I gotta check this off. No. Paul's in these amazing cities and he's all about people. He's all about discipling. His concern isn't that he gets to see everything that he wanted to see while he was there in Corinth or in Ephesus, but his concern is Is how many people can I present, can I pro uh um witness the gospel of Jesus Christ to? And then how can I help them to grow after that? And so He's discipling Aquila and Priscilla. Well, we don't have time to continue to look at all that happened there in Corinth. I need you to skip ahead in Acts eighteen to verse eight. 18. And after a while, the Holy Spirit makes it clear to Paul that he needs to move on. So, verse 18, after this, Paul stayed many days longer and then took leave of the brothers And set sail for Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila. And at Centria he had cut his hair, for he was under a vow. And they came to Ep And so here you have again from Corinth across the waters there, now to Syria, really Asia Minor, there in Greece. Italy was west of Greece, where Aquila and Priscilla were from. Now they're moving to Ephesus. Um and it says Paul basically they came to Episodes verse 19. 19, and he left them there, but he went himself into a synagogue. Again, this is Paul's constant pattern. The first thing he does is give the gospel to the Jews Within the synagogue. And he reasoned. That means that he shared his knowledge of God's word, but he also pleaded or reasoned with them to trust in Jesus. Jesus Christ to trust in the truths of the gospel. Paul just didn't give people a bunch of information, but it led them to a particular point of decision for Christ. And he would do This. And he leaves Aquila and Priscilla there as well to help. So Paul is about evangelism, he's about discipleship. And spending much time with ministry partners. He spent a lot of time working together with Aquila and Priscilla. He took a lot of time to do it. And folks, it's a good reminder. It's not just the Apostle Paul, but following the Apostle Paul's example, that needs to be our Paul literally on a daily basis is making tents with Aquila and Priscilla with Whether it's Corinth or Ephesus, but I'm confident that he's also talking with them constantly about the Word of God and helping them to apply God's Word to their lives and know better the truths of the gospel. Our lives are filled with a lot of things that take time. Do we take time to help people understand God's word better? It's not just a job for the pastor, for the leadership. As we're going to They were the middle class. And yet Paul makes sure that they know God's Word well enough that they can Can express it well to others. Do we leave time in our schedules to know God's Word well enough that we can disciple other people in it? That's one of the reasons, by the way, that we have these studies that we've been going through recently in our Sunday school class, the foundations and the walk, is so that all of our people that were involved in So you have those two books, and as a gift to our congregation. So that you can be motivated to disciple others. You really do have all that you need as a follower of Jesus Christ to share the truth of Jesus with others and to disciple. But it takes time. Is that a priority to you? So many times we go on vacation and we're again we're so Involved and trying to get in everything that we want to see, many times we totally forget to notice that there are people around us. Hundreds, thousands of people. That have problems and that need Christ. You have to ask, it's it's Mike's story, Mike Erickson's story that he told in Sunday school. I'm not going to tell his story, but he just this last Last week had a wonderful encounter. He was uh going exercising on a bike on a trail nearby uh here in Moncton, and he sat down and was praying. And a young man walked by and he just engaged Him with just saying something simple, and that led to a conversation. Man, young man sat down , conversation about the gospel and further opportunities for Discipleship. Folks, it really is as simple as that. We really just engage people and let God do all the work. We have to notice. My point is we have to notice there's people around us. Not so involved in our sightseeing and our lives and about the world that we don't notice there are people dying and going to hell. And we're the tools that God uses to direct people to Christ. Paul knew that. But Paul knew something else too, and that is that he couldn't do it all himself. Paul was humble in this. And so as he's reasoning there in the synagogue, They're in Ephesus. He is in, and we'll talk about this in the next few weeks. The city of Ephesus was one of the great cities of this time in Asia Minor. Like the New York City. I mean, it was impressive. And there was a lot of false worship and magic and all kinds of strange things going on, but it was an impressive city. And Paul could have looked around and said, Heh I could have a really profitable time in this city of Ephesus, and the gospel could go forward. I'm just going to sit right here because I Obviously, there's lots of opportunities, and yet God says to Paul, Nope, it's not your time yet. It says uh don't look go back in uh verse eighteen of Acts chapter 18. Remember, it says something interesting that Paul had cut his hair and then he was under a bow. It kind of throws that out there as kind of provocative. That never really tells us what was the vow. We don't know. If I had to guess, based on the rest of what we learn it in Acts, that it was probably some sort of vow that Paul. Paul would get back to the temple in Jerusalem to worship there. They did some those sorts of things back then. But Paul had vowed and he had an appointment with God, most likely back in Jerusalem. And so no matter what the opportunities, he realizes I can't stay here any longer right now. Look, go to verse 20. When they ask him I mean you would think Paul, sure, wow, what a great opportunity. Oh, we could start a church here, but Paul declined. Says no, thank you. Well, that seems strange. But verse 21, on taking leave them, he said, I will return to you three important words, if God Wills. Because right now it's not God's will for me to stay in this important city and share the gospel. God has other things for me to do. But I have people That I've been disciplined, he could add to this because we see this in the next few verses. Paul had people that he had been discipling that could stay behind. And that's exactly what happens. So because Paul is faithful to creating disciples, he doesn't leave the city of Ephesus without a witness, folks. No, as Paul departs these areas, uh disciples follow him and then they stay when Paul has to go. You see, Paul is realistic, but He's also humble. This is the great Apostle Paul that God used to start so many churches and to see hundreds, thousands of people saved. We need him. Yep, Paul says, No, I'm I'm I'm expendable. I've got others that I've been discipling along and helping, and they're fully equipped to be able to share The gospel. So they're gonna stay here. It's not my time yet. I'd love to come back, but really, this is all on God's timing. This is all a part of God's plan. Is what Paul's saying here. He doesn't need me here in Ephesus. He can work without me. I'd love to come, but that's up to God. Because even as we saw In the very first verse of the book of Ephesians, what did Paul say? He said, I'm an apostle, the power of Jesus Christ working in me, the authority of Jesus Christ, but this is all by the will of God. Where he leads me, I will follow, and he's leading me out of Ephesus. And so he continues on, verse 22. When he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church. That's uh the church uh in Caesarea, but also I'm sure that it had to be the Jerusalem church as well. And he greeted his fellow apostles and his friends There, maybe James, the pastor of that church at that point, and then he went down to Antioch. And this is kind of a real subtle way of saying this, but in verse 23, now he begins his third missionary. Journey. Without any fanfare. After spending some time there, he departed and went from one place to the next through the region of Galatia and Fergia, strengthening all the disciples. And that's basically You see on the right side of the screen, all of that yellow area says Antioch, Iconium, and all of that, just north of there, that's where Paul Paul starts out in his third missionary journey. See, maps do help, don't they? Yeah, they're helpful. So Paul is continuing to Let God lead him where he should share the gospel. But he has left some people that he's discipled back in in verse, back in Ephesus. And let's see what happens to them in verse 25. Now a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus, and he was an eloquent man, competent in the scriptures. He knew his scriptures well. And the fact that he was a native of Alexandria meant that Alexandria was a Roman seat of government in Egypt, and it was a major Major center of learning. And they also focused on being very eloquent and speaking in an eloquent way. And so all of this means That Apollos had learned much and he knew much about the scriptures, and it also indicates that he could speak well. He was well educated. Today we would Say he had multiple degrees after his name, multiple letters. He was a smart guy, but he was a good speaker too. And God was using him powerfully. But there was one problem: Verse 25. Been instructed in the way of the Lord, obviously he knows his stuff, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately in the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only The baptism of John. He didn't know the full story of what Christ had done, of what Christ had accomplished. And so he wasn't giving information. So he's here in Ephesus and maybe, you know, the signs were out, the billboards were out. Come here, Apollos, tonight. I don't know. But Aquila and Priscilla um come to hear this man that they've heard so much about and they're listening to each other. These are just common lay people that just do Their jobs every day and tell people of Christ. And maybe Priscilla, maybe she was a little more spiritually sensitive as she's listening to Apollos preach. She says to Aquila , he's leaving things out. You know, he's a very smart guy. He's very well spoken. But he, Aquila, he doesn't have the full story. He doesn't know. What are we gonna do? About this? Now they could have been intimidated by that. As lay people, they could have said, Well, who are we? We can't speak like that. We can't Present God's word powerfully. You know, certainly somebody who knows more than we do, maybe Paul will come back, or somebody that's more accomplished, somebody that has a degree. We'll share this with Apollos, but you know, that's not for us to do. No, they don't have that attitude at all. Their burden that Apollos doesn't have a full understanding and Because they have a burden for discipleship. What is discipleship? It is a burden to help people understand Jesus, to help people understand Scripture. And folks, would you not agree that all of us should have that? And that's all it was. And so somehow they met him afterwards. Um as he's signing people's Bibles or something, um, they got in line and they met him. When Kr Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside. They were able to take him aside, and they very humbly but said, Hey Hey, you're doing a great job, but there's so much more you need to be aware of. You've missed out. And they explained to him the way of God more accurately. Notice again The gospel and the teachings of God's word are described here. This is God's plan. This is God's way. So eloquent in speech, they're not giving him things that they came up with. They're not giving him ten better ways to build a tent. They're giving him truth that comes From God. And it does a powerful work. Can God work powerfully through Are folks in here? When you hear someone that you you just listen to them talk and you realize okay they know the Lord but but they're they're mistaken in Can you humbly go to that person and say, hey, um have you have you read your Bible in this area? Have you you needed a better understanding of what God's Word says? Hey, we're all I'm not trying to be arrogant or prideful or anything, but I just sense that you need to have a better understanding of God's Word. That's discipleship. We ought to all be humble Priscilla and Aquila were just concerned for Apollos because they weren't Wanted him to have even more effective ministry. Even as the pastor, if I'm up here, and God forbid, as I'm studying, I I pray that I'm accurate and that I have things right. But I'm human. I may not have expressed something the right way. Or I may be off on something. And for someone to humbly come to me afterwards and say, hey, what did you mean by By that, or hey, could you explain that further? Are you sure? That wouldn't be a bad thing. Because we all want to be effective tools for Jesus. Jesus Christ. And that's exactly what happens then, verse 27. And when he wished to cross to Achai, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples to welcome him. He's going back the opposite way toward Kor Corinth and Athens and and those places. He wants to continue in ministry. And now the brothers um write letters of recommendation saying Apollos has a full understanding. You need to listen to this man. God is using him powerfully. And when he arrived, he greatly helped those who through grace had believed, for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public. Showing by the scriptures that Christ was Jesus. Through the discipleship ministry of two very humble, just Normal lay people, God enables even more powerful ministry to take place in Apollos' life. And it's all God. But God uses us. If Aquila and Priscilla had not have Followed that prompting of the Spirit, surely God would have sent someone else, but we wouldn't have read their names in Scripture. And now for all eternity we know that God used These humble people to help disciple others, and God used it all powerfully. Folks, don't you want God to simply use you in that way in a powerful way? Don't you want to make your life count maybe God would lead you as you grow it it involves growing getting to know God's word more maybe getting Involved as we get this institute started for Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. We've already started it with Mike's class on Philippians. Maybe signing up and getting to know more or taking a class. Class and knowing more of God's Word, studying it more every day. And God can use you powerfully to help others understanding of His Word And who knows what he'll do with that? Don't we all just want to be useful tools in the hands of the Master? Discipleship is one of the ways that God uses us to do that. The problem is many times we're not even aware. We're sightseeing or doing our own things or involved in our own things. schedule, we're riding a bike on a trail and we don't even see the people that are going by. And yet if we truly had a love for people and we asked God to give Give us eyes that would see those people, he would open our eyes and we would be more sensitive to our responsibility to evangelize, but also to help people to grow. Grow in their faith so that they could be more useful and multiplied. It can't all be the pastor, it can't all be the deacons. It's all of our responsibilities To be good disciplers. And as we begin this study on Ephesians, it gives me opportunity to again emphasize that to you. One of the greatest experiences that you can have is to share an understanding, a correct understanding of God's Word with someone else. And help them to grow and see them grow. Oh, it's all God's work. Right. But to be a tool, useful tool, to disciple others and lead them. To Jesus and then lead them to grow in Him is the most exciting, most fulfilling work that you can be involved in. So don't wait. This week, ask God to give you eyes to see people around you that you can point to Christ and help grow in their faith. Father, What a wonderful example that we have here with Paul. And really Aquila and Priscilla and so many others, people that he discipled, a humble attitude. Father of Paul, that he knew that he couldn't do it all. And so he brought others along to help him. And they were glad To do it. Lord, thank you for this example. And I pray now that you will work this example into our lives, that we will again be convicted of our need to just First of all, realize there are other people around us that are dying and going to hell, and then to ask, Lord, how can I be a part in helping them? To see their need for Christ, what would that look like? Lord, help us just to be willing, even to say a kind word to someone walking down a bike path Or manning a a a um cashier, a cash register at a grocery store, or a waitress Or waiter bringing food. Help us to be aware and to just be kind and to open the door to how you might use us to point them to Christ. And then help us to be looking around And help us to know enough about your word to be able to do that. Reminder that we all need to be disciplers. And we can all be used in a mighty way. Folks, as the piano plays you think on those things and you let the Holy Spirit convict you about who you can disciple in the weeks and months ahead.