Turn to 2 Samuel chapter 6, and we are going to look at a passage, at a story, a narrative that I I think I can say, maybe not across the board, but for most, when you the first time you read this, especially if you were a child in Sunday school. And sometimes some Sunday school teachers skip over this story in the life of David because they're not sure how to apply it. But if you heard it when you were a child, you were probably very confused And as we hear about this issue of worship and what happened to Uzza, I just say the name and you know where we're going tonight. Um is it it I remember as a child thinking, well, that's not nice. That doesn't make why would why would people not do that And some and many times as adults we can look at this and say, all right, I think I understand, but really was that necessary? And so we're going to take some time, and I'm glad we have a Sunday evening to do this, to really examine God's expectations about the Ark of the Covenant, what it represented, and what's going on here. And be reminded that even though we're thankful that this isn't the norm for today, there's a reason for that, we're very thankful for. that it still, in a general sense, reminds us that honoring God and worship is very important. In dishonoring God And uh we can meet with his displeasure. And we we we want to and that's why we have that whole series done worship, right? We've gone through many of these and and you and hope Have those in mind as we look at this passage. But David, well-meaning with enthusiasm at the same time, doesn't have a full understanding of God's expectations. And he ends up, and it's not just on him, it's on others too, but he ends up dishonoring the Lord of Hosts. So our theme is going to be worship, and our title is Dishonoring the Lord of Hosts Tonight. And we're going to read this together. But let's go ahead and just read verses 1 through 5. We'll get to the rest later. Chapter 6, 2 Samuel. David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel. 30,000. And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baal, Judah, to bring up from there the ark of the of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits enthroned on the cherubim, and they carry the ark of God on a new cart. And brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. And Uzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were driving the new cart with the ark of the Lord, and Ahio went before the ark And David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before the Lord with saffongs and lyres and hearts and tambourines and castanets and symbols. It must have been a marvelous procession of worship. But it has a fatal flaw. And we'll see that in just a few minutes. Father, give us understanding tonight in a passage that has perplexed many Maybe perplexed many of us, most of us at times, and help us to understand what was going on with this and why this event took place. And also understand what David did to correct it. He took righteous steps to correct it. And it made the worship even more joyful and more enthusiastic. So Father, through this unique episode in David's life, let us see that you do take worship very seriously. That we need to, by your grace , accomplish right worship in the right way with hearts that love you. but also with a willingness to submit to your standards and your expectations that are working. So help us to learn much from this that we can carry out in our personal and And churchwide worship as well. This we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm gonna ask, can one of the boys give me a glass of water? I know the bottled waters aren't available, but do we have some Okay, great. Alright. So 2 Samuel chapter 6 and verses 1 through 15, and we are introduced again to the Ark of the Covenant after Um not having heard about this for for quite a while, since the beginning of 1 Samuel. David, for those of you, maybe there's some here that haven't been here one tonight, although I think most of you have. David's now king of all Israel, and he has made Jerusalem the capital city. It has a strategic location and its centrality to all of Israel, much more central and accessible than Hebron ever was, and God has Al also we saw last Wednesday night weakened the Philistines through David so that they are no longer, and probably you could say, you really could say never again a serious threat to the nation. Enemy combatant nation that had plagued Israel for decades, for for years, maybe hundreds actually years. And God through a man after his own heart, a man with a heart for God, David, he now eradicates or weakens. leaves this powerful enemy weakened so that they are never able to bother Israel the way that they used to. So all of this is God giving David success and we continue to see this. But David, through all these blessings and all this success, he still has one high priority. And that is still, what is David's highest priority? We're going to see this today. The worship of God by his people. David's priority, his highest priority, is that God is exalted, that God is worshipped. And David, through this, we see that he has a heart. We know that he has a heart for God. And he's well-intended, and he wants to worship God well. But he's got good ideas. We haven't heard about the Ark of the Lord, like I said, since the early chapters of 1 Samuel. And if you'll remember, it was left with the priest Eliezer and Kirjith Jiram , small town. southeast of Jerusalem and have resided there for over for probably around 20 years. In fact, let's just turn back there briefly First Samuel 6. Just to remind ourselves of this. 1 Samuel 6. Remember the Philistines got tired pretty quick of that ark after all it was doing to them and set it back on? Back to Israel on a cart. And mark that by the way. The enemies of Israel sent the ark on a cart. That was not the way that God had prescribed the ark to be carried, but they just wanted it out and they sent it to a Levitical town, Beth Shemeth Shemesh, with priests and men of that were of the tribe of Levi that should have known how to handle the ark of God, and instead they did something that was very dishonoring, that was elementary, that they should have known not to do They lifted up the lid of the ark and looked in. Well, that was one of the most disrespectful things you could do to the ark, and God had to punish them, and so they sent the ark like the Philistines. Get it out of here In verse chapter 7, verse 1, the men of Kirjith Jiram came and fetched up the ark of the Lord and brought it into the house of Abinadab in hill. and sanctified Eliezer, his son, to keep the ark of the Lord. It came to pass while the ark abode in Kirjath Tirim, that the time was long, for it was twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. Ever since then, Israel has desired to have access to the Ark of the Covenant, the presence of God in a representative sense to his people. And yet it still abides at the at the house of this man of Benadad, and uh Eliezer his son is one of these that has kept the ark all these years. In David's intention now, he's known about this and he said, we have a capital city, we have a central location, it's time to bring the ark to Jerusalem. And in a major procession and celebration, he intends to do just that. He wants it to be accessible for the worship of the nation. And he's gonna build a and and set up a tabernacle, a tent, because they don't have a temple yet, remember? David and there's a desire to make a temple, but they don't have that temple. But he's going to set up a tabernacle within Jerusalem for the ark to be carried and so the people can worship the uh and worship God. Not worship the ark, but worship God with the ark in its place in a more central location. So obviously this is a good thing, right? And David has the best of intentions But unfortunately, and precariously, he doesn't have a proper knowledge of God's expectations for worship. Because of that catastrophe is going to result. David knows a lot. And it's almost surprising that he has somehow missed this or forgotten that. But he's missed a very important expectation that God had in the worship of his people, and it's going to have some devastating results So warnings here today. The first one is refrain from well-intentioned errors in worship. And that is, even as we worship God in a well-intentioned way If we don't follow and know God's work , well and his expectations about worship, and this should be no surprise, we've seen this in the worship series, then we could very much very well dishonor God, even though that's not our intention to do. And David is going to see if that happened with Israel here. First of all, be careful to worship by God's standards, and that sense of carefulness is not apparent here. in the midst of well-intentions. Look at uh back to 6 Samuel chapter 6 and verse 1 David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel. 30,000. That's a lot of people, by the way. And some people questioned was that You know, is that the real number? Do we understand that? Yeah, it's it's 30,000 in in a keeper sense. It's a large group. What would this include? Why would David need so many people to go get the ark? Well , you think about the type of people that would be involved, he would certainly need priests, right? He would need worship leaders that could lead the music, and he would need military forces. I mean the Philistines have already shown a capacity to stealing the Ark and taking it So he wants security and protection from the Ark. So you can imagine a good-sized group of people, and remember Israel is a large mesh from the standpoint of how many people that live and numbers of people. So David has a very large group, representative of all of Israel, and the leaders and the priests and the worship leaders and all these, 30,000, and they all Maybe they met together in Jerusalem and David arose verse two and went with all the people who were with him to Baal Judah to bring up from there the ark of God. Now you might if you were paying closely attention we've read from 1 Samuel 6, you might say, well Pastor Brock, it was actually in Curj Durham. Well it seems as as as is the case in many towns and places Yeah, age of Israel, there were two names for this town. This needs to be an alternate name And Abinadab is mentioned again, so we know it's the same place. And so David is now going to bring up the Ark of God to Jerusalem. Great idea. Everybody's excited. But the author reminds us of the seriousness and the importance of the Ark of the Covenant. He says, the Ark of God which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits enthrone on the cherubim. The art, let's talk a little bit about the ark of God here. It's important enough for David. It's an important part of worship. But let's remind ourselves why was this so important? And we're going to look at a number of passages of scripture here. But basically, in a general sense, the ark represented the presence of God. among his people. Not in in other sense, God's everywhere, right? He's omnipresent. But it was the symbol of God's presence and God literally said that his presence would be with the ark and the tabernacle behind the curtain. And since that represented his presence, God had given clear instructions in the law about how to handle With honor and respect. In fact, let's go to Exodus 25 briefly. A large, a long passage here that we'll just read through so you can see. God was very clear and gave a lot of instructions about this Ark of the Covenant, how the people were supposed to handle it. Exodus 25, verse 10 They shall make an arc of what acacia wood. Two cubits and a half shall be its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. You shall overlay it with pure gold. Inside and outside you shall overlay it. And you shall make on it a molding of gold around it. And you shall cast four rings of gold for it. And put them on its four feet. Two rings on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it. You shall make holes of acacia wood and overlay them with gold. And you shall put the bulls into the rings on the sides of the ark and carry the ark by them. The bulls shall remain in the rings of the ark. They shall not be taken from it. And you shall put into the ark the testimony that I shall give you You shall make a mercy seed of pure gold. Two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth. And you shall make two cherubim of gold Of hammered work you shall make them on the two ends of the mercy seat. Make one cherub on the one end and one cherub on the other. Of one piece with the mercy seat you shall make the cherubim on its two ends. The cherubim shall They're waves one to another. Toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubim. And you shall put the mercy seat on the top of the ark. And in the ark you shall put the testimony. Mercy seat is this. lid with these cherubim and really the the Hebrew here is um the the dwelling between or in the midst of the cherubim so God is saying In a representative sense, his presence will be at this aspect of the Ark of the Lord, the Ark of the Covenant. But he says, verse 22, there I will meet with you. And from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim that are on the Ark of the Testimony, I will speak with you about all that I will give you in commandment to the people of Israel Alright, that's pretty clear, right? And that's a lot of instruction that God gave to them to emphasize the importance of the Ark of the Covenant. And so this was well known. This is one of the things you can say this was one of the basic things about worship that God was very clear about. And let me just read further. I know we're getting to a lot of scripture here all of a sudden, but this is all background for this. If you could turn to Hebrews 9. Hebrews 9, 1 through 5. And the placement of the ark within the temple or the tabernacle. And what was in the ark, the author of Hebrews tells us, Hebrews 9, 1 through 5. Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness, where a tent was prepared, the first section, which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the presence is called the holy place. But behind the second curtain was a second section called the most holy place, having the golden altar of incense and the Ark of the Covenant covered on all sides with gold in which was a golden urn holding the manna. This is what is inside the ark. It's the Aaron's staff, the button, and the tablets of the covenant, God's word, the Ten Commandments, the boat. Commandments and the tablets of the law. Above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy. Of these things we cannot not speak. and more details. So that's just a reminder to us of what the art represented and what it included and even how it looked. And the author then, if we go back to 2 Samuel 6, reminds us that the Ark of God was called by the name of the Lord of hosts. That has a picture of the ark was sanctified by the Lord of hosts himself. And that word of hosts is a significant title that's used in these books in the life of David, meaning that he is Lord of all armies, both heavenly and earthly. The Lord God is Lord over all. He's in charge of all of those armies. And he's the one that sanctified this particular ark to represent his presence. Now there's a very positive aspect of this. Why would God do this? Why would he just um make up a really nice box, if I can put it that way, and then have these angels at the top to represent his presence. Well if you remember if you've studied anything about pagan religion At the time that the Israelites, God brought them together, they would worship pagan gods that were considered far removed from the people. In pagan worship, you had to do all kinds of crazy things to get their attention because they were never close by. And God's point in this is my presence is with my people. It's here. It's something tangible, even though I'm spirit. My presence in this ark represents that unlike those pagan religions, I am very close to my people. That's the purpose of this. And worship. He is close to them. And then the few, like Moses and the chief priests, and those that were allowed into the Holy of Holies that were privileged to be in the actual presence of the Ark. They were actually, God, it talks about God's presence being there, and they were to address that place at the top of the Ark of the Covenant as God's presence And God , they would expect his presence and he would communicate with them. Have Moses, God communicate with Moses in the Holy of Holies many times. as he's addressing and looking at the Ark of the Covenant. At the same time, even though that represented God's presence with his people, they had to be very careful. And respectful and reverent of that. You couldn't just walk in, right? We all know that. I don't have to go through all the details. What would happen if somebody just walked into the holy of holies? Well, they wouldn't live very long after that It was not a common presence. God had statutes for those who would enter his presence. Here we have verse 3. Then let's contrast that with how David reacts with the Ark of the Covenant. Verse 3, and they carried the Ark of God. Not as they were supposed to, as the law intended, but on a new cart they made a very nice cart, I'm sure. It looks very nice, very regal. They put it on this new cart and they brought it out of the house of Abinadab which was on the hill. But did you realize? Does that sound familiar to you? The Philistines made a cut apart It brought the Ark of the Covenant. David is treating the Ark of the Common as almost as common as the Philistines. The Ark of the Covenant Almost as common as the Philistines treated the Ark. So there's something very amiss here So first of all, we need to be careful to worship by God's standards. And David in making this new part and the instability involved in this compared to God's expectations. about how it should be carried. And we'll look at that more in just a few minutes as well. Let's continue on here in verse 6. We need, we also see here that there's a warning against violating God's worship standards. Verse 6, and when they came to the threshing floor of Nakon Uzzah put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled. Now they came to a point of unevenness, and these threshing floors was where they would thresh the grain, and and they would um beat the green and the good kernels would fall and the um refuse the the rest of the unwanted um cull uh or whole The kernel would fall, the hole would be blown away. And it seems like they had to cross this or something, and it made the arc very un. stable as it was in this cart and all us it did he saw this he saw how made the ark about ready to fall out oh no and he puts out his hand to steady it right except for one thing In doing that, he violated some more of God's clear commandments. Let me just read to you from the book of Numbers. Numbers 4, 15. When Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary and all the furnishings of the sanctuary, as the camp says out, after that the sons of Kohath shall come to carry these, but they must not touch the holy things. They're supposed to carry them. But be careful, even those priests as they're carrying these things, don't touch them lest they die. These are the things of the tenth of the meeting that the sons of Culet are to carry So God said very clearly, don't touch these things. It's my presence. And he also said in Numbers 7, 5 through 9, they were given, Israel was given a gift of wagons. And Moses asked God what to do with them, and they were to be used by the Levites. Moses took the wagons and the oxen and gave them to the Levites, two wagons and four oxen But to the sons of Koabh he gave none. He didn't give them any wagons because they were charged with the service of the holy things that had to be carried on the shoulder. And Moses basically said to those men that are carrying the Ark of the Covenant, don't give them any wagons. There are no carts, nothing like that, because they are supposed to hold on with the poles and secure the Ark of the Covenant, so we are sure that nothing bad happens to the Ark And folks, these aren't obscure warnings. These are right in God's law, very easily accessible How did David miss these things? I don't know. I can't tell you. Is it neglect? Well, he knew a lot about God's plot. You know, I don't think it was just David, by the way. There were a lot of Levites that had taken care of the Eric of the Covenant for 20 years in Kirjab Kirim, and some of these men, including Uzzah, in um Ohio were sons of these priests that had taken care. These Levitical priests had some Um responsibility to teach David and the people how to handle the ark with fear. It doesn't seem like they said anything at all So there seems to be a real disconnect, even with the spiritual leadership in Israel, about how to worship and how to handle the things of God. They don't know, or they're not instructing others in the way that they're supposed to. So these spiritual leaders aren't instructing David and others. And David doesn't have a knowledge that really he should have had, and all of this culminates together into Uzzah and his actions, although unintentional and well-meaning, we can understand why he would want to study the art. But he broke one of the most basic of God's worship commandments, that we must treat God's glory with reverence and honor. Think a little further on this even. All he did was touch the ark. But think about Moses in his interactions with God. Even Moses, as he wanted to see God, was not allowed to actually touch God. But remember, God gave him a vision of only his Back, he wasn't able to see the full representation of God. And even Moses himself had to be careful. Remember how God told him that if you saw all of my glory, that you would die Well certainly, if that's for one of Israel's most famous leaders, someone like Uzza is also going to be at risk as well if he's not reverent in honoring God in this way. And you think, well, I'm so glad that God doesn't handle things this way today, the way he did Back then, did we read we can we read the end of this verse? Let's continue. Verse 7, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Ozah. And God struck him down there because of his error, and he died there before the ark of God. This man goes to steady this ark and And he immediately got strikes him dead. And you can imagine the midst of this celebrating and all of this excitement. And all of a sudden this man just falls off the cart and falls dead before the feet. Maybe he's near David. And what David must have felt like at that point. Also embarrassment, I think, even a little bit. Why would God allow this to happen? Again, I was thinking, aren't we glad today that God doesn't, if I can put this way, operate in this way, that we have access to God in his presence through prayer because what Jesus did for us, right? But folks, do you remember what Jesus had to do in order for us to have that kind of access? Remember how the curtain was torn in two at the death? of Christ and we were allowed access to the Holy of Holies, but it required the death of the Son of God. That's really serious. And so this thing the Other did is very serious as well. He broached, he offended, he broke one of God's basic expectations. He did not treat it with reverence and honor. Now how does David respond to this? Well he's not very happy. Verse 8. And David was angry because the Lord had broken out against Uzzah, and that place is called Peres Uzzah to this day. Understandably, David's initial response is one of anger. I think yours probably directed towards God. And it would be a very human The response, we tend to, if we don't have the full understanding of what God's doing here, get a little frustrated and niffed ourselves. Really, God, this has to happen this way But this is the response of one that does not fully appreciate the need to honor God in the way that God requires And I'm sure this was grievous and also embarrassing. David had gotten all this together. He had 30,000 people around him. All of a sudden this man dies, and it's obvious why he did it, and David was in control of all this, and David's angry. That was his initial wrong response. But then David gets the point, I think, the more reflection he does on this in verse 9, then he has the right response. The second response is more appropriate. David was afraid of the Lord that day. And he said, How can the ark of the Lord come to me? How can I bring it to me in Jerusalem? Here we have a more appropriate response: fear and respect of God. That is the right question to ask at this point. Yes, how should that be done, David? There are really clear commandments on how that should be done. And maybe you need to stop and take a moment and find out what's wrong. And that's exactly what he does. He takes the time He halts the procession, he leaves the ark nearby until he has a fuller understanding of what's going on, of the problem. So David was not willing to take the ark of the Lord in the city of David, but David took it aside to the house of Obed Edom, the Gittite. Just take it somewhere nearby. probably there were some Levitical priests here who could watch over it. Obed Edom might have been connected with the Levites. They might have left some of the priests there to watch over the ark. And David is not going to take any more chances at this point. He understands that God is trying to get his attention that somehow or another he is violating God's worship standards. And he needs to take more time. Well folks, again, if I can go back to this, aren't we glad that God doesn't operate this way today? But the reason he does is because Jesus took all of the wrath And died for us so that we can have access to God. But even though we have that, and we need to thank God for that access that we had, that none of the Old Testament saints enjoyed We still need to remember that worship is a serious thing to God. And though He doesn't operate it in this way, there is a general principle for us to certainly be careful as we worship. And that's why we went through a whole worship series. And we talked about preparing before the day of worship. And we talked about the importance of prayer, the importance of music. Make sure that our music is pure before God. And our giving is is generous and um rightly motivated before God and that the preaching that we're listening and learning about God's word God is serious about worship And that's certainly a general principle that we can take from this, at the same time thanking the Lord, what a blessing it is to have access to the whole world. Well, it's we don't need an argument coming in anymore. How are we gonna find that thing by the way? A lot of people would like to. Maybe it will appear, maybe Jesus is the one that will bring it back. It'll be in in some sense in the future we don't know. The last that's heard of the Ark of the Covenant is in Chronicles, King Josiah. It's mentioned that he places it in the Um Solomon's temple that was built. That's really the last we hear of it. Perhaps Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonian armies armies destroyed it, took it, buried it, we don't know for sure. It's not important for us today. We don't have to worship the Ark of the Covenant, but it was God's expectation back then. And the point is we need to be aware of God's expectations for our worship today. Well, look what happens when David finds out the right way what well-intentioned but honoring worship is. Look at the blessings that are involved in contrast to this awful story. Let's look at verse 11. We're going to rejoice in well-intentioned and honoring worship. And we see here joy in the blessings of worship. And the Ark of the Covenant, the Ark of the Lord, excuse me, remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite three months. And the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and all his household. And it was told King David, the Lord has blessed the household of Obed Edom and all that belongs to him because of the ark of God. And although this doesn't say this specifically, I think this shows that the Ark of the Covenant was being honored and taken care of in the way that it was supposed to while it was there in the house of Obed Edom, and God was blessing these people because they were training and giving it proper respect, like that should have been happening all along David hears a report of this, and now he's encouraged. Let's continue the processional, but let's do it this time in a way that honors God, in an appropriate manner. And it seems as if now he has taken the time to find out what that is. And so they can rejoice in the blessings that God is giving of worship, but also in bright demonstrations of worship. When we do worship, when we complete worship that is honoring the God, folks It is encouraging and it brings joy and it brings enthusiastic excitement and energy, all of these things, when it's done in a right way. And so verse 13. Okay, at the end of verse 12. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Oben Evan to the house, city of David. Rejoicing. Why is he rejoicing? Because verse 13. Now he knows that they're doing it in the right way And when those who bore the ark, that has the idea of those that were carrying the ark on the poles like they were supposed to at the beginning, and they had gone six steps, he sacrificed an ox and a fattened animal. And so David is offering multiple sacrifices at specific intervals. There seems to be evidence that this was a correct way to do this as the ark was being carried, offering up sacrifices. And David's even more joyful and exuberant now because he knows that he has God's blessing, because he's honoring God in the way that God expected. And so look at this verse 14, this verse that we've probably heard many times, and David danced before the Lord with all his might. And David was wearing a linen, a linen ephod. This is most likely this linen ephod was the garment of the priest, the inner garment. And David is wearing this and he's dancing. Well, what are we supposed to take from this? Well, unfortunately, there are many that have looked at this. in Christian circles and said, see, the reason this is in the Bible is to show us that God approves a damage. Alright Well, that's a real shallow understanding of this and to apply it in that way that obviously misses the mark entirely. The whole purpose of this is to show to David's excitement and energy. And what is this dancing anyway? Well it's typical Jewish dancing that would have taken place at that time. I don't know if you've ever seen this or seen documentaries, that kind of thing, but it's a whirling and a twirling. I don't know if you've ever been to a sight and sound production. I know some of you have, and there's some really good aspects to that. Those people and and the productions they put on are amazing. And there's some aspects that I'm not quite as excited about when it comes to Some of those. But one of the things that that they I think they get very accurately is I've seen them perform this type of dancing, this Jewish whirling and twirling, and it's energetic, and they have the ladies have uh these long flowing roads and these long uh streamers and everything and it really is a good picture of this type of dancing. There's nothing sensual about it is my point. This isn't an excuse for us today to be able to be involved in sensual dancing. That misses the whole point. And that's not why it's in the Bible. It wasn't that kind of dancing at all. But the point is that David is now worshiping God in the right way, and it brings more joy and energy and excitement, even to his own worship. And so he does it in this way. And verse, and then this translates as well to the whole house of Israel. So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the horn. And that must have been a wonderful experience. Folks, when we worship God in a way that we know and are convinced our right ways in ways that are honoring him, there ought to be a sense of joy. Now, we don't have the whirling and twirling and things like that in our worship service. And and we we we want to take it seriously. You want to reverence and show respect for God. But folks, really, there ought to be that kind of excitement in our hearts of worshiping God. This is a demonstration for us of the excitement and the expectation. We get to worship God today. Do we come Sunday mornings prepared? With this kind of heart and excitement to worship God, even in the Knox Building, in Northern Ware, New Hampshire? Well, we should We should have this kind of enthusiasm for worshiping God as David did, because it's worship done in a right way. in honoring to God. Now there is another question here that we'll answer probably next week. Well, you know, let me just point this out real quick. We've got a few minutes here. David, offering of sacrifices, wearing the priestly linen ephod. Is that Bother anybody with what we've read in the past in the story of Saul and David? Any problems? Any concerns with that? What happened to Saul when he performed some of the duties of the priest? Well, it's got in big trouble. Samuel Samuel said directly, Saul, don't do that. So it was direct disobedience against God's command that Samuel wasn't here. But at the same time Why does David get away with some of these things that are clearly aspects of the priesthood? It does seem as if God allows David to act with part of the responsibility that a priest would have, and we're not totally clear about why that is, but there are some traditions and things that fit into this that make I think make good sense. Do you remember all the way back in Genesis, we had that mention this morning, a guy named Melchizedek, and how he was the priest of God? Where was Melchizedek priest in what city? Salem. Salem, which was the eventual ancient city, which eventually became Jerusalem. And there seems that there was a tradition that the person that would conquer This city would take the place, Melchizedek was not in the lineage of the Levitic. priesthood or Aaron. He was a separate line of priests. And the thought is somehow with David being involved in conquering Jerusalem that God allowed him to be a part of that Melchizedek line. Could be. Makes sense. There's also an aspect too that uh because David was faithful in carrying out God's uh commandment and getting rid of the enemy out of Jerusalem. that he then being the one that had conquered and it was his initiative that God allowed him also as well since it was called the city of David to lead the worship as well I think these are two viable, possible explanations for why David was allowed to do this. God obviously allowed David to be involved in some things that he did not allow Saul. And some of the other kings to be involved in. We see somehow Solomon, though, as well involved in worship. Somehow these two men, God allowed them to be leaders in worship that were able to do some of these same things. But the point in this is, regardless of all that, is David now realizes, and he has a better understanding, that God really means it when he says he wants worship done in the right way. And God expects us to honor him and follow his standards. Today as well. Not in offering up a sacrifice every few miles that we travel or whatever. That's not the point. That's not what But certainly making sure that the worship that we offer him on Sunday mornings especially is pure, is right And it is honoring, it is not focused on our likes and dislikes, but what is focused on what God's expectations are. They have learned that the hard way. And we can learn from that and apply those things and honor God. We can honor the Lord of hosts in our worship instead of dishonoring him. this way. Father, help us to again learn much from this incident of David's life We're well-meaning people can still sin and dishonor you when it comes to worship. And we see that very appearing here with poor Uzzah. At the same time, Lord, help us to know your word well. That's why you gave us your word is to know it well. So that we can know how your expectations of worship Deliver and by your grace give you the right worship that you deserve. Not what we want, but what you deserve. Help us to learn To do that continually better and learn from this example in David's life that when we follow right worship, the worship is even sweeter and more joyful. And more exciting to know that we are being obedient to you and honoring you. Help us to do that well as a church family together, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.