Whether you're married or whether you've had divorce in your background, folks, we have Christ. And that's all we need. To be faithful servants. We're not held back by any sin in our past. And we don't have to be defined by it either. But we can move Move forward in the power of Christ and in his cleansing, and that is our hope. And so I certainly want to, even at the beginning, remind us of that hope. Because I will tell you, I don't think this is a surprise, that when it comes to this topic, this does not make, I don't believe, the top ten of pastors' favorite topics to preach on. Let's talk about that divorce and remarriage again. Oh, such a blessing. No, no. But folks, we do need to understand what God's Word says. Regarding this, because it does impact so many of us. Well, really, all of us. And so we need to know and we need to understand very clearly on this topic. And what Jesus is talking about, you can turn to Matthew chapter 5, verse 31. Now again, last week we talked about anger and we're kind of stuck Skipping ahead a little bit to verse 31. We'll go back to the rest of that and uh those passages in the next few weeks once uh I'm back from vacation. But there is a a specific reason why we're we're jumping ahead on this, and one of those is that I feel and sense the need, God leading me, to give the accurate interpretation. What I am convinced is the ap accurate interpretation of this passage and about the whole meaning or the whole uh concept of divorce and remarriage as we're getting ready to um Consider leadership for the upcoming year. We're going to be having nomination forms out soon and opportunities for you to pray and select uh leaders that you think would be uh a helpful um benefit to our church and this is one of those topics um that tends to as you know hinder that um and As people have divorce in their background. And so I want us to understand truly what God's Word says as we're giving consideration to all those things. But why does Jesus even bring this up in this the Sermon on the Mount. And you have to remember that key passage that I keep referring to. in pa and in verse 20 that Jesus has said to his disciples, to the people, the disciples listening to this message. That unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. And again, as uh Um the followers of Jesus were looking around at the people and the best of the best, the Pharisees, the scribes, these were heroes to many of these folks, because they could be obedient to God and keep the law in ways that Everybody else struggled with. And for Jesus to say, actually you need to be better than these individuals, these right so-called righteous individuals you need to have a better character and conduct than even these folks. The question would be, well, how can anyone be a part of God's kingdom. And Jesus is then pointing to himself as the way, the truth and the life, the way to have access to the the kingdom of heaven. And so he brings up some issues here that would have been a real struggle for this society. He brought up anger and emphasized this point. It's not just enough not to murder someone, but also you can harbor murder in your heart. Oh. And then with this issue of divorce, this was a common occurrence as we're going to see later on. Later on, there there were by certain religious leaders and certain religious schools within Judaism much allowance for divorce, and it had become A common practice. So for Jesus to say what he says here would have been a real shock. And Counter to what these folks experienced in their daily lives. As I was studying for this message, I remembered of a situation not Too long ago. The Lord was uh calling me and Leslie, really our family, um, to leave Upper Crossroads and consider a senior pastorate. Somewhere wherever the Lord would lead, and we we were careful in seeking out possibilities. And we ended up with three, and even in those three, it was hard. Because in the end you have to say no to two and i as you go through the process you realize how churches i i in our country today are really struggling to find pastors and leadership. So to say no to easy Even to two other of these churches was hard. But there was a church in Florida that had been in existence since, I believe, the late 60s. They were a conservative Baptist church. Um they were many of you would understand this, they were a fundamentalist Baptist church. Um and they were struggling. Uh they had been quite large. I mean it w it was in Florida after all. It was Near Central Florida, but some things had happened, some destructive elements had come in, and they were really struggling as a ministry. So as we visited, we were praying, Lord. Is this the church you would have us to be a part of? Well, if you know our story and know that we ended up in New Hampshire, then obviously you know the answer to that. The Lord didn't call us to that particular ministry. But I've always remembered something that stuck out to me. There was a man that was the senior, the head deacon, the deacon chairman, and he was Also leading in a lot of the teaching and some of the preaching, uh, and and doing what he could for that ministry. He was obviously the main guy that was the center of the ministry. That the rest of the church was relying on. And Leslie and I got a chance to talk with him and his wife, and they took us out to eat that evening after the service. And we had a great great conversation. But then he said something that was a little surprising to me. And they both, they said, you know, we need to make you aware of something as you are considering us as a church and that is you need to understand my background and this was obviously this leader talking he said it's just something that we have to make clear to to folks and uh it's something that our church has worked through many many years ago but he said i have i have uh been divorced in my past And he said, um, you know, uh this this church doesn't have a problem with that, and uh Lord has used us to to help lead at this time. But he's and and she uh Reiterated how they had met each other and what had happened. And I was surprised not because I was shocked that divorce would actually happen. In the life of someone who is a leader in a church. But I was a little surprised that in a conservative Baptist fundamental church that they had already moved past this issue. And they had decided that the man that was leading them at this point that they were comfortable with him having divorce in his background. And it gave me hope as I come to the This today that you know what churches have worked through this and they've come to a reasonable conclusion on this. And that's what I'm hoping for us then this morning. I was encouraged by that man's testimony. As he was very candid with me. And so I want to look through God's word this morning and be candid with you as well. So, chapter 5, Matthew chapter 5, and the Sermon on the Mount here. Here and verse thirty-one. It was also said, Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife Except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And I'd like to give a brief word of prayer. Father, give us understanding in this this morning. Help me. I need your help. Help me to be clear. And help us to understand Christ Correctly your expectations, because that is what is most important. Not our own desires or wants, but understand the right interpretation, the way forward that you you have for us. Teach us your way, Lord, and we will follow. And we ask that in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. So first of all, Jesus then gives The broad end view, the expectation about divorce to his audience at this time. And we'll look at that in just a minute. But let's broaden it out a little further than even than that this morning. folks as we talk about divorce. Divorce, that legal procedure that allows a marriage to be um to be broken apart and people to be separated. and to move on and whatever that looks like, even beyond what God's people think about it, how does the world view it Well, I think you would certainly agree with me that in the world today, divorce is an acceptable alternative. In fact, it really is certificate of divorce like what Jesus mentioned here, most of the world looks at this as it's just a document that allows one to um get through the form the the marriage that they're in now so that they can legally marry Again. Now I'm not trying to be harsh, but isn't that the way the world looks at this? You lose your love for each other, things, you know, this not working. out how you thought it would be. So, well, you've got an option and let's and and you should pursue getting a divorce and then hopefully you'll find the person that's your true soulmate and and move on. Well, I think we can all agree, for those of us that are God's children here and as a church body, that that's not how we should view divorce. It's not just a segue to something better, right? It's actually something that should grieve our hearts Because God intended marriage to have a deep meaning, right? As believers, we in our marriages are actually our beautiful people Pictures of Jesus and the church and Christ's love and sacrifice for the body. And how great Grievously marred that picture is when this sort of thing takes place. So obviously, we reject the view of the world. But even among God's people and in Jewish society at this time. Jesus is addressing this as well. God addressed divorce and marriage in the Old Testament. I should have told you, I need you to be ready to go through a number of passages. quickly, right? So let's do that. Go to Genesis 2, verse 24. What was God's plan and expectation for marriage? For a man and a woman And in our culture today, I have to put it this way: one man and one woman coming together in marriage. What was his plan? Genesis 2 24 Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become One flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked, and they were not ashamed. Two people that come together and become one Through that physical relationship and through them getting to know each other and through them ministering to each other together. And serving their community and serving the church. They become closer and closer. They become one in the eyes of God. And of course, if you're becoming one from two, then God obviously has and intended that that never be divided. Because how can a Person in a unit be divided without there being destructive ramifications. This was God 's intention, that the man hold fast to his wife and they become one. But then sin came in early on, right? And sin, Satan, I believe, targeted marriage early on. Still continues to target the family and marriage today. So even by the time that God's people, God established his nation, um and And they were headed toward the promised land, and God was giving them his law, he had to address divorce because it was already becoming prolific within the people of God. So turn to Deuteronomy 24. Deuteronomy 24. We can't study all the verses that I'd like to this morning. And we may go a little bit longer than usual this morning, but I hope that you agree this is important. We need to understand this. So God made some indications in His Word towards the situation. giving his expectations. Deuteronomy twenty-four. When a man takes a wife and marries her, if then she finds no favor in his eyes, because he has found some indecency in her and he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house and she departs out of his house and if she goes and becomes another man's And the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house. This poor woman, by the way. And if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife after she had been defiled. She has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin upon the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance. And because divorce and its messiness with was becoming so prolific so quickly among God's people, God dealt with it in his law and gave um certain uh legal expectations for as this continued and it was a picture here of um the importance of marriage and how grievous grievous it was that Have that marriage relationship broken and that it did have far-reaching consequences for God's people. And God referred to it as an abomination. Later on the But Malachi, let's be clear, God describes it as something, divorce is something that he hates. But it had become prolific, and so God was dealing with it with his people. And so here's the interesting thing. By the time you get to the New Testament, unfortunately, divorce was just as prolific. And the grounds for divorce, depending on which religious leader you talk to, was quite broad. So when Jesus gives us rebuke in verse 31, he is um He is bringing a contrast to the cultural norm. And he is rebuking and correcting a first-century practice of easy divorce for trivial reasons. People, religious leaders, had taken God's law and modified it into something that was broader that God had not intended. For example, the Mishnah said The school of Shemai say, the Mishnah is a Jewish document, and it stated, the school of Shema say, a man may not may not divorce his wife unless he is found unchastity in her. Well that was one school that was under one leader. They were very strict and they followed after Christ's expectation. As well. But then you had other schools. The school of Hillel says that a man may divorce her, even if she has spoiled or messed up a dish for him. She's burned his supper. Well, you don't have That's grounds. Sorry. And um rabbi, a particular rabbi, Ikaba, says that a man may divorce her even if she she he has found another that is fairer than she. Oh my. And these were the types of things that were begin were had begun to be made allowance for for many, many years. And so Jesus, rather than entering this debate and well, for this you can and for this you can, he just does away with all of that. And he affirms God's original plan for marriage and shows that it remains God's ideal for all marriages. Again, verse 32 in Matthew chapter 5. But I say to you. That whosoever divorces his wife except on the grounds of sexual immorality makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery He does give an exception here, but we'll get to that in a minute. See, regardless of what the world or even some miscon misconception By God's people. Folks, God considers uh divorce as unfaithfulness. The world says that's an acceptable alternative alternative. If you guys Can't get along, you can't make it work out. God says, No, it's unfaithfulness to me. And really, we can understand that, especially the idea Of sexual unfaithfulness and that whole idea of one unit being literally torn apart? Can one do that to their own body? By the way, you know, this arm and this leg, they're giving me all kinds of fits. I just I just need to get them removed. They're just they're too Much trouble, they're more trouble than they're worth. Always pain. Well, you would be appalled if I came up in the pulpit and told you something like that, and you would think, well, there must be something really going on wrong with Pastor Brock to have Two limbs amputated? Well, folks, divorce and the coming together of two people that have before God have claimed their faithfulness and have made a covenant, really. Don't forget, marriage is a covenantal vow. That's what Malachi says. We'll see in a minute. It ought to um bother us just as much. idea of splitting two people apart as it would to split one's own body apart in any way. It ought to seem that unnatural. Let's look then, because Jesus gives further testimony here in Matthew. Stay in Matthew, but turn to Matthew 19. Verse three And the Pharisees had probably heard Jesus preach in the Sermon on the Mount, and they had their own questions. Because for many of them Jesus was saying something that went against the allowances that they were giving for divorce. So they wanted to hear Jesus say, hey, wait a minute, Jesus, we make these allowances. What allowances do you make? So Matthew 19, verse 3, and Pharisees came up, and Pharisees. Came up to him and tested him by asking, Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? And he answered, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? and said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined asunder, let not man separate And they said to him, Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? And we read that from Deuteronomy 24. So you have that background. That's the passage that they're referring to. And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. It was not God's intention. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery. And I say unto you, whosoever shall put away his wife, oh I'm sorry, I'm reading that. But actually in the King James and some other translations it adds, and whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. And the disciples are so shocked by this, by Jesus' stringent expectation regarding divorce and his lack of allowance. For divorce. Look at their shocked response. They said, if such is the case with a man and his wife, it is better not to marry. Well, if that's the only reason that people can get a divorce, then should we even get married at all? They were shocked because there was such allowance Many allowances made in this culture. And folks, that's really the understanding that we need to have in regard to all of this. And even Jesus said, not everyone can receive the saying, but only to those to whom it is given. Go quickly to Malachi chapter two. God, why is Jesus so stringent on this? And we We need to see these verses. We had them read for us this morning. As you're turning to Malachi chapter 2, verse 13, I want us to see here that this is a covenant. That two people make before God. I use that language when I'm marrying a couple, reminding them that this is a serious covenant. This is more than just a problem. Promise. But it is an agreement before God that two people, a man and a woman, will come together and stay together before Him. And God is grieved when this is not followed. So Malachi 2, verse 13. And the second thing you do, you cover the Lord's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning, because he no longer regards the offering or accepts the offer. But you say, Why does he not? Because the Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Two people come together and they covenant to be companions for the rest of their life. And God is saying here, just like those husbands that we mentioned That the rabbis gave allowances to. You know, you're putting off your wife because she burned the dinner and because you found someone that you think is better. And all of us, you're being faithless. You're trampling on the covenant that you've made with me. For the un uh I'm sorry, um, did he not make them one, verse fifteen, with a portion of the spirit and their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of of your youth. And then he continues on. Guard yourselves in your spirit and do not be faithless. Malachi views marriage as a a covenant between a husband and wife that God was a witness to, and which therefore God would hold people accountable. So marriage was a serious and is a serious commitment. between the husband and the wife, to the society in which they live, and before God Himself, whether they realize it or not. God views divorce as unfaithfulness, folks, to his to commitment to him. So back to Sermon on the Mount, then, Matthew 5. Because we do seem to have this exception clause, don't we? And Jesus seems to give exception for immorality. And it would probably be good for me to point out that in most in most respected New Testament Jewish circles, Jewish law required divorce of an adulterer. Wife. So this was no surprise to the people. But Jesus again says he gives that exception clause on the ground of sexual immorality. Then why is this even controversial? If God gives an exception clause, or if Jesus gives an extension , Clause. Why are there people that say no divorce under any circumstances? Where do they get that? Because it seems Here is Jesus is making an exception, and it was expected in Lewish Jewish law that of course if adultery is involved, you would have to divorce that. Individual. It was the expectation of the law. Well, it's interesting because when this passage, when this teaching of Jesus, it's also repeated in Mark 10 and Luke. Luke 16 and it gives the command against divorce, but it doesn't mention the exception clause. And so many people over the years, good good um You know, uh, faithful people of God, good pastors, good teachers, some that I respect um in a great way, have Looked at that and said, see, if the exception clause isn't in those passages, then the exception clause that Jesus is giving here in Matthew, it must be Something different than just um a divorce after two people that have been married. And so they've studied the background of Jewish um law and culture. And here is a that's a well-known, you've probably heard this before, explanation of what this means when Jesus includes this exception clause And many good people look at it like this. Well, Jesus must be referring to the betrothal period, like with Mary and Joseph. They're legally pledged to be married, but they've not come Consummated any physical way yet. So in that period of time, then if the one person is accused of adultery, then it is allowable for that divorce to take place. And I can see where that makes a lot of sense, and I leaned toward that uh many years when I was younger. But folks, as I continued to study this, I don't think that's the case at all. Because I don't see any indication in context that Jesus means to say that. In fact, Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount, would you agree with that? with me? He's keeping things pretty basic and pretty simple, right? If you have anger towards someone in your heart. You want to murder them. Okay, I can understand that. He says later on about lust. If you lust after someone in your heart, you've committed adultery with Okay, I get that. But then when we get to this, all these nuances, well, um you can't divorce your wife except during this um time of a betrothal period and then Then if something happens then, it just it's too complicated contextually where Jesus is making these truths so simple. And we don't even know for we don't even have any indication that Jesus was Referring to any sort of betrothal period, he's talking about marriage. Why does Luke and Mark not include those then? Well, if you read Luke's, the book of Luke and the Book of Mark, they do summarize many times a fuller teaching that has already taken place. I believe that Luke, for example, was written after Matthew, and so it makes sense to me in that regard that Luke would know that Matthew You included this exception clause? And so Luke maybe thought, well, I don't need to include that again. It's in Scripture. And it is in Scripture. How many times does something need to be mentioned in Scripture before it's legitimate? And Jesus mentioned it twice in Matthew. So I don't think just because it's not mentioned in Luke and Mark, that that automatically means that Jesus has to be Talking about something different here, and we have to complicate it with a whole scenario of betrothal that really doesn't make sense in context. Jesus is being real straightforward here. He's not trying to hide anything. And therefore, I do believe that he is giving an exception for immorality. And folks, I want to be clear and direct with God's Word. I'm not trying to hold fast to tradition or opinions, but clearly in my mind, what I see here, that's what this is. And so I do believe that God gives an A clause that allows divorce in the case of immorality. But I think all of this together, though Makes it clear that God divorces an abomination to God. That he detests it. And it's a breaking of the marriage covenant. And so we commit to being faithful for a lifetime. Men, remember how you acted in your youth toward the girl that one day became Became your wife, you'd do anything she asked. You'd go beyond the bounds of what you you'd take the time to woo her and to make sure that she knew she was special. And you'd spend the money you needed to to make sure that she knew she was special too. What happens after that marriage vow? Well, we get more familiar with each other Is the magic gone or is really the commitment gone? We need to maintain that commitment to marriage That Jesus says is so important. At the same time, folks, I understand, and I know it's getting a little late here. We're going to take another five minutes or so, and I think I can wrap this up. maybe ten. I understand at the same time that even in this congregation, because I know you folks, that divorce has had an effect. It has occurred and it has brought hurt and difficulty, and it has affected us in this congregation. Well, what do you do then? And I'd like to encourage you for those that divorce has affected That God still has a place and a plan for you. In other words, folks, we don't make, and we should never make people that have had this in their past where some sort of and I'm afraid Some churches do this where they almost, in a spiritual sense, make people wear a scarlet D around their neck. D. Divorce. Can't do this, can't do that. Okay. Well, do we do that with other sins? Do we do that with anger? Anger is murder. I think maybe if we're gonna do that with divorce, we ought to do that with anger and start wearing some scarlet A's. Lust. Greed. How about Greed. God says, by the way, that pride and greed and all these things are an abomination to him, too. See, if we're going to make people start wearing letters, then we're all going to be wearing a letter of some sort. So is that really then the expectation when it comes to this? And what is God's expectations for us? when it comes to divorce. There's a lot more I could say. There's a clause in 1 Corinthians 7, but we just don't have time this morning. I do believe that In 1 Corinthians 7, that God may give an allowance as well for divorce if the unbelieving spouse divorces and allows the believing spouse the freedom to be married again. I think that Passage does allow for that. But turn with me to 1 Timothy 3 verse 8. 1 Timothy 3 verse 8. I'm already sensing this may be something that I need to continue in a Sunday school class or something, but I think I can wrap the all this up like this. Folks, regardless of whether you come down, where you come down On adultery. Whether you believe there's a clause that allows for an allowance clause, which I think from Scripture that is most biblical, yes, I do believe, and it Cases of adultery, even though God's people ought to strive to keep that covenant and to be faithful to the wife and to the husband of their youth. Unfaithfulness, adultery happens, and I believe Jesus does give an exception clause for that. You may not believe that, but does it really matter when it comes to deciding who will lead in the church. And that's where we're getting to in the rest of this and as we consider nominating nomination um nominating people. And this is something that I think has been misunderstood, maybe in church culture, for a long time. I'm not twisting this interpretation as the more I studied this and I've talked with many pastors Um in our circles. And Pastor Condict and I talked about this many times. And I do believe that this is the right interpretation of this. The question is in the listings in First Timothy and and Titus about the credentials and the expectations for pastors and for deacons. Now I'm going to focus specifically on deacons here Does that list ban those who have had divorce in their past? Or is it saying, no, someone who's contemplated This or has had divorce recently is not in a right situation to be a leader. Or is it just across the board? If divorce is in one's background, they may not Which is it? 1 Timothy 3 8. Deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not addicted to much work Wine, not greedy for dishonest gain, they must hold the mystery of faith with a clear conscience, and let them also be tested first, then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless. And then it goes on for expectations for their wives. And then it goes back to verse twelve. Let the deacons each be the husband of one wife. And I believe that the the best way to translate that Greek word there for that is a one woman. Man. That what he what Paul is saying there is that the the deacon is committed to his wife. And he's not looking around, and he's not viewing Pornography, but he is committed to the wife that he is married to at the time of consideration, managing their children and their own households well. And also great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. There's two basic understandings of this. That in verse 2, it's basically saying, if a man has ever had divorce or a woman Well, for a deacon, a man in his background, he's disqualified. It does keep it a little cleaner, a little simpler. But is that actually what Paul's saying in context. The Greek, I believe, is better described as a one-woman man. I think this is better described and more biblical description say one that is married that is faith being faithful to his wife in the moment. Why do I say that? Look at all the other expectations. Uh a deacon must be dignified. Okay? He must um conduct himself in a respectful way. He must be respected within the church. He must not be double-tongued. He must not slander. He must not uh be addicted. He must not be a drunkard. He must not be greedy. Do we go with these, these in the list, and do we say, do we do the same thing with divorce, with these other things in the list. Do we say, okay, has this man ever been undignified ever in his life? Has he ever slandered once? Has he ever been greedy? If so, he's out. No consideration. We don't do that for any of the other characteristics on the list, except for that one about a one-woman man. And so I think that that's taken out of context. And it seems clear to me that that's the case, and the same with Titus. And so, folks, when we come to the end of this, I think that Paul is saying, examine the Man for leadership, deacon in this case, but you know, also as ramifications for pastor, examine where they are in the moment Are they at this point in their life are do they slander? No. Are they greedy? No. Are they drunkards? No. Are they committed to the wife that they're married to right now? Yes. Then they are illegitimate consideration. Generation for leadership. Doesn't that make more sense within the context? Really? There's one more thing, too. Turn with me to 2 Corinthians 5, 16 through 19. There are many that have been divorced before they came to Christ. And I do think that this principle is a valid principle. That there is a difference in things that happened before we came to Christ in the new creature that we are afterwards. And Paul says this 2 Corinthians 5. Verse 16. From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. We don't regard anyone to what they were in the flesh in the past. Even though we are once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them. And entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. And this principle is: when one has trusted Christ, folks, the old has passed away and the new has come. And are we then Legitimate in focusing on the old that has passed away when Christ does not count their trespasses against them. I think the principle is here is that what took place before someone was saved is in the past. It may have ramifications for the the future, but as far as an individual's worthiness and leadership, I think sometimes it has far more weight and value than it should in our local churches. Because folks, it's covered, it's under the blood. And these folks are new creatures in Christ. Wouldn't you say the slate has been made new? It's a new day. And so I think these folks need that consideration based on their new life in Christ. So actually, when it comes to the end of this discussion, you know what I find myself? I'm actually a little more cautious about marriage. Marrying people who've had divorce in their background. I check carefully. I check their background. I talk with them. You know, I'm more careful about that. Then I would even be about someone that has divorce in their background, but they were unsaved, now they're saved, or it's something in the past, they're married. Married again. They're faithful to their wife and their youth. Or the wife of whatever age they were married. And I'm more confident to say we Can't keep those folks with a scarlet D for the rest of their lives. We need to consider them on their individual merit and where they are with God right now. So for those of you that are contemplating marriage in the future, wrapping all this up now, I think all of us in this room, even those that have had divorce in our background. Would want me to say to those young people and those people that are single and contemplating marriage. I think we would all want me to say, be committed to that covenant that you're going to make with With God before God to that spouse. And those of you that are not married yet, you determine now that you will be faithful and committed to your future wife or husband. And that divorce will be like a curse word in your house. In other words, it's not named. You don't even use the D word in your marriage. But you recognize this is a covenant before God, and that is serious, and I will keep and be faithful and commit myself to that covenant. At the same time, folks, for those that have had and been affected by divorce, let me free you from something Don't let defeat and despair over your past reign in you any longer. But be ready to serve Christ with all that you have. Be faithful to your relationship that you're in right now. And we as a church need to covenant not to judge um unfairly or harshly those that have certain sins in their background. To the exception of all the other sins that we have in our background. We need to be biblical on this, folks. And so we say to people with divorce in their background: come and serve and be a part of the church. And don't let what's happened in your past keep you from the joy of serving Christ today. I believe that needs to be our attitude. And that's our encouragement for all this morning. Father, thank you for the opportunity to Examine this this morning. Help us to, in the end, just be channels that are useful to you, that we are conduits. For whatever, however, you would have us serve in this ministry. But Father, help us to be careful not to set man-made limitations on something that you You have not set limitations on yourself. Father, for those that have divorced in their background, help us as a church to be more willing to See where they are in their growth right now and recognize their new life in Christ. Lord, this message this morning doesn't answer all the questions. But Father, I hope that it gives a balanced biblical perspective that you want us to have on this issue as we go forward and pray about the leaders you would have us to elect. And nominate. Lord, thank you for your grace and your cleansing that does not hold our sin against us. That we are reconciled to God and we are new creatures. And we thank you for that realization. Help us to operate and give consideration to the functioning of your church within that rubric. And remember your forgiveness and your cleansing and your love.