The text in that song fits so well with what we're talking about this morning. And we're going not to the book of Ephesians, as our children go out for children's church, I should add, but the Lord has led me just for today to a passage in Philippians. And this kind of how this took place is I was working through this passage for youth group this Wednesday night, and just felt like, man, there was so much more I wanted to say. And praying more about it, thinking this, you know, our church family needs to be reminded of this again in this new year. And so turning to Philippians chapter 3, a well-known passage. Most of you have memorized this, verses um twelve through sixteen. But that that song that we just sang , and it says, I'm trying to find it here. It says, led by wisdom into suffering, grieved by many trials below, grieved in many things that we face our own sin, grieved by that, and yet rejoicing in his purpose that my faith as gold may glow. And then it talks about, I'm born again, I'm God's own chosen child of mercy. What love and grace. Father, keep me walking worthy till I look upon your face. That is the prize that Paul is talking about in this passage. God will keep us faithful and we will one day see the face of our Savior. And we will be made the finality of the process where we will be perfected with a new body. And no more chance for sinning again. Oh, folks, that'll be glorious. And that is the prize that we're looking toward. And so this morning, I want us to look at Philippians 3 and be reminded, don't look back. But press on this year in 2026. And I want to briefly go through this passage and then make some important applications as a reminder for us today. Paul in this book and in this passage is calling people to leave the spiritually worthless things they pursued in the past. and have a stronger, more passionate focus on their relationship with Jesus Christ and praising him for all that he is and for his character and for all that he has accomplished. That ought to mark a majority of our time, even as we struggle through difficulties in this world today. And Paul uses the example of a runner in this passage. Now Paul would have lived in a time where the Olympic Games were a thing, and yet we don't have any indication that Paul actually saw or was able to view the actual official Olympic Games, but there were held in Corinth a version of those games called the Ithmian Games, and that certainly would have been familiar to Paul And he had probably viewed those games and seen those events and seen these runners that would run for the prize. Now, I don't know if you've studied anything about the ancient games. It's actually kind of interesting. And a little disappointing, but you realize that they were a lot different than our games today. Our games today, the winners receive medals of gold, silver, bronze. Those are worth something. You see some of the athletes bite down on them to prove that they're real. Do you know what they used to get for rewards in the ancient games and in the Ithmian games held in Corinth? They would, after all that exertion and all of that difficulty, and those that would win, they would go to, I don't know if they had a stand there, but some sort of place of recognition. And they would place not a medal of gold, but a wreath of dried celery on their heads. Wow. That's that's enough right, Bob, for anybody to want to run, right? Well, I I can't tell you why that was um such Maybe it was just winning and they didn't really care about the wreath, or maybe there was something, I don't know, maybe they used it as potpourri afterwards. Who knows? But there was a prize for doing well and for doing your best in the games. There was honor and recognition. And Paul is reminding us this morning not to be distracted. We are in a race, folks. Some of us enjoy running. Some of us enjoy even walking more than others. Um and some some when you when you talk about running, they uh the there's probably some of you that are already thinking about signing up for local races and five Ks and ten Ks and how many other Ks there are. And those of you that actually have no desire whatsoever to get out there and run in public, and maybe a little bit of walking is good for you. Exercise, running, walking is good, but even more important is the spiritual race. that Paul says that we're involved in. And in this race, we might think as we look around us, And look in Scripture that we know the runners that are best that will win before everyone else that are the best runners. What I'm referring to, and I'll use this in the sense of the word saints. When we use the word saint in our culture today, we're using it actually in a far different way than what Scripture uses the word saint. What do we think of when we hear the word saint today? We think of, well, in religious circles, of one that is exalted and as having perfected and now has some sort of honor and they have statues and they even are put into stained glass and things and these are the saints that we remember. They were they are revered and Some many even pray to them. That's a distortion from what the Bible means when it has the word saint. But even in our local culture and situation. You might have said this before, you might hear someone else say, oh that person, I mean they are such a wonderful, faithful servant. That person is a saint. You know, if they do anything wrong, it's so minimal that it's almost not even worth mentioning. They're just wonderful. It's almost like they hardly ever. It's not like they don't have any problem with in their spiritual walk at all. He could barely tell they're a sinner. They're a saint. Well is that really the description that Paul in God's word has for its people? Actually, folks, the idea of the word saint in scripture. doesn't mean in any way that they're somehow almost or already perfected It's not saying in any way that there are some that live among us as Christians that, you know what, they have already achieved the level of perfection. And when Jesus returns, they're already there. I mean, praise God, I'll never reach that. I'm I'm looking forward to Jesus returning so that I can be perfected. But that person, the way that they live their lives, they've already achieved No. Scripture describes all of us as saints, all of us as not being perfected, but that we're imperfect sinners. who struggle and one day will be perfected when Jesus returns. You think of characters in the Bible that are you might label as the super Christians. Would not the Apostle Paul be in that list? And yet Paul says here in verse 12, hey, I'm a runner in this race, but I'm not a super Christian. I have my struggles too. Verse 12, not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect But I press on to make it my own because Christ Jesus has made me his own. Even the Apostle Paul says, I don't want you to think. In an arrogant way that I have reached full spiritual maturity in this earthly life. And we might say, well, Paul, if you haven't, it sure looks like you have have. it. I mean it's amazing how God used you, but Paul says, no, no, no. I've not a chained. I'm not a fully mature believer. I'm not, I don't have a full knowledge of Jesus Christ yet. I'm not perfected. I still have my struggles. And yet, he says, even with those, I don't let those imperfections and those mistakes. I don't, and and those situations in my life, those struggles, I don't let them distract me from continuing to run. And to pursue a closer relationship with Jesus. I don't let them discourage me. Don't let them keep me from running. This idea of this picture of running that Paul is taught is describing here is a race where the runner needs to continue to analyze his race and put off things that are keeping him from running more fully and committedly to streamline himself or herself so that they can run with full efficiency And obtain the prize at the end. That means that the runner has to put off some things in order to have a better chance of running. Now for those of us that are in the race today, the spiritual race that he's talking about, the race of the Christian life, we are promised success at the end. We're promised to get past the finish line But folks, it's a much more endurable and more satisfying run when we get rid of some of the the things that keep us from running in the way that we need to. And Paul is describing that here. You see, he is confident that we are going to finish the race. Because he says I press on to make it my own. He says, I'm gonna finish that race. I'm gonna make the finish of that race my own. It is going to be a thing that happens. Why? Because Jesus Christ has already run the race ahead of me. And he's made me his own. Jesus sacrificed his body and his life for us so that we can run sacrificially for him We already know that the end of the race in this life as we seek to serve him more effectively. that we are winners because of what Christ has achieved, and that means that we can be confident in our running. And Paul was literally, he says, Christ has made me his own. Paul was literally, he ought to know, in other words, what he's talking about because Paul was literally running the wrong way. Now it's really bad when you're in a race and you're behind everybody else. But when you're running the exact opposite way, that's the worst. Um that's the worst aspect of losing a race. And Paul has this picture of, he says, I was running the wrong way, and Jesus confronted me and said, Paul, stop running this way. You need to run this way. Run for me. And Paul put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Jesus turned him around. And so the picture here is, folks, even when we're not running like we should be, Jesus Christ will help us. us and will show us the things in our lives that we need to ditch and get rid of to run more effectively. That's how gracious He is He wants us to be successful in the race. And we are already promised the prize. So, don't be distracted with the things of this world, but be confident that you can win the race. Verse 13, brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. Oh, I have not run the, I have not finished the race yet. I have not arrived spiritually, brothers and sisters But one thing I do, one thing I know, that I need to forget what lies behind and strain forward to what lies ahead. And so with that understanding, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Moving forward. And putting aside the things that would distract me from running the race. And we need to talk then about the things that distract us. And we'll do that in just a minute. Paul says, I don't let the fact th uh of my um my defeats and my past sins and my past discouraging experiences, I don't let those keep me from continuing to run with all of my heart, straining forward. This reminded me of A story many years ago that probably some of you, since we're talking about the Olympics, why not throw in an Olympic story here? Some of you may remember this. There's video on YouTube and other places about this. About a man named Derek Redman, who was an Olympic runner. But the problem with Derek, one of the things that he struggled with was constant injuries and he was frustrated by many injuries. In fact, in nineteen eighty eight, Redmond was forced to withdraw from the opening heat of the Olympic four hundred meter contest only two minutes before the race was scheduled. To begin. And that was such a disappointment to him because seven years before, in 1985, he had broken the British record for the 400-meter race. But that didn't stop him He actually, by the time the 1992 Barcelona Olympics came around, he had undergone five operations, including one on his Achilles tendon, less than four months before the Games began. and it seemed he was ready to run. In Barcelona, everything s actually seemed to be coming together for Redmond at last. He was running well. He recorded the fastest time of the first round and he won his quarterfinal heat. And as he settled into the blocks for the start of his semifinal race, Redmond's thoughts actually turned to his dad, his father Jim, and the support that he had always given Derek. And Derek then, as the race started, got off to a clean start. He was running smoothly and about 150 meters into the race, as things seemed to be going well, literally his right hamstring muscle tore and he fell down. to the ground. When he saw the stretcher bearers rushing toward them, he knew, no, I have to finish this race. I can't let this keep me down. So he decided to push past the disappointment. He knew he wasn't getting a medal. He knew he wasn't getting the honor that he probably would have if that had not happened. But also pushing past the pain just to finish. And so he jumped up and began hobbling forward despite the pain he felt. Derek Redmond was determined to finish his race Regardless of the setbacks. But here, if you remember seeing this, here's the really beautiful thing. His father Jim saw his predicament. And his father ran out of the stands and joined him on the track. Do you remember that? And hand in hand with Derek sobbing, they continued. And just before the finish, Jim let go of his son And Derek completed the course on his own, as the crowd of 65 ,000 gave him a standing ovation. Here was a man who had obviously had some setbacks in his race. but he was determined. I'm going to finish. And his father came alongside of him and said, I'm going to make sure you do. Folks, that's a beautiful picture. At what Paul's saying here. We're all in a race. And yet, we're going to have setbacks. We're going to stumble. And yet, Paul says, and yet you have your father. And Jesus Christ, the Son, who is there to help you to get across the finish line. What a beautiful promise that is! In this verse. And so Paul says, because I know this, this one thing I do, I'm going to keep going. I'm not going to let the things that have happened in my past keep me from the high prize. In verse 14, he describes this. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. What is that prize? And what is the upward call of God in Christ Jesus? What is he re- experiencing here and what is he talking about? It's important for us to know. Let's talk about that high calling first of all. the high, the upward call of God or the high calling of God in Christ Jesus That's the calling that we have been called to as runners. And what that describes is God has called us to faithful service. And also in Christ. Jesus means that he has given us the power to serve Christ faithfully, to grow closer to Jesus in our relationship with him, to understand the scriptures. To be better in prayer, to serve him more committedly, to be a better example of Jesus Christ. All of that is our utmost high calling. What more important calling can you imagine than to be an ambassador, a messenger of the truth of the gospel, and a servant of the king? To faithfully serve him and to declare his truths and his character and his beauty and his glory. What greater calling? Those of us who are truly children of God, we know and hopefully we appreciate how important that calling is. And we need to do that with our lives faithfully. But that prize then of that calling of faithful service that is enabled, that gives us victory through Jesus Christ, the prize then, I believe, in the context here. is the final experience of salvation, eternal life, the final and full experience of relationship with Jesus Christ The prize that I think that Paul is referring to here, that I'm confident that he's referring to, is the day when Jesus returns. And we see him face to face. And we look, as we sang this morning, on his face. And we finally achieve that perfection. And we're given our new bodies. And we realize this is it. No more struggle with sin. Here I go into the gates of eternity with Jesus forever and experience the wonders of eternity and glory. Never again to be defeated or to stumble or to fall. That is the prize of what's coming. And that ought to motivate us because Jesus will enable us to achieve and to realize and to enjoy that prize of eternal life. to keep going. And Paul says, this what I have just described, this endurance and determination to keep going This is those that are mature, desire this and think this way, verse 15. He says, if you're mature You understand the determination to be a faithful servant and to run your race well because you know at the end More than a wreath of celery, certainly, but even more than a gold medal. I mean, the streets of heaven are paved with gold. Even more than that is the prize of seeing Jesus face to face and hearing, well done, thou faithful servant, you have run your race well, enter into my glory and rest for all of eternity. Oh folks, that is the price that we all desire. But in the meantime, we have to put aside those things that set us back and run well and be faithful. And if you're mature, you'll see the need for that. But here's the wonderful thing in the second part of verse 15. Don't miss this. Paul says, if you're immature, if you don't understand and have an appreciation for the race, and you're not as motivated to serve Jesus as you should be, He says, in the end, God will show that to you, will convict you And you will have victory. He says, if any of you think any other way, God will reveal that also to you. So if you're struggling this morning with a with a passion for Jesus Christ And you're not motivated and you're not dedicated to the race, guess what? At some point the Holy Spirit's going to come to you and reveal that to you so that you can run better. It's like having a track coach right there, and you're slowing down and you're struggling with the race, and so analyze how you can run better and you keep going. Paul says, if you're not running as well as you should be, we've already got a solution for that. God will reveal it to you. And so let us hold true to what we have attained. Don't be distracted, but faithfully endure in our spiritual race. Keep going. Rid yourselves of the weights that hinder your faithful service and your running. With the rest of the time here, I just want to go through what are those weights, what are those things that can keep us from running, from maturing in our relationship with Jesus, from serving as faithfully as we should. What keeps us from running well? Well, I have a list of things here, and it's not an all-encompassing list. You could probably add to these. The Holy Spirit, by the way, if you ask, the Holy Spirit. Lord, please show me the things that are hindering me and weighing me down from running the way that I should be. He'll show those to you. In each of your lives, he'll point those out to you. It just said God will reveal those to you. Maybe he might reveal, as you look over the past few years, you know what? I've not been reading God's word as regularly as I need to be. I admit it. I have been hindered in my faithful service and in my run because I've just not been in God's Word. And I've not committed myself to prayer like I need to. And so folks for this new year, 2026, by the way, I'm not calling you to New Year's resolutions. I don't believe in those because those are made to be broken, right? I'm calling you to faith commitments that just as we're told here that God will enable us when we submit and trust Him, He will enable change. Jesus will enable change. When you make faith commitments, you can have victory in these areas because Jesus comes alongside to help you when you stumble in them. So Bible reading. Maybe this is the year where you say I really need to run better in that. You know, I meant to do this, by the way, and this is something I meant to do and I haven't done it yet and I'm going to try to have it for um this week's email and for next week is to have some Bible reading plans to help Well folks, all you have to do is Google that a Bible reading plan for the year and a number will come up. You really don't need my help to find them, but I will put you, uh direct you towards some. But those Bible reading plans that many of you see in your apps and and online and things, they're helpful because they give you a regular pattern of how to read God's Word, and whether you read it through in a year or two years, It helps you to stay regular in God's Word, which is so important. They even have apps now, as you know, that read it to you and give you plans. Here, we can read to you the book of Matthew or the book of Luke in this next month. And you don't even have to hold your Bibles open. I mean, we're so spoiled in our world today. Folks, there's no excuse not to be in God's word and to be A deep studied student of his word. And maybe that's what's been holding you back as a believer in the past, to be more mature, because if you be honest, you don't even know God's word that well. Paul reminds us here: you don't have to continue to run like that. Put off that weight of lack of commitment of reading God's Word. Commit to that this year. Maybe you're just a fearful person. There's probably a number of you in this room this morning that there are things that make you afraid. People that make you afraid, situations, um concerns about the future, concerns about money, concerns about job, and those things freeze and immobilize you to where you can hardly think about serving God at all. or maturing because you're so terrified of what might happen in the days and weeks and months ahead. Maybe it's an illness that you might be facing. Folks, whatever you're facing, you can take those fears and give them over to the Lord and relinquish them and be a better runner. Don't continue to run burdened by your fears. Oh, Jesus died and has risen again, so that we have nothing more to be afraid of, and we have all eternity to rest. So run and don't be afraid. Maybe you've been struggling with the effects of lust. Unfortunately, in our society today, it's so easy to access pornography and things that we know that we shouldn't be looking at. Even in even in your news feed. You know? I'm I'm reading stuff um about Um the protests in Iran and Syria, and all of a sudden this news title comes up. I'm like, where in the world did this come from? And we can be pulled in so quickly. And I'm certain there are people here today that would say, Yeah, you know what, past twenty twenty five wasn't a good year for me, Pastor Brock. I gave in to lust a lot of times. I looked at things, maybe I was involved in things and I I shouldn't have been? Well, that will certainly weigh you down and keep you from a close relationship with the Lord, folks. Are you ready to throw those weights off? and to run more freely, not burdened by the constant satiation of your lusts and having to look at things and experience things that you know are off limits. No, throw those things off and run more diligently. Our world offers so many things so quickly to access to access things that just burden our souls. Even our entertainment and even just watching the news all of the time and being plugged into our devices all of the time. can weigh us down and cause us to slow down in the race and not be as committed faithfully to God. Don't let that happen to you. Maybe There's also those of you in here that are struggling with unforgiveness, with a bitter spirit. And you can't be used effectively for God because you're so hateful and angry toward other people that it just saps all of the desire for you to serve it all. And yet Jesus gave us the example of one that died for us when we were unworthy and in our sins and rebelling against him and has given us all. So that we could be free from bitterness and anger. I guarantee you that anger and unforgiveness will weight you down and slow you in your race. And Paul says that's inappropriate. Press on toward the goal. Forget what lies behind. Forget, put aside those things that were hurtful to you. Now I should say as a side note here folks, don't misunderstand. This doesn't mean I um forgetting what lies behind and straining forward what lies ahead that you You just look at the people in your life and say, you know, those I have some people in 2025 that really irritated me. I'm just going to forget they even exist. I'm just going to ignore them. I'm not even going to give them the time of day. Or I'm just gonna forget about I'm not gonna deal with that situation, I'm just gonna forget it ever happened and try to move on. No, no, that's not what Paul's referring to. I remember a situation, and this is a serious situation, I don't mean to to laugh at this at all where I know a family member um that had grievously hurt by some words that they said, another um distant family member in some social media comments. And that other family member sent that person a message and it said something like this: please don't contact us anymore. You are dead to us. Basically saying, I'm not even going to act like you exist. That's not what Paul is saying. He's saying relinquish the anger. And the bitterness and give it over to God. And folks, run like the wind. In a way that you can never do if you hang on to that bitterness. How about greed and discontentment? Are you not as faithful in your run and your service to God because you're more concerned about making money? Or your discontent about what God's doing in your lives. That has to do also with control. Sometimes we want to control everything. And until we see, let's put it this way, how about this? Sometimes we have the attitude of, you know what, when God does for me what I think that I want him to do and what I think I deserve, then I'll consider serving him. If God will do this in my church ministry, if God will give me this in my church ministry, I don't have this right now, but if God will give me this, then I'll serve him. But if I don't get what I want, Forget it. I'll just go somewhere else. I'm not going to serve him with my whole heart. Folks, that is a weight that should be cast off. And when God calls you to a church, calls you to serve among his people, we just say, Lord, wherever you've called me, I'm going to run as best I can. And not worry about all the stuff that's not happening that I want to happen. Don't let your discontentment and your greed and your desire for control weight you down from a good race. Maybe apathy. Maybe you just don't care anymore. Cast it off. Get into God's word. Be reminded of all that Jesus did for you. Maybe you're struggling even this morning with unbelief. You're teetering. Do I really believe all of this? And folks, if you are teetering, you are a child of God and you're a teetering and doubting whether you believe this, that is definitely a sign. You need to be in his word more. Let the Holy Spirit work and drive that doubt right out of your life. But if you are here this morning and maybe you've been faking it, and maybe you've never really truly you you've you've given a testimony that you're a child of God, that you've trusted in Jesus Christ, but you know, you know it's a sham. You know it's a fake. You're a hypocrite. Then in this new year, 2026, folks, this is the year to turn to Jesus in sincere belief and to for what he has done. Where else are you gonna go? What else, what other direction, what other path gives all the answers for life? I'm not trying to be too smarmy or direct here, but you gonna go and believe evolution? Rather than that we had a creator and we look at your life and wow, here's this magnificent machine that God has made. I look at his creation and all of this, but I don't believe it. It must be evolution, it must be just it just all happened. Folks, honestly, I marvel that people can believe in evolution at all because it's so silly and foolish. Something comes from nothing? That's an incredible act of faith to believe that And I appreciated Dino Dave Wetzel recently coming and giving all these wonderful arguments for creationism, and he said, now is the best time to be a creationist. It's the worst time ever to be an evolutionist. because there's so much data that shows that there was a creator. So many evolutionists are saying, yeah, you know what? I think we've got to change focus here. I think actually some higher power from another universe came. and left the basic building blocks here and then all this took place. Well where what where did they come from? And how did they start? The whole thing is preposterous. The only way that you can believe evolution is to say there can't be a God and I don't want some ruling my life, so evolution is as good as anything. I'll believe that. Why not cast off that ultimate weight of unbelief and believe the facts of the gospel, that we are all sinners, that we've all rebelled, we've all broken the Ten Commandments. None of us are worthy to be with God in His presence. We are all worthy of eternal punishment in a terrible place called hell. Because we rebelled against God. And yet God loved us so much that He sent His Son, who did perfectly obey in a way that we never could. And fulfilled God's law. And then as the Bible pointed to the need for a perfect lamb, a spotless lamb of God , Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was able to be offered and shed his blood. He took his sins upon himself and he offers us his cleansing. power through his shed blood and resurrection and gives us his righteousness, his obedience that he earned. Not of any works that we have done. But by all the work that he has done. And through Jesus, we no longer have to face the wrath of God. But we can face eternal acceptance with him when we trust in Jesus Christ. Simple faith. Simple dependence. I'm a sinner. I can't please God on my own. There's not enough things I can do ever to please him Jesus did it all. I believe. And I put my dependence in Jesus alone. And all the things that Jesus did are applied to my account, and I can know for certain that I will be with him forever. And I can run my race and see his face one day. and be with the glories of eternity, a new body and rest for all eternity, and never have to experience the punishment of eternal hell because of what Jesus did. Won't you put off the weights of unbelief and trust in Jesus and then serve him faithfully with your life? It's up to you this morning. But folks, as we finish I want to encourage us, and one thing that I plan on doing is not letting the uh defeats and the sins and the discouragements Of twenty twenty-five or even before that, keep me from running and being faithful in my race. Will you not commit to that in 2026 As well. Our Father will help us get to the finish line. He will be there. Our brother, our Savior Jesus Christ, will make sure that we finish. Cast these things off that keep us from running. And let 2026 be the year where we experience more faithful service and better running than we ever have in our lives. Looking forward to the day where we will see Jesus our prize. Face to face. Oh, what a glorious day that will be. Let's pray. Lord, we've been tasked. The reminder has been given a new year filled with possibilities And my prayer is for myself and for everyone within the sound of my voice that this year we will commit and run our race better than ever. Because of our dependence on Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray if there is one here that has not trusted in Jesus as their Savior, that they would understand that without him they are destined to eternity apart from you. In a torturous place. But they don't have to have that outcome. They don't have to have that destination, but through faith and trust in what Jesus has done for our sins. and provides forgiveness and cleansing, they can be renewed and be with you forever and gain the prize of eternal life. And live with peace and hope and joy for eternity. I pray that today that those who still need to will put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And then for the rest of us, Lord, that know we're believers, but we know we've not been running as well as we should, I pray that this year you will help us to run harder, to run better, all because We have put some of these, the things that weigh us down aside. And we're depending upon your son, Jesus, to carry us through. And may this year be a year of victory, no matter what happens and takes place in 2026. May it be a year of victory for your people as we take. These promises that Paul has given to us and make them our own. Folks, you have a decision to make this morning. You think on these things. Be a better runner this year. Think on these things as Leslie plays.