Just prepared your hearts for what we're about to hear. And even as I was listening to my friend Dave Wetzel uh speak this this morning. Um it just was a reminder of all the things that that he has done. And um he's literally a world traveler. uh as he mentioned this morning on the hunt to find certain types of dinosaurs. Now I'll let him explain all that because I can't even give that justice, but it's amazing. But he has a a long um he's been doing this for decades He considers himself as called a cryptozoology researcher. He'll explain that. He's a published author, creation science speaker, and educator, and the president of Genesis. Genesis Park, where it is his goal to reclaim the dinosaurs to the glory of our awesome Creator. And I'm so glad to have Dave with us. His friends, his parents. I'm sorry, his parents are really good friends of ours. We stayed when we got up to New Hampshire for the first time. Uh, we stayed with them. Their home was our first home. For three to four weeks. And his father, Paul Wetzo, is about ready to have open heart surgery next Wednesday. I'd appreciate you prayer for that. But I'm just so thankful he can be with us, and Dave has the rest of the time. Well, good morning. Great to see you folks. We have prayed for your ministry. As a friend of Pastor Brock and his family, we prayed for him in the midst of this transition. And coming down here, and I just want to publicly say how much we appreciated Brock, Leslie, and the family and their ministry during a very vulnerable and fragile time in my family. And he ministered in a very special So we got to know each other. I spoke uh for him at the church there at Village Chapel and we got to see other also multiple times at camp and it's just crazy how the time has flown. I can't believe Arden is ready to graduate. This is crazy. Like where did the time go? But it's so good to be able to be here with you folks. I hope you appreciate Pastor Brock. He's a dear man. Just to see him up here leading the single singing and he's great with youth. He's kind of like a Swiss army knife of pastors. He does a little this little that and he's not a bad preacher either. So maybe you're here as a visitor and you don't normally come I'm gonna apologize up front. I'm Dino Dave. Things are gonna be a little bit unusual today. So you've got to come back next to next week and hear Pastor Brock speak. Uh but I'm kind of all over the place. We're gonna have some fun. We're gonna have a a bit of a of a creation investigation here. Uh brother, can you hit the uh that little button on the PowerPoint for some reason that didn't click in. Uh just that lower button there on that PowerPoint to kind of get that started. While he's doing that, let me mention I've got some little Literature, some resources in the back. We have a pamphlet or two here. We've got one entitled Did Dinosaurs Coexist with Man? And this is a good question for folks out there that love dinosaurs like Science. Science, there you go, great. And uh so this would be a chance to get them some information from a biblical perspective. On the back it's got a gospel plan of salvation. So go ahead and grab some of these, grab a few of them. I have another one called Five Cues or Five Questions for Evolutionists. Increasingly, we're living in a secular world, pagan society, a post-Christian society. So you might meet folks who are atheists, agnostics, evolutionists, skeptics. Good pamphlet to have for them. Just five simple questions might get them thinking about this matter of origins and that evolution is every much as position of faith as creationists. So the pamphlet Pamphlets are free, feel free to bail yourself. We've got a hardcover book, Chronicles of Dinosauria. And I wrote this book because most books on dinosaurs From an evolutionary perspective. It's millions and millions of years, and uh they're pushing a propaganda, they're pushing a theory of origins. And so this is a book on dinosaurs from a biblical perspective. It's $16. 99 on Amazon. Today for our conference it's $10. So the hardback is $10. We've got a couple of softbacks. The softbacks are normally $9. 99 on Amazon. but they're $5 today. So $10 for the hardback. We've got two softbacks, book one, book two, volume one, volume two. These are stories for kids. They aim more kind of at the elementary level, but the whole family would enjoy it for family devotions, homeschoolers, Sunday school, vacation, Bible school, that type of thing. So there are some books in the back. We take cash check, child, firstborn child, a blood donation, you know, whatever. If you can't afford it, just go ahead and grab one Of those things. Hopefully there'll be a blessing. Well, we're in the middle of a creation investigation. If you were here for Sunday school, we talked about the truth about dinosaurs. In this session, we're going to talk about the early earth. What was it like? on our primeval planet. Was it slow and gradual evolution from ape-like creatures to humans? Or was it really much better in the past? Was it a Garden of Eden? Is there scientific evidence for the Garden of Eden? We're going to talk about that in this session. And then I would really encourage you, even if you don't as a habit, come out Sunday night, please make every effort to join us tonight. It's going to be something pretty remarkable. We are going to talk about faith, flood, and fossils. It's really the rest of the story. We'll talk about the Garden of Eden, but you've got to come out to hear the flood. It's amazing new scientific evidence. for the flood. Just really encouraging to our faith. Faith, flood, and fossils. And I'll just give you a little teaser here. Tonight, I am going to have an anti -deluvian artifact with me. What's that? I actually have an object that we believe was made In the pre-flood world. Now there's only a couple of these known in all the world, and I've got one And I normally doesn't come out and travel with me because it's really special. But I'm doing a homeschool conference uh on the way back home up in New Jersey uh this week and they specifically want to see it so I've got it with me. Special treat tonight. You maybe never in your lifetime gonna see one of these again, but an object that was made in the pre-flood world and we'll talk about why that's significant. Come on out, join us just up the way there in the gymnasium All right. Let's talk about the early earth, Eden, or Aitman. And like I say, today's going to be a little bit of an anomaly, a little different. We'll talk about a little bit of science. I'll meander around some. I'll look for a little participation as we go along, but we're going to be talking about some science. scientific matters and what was it like on our early earth. If you've got your Bibles, feel free to turn to Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. If not, I have most of the verses on the overhead. But we're going to start with the very first verse of the first chapter of the first book of the Bible, and it says this. In the beginning. God created the heaven and the earth. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth The whole verse is only seven words in the original Hebrew. But what powerful words! Someone has said a more succinct description of origins can hardly be imagined than this. Every word is significant. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. the earth. Scientists tell us, physicists say, there's only three things that makes up the entire cosmos, and that is space Time and matter. And we could say matter slash energy, because matter and energy they can be Swapped back and forth. That was Einstein's whole theory. E energy equals MC squared, mass times the speed of life. So we can transform back and forth between matter and energy. But look at this. In the beginning, there's time. God creates the heavens, their space, and the earth, their matter. Powerful description of origin. Here's our outline of where we're going to cover this morning. I want to talk about the evolutionary family tree. What about some of these missing links that they push in the school textbooks? Suppose is eight men. I'll talk about the age of the earth. I want to talk about the Garden of Eden. And I want to talk about the first. Great catastrophe. Now you gotta come back this afternoon and hear about the second great catastrophe, which is the flood, but this morning we'll talk about the first. Great catastrophe. Alright, well let's talk about the evolutionary family tree for just a minute. Here's Charles Darwin, and Darwin said this. Man Is descended from a hairy -tailed quadruped, probably arboreal in its habits. Now, Darwin's a scientist. these using big words. Somebody tell me, what is a quadruped? Hmm? Yeah. Yeah, something around our four legs. And what is arboreal mean? Who who said trees? Gold star for this young lady here, okay. Living in trees. And what Charles Darwin is saying is your great, great, great, great, great, great Great, great, great, great, great, great grandpa is living in trees and running around her four legs. And the evolutionists have put a lot of effort into proving Darwin's assertions, and the first piece of evidence they came up with is this pilt down man. Now, Piltdown Man was discovered there, you can kind of see it off to the side there, in the southern part of England by the mines, and it was exactly what they were looking for. It was this human-like skull with this protruding ape-like jaw, kind of half man, half ape. And for 40 years, four decades, this was considered the best proof of human evolution. And then after 40 years, it turned out it was a fraud. It was a hoax. It never existed. Somebody had taken a human skull and an ape skull and filed them down and made them fit together and doctored them with some chemicals and then put them out there and discovered them. It was a fraud for forty years. And then we have Nebraska Man. Now, this is how Nebraska man looked in the Illustrated London News in 1922. What they didn't tell you at the time in the Illustrated London News was the whole of Nebraska man was built from one tooth. Yeah, they found a tooth, and that's what they built. From a tooth Well, later on, somebody found the rest of the skeleton that the tooth came from, and lo and behold, it was a pig's skeleton. Yeah, and so here you have a pig who made a monkey out of the evolutionists. And that was the end of Nebraska Man. Well then we have Java Man. Now you still see Java Man in the textbooks today, and that's kind of how it looks. And uh Java Man's not much better. You've got a little better than one-tooth, but you've got a skull cap there. And this is from an area there in Indonesia. And they have the skull cap and they have also a femur. What's a femur? Big leg bone, right? Got a femur, skull cap, and you've got a few teeth. That's it. That's all the Java man is. And this is in the textbooks today. Well, more recently, they've discovered some fire, remains of fires at that same location. Hey, anybody know about an ape that makes fires? No. So I don't think this is all one person. I think more likely this is some, you know, kind of hobo loner that's out there living by himself and he's making fires and he's maybe killing apes. And he's eating them, cooking them on the fire, and some of their bones get mixed with his bones when he dies, and so you got a a mishmash of some dina uh some uh human bones and some uh some ape bones there mixed together. orangutan maybe. Excuse me. Then we have the leaky footprints. Now this is how the leaky footprints appeared in National Geographic back in 1970. And now keep in mind they have only footprints. That's all. But these are footprints in an ash layer in Tanzania, and they drew this picture just from footprints. How do you know what they look like from the footprints? Well, they had dated this ash layer to 3. 5 million years ago, and you see, that's when they think our ancestors. ancestors were climbing down out of the trees and starting to walk erect and so they say well that's probably what they look like and they're flat footed Now, humans are the only creatures to walk around with an arch on our feet. And these are flat-footed, so they must be, you know, somewhat ape-like, right? And then a guy by the name of Charles Tuttle, or I'm sorry, Russell Tuttle, began to study these things out. And because of Russell Tuttle's work, he discovered that tribal people that run their whole life with no shoes, at the end of their days they get pretty flat footed and they leave footprints identical to this and so there's no evidence of everything. evolution at all and in nineteen ninety National Geographic did a retraction. But you got nowhere to look. It's a tiny little footnote so oops there's no evidence for evolution there at all So when they think they have evidence for evolution, front page, big pictures, when all the evidence goes away, oops, little admission with a footnote, okay, sorry, there wasn't any evidence at all. Now, why am I telling you all these stories? Is it to make fun of the evolutionists? No, not really. I want you to be just a wee bit skeptical when six months from now, a year from now, they find the missing link. They've found it a few times before and they don't have a good track record So you have to learn to be just a bit discriminating and a bit skeptical with some of these human evolutionary missing languages. This is a picture straight out of evolutionary anthropology, a textbook today, and you're going to typically see on the left these pithicines. especially Australopithecus aperensis, that Lucy one there. But then you'll see Homo habilis, you see Homo erectus, the Neanderthals, and then fully formed Homo sapiens. like us today. But that's kind of the evolutionary migration of human beings. Now what do we say as creationists about this? We would say all of these fellows over on the left here are all apes. And by the way, they're not drawn real well there. They're about three and a half feet tall. They're not, you know, they don't even come to your waist. They're just small. And uh but they're perhaps walking slightly more erect than chimpanzees do today. Hey, chimpanzees can walk, you know, not real well, but they can walk on two legs today. And so s maybe it's a variety of chimpanzees. that was slightly more erect. But it's an ape, okay? Now, we would say all these fellows over on the right are fully formed humans And you say, well, Dino Dave, what about that dude in the middle, that homohabelus? Isn't that the missing link then? I'm glad you asked. Homo habilis is kind of like a trash can where they throw some miscellaneous bits and pieces in there. And you don't have to take my word for it, because here is a quote from uh Science Magazine. Researchers labeled a number of diverse fragmentary fossils from East Africa and South Africa. Africa homo habilist making the taxon a grab bag, a homo wastebin. Yeah, bits and pieces, got a few teeth, all right, throw it in there You got a femur? Okay, we'll put it over there. We've got a little bit of a humerus over here, or a piece of skull, we'll put it in there. It's just a bunch of bits and pieces. You can make up whatever kind of story you want about them I could give you a lot of quotes on this. It is a homo wastebin. Here is human lineage, a textbook from 20. Concerning the classification of homohabolus, we would personally prefer to retain them in Australopithecus, that's the apes, until more is known. So this is leading evolutionists, and they're admitting uh it's just kind of a a garbage bag of miscellaneous bone. Okay, well moving forward, what about Homo erectus? Remember, creationists would say all these guys are fully human. Here is Scientific America, and they say things are coming to the surface that don't fit the model of a single Recent migration out of Africa, says Murray Cox, University of Arizona. Cox believes he and his colleagues have found the clearest sign so far that modern humans Mated with Homo erectus. Now you guys are a smart crowd here. Somebody help me out. If you have a population over here of critters and they are able to interbreed with a population of critters over here and produce fertile offspring, by definition they are one and the same what? I hear people whispering. aren't used to talking on Sunday morning. It's my fault. Don't be bashful now. Come on. Somebody help me out. Close, even lower than that in the taxonomy. Species. Who said species? Alright, gold star for this young man here. Absolutely. That's the definition of species. See, they're humans. Hey, listen, we've got a lot of variety in the human population. Today. God likes variety. We got people that are kind of scrawny and tall, we got people that are kind of short and stout. We got people that have kind of real gracial features and some people that have more robust features. We got people with light skin, dark skin, in the middle kind of skin. You got lots of variety. You got people with light hair, dark hair. You got people that, you know, Pastor and I, man, we just don't have much to talk about. God likes variety. And they may have been even more of a writing in the past. We don't know. What about the Neanderthals? Well, in 1908, this is how they drew the Neanderthals Neanderthal. And then a fellow by the name of Jack Coo, who was a creationist, lived in New Jersey, began to study out the Neanderthals. Now my friend Jack Coozo actually got to go to Germany and France and study the original bones. And he did measurements and he's an expert on dating just from bones. So for example, let's say that there was a skeleton found, you know, uh off not too far from here and they suspected maybe there was a crime and they would bring a guy like him in and Kozo would just from the skull and teeth he could tell you how old that particular person was when they died. And so he began to study out the Neanderthals, and he actually went to some of the caves, and lo and behold, in his book he tells the story. These Neanderthals, in some ways, are superior to us. They had beautiful Beautiful cave paintings and microcarvings that we have difficulty seeing with the naked eye. They had flute-like reed instruments in these caves. They had turquoise and pink flax fiber clothing. They used aspirins, yes, extracts from tree bark, aspirins and antibiotics. They had super glues that they used. They made with certain kinds of pitches. They had leather tools that they used and they had makeup pigments. Anybody know apes that have makeup pigments. No, no, no. These are fully human beings. But here's the coolest thing. He discovered based on his analysis that these Individuals had lived over 200 years before they died Two hundred years. You know anybody that's lived to two hundred Do you know a time in the Bible where people were living to 200? When? Okay, before the flood they're living in 900, you're close. When do they live in 200? Move forward a little bit. Right after the flood. I mean Sh Shem, Ham, and Japheth still live about nine hundred, but but you know a few generations down, I think Abram 's 175, so maybe about the time of Job to live in These are the children of Japheth. They're pushing the edge of the ice age up in uh Europe, and they're not living in caves because they're a bunch of bozos, they're living in caves because it's still dangerous after the flood. The world's still settling. And you 'll live in a cave because it's a safe place to live. See. So these guys are highly intelligent, and it fits perfectly with biblical history. Now, watch this. This is Newsweek 2023. Watch how the evolutionists have had to make a U-turn. These and other finds, together with advanced technology that's become available to paleontologists. within the last decade have smashed the popular conception of Neanderthals as hairy, primitive, knuckled dragging cavemen who carried clubs and spoken grunts. Neanderthals we now know were likely more intelligent, sophisticated, and complicated than previously believed. Thank you very much. So what the creationists have been saying for years, it's a fun time to be a creator. It really is. Oh, the whole things we find just confirm God's word. God's word is more up to date than tomorrow's Google headlines. You believe that? Why? Because it is revealed truth from our Creator. And you can count on it. I'm looking at some young people here today. You're going to make a decision what you're going to build your life on Are you gonna build your life on popular opinion? Hey, popular opinion changes like the breeze. Are you gonna say, well, I'm gonna build my life on the unchanging facts of science? Hey, has science changed the last 10 years, 20 years? facts? Oh my goodness. A lot. Including in their whole view of the Neanderthals. These are shaky foundations to build your life on, my friend. Build your life on the unchanging foundation of God's word. Has God's word changed in the last 20, 50, 100 years? No. No. That's revealed truth. That will give you a stable foundation for your life. Well, in summary, here is some evolutionists in the American Museum of National. They say when you look at the narrative, for hominym origins, it's just a big mess. There's no consensus. whatsoever. Oh, it's a tough time to be an evolutionist and try to make a story of human origins. So much for the evolutionary family tree. Let's talk about the age of the earth. How old is the earth? This is a pretty big discrepancy between evolutionists and creationists. Is the earth billions of years old? Maybe 4. 5 billion years old? Or is it the earth may be just thousands of years old. That's a pretty big difference, wouldn't you say? And uh straightforward reading of the Bible would lead us to think more along the lines of Thousands of years. Well, marching forward, if you've got your Bibles open, let's look at Genesis chapter 1, verse 2. Genesis chapter 1, verse 2. The Bible says, and the earth was without form and void. The earth was without form and voice. Now some folks have tried to take the Bible And believe the Bible, and they do believe the Bible. These are good men, by and large, and they have tried to also have the respect of the scientific community that says the world is 4. 5 billion years old. And they try to fit the two together in a theory or an interpretation that's called the gap theory. Anybody heard of the gap theory? Okay, a lot of you guys have heard of the gap theory. And they'll say this word was could be translated became. Excuse me. And so the gap theory would say there was an original creation of God, and then Satan fell, and he fell to the earth, and God cursed the earth. and the earth became without form and void, and they'll say, well, maybe we can fit these billions of years in there, in that gap. Now again, I'm not trying to be uh uncharitable here. A lot of these guys are true to the Bible. In fact, some of my great uh spiritual uh heroes in the faith believed in the gap theory. But I don't believe in the gap theory. In fact, I don't think it f it even even solves the problem. Why? Well, guess what's in those billions of years? Of supposed evolution. What is in those rock layers of all those years and years and years of what is this? Well, it's a dinosaur kneebone dinodave. Yeah, but what do we call these things? Fossils. Well, what's a fossil? Something dead. Thank you very much. Question. Was there death before Adam's sin? No, this one you can absolutely take to the bank because the Bible is really clear on this. Romans chapter 5, verse 12 says this, wherefore as but one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men for all sinned. There was no death before Adam sinned. So if you want to find a gap between Gentlemen Genesis 1-1 and 1-2, and in that gap of all those rock layers that are supposedly millions of years old, there are all kinds of fossils. Got coprolite there. Fossilized dyno boop. Yeah, I got interesting things. Come on up here. I got a T-Rex 2s. I got all kinds of stuff. But these are all dead things. There are things that died. There was no death before Adam sinned. That doesn't happen in Genesis chapter 3. So it doesn't make sense. sense. Well some folks have come along with another interpretation that's called the day age theory. And the day age theory goes like this. Well maybe every day of creation, day one, day two, day three, was really a long period of time. Maybe millions of years or even billion years. And they'll take that word day, which is the Hebrew word yum, and they'll say, maybe it's not a 24-hour day, maybe it's a long period of time. And to be fair to them, there are a couple places in the Bible where day is used in a general sense. For example, the day of Jacob's trouble is talking about the end times, the tribulation of the We use it in a general sense sometimes still today. Somebody is a real jerk and will say, that God I has got his day coming. Maybe not talking about a little day, but we're just saying there's a there's something that he's gonna, it'll catch up with him, right? But when the Bible is so, so, so clear and it's laid out with an evening and a morning, honestly, I think these people are putting science first And they're putting the Bible second. They're trying to jam something in there that doesn't work. Over and over again, the point is made. The evening and the morning were the first day, the second day, the third day. Is there an evening and morning every million years? No. So I don't think the day-age theory makes sense. And in fact, in Exodus, it uses in the Ten Commandments God's work in six days as an example for us that God makes the earth and then rested on the seventh day I think this one really kills the day-age theory. In Mark chapter 10, Jesus is asked about divorce. And Jesus says this, from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. Not millions of years after the beginning, because each of these days is millions of years, but no, way back in the beginning God makes the male and female. So this pretty much kills the day-age theory. It does not make sense. So no, I believe in six literal days of creation, and I believe in a young earth. And what I want to do is I want to give you some evidence for that in just a little bit. But I've got to mention one more group, and this is the theistic evolutionist. Theistic evolutionists. Now sad to say, there's a bunch of these even in some Bible colleges, some of the more liberal Bible colleges And they've pretty much thrown away the whole teaching of Genesis 1, 2, 3, 4, and even after that, and say, well, it's just a parable. Not little history. There never was a little Adam. There never was a little Eve. There was a group of apes, and maybe one of the apes came along far enough that God could call it Adam, if you will, but they're just a bunch of apes. Evolving over millions of years. So these guys have watered down Genesis to being just a parable, not trustworthy history. Can I tell you something? When you abandon the authority of God's word in Genesis, it will impact the gospel. You can't reject the authority of God's word in Genesis and expect to be able to use the authority of God's word in the book of John. You undermine the authority and you lose the gospel. So I stand against these folks that try to say we can't trust Genesis In fact, if you buy into the evolutionary theory, it is diametrically opposed to all of God's word. Here's Charles Darwin in his book, The Origin of the Species. He writes, thus, from the war of nature, from Famine and death, the most exalted object which we are capable of conceiving, namely the production of higher animals, falls. Through war and famine and death. My friends, is that how God creates That's not our God. That's not a good God. That's a wicked, horrible, uh, painful, suffering, agonizing, death, heartbreak, mutations, you know, accidents Carnivory, creatures killing creatures, slow and agonizing death. That's not God's good creation. You got a whole different God there, if that's what you believe. belief than the God of the Bible. These two don't fit together. So either the Bible's true or it's not trustworthy. And if it's not true in Genesis, it's not true in John. You have to make your choice. The Bible says over and over again that God saw it was good, very different from the way Darwin imagined it slowly coming into existence. Got a hold for one or the other. The two don't fit together. God 's good creation is not sitting on top of millions of years of death and struggle and famine. And parasites and diseases. No, no, no, no. So what I want to do is I want to give you some evidence. Right now the earth is young. Can I suggest something? You're gonna get asked about this. You will. Take some notes. Please jot this down on the flywheel for your Bible. Type it into your device. Make some notes. Somebody's gonna ask you, how can you possibly believe the earth is young. How can you possibly still believe the Bible when it's been proven to be scientifically wrong? I'm going to give you some key evidence. I tell you it's a great time to be a creationist. I'm going to give you some key evidence, a handful of key arguments right now, the earth is young. Number one. Number one, the moon. The moon. If you're making notes, write down the moon. The moon is slowly retreating from the earth. If that had been going on for 4. 5 billion years, we would have lost the moon. It'd be gone. If it gets too far out, the gravity's not enough and it's gonna fly out. So there's no way it could be out there for billions and billions. Of years. Number two. Number one, the moon. Number two, comets. Comets. Here's a picture of Halley's comet. Last time it came through in 1986. Well, comets are relatively small bodies. They're not like planets. Planets, certainly not like suns, and they're burning up and they're losing material. That's why you have this tail behind them. They're losing material, and in a short time they should be completely Completely burned up. If the earth was billions of years old, we should not have comets anymore. Why are they still out there? Evidence the earth is not Not billions of years old. Number one, moon, number two, comets, number three, the magnetic field. Did you know the Earth's magnetic field is decreasing? It was first measured back in 1829 and it's decreased 7% since then. That's pretty fast. If you wind that back in time, even Going back twenty thousand years ago, it would be way too strong. So strong it would disintegrate the core of the earth There is no way you can go back hundreds of thousands, much less millions of years. These are big problems for the ancient Earth theory, the moon, uh the comets, the magnetic systems. Here's a good one. Look at that stuff there. What's all that dirt? What's all that rock? Where'd that come from? Somebody tell me. Hmm? Erosion, right? That used to be on top of the mountain. Now it's down the bottom of the mountain. Did you know erosion is happening so fast That every single mountain in North America would be eroded flat in 15 million years. That's how fast our continent is eroding, and all the continents the same way. How can we still have Mountains. I was doing this talk before some kids and some kids said, well Dino Dave, don't you know the plates are coming together, they're pushing up and they're making new mountains. Okay, I don't necessarily disagree with that, but then what you're telling me is all the mountains are young, which is the same thing I'd say. So how come you believe these rocks that are found on the mountains are millions and in some cases billions of years old. You got a problem either way. See? If you say all the mountains are young, well I agree with that. But then how come you have these old fossils up there? Here is one of my favorites. How many of you young people went for a swim in the ocean and maybe a nasty older brother or sister ducked your head into the water? What does the water taste like? Salty? Question. Why do the oceans taste salty? Hmm? Why aren't they just like rivers or lakes? Who knows the answer? Why do the oceans taste salty? Well they are. Okay, that's a good answer. What let me rephrase it. Why are the oceans salty? Erosion, okay, that's the right answer, but help us understand a little more. Why is erosion making the ocean salty? Minerals? Minerals. Ooh, really good. So what happens is rain comes down the mountains, and as it sees But it's taking some minerals down and then it goes to the ocean and then what evaporates off is pure H2O and it leaves the minerals behind. And so every year the oceans are getting saltier and saltier. and saltier. And right now it's 3. 6 % salinity, and at current rates, the oceans would have gone from fresh water To their current salinity in sixty million years. You can't get any more than that. You much less billions of years. That or even a hundred million. That is the most you can get. Now you say, well, Dino, Dave, wait a minute. You saying the earth is 60 million years? No, I'm not. I think something happened in the past that brought a lot more salt down. Like what? Hmm? A flood. But even if you don't believe in the flood, the most you can get for the age of the earth is 60 million years. Not a hundred million or a billion You see how that's evidence that's a problem for the evolutionists. Well, the evolutionists like to come back with something called radiometric dating. Radiometric dating. And I'm not going to get too deep into this because it's kind of physics related, but I'm just going to give you some quick points to respond to in case you ever get this thrown at you. But geologists, if you don't understand this, don't worry about it. But geologists will look at rocks and they will analyze the rocks and they will date the rocks based on certain chemistry in the rocks. For example, uranium is radioactive. That's why we use it to make bombs. But uranium naturally occurs out there in rocks and it gives off these alpha particles and eventually it becomes a stable non-radioactive element called lead. And we can see how quickly the uranium is turning into lead, and we can see how much uranium there is and how much lead there is, and the uranium is called the parent, and the lead is called the daughter. And based on the parent-daughter ratio, we can say how long this process has been going on. And it straight up gives you billions of years. Or in some cases millions of years. So legit the mathematics does give off millions of years. But there's some big buts. There are some assumptions. They are assuming there was zero daughter, zero lead to begin with. They're assuming this constant decay rate over billions of years. And they're assuming that none of the daughter, none of the lead came in maybe by way of uh, you know, water eroding and coming in through there and bringing some So those are big assumptions, and in many cases we know that this just isn't right. For example, when there are problems with a dating mechanism, they'll say, oh, well, we can't trust it because maybe There wasn't a constant decay rate, or maybe because some daughter was so they use these as escape hatches when it's not the right age that they're looking for. And Quite often there are major contradictions. So what I'm telling you is we don't have all the answers yet as creationists. This is an area we're still actively working on, okay? We don't have a complete explanation for it. But we know something weird is going on because there are these major contradictions and errors. For example. Here is a thermal ionization mass spectrometer. And when you run a particular rock through it here and you give it to another lab over there, they may come up with two totally different dates. If it's a trustworthy process, how come it's giving you two totally different dates? When we know how old a rock is. And we say, okay, we know this rock is a brand new rock. It came shooting out of the middle of the earth in the form of lava in an eruption in 1800. How do we know we were there? We observed it historically. And you give it to a lab, all of a sudden the lab says that rock is 22. 8 million years old. Huh? It came out in 800, 1800. It's 225 years old, no older See? And so look at this lava flow from New Zealand. They dated it with three different dating methods. They got everything from 3. 5 million years all the way up to 3. 9 billion years. Same walk. My point is we haven't got this figured out. Something weird's going on, and it's not trustworthy. How many of you remember is Mount St. Helens? Okay, you guys are old enough to remember most of you, Mount St. Helens blowing its top in 1980? Yeah, okay. Well they took rocks that came out of the Mount St. Helens explosion, took them to the laboratory, and they dated at 2. 8 billion years old It just came out. They're brand new. Something's going on with it. We can't trust it. It is exaggerating the dates. Okay, what about carbon-14 dating, Dave? Well, carbon-14 is used to date things that were once alive. I got some coal here. Coal used to be plant material. And of course we're carbon-based life forms and we take in carbon from our environment. Well, some of the carbon we take in is carbon-14 and it's radioactive. Over time that carbon-14 becomes nitrogen-14 and then it's stable. That's the daughter. Well, we can date things based on this reaction. But it has to be things that were once alive. Things like, not like rocks, but like coal maybe, or dinosaur bones, or the shroud of Turin, or something like that. And so, based on that, we can detect that it should all be gone. All carbon-14 should be gone in 100,000 years. That's how fast it is. It's a very fast process. It happens quickly. And so they don't date things that they expect to be older than 100,000 years old. They don't date things like coal, because coal is supposed to be 300 million years old from the Carboniferous. And yet, creationists have dated coal, and lo and behold, there's still carbon-14 in there. Creationists have dated dinosaur bones. I talked about that in Sunday school. And lo and behold, there's still carbon-14 in there. in there, showing you they're not even 100,000 years old. Carbon-14 is our friend. I think it's still exaggerated, it's not 39,000, but that's usually the date you're going to get for dinosaur bones if you date them. Something around 39,000 years old. And so carbon fourteen is a problem for the evolutionists. How many of you ever gone to a cave before And they'll say, these stalactites, these stalagmites are millions and millions of years old. It's slowly gradually forming, even a millimeter, you know, every decade or something like this. Well, how do we answer that? It's basically Based on the flow rates of things coming down through. And yes, today it's happening very slow, but perhaps in the past you had a lot of water sloshing around on planet Earth, and perhaps in the past it's happening a lot faster. In fact, we got some pretty Good evidence that it was happening fast. Here is a bat. Do you see that bat fossil? That's encased in a stalagmite in Carlsbad Caverns in New Mexico. Now do you mean to tell me that bat sat there for millions of years while the slow and steadal steady growth of that stalagmate around it? No, it would have rotted, right? Look at this one. Here's a bat inside a stalagmite. It's a clear stalagmite, so you backlight it and you can see it hasn't even rotted. The wings haven't even rotted away. It's the whole bat. It was happening that fast So these things happen much faster under the right conditions. Here is a railroad tunnel in England and it got abandoned. And look at what happened in just decades. Stalactites and stalagmites. It doesn't take millions of years. Here is a water wheel in Australia. It got petrified in 65 years. Fossils don't take millions of years. In the light conditions, it can happen very fast. Fast. So how old is the earth? Well, based on the Bible, you add up the genealogy, so-and-so begot so-and-so begot so-and-so. From Adam to Jesus Christ, you're going to get 4,000 years. Been about two thousand years since then. Roughly the earth is about six thousand years old. That's it. Based on the Bible Okay, we've got to move on. Let's talk about the Garden of Eden. Genesis. Chapter 2, verse 8. The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there he put the man he had formed. Well, skeptics say, oh, come on, Dino Dave, don't tell me you actually believe this Garden of Eden story. Skeptics want you to say it's a Jewish fairy tale. Can I tell you something? A hundred percent it's not a Jewish fairy tale. At the very least You have to admit, we got good scientific evidence that it was a historically known event from before even the Jews. We have an ancient Chinese bronze sculpture. This bronze sculpture goes back about 4,000 years ago Pretty close to the time of the Tower of Babel. When the first tribes are coming out of Babel and getting to China, I'm going to show you a picture of this thing in just a minute. They built this bronze. And the Chinese secular authorities date it's about 4,000 years ago. It's in a museum in China. They don't even know what they've got. They just say, oh, it's a strange bronze tree. But look at this thing. Here we have a bronze tree 4,000 years ago, and it has got some strange Banana-like fruit, it's got right in the center there a woman, kind of a feminine hand, petting a snake. A tree, we got fruit, we got a feminine hand, we have a snake. Now watch this. The snake has legs. Is this ringing a bell in your mind? Garden of Eden. Before the snake was cursed. There's an ancient Chinese book called The Classic of Mountains and Seas. It talks about a garden that was in the west, which was God's capital on earth. It was called Kunlan. Inside there was a tree of life and a tree of wisdom. Four rivers flowed out of it, and the beasts of light guarded the garden gates. My friends, the Chinese is the oldest intact civilization in the world. They've got crazy old books. And they knew about the Garden of Eden, and they knew about the flood, and they knew about these things. Why? Because they're coming out of Babel. And they're bringing this knowledge with them. But not only do we have the ancient Chinese bronze, we also have the Adam and Eve cylinder seal of Nineveh. This was found in Assyria, in the capital of Assyria. Ancient, ancient cylinder seal. Here's a picture of it. It shows a woman with the long hair on the left and a snake behind her, a man with a crown on the right. They're both sitting down, they're both reaching for fruit of a tree. It's just ringing a bell. It's called the Adam and Eve seal. Cylinder seal. Well, then we read this. Genesis 1. 9, and God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. Scientists tell us today that all the continents once fit together. Well, guess who was the first one who came up with that theory? It was a creationist who read this verse. And he read that all of the waters were in one place there's only one sea. Well if there's only one sea, there's got to be one continent And so he said, look, all the continents fit together like a jigsaw puzzle. I think there was just one continent. And he was ahead of all the modern geologists, a guy by the name of Anthony Pellegrini, Snyder Pellegrini. And so he proposed this back in 1858 because of the Bible. He just read the Bible. If you read the Bible, you'll be ahead of science because it is God's word. It's trustworthy. And then in Genesis 1 6 we read this, and God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. Well, what's a firmament? Well, it's an expanse. Later on it talks about the birds flying in the firmament. So we have this atmosphere. But what does it mean dividing the waters from the waters? Now what I'm going to give you right now is just an interpretation. Not everybody's going to agree with me, and if you don't agree with me, that's fine. But what I think, my theory, and others think so as well, is that this atmosphere separated the oceans on the early earth from a water canopy that was around the early earth. So think of the early earth, one ocean, and one big continent. But above the early Earth, you would have had a water vapor canopy. A water vapor canopy. Now, what would that have done? Well, that would have done some pretty interesting things on planet Earth. It would have allowed the radio waves to come. through no problem. It would have allowed visible sunlight to come through, but would have stopped much of the harmful UV radiation. It would have been much healthier on the early earth if we had this kind of a water vapor canopy. Well we have amber. What's amber? It's fossilized tree goo. I've got some amber here, got some bubbles in it, got some bugs in it. When you drill into these bubbles in amber that we think was made during the flood, the bubbles will go pop. There's extra atmospheric pressure from something pressing down. There's extra oxygen. Hey, if we had extra oxygen, extra pressure, what would it do on planet Earth? Well, here is an article from the Physiological Society. The delicate ladybug in your garden would have been frighteningly large if only there was a greater concentration of oxygen in the air, a new study concludes. The air's oxygen content was 35 % during this period compared to 21% we breathe now. Creatures would have been bigger. Did you know? Excuse me, hospitals have hyperbaric chambers. You get a nasty cut or nasty burn, they'll put you in there, they'll pump it up to double atmospheric pressure, they'll add extra oxygen, and you heal much quicker. So all these things point to an early earth with tropical climate all over, minimal storms, longer life, healthier life, quicker healing. Garden of Eden. That's what it was like. On the early earth. And here is a guy from Texas, and he is trying to read Recreate the conditions of the early Earth. On the left, you see a hyperbaric biosphere. He puts fruit flies in there, pumps it up to double atmospheric pressure, extra oxygen, and fruit flies live three times longer in there than outside. He's building a really big one on the right, and you may put some reptiles and stuff in there. It'll be kind of interesting to see what's going to happen to that. We read in the Bible, all the days in Methuselah were 960 69 years old and he died. Dino Dave, you really believe the Bible? Yeah? How can somebody live to 969 years? That's crazy. Okay, I need some help from a mom right now. Some mom, look at these kids. Tell me how old you think they are. Approximately, just rock. Ballpark. Somebody tell me. Eight, six, okay? Are we okay with that? Roughly? What if I were to tell you that there's thirteen, fifteen, and eighteen? They don't look it, do they? These are the Dickerson children. Their parents had several children. To rent the apartment, they only could have three children. children. So they put the rest of them in the attic and they never let them come out. You might say, well that's pretty mean. Well the government thought so too and took them away from the parents. when they found out about it. But the interesting thing is they weren't exposed to UV radiation from the sun and they began to grow much more slowly. Now, wouldn't you agree at 18 years old to be playing with a doll is a little bit unusual? So they were very healthy and they educated them, they homeschooled them. I actually spoke with Glenda Dickerson, and she I asked her, I said, uh she lives up in Canada Toronto area at the time, and she I said, have you continued to reach the various biological milestones in your life behind your peers. She said, yes. I said, well then you expect you're going to live a long time. She said, yeah, I would think I probably am. You see, the UV radiation ages us. It was filtered out on the early earth And then we read this in Genesis chapter 2, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth. It wouldn't have a mist from the earth and water the whole face of the ground. The first rains of the flood. So God mists the earth. A guy named Dan Carlson read that. He said, well, let me try doing that. And he began to mist plants. And he g got cantaloupes the size of soccer balls and he began to grow all this big stuff. You can grow online. He sells his program called Sonic Bloom online I hear about this, I say, well, before I go roll around the country talking about it, let me test it. So I ordered it. I got it home to New Hampshire, where I live, and I gave it to a friend of mine named Bruce Whittier who grows pumpkins Now Bruce anyway was growing big pumpkins to take it to the fair. Maybe some of you guys have neighbors that do that. They grow big vegetables, they take it to the fair. Well, Bruce tried it and that year he grew a 1,000 458-pound pumpkin. There's a picture of my friend Bruce's pumpkin at the time it was the Guinness World Record pumpkin in the world. You just try the Bible and it works. Well, wouldn't you know? It's God's word. A guy named Dr. Kiimori in Japan had a problem. He wanted to grow tomato plants, but he was at the bottom of the skyscraper you couldn't get any sunlight. So he invented this thing you see in the lower left called a himawari sunlight system. And it collects the sunlight and it moves through the course of the day, collects the sunlight, and it takes it by fiber fiber optic you know, cable and you can actually go around bends and stuff and get to the bottom of the skyscraper And coming off the other end is pure sunlight. And he grew a cherry tomato plant and it had 13,000 tomatoes in six months. One plant. He needed scaffolding for the thing And then he found out it filtered out the UV radiation. You see, the UV radiation is not good for us. And things get really big and really healthy and live a long time without it. Did you know frozen in the Arctic is bobcats and sloths and camels and bison and ferns and deers and unfossilized dinosaur bones. It was once warm all over the earth. Oh yeah, the Bible is true. And you can just believe it. And then here's the sneaky little secret of the fossil record. Everything in the fossil record is bigger and healthier and lived longer than today's varieties. I mean, we're talking about things we find in the fossil record like a centipede. A centipede, it's eight feet long, fossilized in Germany. You think that's cool. Look at this rhinoceros 24 tons! A hornless rhinoceros, 24 tons, the largest mammal ever. We find grasshoppers the size of cats. Two feet long grasshoppers fossilized in the rock records. A one-ton rat was discovered in Uruguay. One ton! You got a rat trap for that? That's huge. Any guys hunters here? Some hunters. How would you like to go for a deer with an 11-foot rack? That's how big they are in the fossil record. Here I am standing next to a turtle in the Peabody Museum in New Haven, Connecticut. 15 feet wide, weighed about three tons. Look at this dragonfly fossil. That's about a three foot. That's bigger than my dog. That 's a big dragonfly. You ever heard of big bird? Here's a big bird. 13 feet tall, weighed 400 pounds Discovered in New Zealand. In China, they've discovered fleas, fossilized fleas, an inch long. How 'd you have to take that off your dog? An inch long fleas. Wasps in 2015. They found a wasp that was three inches long. Everything's bigger, healthier. They got two-ton armadillos called the glyptodont down there in Peru. Birds with 25-foot wingspan, much bigger than the bald eagle. So all these things. They want you to think, oh, primitive is very simple and slowly evolving from apes to humans. No, no, no, no. Can I tell you something? Primeval is larger, healthier, and live longer. The Garden of Eden But here's the cool part. Someday God's going to put it back. We read about the kingdom. And during the millennial kingdom, it says the child shall die a hundred years old. Someone dies maybe a tragedy or maybe a murder at a hundred years, and they'll say, Oh, he was still a child. People are going to go right back to living 900 years, some might live through the whole millennium. Because God is going to put it back to the way it once was. Well, what happened to the Garden of Eden? What happened to that beautiful and good place that God made? The answer is the first catastrophe, and here we end up End for this morning. They disobeyed God, and God had to curse his own good creation as punishment. And we read in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return to the ground, for out of it was thou taken, for dust thou art, and to dust Shall thou return. Oh major changes scientifically. They were barred from the Garden of Eden, but for the first time death and decay, new varieties of creatures And plants, thorns and thistles, fundamental changes to organisms, sweat glands, painful childbirth, the whole food chain. , Major, major changes. Because of man's sin. And the biggest thing of all is death. Animals eating other animals? Humans Coming to that point of death. The Bible says this in Hebrews 9. 27, it's appointed unto man once to die. My friend. You've got an appointment. Oh yeah. And I've got an appointment. We don't know the day of our appointment, but it's Coming. So diamond days, that's kind of a morbid way to end. It's the truth. Or you have a physician in the room. If you went to him because you have a tumor and he said, well, I don't want to give him any bad news, so I'm just going to tell him, don't worry, it's fine, it's a pimple, don't worry about it. Is he doing you any favors? You gotta know the truth. I'm telling you the truth, my friends. You have an appointment, and I have an appointment. To stand before Almighty God. That's the Bible. Just like the Bible's right when it talked about missing plants, about the age of the earth, about all this other stuff, the Bible's right when it says you have an appointment to stand Stand before your creator, and you're going to be there for your appointment. We could think about Your gravestone. And there is your birth date. We just don't know when your death date is. But you're somewhere in that little dash. It's not long, it's a tiny little dash. Life is short That gravestones right outside the church here should remind us life is short. The Bible says like a vapor, like a grass. Are you ready to give an account to God? Are you? Are you prepared for that point of your death? Oh, the Bible says we can be. 1 John 5. 13 says these things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. Do you know that you have eternal life? Oh, if you don't know that, my friend, that'd be the most important thing we can settle this morning before you leave. More important than any scientific facts, more than important than cool fossils and dinosaurs. Would be to settle the fact that you know, because you have no guarantee you'll make it through today. Are you ready for eternity? Every head bowed, every eye closed. I'm going to pray in just a second. Nobody's looking around. Just please, for a minute. Heads bowed, eyes closed. Before I close and turn things over to Pastor, can I just ask you a quick question? Do you know you have eternal life Do you? Can you say with confidence, Dino Dave, if I died today, yes, I know I would be able to go into heaven. I know I have eternal life because I have made my peace with God. I settled it. I have a hundred percent assurance. Maybe you say, I don't know that. I I hope maybe I might. No, no, no, no. The Bible says these things are written that you might know that you have eternal life You can know. If you don't know, you need to talk to me, talk to pastor, talk to somebody this morning and settle this. Oh, you don't want to go another day not knowing. You need to know you have eternal life. Because you've got an appointment, so do I. Just before I close, is there anybody in here that be honest about it and say, Dino Dave, I don't know that I have eternal life, but I'd like to. I won't embarrass you. I'm not going to point you out, but while nobody's looking around, just raise your head. I'd love to remember I'd love to pray for you. Anybody say, please pray for me. I don't know I have eternal life, but I'd like to know that. I wish I could know that. I would like to know that today. Anybody at all? Just raise your hand briefly, put it back down again. Anybody Now Father in heaven, you know every heart and here We don't. It could be everybody in here has made their peace with you and everybody has that assurance of eternal life, and I would be so happy if that's the case. But Lord, perhaps there's someone in here and and they haven't lifted their hand and I I don't know there's a need, but perhaps there is. Lord, may they come talk to us, may they talk to Pastor, may talk to me, talk to somebody Lord, we thank you that we can know for sure we have eternal life. We will be there in that kingdom someday. We would not stand underneath your judgment because of the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross. We thank you for him and he shed blood on our behalf. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Pastor