Paul would give a hearty amen to that song that we just sang. Because he acknowledges as well that effective gospel ministry can only take place because of the power of Jesus Christ. We're going to see again in our continued study. We started this last week. Turn to 1 Thessalonians again. We're just beginning this study, and we're finishing up the first part of the passage, verses one through five. We went through the background and the circumstances on why Paul was writing to this really fledgling church Paul is writing probably weeks, maybe at the most, a month after having visited this city, Thessalonica. And the Lord using him powerfully and his companions, Silas, called Sylvanius in this letter, and Timothy, and perhaps others, maybe even the good Dr. Luke, might have been with them at this point. God used them in a mighty way and really a rather short period of time to see a church planted and growing in the major metropolis and very important city of Thessalonica. And it was so well received that, of course, the opposition reared its ugly head, his ugly head. And um there was a riot and chaos pursued. Paul and his companions were able to get away, but those Um friends of his that were helping them in the city were carried away and these friends of Paul's literally had to um promise or commit to a sum of money, a pledge. That said, Paul and his companions will no longer preach and most likely will no longer set foot in Thessalonica again. So they left and they went on. This is their second missionary journey, but Paul never forgot, and he was so burdened by uh this church that they were able to continue in the things that they had learned while he was away from them. They hadn't been in church very long. And they'd seen some powerful growth, but Paul was concerned That would be truncated, that that would be reduced without their help. And so finally, he sends Timothy back to check on the church Because again, most likely Paul was not allowed to set foot in that city at that time. Timothy goes, he brings a message back. To Paul, and Paul writes this first letter to the Thessalonians. Once he has heard Timothy's report, and it is a good one, and it is a one that brings Paul much joy and thankfulness. Because the church is continuing on. Paul and his companions have left a marvelous testimony of effective gospel ministry, and the people are following through on that. And glorious things are happening in this area for the cause of Christ. And Paul is thrilled with that. We may ask today, even after a wonderful mission , Conference and hearing all the things that God is doing literally all over the world, we may think : can God still do that here? Hartford County, Maryland? You know, with all the struggles that we're going through in this country, Maryland's a more liberal state, as we know. People People seem to me more hardened. Can we have more effective gospel ministry in our time and our place here? Well, the answer is this book. Because we're going to see the truths and the effective ministry that Paul had with these folks, and he wants us to learn from those things as well. well. Simple truths that will allow us to have effective gospel ministry and discipleship ministry. So effective that the ministry was also very memorable for Paul. And he's going to describe in more detail than he does really in any other letter what he and his companions Did in that city that through the power of God was able to grow and to remain firm. Chapter 1, verse 1 through 5. Paul, Savanius, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith. And labor of love, and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. For we know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power, and the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction, for you know what kind of men we prove to be among you, for your Lord, as we continue in this beginning of this series of First Thessalonians, may it be impressed upon us that This type of effective memorable ministry is not just for the time period of the early church, but that you are all powerful and that you You can perform and work through us to have this type of ministry today in 2023. In Maryland and Baldwin and the cities beyond that. Let us be encouraged as we learn how Paul had this effective ministry through his faith and trust in Christ And let us be encouraged and motivated to serve you faithfully. The Great Commission that we've been called to help us to get back to it and be reminded as we hear from your word. All this we need your help and we ask for it in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. As we started this last week, we saw the intro to this letter, and Paul, along with his companions, and he's writing to the church. and Thessalonica the Thessalonians and reminding them that they are in relationship with God the Father, the Lord Jesus Christ. the grace that they have and the all-sustaining peace that they have in their relationship with God and all of this just in an intro to And then we saw in verse 2 that we give thanks to God always for all of you. The constant thanks that Paul gives to God for effective ministry. That Paul never pats himself on the back and never takes credit for himself, but he always, and in many of his letters, one of the first things that he does is thank God. Isn't that what we've done with our missions conference this last week? We've been involved even today in thanking God for the work in the power and the ministry that was able to To take place at this church. And every time we see his blessings, we thank God for new members. We thank God for visitors. We thank God always for all of you. And certainly as leaders, that's one of the one of the great privileges of leadership from the pastor, the deacons on down, is that we are able to look at our flock and thank God for what we see, the work that God is doing in your lives. And we're grateful for that, noting his power among us. And another responsibility of leaders then, verse two at the end of that, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Leaders ought to be constantly mentioning Praying for their people. And even in deacons meetings, as we get together and we have deacons care groups, and if something comes up, uh Well well, I know that the deacons are praying. Uh we pray for you, and when things uh people are suffering, things even this weekend, like Google and Carolyn. And And Sharon Connors as well, and what she's going through, and many of you. We remember and we are constantly praying. Well that doesn't mean we do we don't do other things. It's not all day long 24-hour prayer, but it's it's it's regular prayer. That prayer is a regular part of our ministry. And if your leaders are expected to do that for you, then you all also ought to be regularly praying for each other. Maybe just make a note today as you leave. You see somebody across the room, you see somebody in your pew, your aisle. You know, sometimes we don't even know the people in our own pew that are sitting next to us. To us, all right? Make a note. I'm going to pray for that person this week. If Paul can constantly mention believers in his prayers, then I can do that too for someone else. It is an expectation. Well, part of Paul's prayer as well is verse 3: remembering before our God and Father your faith of Your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. And there is the triad, so to speak, the secret of how we gain effective ministry. How we see effective gospel ministry happen. It often so many times seems daunting. Can I go really share my faith? With with people out there in my neighborhood? God, uh, you can't really be expecting me to talk to that individual that you've placed in my path here. Certainly there's somebody else around me that could do that because that's intimidating. It's intimidating to talk about my faith. It's intimidating to talk about Jesus with others. And we have to remember these three basic things, folks, as we get ready to share our faith and to be a testimony for Christ. First of all, it's our work of faith. Now, again, I mentioned these last week. But they need to be constantly emphasized. Here is the secret. Work of faith means that we continue to trust Jesus every day for the ability to be able to share Him with others. Now, I know there are some people in this room that are very gifted and have no trouble talking with other people. We may see you bouncing around to different people all over the auditorium. You have The gift of communication, and you love talking with other people. And that's a wonderful gift that we're very thankful for. But I know as well, that's not everyone represented. in this room. Not everybody has that love of talking and communicating with others. Some of you are are very happy just to kind of stand back and if someone comes to you talking Talks with you, fine, or you have a few people. Maybe God just puts a couple people on your heart. You go to them specifically and have conversations with them. But you don't need Need to be, you don't feel the need to be talking to everybody in the room at the same time. You're more reserved. Well, folks, when it comes to sharing our faith, we tend to be reserved and we And we have to trust that God can enable us, through the power of Jesus Christ, to share what we think and what we know we can't do on our own. Maybe it's just an opening conversation. Maybe it's just we need to get a little bit more comfortable in talking with people that we meet. You don't have to give a full gospel presentation every time you're out there talking to someone. But folks, we ought to be trying to at least get more comfortable in talking to people. In the grocery store, as we're around town. We get so frustrated and angry about things that sometimes we forget in our daily walk with God in our daily lives. To notice that there's other people around us that are hurting. And even just a kind look or a kind word at your favorite coffee shop or whatever. Some of those coffee burritos Can be a little grumpy sometimes. And a good kind word goes a long way. Now, if you serve coffee at a coffee house, please don't think I'm picking on you. But the point is folks we we can we can start we can start to bridge the gap and start those conversations with people so that we start Well, all of that we have to trust in the power of God. Every day. Lord, give me strength to talk to that person, to even just engage them in a slight in a small conversation, because I just don't have it in me today. But I know that you do. And so I believe in you, and I believe that you will enable me to start that conversation. Or to that person that I've known for quite a while, and we've gotten pretty close, and I know they don't know the Lord. Lord, I know you will give me the strength and power to be able to finally say today , To tell them about Jesus Christ. To tell them about my best friend and my Savior. We can't do it in and of ourselves. It is a work of faith. Just as we trust Jesus. For salvation, we trust Him to work in our lives on a daily basis. And folks, we have to. If you're not trusting in Jesus as you're proclaiming your faith, you're going to fail. But he will enable you. That's the first aspect. The second aspect is labor of love. The more we reflect on all that Jesus has done for us, We just sang a number of songs about our Redeemer and that Jesus has redeemed us from our sin and all that he has done for us. And the more that gets a hold of us in our hearts the more we will desire to want to show that love. And you may say, I don't know, Pastor Bach, I just sometimes I just don't feel it. It's more than a matter of feeling. It's more it's a matter of being motivated, compelled almost. I need to do this. The feelings will come Folks, I know that the more we think about what Jesus has done for us, the more we will be enabled and motivated. To serve him. We just had the Great Commission read for us up here. Are you truly motivated by what Jesus has done for you to go? And share and make disciples with others? Motivated by all the sacrifice. How can we not picture our Savior on a cross, shedding his blood, nailed to a Across in all the agony that he went through, and not be compelled to obey his basic command. It needs to be by faith. It needs to be a labor of love, motivated by love for Jesus Christ and for others. We just, in Sunday school, we just um saw in the last few chapters of Revelation the terrible truth about eternal torment in hell. Doesn't love for Jesus and love for others compel us to warn them that that's coming? At least by trying to establish and get to know people better so that we can establish Relationships that allow us to talk about the gospel. Finally, steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. That That conviction or that faithfulness, that committedness of continuing to serve in that way because we know that we have a hope that we will see Jesus again. One day. Those are the three things that provide for us effective gospel ministry. Believing that God can work through us. Wanting to share Jesus because of what he's done for us. And continuing without fail because of the hope that we have that he's returning. That hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul is now remembering as he preached those things, and as these this church continues to grow and continues to blossom. As a vibrant ministry and testimony for Christ, Paul is remembering the wonderful times that they had there, and he's emphasizing how they can continue to do it in the future. I started to do this last week, but I continue to remember all of the wonderful gospel ministry memories, ministry memories that we've had here and that I've had here. I'll admit some better than others. I've got a lot of wonderful memories of being a youth pastor and the games that we played and everything. As I thought back though, there's also, you know, you learn and things. There's We've had a lot of good times in that gym, and those games many times have allowed us to then as the teens settle down to be able to share with them the truth. Of Jesus Christ. As I look back though, there were definitely some learning experiences. Thinking back and trying to be creative, and I thought, well, okay, you know, we're gonna try to do this. We did this frisbee in the dark thing and we gave them uh glow in the dark bracelets and everything, and that worked well. So glow-in-the-dark ultimate football. What could go wrong with that? Seemed like a great idea at the time. Well, until somebody got a football to the nose, and then I made it a point, well, okay, maybe we'll cross Or maybe we'll just do it outside, I don't know. Good memories. Um As well of young people singing at the top of their voices for Christ. I have a picture, I still haven't figured out where to hang it up in my office yet. But it's me, Arden standing in front of me. We're in the waters at Restoration Farm. Will you six or seven? Teens on either side of me and pastor conduct on that side. Arden and ten teens, eight teens at least, that were all baptized in the waters at restoration. Form coming to a saving knowledge of Christ. And so I frame that picture as a reminder of God's blessing and goodness in our lives. Even in our own home, we have an area where three of our four boys God privileged us to be able to share Christ with them and they came to a a knowing knowledge of Jesus Christ. All on this property. You have your own memories of wonderful ministry here. Folks, they don't have to remain memories. We still have a responsibility to continue on and to make new memories and to continue to be faithful in this Until Jesus returns. And so Paul, as though he, even though he remembers what has happened in the past. He's going to continue to encourage them to stay faithful in their gospel ministry and discipleship ministry in the future as well. Look at verse 4. He says here , for we know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you. Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power in the Holy Spirit and full of conviction. Here is a wonderful truth that's disconcerting to some Folks, but we must understand it, folks, and we must acknowledge that it is true. And Paul says that all of that wonderful gospel ministry that's going on, that effective ministry that's that's going on, even though I'm not there to share it with you, it's not because going on of our wonderful words and even because we had an effective gospel presentation. We preach the word to you, but it was the power of God that did the work. And it is the power of God that continues to do the work, and the power of the Holy Spirit. Why? Because God has chosen. It is God's work. And that's what he reminds us in verse 4. Paul is very direct. Effective ministry is enabled through God's power, and effective ministry is God's sovereign work. And yes, Paul is, these words that Paul uses are exactly as they seem. Paul is describing the election, the choosing of God for people to be saved. And again, that disturbs some of us, although I think more of us have a better understanding of what that means. Folks, every time Paul and the other writers of scripture, I believe, mention this, it's supposed to be A uh something that's encouraging to us. Because we realize it's not our own efforts. It's not that God looked and saw that one day we were going to be a really good um participant on his team and I want that one, so he picked that one. But none of us were worthy because of our sin and our condition. And God chose us. We were elected. To be his children. And he confirms that. He says, we know that is a confident statement. He says, brothers and sisters, you are loved by God. You are loved unconditionally. How do I know that? Because he chose you out of his grace and mercy, even though you were undeserving. What better show of love can you give? someone than that. And so this very direct statement. So that that really causes us, let's look at this a little bit more carefully. And so you know where I come down on this. But again, remember, this is supposed to be encouraging to us. God knew that we could never measure up to his expectations on our own And the election of God is intended to be an encouraging truth that provides us strong confidence in our security. We can't lose our salvation, folks, if you are truly a child of God. It's not possible because You've been chosen by God, and He's going to hold you in His hand. We're sealed by the Holy Spirit But that idea, that direct statement of God's choosing, does make some of us nervous. I do have a message that I'll get to at some point that goes through this in more detail. I'll just go through a A brief description of these truths because it doesn't make logical sense to us. How can God choose individuals to salvation? And yet, in our minds, be fair and give each of us our own chance. How can it be our choice or our responsibility if God does the choosing? And folks, let me offer you the other side of that coin. I do believe in John and many passages through on through John and other places where the Bible also says it is man 's individual responsibility to choose Jesus Christ by faith. I believe that as well. Well then how can God elect? If man has that responsibility to choose Jesus Christ Does that mean that that doesn't make sense? Does that mean if the both of those are true, Pastor Brock, is God somehow illogical? Because we can't understand how both of those aspects could be true? No. Really, what it means is God transcends our human logic. You could say he's supra -logical. He doesn't have to be confined to the confines of our own logic. In other words, folks, I can't tell you how those two things work together. I could just tell you that they're true. Paul makes it clear in 1 Thessalonians, we're chosen of God, we're elected. In many other passages of Scripture, it's still our responsibility to choose Jesus Christ. to come to him in faith. I don't know how those two fit together. That's beyond my pay grade, so to speak. That's beyond my comprehension. But God knows. A um seminary professor of mine named Leighton Talbot, I love this, he says It means that God, in his way, his theology is infinitely above our intellect, beyond the grasp of our comprehension, out of the reach of our clever rationalizations. Folks, if we're humble, we'll realize that there are things about God we will never fully understand. Not just this issue. Can we really fully ever understand the Trinity? One person, or one God, yet three persons. I better say that right. We know it's true, but we'll we'll we'll spend all eternity trying to comprehend that. It's the same thing with this truth. We know they're both true. God knows how they work together. You remember remember old Charles Spurgeon back many Many hundreds of years ago, the Prince of Preachers that was used in London and that uh mighty tabernacle that he preached in and had effective ministry. Still have many of his volumes today. Uh pastors still love to quote Charles Spurgeon. I when it comes to this issue of election, and Charles Spurgeon was actually considered himself reformed, he might have been If the term was coined back then a Calvinist, but listen to what he says on this issue He says, the divine will is accomplished. That means God has already dictated, has chosen, has decided on salvation. And yet all men are perfectly free agents. And so he quotes someone that says, I cannot understand it, says one. And then his response is, My dear friend, I am compelled to say the same. I do not understand it either. Certain of my brothers deny free agency and so get out of the difficulty. Others assert that there is no election or predestination and so cut the knot As I do not wish to get out of the difficulty and have no wish to shut my eyes to any part of the truth, I believe both predestination and free agency, the freedom of man to choose to be facts. How can they be made to agree, I do not know, or care to know? I am satisfied to know anything which God chooses to reveal to me, and equally content not to know what he desires. Does not reveal. Believe these two truths, and you will see then in practical agreement in daily life, though you will not be able to devise a theory for harmonizing them on paper. And folks, that's a good explanation for Christians back then, and that is what I offer to you today as well. God stated it, it's true. I don't need to spend time trying to figure out how those work together. I just trust God. And so, this whole idea of election, Paul says you can continue to be effective witnesses because God is in control of this whole thing and He will have saved those who He has chosen who He desires to have saved. But you still need to do the ministry because People have to choose and put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And so, with that reminder That God will keep secure those who He's chosen, and that He will enable our gospel ministry. We can be confident in it. And so we finish out in verse 5 this morning. Effective ministry is God's sovereign work. Effective ministry is produced through the Spirit's work, our reliance on the power of the Spirit Because as again, Paul says here in verse 5, it wasn't just our words. Our gospel came to you not only in word. Paul, of course, preached a very accurate gospel, and he was very clear in his presentation of the truths of salvation through Jesus Christ. But it wasn't his own words. It wasn't the sound of his voice. It wasn't the way he presented it. Paul says it was only through the power of Jesus Christ and the work of the Spirit. That people came to a full conviction and confidence that what the gospel says is true. That's true for Paul. That's true for anyone here who feels that maybe you just don't have the ability to talk about Jesus Christ. Well, you do. He's given us his word, but I'm just not a very effective communicator. That's okay. Because the Holy Spirit's going to use you. He's going to use your words. You look back later and say, Oh, I could have said this, and I could have said, you know, that's okay too. Because that's God's work. God will have those saved that He desires to have saved. You just be faithful to the Great Commission that Jesus has called you to do. Paul says it is in the power, and he's talking about the power that comes from a relationship with Jesus Christ. And then the Holy Spirit that each of us, that our children of God have, that is placed in us, enables us to speak the truths of God's word. Even the pastor himself, as I'm up here, if I'm not relying on the power of the Spirit to preach and to teach his word, then I'm going to fail. But through his power, marvelous things will happen. Marvelous things will happen for Paul and his friends. Marvelous things will happen today to the power of Christ if we're just faithful and also fully convinced. The more we grow in our relationship with Jesus Christ, the more confident, folks, and convinced we ought to be of these truths. We know that when people first get saved, they're a little shaky. They're still a little doubtful. They're still growing in their faith. But the goal is to have a church full of people that are growing to the point where they're confident. And they're convinced that these sayings are true, that Jesus died on the cross for us, that he shed his blood for sinners. And even though I'm not confident in my own ability, I'm confident in gospel truth, and I will go forward believing that that's true, and other people need to hear it. How confident and convicted are you in gospel truth this morning? That will play a big part. On your burden to share it with others. Do we believe that these truths are reality? Do we believe that we have a Savior that shed his blood and that gave his all for our sin? And the more we have confidence in that, the more the Spirit will say, well, let's go. We have a world out there to reach. A world of people that need to hear of Jesus Christ. Effective ministry is ready for the taking. I'm guiding you, I'm emboldening you. Go. Tell of Jesus. Full conviction and confidence. And then he says, We demonstrated for you what kind of men and what kind of servants and ministry servants that you needed to be. To continue the work that we started among you. You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. And that's what the rest of the letter is going to be. As Paul continues to describe what they were and what they did. One of the things that we're going to find out, among other things, is that Paul gave his whole life, all of his time. He expended all of his energy in every place that he went. Paul just didn't go um to the local synagogue or to the local um church group. that was meeting, preach one message and then leave and say, I've done the best that I could here. We're going to find out that Paul was constantly talking the People, engaging with people. And then when those people came to Christ, he didn't just leave them where they were, but he invited them to be with him. He discipled them. He was constantly with people and encouraging people. And that is what makes for effective ministry, folks. Not even just inviting people to come to a one time service once A week where we worship together, but as all of us following Paul's example, what he proved to be at that time, we can prove to be. As we realize the Holy Spirit can use us to engage other people and draw them to Christ. What is effective, memorable ministry then, as we continue in this series, it is those that go out with dependence on God, motivated by a love for Christ, convinced and motivated by his return. And also realizing that it's each of our responsibilities to share Jesus and to also disciple each other. It's not just the pastors. It's not just the leadership. It's something that the whole church needs to be involved in. That is effective ministry. That is the ministry that Paul proclaims. And that is the ministry that I desire for a Crossroads Baptist Church. child. Father, as we continue to hear these truths, I'm sure that many times we feel overwhelmed. We feel intimidated. That the type of gospel-effective ministry that Paul had, many times we feel helpless that that couldn't happen today. It's not possible. Let us be reminded as we continue through this series that it is possible because you have given us these truths in your book. And you have given us the power of Christ to see these truths These things come to pass. Come to pass. So, Lord, let our folks be motivated, encouraged, and dependent upon you. And Lord, I pray, even in the next few weeks, That you would just do a little bit of work, give them a little glimmer of hope in their lives that they can see you working through them to somehow or another further the gospel. in other people's lives. Even if it's just a kind look or a kind statement or getting to know the neighbor better or getting to know a coworker or whatever. Give them even this one Week a glimmer of hope through your power that you can do mighty things through each one in this room. Father, thank you for the things that we see you doing in this ministry. Thank you for our guests today. Thank you for our new members. May we continue to grow. All of this is your work. And so we ask for your help and your prayer. power to do it. Let's take some take some time as Luann plays to reflect on these truths. If you'd like to come forward and uh just dedicate and talk to me, or even afterwards, you 're Free to do that, or even in your seat there, you can ask the Lord to help you to have effective gospel ministry. Let's take some time to reflect on that together. And Father, we know not how this how this saving faith you imparted to us. And we don't know how believing in his word brings peace within our heart, but we know whom we believe. And we are persuaded that He is able to keep that which we've committed unto Him against that day. Let us continue to be persuaded as we go from here, and even sing this hymn. Enable us in enable our feeble, weak efforts And we pray and desire that you will use them in powerful ways to bring about your commission work. And let us be encouraged as we see your power and work in us and desire to continue to be faithful until Jesus Jesus returns. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. As we reflect on