Confidently this morning. Well I have one more little intro here with a purpose before Willie comes on up. Again, he is uh Um he is director of the Wilds Christian Camp, director of camp relations and he does a great job at that. But one thing when you talk with him that you may not realize but that myself and the teens definitely understand. Is that uh Willie Parton is actually a very funny guy. In fact, I I think as far as spiritual gifts, that some some people God imparts the gift of humanity. And I'm convinced uh that Willie has that. He has been a part of the Funtime program there and and led in that and uh been so funny over the years. In fact, if they ever started a Willie Parton show or channel, I'd rather watch that than any of the junk that they have out there today with sitcoms or any of that. But much more important than that, I want to say that Willie has a real heart and an emphasis for two things, and that is pointing young people, well, people in general to Jesus Christ. Well, three, knowing God's word really well and deciding Discipling others. And you can hear that in his preaching. And his preaching is solid, but he has a heart's desire for people to understand God's word and for discipleship and folks if you know anything about my own ministry that is my heartbeat too to see people discipled in God's word growing to point people to Jesus Christ that's what it's all about because it's all about Jesus and his power. And so Willie's going to come this morning and preach that. I'm looking forward to hearing from him again. It is true that God's word is the only thing that can Change us. And uh we have a lot of things we want to say, and a lot of things we say sometimes, but really none of those things matter if they're not aligned with uh the Word of God and honestly from the Word of God. And uh It is it is I I my favorite thing to do is be able to uh share God's truth and uh in the context of camp with young people. And I love that, but my favorite part of my job is to see the connection that happens when a young person sees truth and and the the the the beam that comes on our face we're like, oh I can do this Christian life thing. And you're like, yes, you can do this Christian life thing. And uh it's so encouraging to see See that right there. And them knowing, you know, they're not gonna be perfect, but that God loves them and God uh God will guide them all along the way. So it is that is my favorite part of my job. I'm thankful for the way that God uses Christian camping. Uh and uh I think we know who we are and who we aren't. We're not the church, we're not the family. Uh we are a tool, all we are. And if the church sees fit to use us, then then that's that's great. And we want to be used. I'm thankful that God uses it. Uh it is a very simple uh philosophy, to be honest, and uh it has to be simple 'cause no guys like me work there. Uh but uh we uh we what we do is we bring young people in And distractions are removed. They don't have their cell phones. Uh they don't have their TVs and s and for a long time young people were like, Ah, we hate that. Uh but we're starting to see more and more young people say, you know what, I can detox for a week. I can handle this. And they can understand that. And it's intentional. And we won't go back from that. Uh and it's not just because cell phones are wicked. No, they're not. We're not saying that but they can be a distraction too easy to get on and so the philosophy of Christian camping is to remove distractions inundate them with the truth of the word of God in a in a fun atmosphere. is we want them to see they can have a lot of fun and not have guilt. And so they walk away really enjoying their time. And with the distractions removed, they're inundated with the truth of the Word of God, it makes complete sense that God works. I I campers come up quite often and they're like they they'll come up at the end of the week and say, Willie, I don't want to leave and it's like, well you have to so go get on your bus. Uh but then they'll be like, No seriously Willie, I don't want to leave as and I was like, oh I'll ask the question, well why? And they'll they'll say something like, I just feel so close to God here. And I'll say, Well, you know why that is, right? It's like no, why? It's like Because you're from Florida. And you're getting in your bus and you're driving up the road and you get to the mountains, you start going up the mountains, and as you go up the mountains, heaven is here and we're getting up the mountains. You're actually closer to and they're like, they're they're staring at me like I've lost my mind. And I'm like, I'm kidding. That's not the truth. Now I share once again, I was like, this listen, what has happened this week is the fact that you haven't had the distractions, okay, and you've heard a lot about the truth of the word of God. It makes complete sense the Holy Spirit would use that and change you. And you go home, you do the exact same thing, you're gonna find the exact same thing happening. The same God is that their home is exact cane up. They just have to listen. They have to hear. And our desire is to help them hear God's word. And so that is the simple philosophy of Christian camping. God continues to use that. So we'd love to see all of you come. You're like, Oh, you're a youth camp. Nope, we got other camps as well. We major in the youth, uh, but we've got other things. We've got we've got family camps and couples conferences, we have senior adult camps. some of the most fun camps of of all times. I mean we we love them. They go around hiding each other's teeth. All of that is a just a lot of fun. And uh uh we uh we'd love to see you show up on the campsite at at at some point. So all right, well let's pray, ask God to help us as we could take the next few minutes just centering our hearts around one certain passage. Father, thank you again for giving us your time uh this time and uh to be able to center our hearts around your word and i pray that you would you would do that again this morning guide us in these truths lord we need your holy spirit allow your holy spirit to be our teacher in Jesus Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'd like you to turn to Hebrews chapter twelve this these next few minutes this morning. I want to talk about uh pat something that really we need and It it's been needed for all times, but it it just seems like it's coming to the point right now because uh we don't have a lot of it these days. And we see a lot of issues because people struggle with this topic and the topic is in Hebrews chapter 12 highlights endurance and what it takes to be able to live in this life. Endurance is something that is necessary. Why is that the case? Because we're called to run. And the race that we have are running is not a sprint, it's a marathon. And we see in this passage right here, in Hebrews chapter 12, the race that we are called to run. He says in verse 1, it says, wherefore, seeing we also accompass about with so great a cloud of witnesses, we'll come back to that. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run. How? With patience. That word patience right there we see over and over again in the book in In Hebrews chapter 12. That word patience is the word endurance. One of the easiest things to do in life is to give up. That's because it's the easiest thing to do, but God didn't call for us to give up. God called us to run. God called for us to endure. And this is the passage that God uses in the idea of endurance. The definition I want to use for endurance, I'll say it a couple times. The definition I use for endurance is this: faithfully obeying God's word, even in the face of difficulty, danger, and temptation. Let me say it again. Endurance is this, faithfully obeying God's word even in the face of difficulty, danger, and temptation. That's endurance. Doing what's right in spite of the fact that life is hard, and life is hard. We are in every single person that walks on this planet. I think you can attest to this fact, and I think the world would attest to this fact. Every single person that walks on this planet, our default position is suffering. You're like, oh, that doesn't sound like a whole lot of fun. It's not. We're not saying that it's fun, but that's our default position. Sorrow and suffering. And all of us are desiring to be drawn out of sorrow and suffering. Well what the world has is pleasures and the problem is so they cla they're they're they're suffering and they're s they're in sorrow so their desire is to crawl up unto a pleasure, but the problem is that pleasure crumbles. Christians do this a lot of times as well. We crawl upon that pr that pleasure and the pleasure crumbles after time. Nothing satisfies except for God. There is a God-shaped void in every single person's life, and I say this specifically But the world tries to fill it with so many other things, those things crumble away. When we as Christians do we can do the things We try to fill it with certain things and those things will crumble away. The only thing that can draw us and stabilize us in the midst of suffering is Jesus. He is a solid rock. He promises to set our feet like hind's feet, like deer's feet, like a sure-footed beast. We don't have to stumble. And as we walk through this life, what does it take? It takes endurance. And the writer of Hebrews tells us Listen, this is what endurance is. Now, we need to kind of go back real briefly to Hebrews chapter 11, because he says in chapter 12, verse 1, wherefore. And when you see the word wherefore, you need to saw understand why it's there. And he's saying, okay, basically because of Hebrews chapter 11. He says, Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with this great cloud of witnesses. Who are these great cloud of witnesses? They're the people in Hebrews chapter 11. What did these people in Hebrews chapter 11 do? They endured in very difficult circumstances. How? Faith Faith. Faith is the key component in endurance. Now, what is faith? We see a description of faith in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 1. It says this in Hebrews 11, verse 1. Now faith is, and I love this death, this description, the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. It's two things. It's substance and it's evidence. That's what faith is. I don't know about you, but growing up, this is another one of those words that was hijacked by our English language because it kind of alters what faith real what faith is. Faith to me growing up was a leap into oblivion, hoping something is going to catch me. That's not Bible faith. Faith is something that is sure. It is something of substance. I'll illustrate it in this way. A lot of times when I get home at night, uh I will be I will be every night when I get home I will be hungry. And I will go there and I will open up the refrigerator door and my wife, being the kind soul that she is, she will say something like this, hey, there's watermelon in there. No, no, no. I don't want watermelon. All it is is water and melon. I don't want that. So then she'll say something like this, hey, why don't you pop a bag of popcorn? It's like, no, I don't want popcorn. That's just air and something else. I don't want that. I want I want Buffalo Wild Wings is what I want. But that's forty five minutes away. I want something substantial, something I can see my teeth in Weak illustration to the idea of faith. Faith is something of substance. It's something sure-footed. It's not a leap into oblivion. Not it's the faith is the substance of things hoped for. There's another word that's hijacked by our English language, the word hope. Because in my vernacular growing up, it was always boy, something like, I hope my team wins. And in my case, that hardly ever happens. I'll illustrate it in this way. Sometimes at camp, uh I will be working and I won't be able to watch my favorite sports teams until after the game. Well, I try my best not to hear the score. So I hide even my loyalties and stuff like that just so I cannot hear the score. Sometimes I will hear the score. And I have two different responses. One if we've lost, and one if we've won. If we've lost, chances are I'm not going to watch the game. Because it's just irritating. And I know at the end we've lost. But if we've won. Oh, I watch it. And I watch it with a lot more joy than I would had I not known the score. Why? Because it doesn't matter what happens in the game. I know I've won. That's Bible hope. I'm not saying it doesn't matter what happens in life because those things do matter But the truth is, and this is the hope of the glory of God we see in Romans chapter 5, the truth is, as we look to what God has already secured for us, And we keep our gaze and our focus on that. It really doesn't matter the ups and downs of life. Why? Because we've won. Christ won. That's where we live. So as we that's faith. Again, it's something substance in things hope for. Then he says it's evidence. That word evidence is something so clear nobody can argue with it. Evidence is just in things We cannot see, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 1. for We can't see with our physical eyes. That's why we are instructed three times in Scripture to walk by what? Not by. You know why? Because sight betrays us. Because as we look at things in life that they don't make sense a lot of times. I don't understand why somebody might experience certain things. I don't understand why I experience certain things in life. I don't know why I understand why God would allow temptation in my life, but I don't have to understand. It's not on me to understand It's on me to trust. So as I look at those situations, I can't walk by my sight. I have to walk by my faith. And that faith is that belief system that I can only glean from a deep understanding of God. And I can only get that deep understanding of God if I study God's word. That is the only way we can endure. It makes complete sense that we would struggle in life if we're not getting to know God in His Word. Why? Because I have to be able to trust God to live in this life. And if I don't know God, I will not trust Him. Because you only trust someone you know. When my kids needed babysitters, I wasn't gonna go to some guy on the street and ask him to watch my kids. Uh they might be perfectly fine people, but I don't know them. I wasn't gonna ask them to w to to watch my kids. Because I don't know them. You only Only trust someone you know. That's why we look back in scripture and we see people like Daniel and Hanani, Mesha, and Azariah, who walked through fire, who went into a lion's den. Why? Because they knew the outcome? No. They thought they were probably going to die. They walked into those situations because they knew their God. Daniel chapter 11, verse 32 says, the people that do know their God shall be strong and do exploits. That word exploits means great things for God, like walking into a den of lions or walking into a fiery pit. And the only way we can do this is because we know Know God. The better we know our God, the more we can trust Him in difficult circumstances. That is the key foundational component to endurance. Wherefore seeing, verse 12, uh chapter 12, verse 1, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. What do we do? Let us lay aside every weight. What are those things? Those are the things that aren't necessarily sinful but might inhibit us from running effectively. And then he says, and the sin which easily besets us. And then he says, let's run. Let us run how? With patience, with endurance. This race set is set before us. So what do we do? A couple key things. What do we do? How do we endure that? Foundation of endurance comes from faith. Faith is believing that God is who he says he is, even when it looks like he isn't. Why? Because sight betrays us. That foundation of endurance comes from faith. And how do we glean this? He tells us in chapter 12, verse 1, he the first thing we need to understand is we need to ponder Christ. Ponder Christ, think on Christ, dwell on Christ. He says in verse 2, looking unto Jesus Who is this Jesus? The author and the finisher of our faith, the beginning and the ender of our faith, the stabilizer. The author and finisher of our faith, in the illustration, who for the joy that was set before us For him, what did he do? Here's our word again. He endured the cross. He despised the shame. And now he is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. There's the hope. And then he goes on in verse 3 and says, for consider him. There's another word that's been hijacked by our English language. Because if I think of the word consider, I think, oh, I'll think about that. But the word consider in the Bible means to reason with careful deliberation. He says, For consider him. What about him? Here's our word again: who endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest we be wearied and faint in our minds If we don't ponder Christ, if we don't dwell on Christ, we will be wearied. We will faint in our minds. So we have to be very intentional to get to know our God. To consider him, to reason with him. And when we start to think about how hard life is, and it's hard, we dwell on Christ. In trials, we can't give up. In temptation, we have to resist. And we haven't resisted to the point of shedding our blood. Which is exactly what Jesus did. It says in verse 4, Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin. We haven't shed our blood in resisting temptation, but God sent Jesus to do just that. This is a very pointed rebuke. We have to ponder Christ. Why? Because it's easy to forget. That's why he encourages us in the next verse that we need to remember. Why? Because we can forget. Verse 5: And ye have forgotten. Forgotten what? The exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. And what is this exhortation? So if we're going to learn to endure, the foundation of faith has to be key. And then we have to constantly keep our focus and our gaze on Jesus in his word. We have to ponder Christ. But then we have to understand something else. This path of endurance. Comes through discipline. Now we have to think about discipline correctly. And what discipline is. When I was growing up, I didn't understand a lot about discipline. I didn't understand certain things that he would do because to me all discipline was about me paying a price for something I had done that was bad. I didn't understand a lot about discipline. I I remember I didn't understand that phrase, this is gonna hurt me worse than it hurts you. you. That doesn't make a bit of well give me the belt. If you really want me to understand. All I thought about discipline was fear. And if you haven't heard the sound of a belt coming through about eight belt loops in 0. 2 seconds, you don't know what fear is. To me, discipline was about fear. That's not Bible discipline. It's not about punishment. That's crucial for us to understand. Why? Because for those of us who know Christ, that punishment has been paid in full by Jesus on the cross. I will never have to pay a price for my sin. Ever. I sin every day. I sin a lot. I will never, ever, ever have to pay a price. So discipline is not about punishment. It's about the idea of Correction. Like a sheepdog. And sometimes when we're on the right path, correction isn't necessary. But but this correction is is God chasing us like a sheepdog back to things Thinking rightly about how God intends for us to think about life. And He will allow us to experience different things. To discipline us, not for punishment, but for guidance, to think rightly about life. He actually uses three different words for the discipline process. I'm going to hide I'm just gonna highlight them and uh and I'll show you what he uses. Verse five it says and ye have forgotten, here's the first word, the exhortation Which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art, here's the second word, rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, here's our third word, and scourgeth every one whom he receiveth. Three different methods of discipline. That we see in that verse. That first word, exhortation, is the word discipline. It means this: the act of providing guidance for responsible living, upbringing, training. Training and instruction. This happens through trials. The second word, rebuke. is repu reproof. It means to scrutinize or bring to light or to expose. This happens through conviction of sin When we're sitting under the truth of the Word of God, or we God, the Holy Spirit, uses His Word to convict us of our sin. That's discipline. And the third one, and this is why we think it's kind of like punishment. sometimes is the word scourgis means to beat with a whip or a lash. This happens through the consequences of our sin. God didn't create gravity to punish a man who jumps off a A cliff. Gravity was already in place. There's a consequence to the sin. And when we sin, there are natural consequences. It's not punishment. Why? For those of us who know Christ, that's punishment has been paid in full. It's guidance. That's the path of discipline. And it has a purpose. And the purpose is intentional. Let me read a couple of verses here. You can follow along. Verse six for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourges every son whom he does it receiveth. If ye, here's another word again, endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. So he reminds us through this discipline process. What it does, it reminds us that we are his children. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if he be without chastisement, whereof all ye are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. You're illegitimate children and not sons. Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Earthly fathers corrected us, we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? Now, going back to the earthly fathers, verse eleven, for they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure. Okay? Our motivation as parents are not always perfect. It's not always done exactly right. But God 's discipline is always done perfectly And it has a purpose. And what is this purpose? He tells us right here. But he, God, this is the purpose, for our prophet that we might be partakers of his holiness. The purpose of the discipline process is for our good to make us more holy , more Christ-like. That's the purpose of the discipline process. And one day we will be standing in heaven and we will look back and we will see extreme Extremely vividly and clearly every step that God brought us through. For now we don't understand. That's why we walk by faith, not by sight. But one day we'll be able to walk by both. And we'll truly understand. And for now, our faith has to overtake our sight. And the only way that can happen is by considering Christ, by pondering Christ, by understanding that there is a path to endurance, and we don't stiff-arm this discipline process, we accept it. As from a hand of a loving God. Why? Because it is for our prophet to make us more and more holy. He goes on to say. This is now no chasting for the present seemeth to be joyous, and we're like, yeah, we see that, but grievous. Nevertheless, this is what it produces. Nevertheless, it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness which are exercised thereby. And so he goes through and he says, okay, this is produced in us. These peaceable fruits of righteousness are produced in us as we walk the path that God intends for us to walk. Spurgeon said about this passage right there. Right here, talking about this these peaceable fruits of righteousness. He said, This: if you see afflictions come, talk about trials, and you sit down impatiently, And you will not be exercised by your trials, then you do not get the peaceable fruits of righteousness. But if, like a man, you say, Now is my time of trial, and I will play the man, I will wake up my faith to meet that foe. I will take hold of God, I will stand with firm foot, I will slip not, and let all my graces be aroused, for here is something to be exercised upon. It is then that a man's bone and sinu and muscle all grow stronger. We grow. And we get these peaceable fruits of righteousness. Now, what are these peaceable fruits of righteousness? Righteousness, things like humility, submission, a better dependence on God, this endurance that we're talking about. A more eternal mindset. Those are all peaceable fruits of righteousness, and they only come through the discipline process. We see all this and we say, oh, Lord. How do I do this? I love it when the passage applies itself. This passage applies itself. So he tells us this this this all the aspects of the discipline process, all the aspects of endurance in verses one through uh through eleven. And then he goes in verse twelve and he says, Okay, and this is how you apply it. There's two applications quickly. One for me and one for me in the church. What's the application for us personally? Verse 12, wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knee And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way. May it rat it rather be healed. Follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. That's the application for me. What is this application? I need to lift my drooping hands. How do I do this? By going back to considering Christ. By Pondering Christ. I have to change my focus. I have to stop thinking about how hard and tired I am and think about how strong God is. The only way I can do that is by being rejuvenated in God's word. I've got to be in God's word. Not just to check it off the list, but to get to know my God. That rejuvenates. I have to stop feeling sorry for myself. To be honest, there's no reason for any of us to ever feel sorry for ourselves. Why? Because we have God. We need nothing else. I have to lift my drooping hands. I have to strengthen my weak knees. How do I do that? By being on them in prayer, by showing a dependence on that God I say is strong and I know is strong. I have to make straight paths for my feet. What does that mean? Stop walking in hard places. Why? Because the way of the transgressor is hard. If I walk in sin, then it's going to be a difficult life. So what do I do? I get accountability. I get help to to to to to as I as I work through these temptations in my life to guide me and help me in this and stop walking in hard places stop going to hard places That's the application. For me, it also says strive for peace and strive for holiness. That's the application for us. personally, the application for me in the church. He says this. Verse 15, looking diligently. That means turning it around and looking outwardly. Looking diligently, lest any man fail the grace of God. Lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled, lest there be any fornicator or profane person. So what do I do? I have to look diligently, I have to see to it It. Have to take this responsibility. Number one, that no one fails the grace of God. What is this? These are people in the local church who are not showing the fruit that they probably should be showing. By now, if they're truly Christians. And why are they not showing the fruit? Because they're not tapping into God's grace. So what do I do? I walk beside them. And they beside me, and we help each other tap into the grace of God. God working in us, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. I have to see that no root of bitterness springs up. This is the person in the church that causes the others to fall. So we root that out. That no one is sexually immoral. We guide them through this, that no one is unholy. What does that mean? It means not doing sanctified things. It means living for simple pleasure. And no one is unholy. Now I don't come in in a pious way and be like, you're being unholy. No, that's not what we do. No, we we walk with them. And we we help them see that the things they are doing, that they're living for simple pleasures. And then it's he gives us an illustration here. In Esau. In verse 16, lest there be any fornicator or profane person, here's the illustration, as Esau. What did he do? He didn't endure. For one morsel of meat he sold his birthright. And we'll end in this verse. For ye know that how that afterwards, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Esau sold his birthright for a single meal. And when I see fellow Christians in sin, I am obligated as a brother in Christ to look diligently, to see to it That I do everything I can to help them not sell fellowship with God for a small trinket that the world has to offer. Why? Because with lack of endurance comes deep regret. Just like Esau. Couldn't make it through a meal. And sold his birthright. No endurance. God has called us to endure. Running is not an option. We are running. How we we run is. Are we going to faint by the wayside or are we going to do what God has called us to do? Because we can. We don't have to faint. And the way that we walk and endure in this life is by understanding Christ, pondering Christ, reasoning about Him with careful deliberations. But understanding this path of endurance, we will experience trials and convictions, and yes, even the consequences of our sin. But all of those things are not intended to punish us They are intended to guide us like a sheepdog back to thinking rightly about life. Why? Because there's a purpose. And that purpose is for our profit and to make us more and more holy. And as we endure these things and we come forth through them like gold and God gives us these creasable fruits of righteousness that help ourselves and help others in the church. How do we do that? Do this by strengthening our our our weak knees, by lifting our drooping hands, by getting rejuvenated in our God, and by helping others in the church do the same. That's what God does. He will give us grace to endure. This is a hard life. This is a difficult world. Seemingly getting more and more difficult. But God didn't call us just to kind of weather the storm. He called us to thrive, to endure, and we absolutely can and be the lights of Christ. Christ that God intends for us to be. Father, we thank you for the truth of God that you have given to us in your word. Lord, I pray that you allow it to settle deep within our hearts. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.