Philippians chapter two. We're in the middle, literally, of our study in Philippians. And um Just really enjoyed studying this beautiful passage of Scripture where Paul talks about being having the mind of Christ and all that Christ did for us And humbling himself and becoming obedient to death, even the death of the cross. But there's a purpose for why, again, reminder is a purpose for why Paul goes through that. as an example to us, not just the beauty of what Christ did, although that alone is inspiring. But it's a reminder to the believers that he's writing to. You do that too. And you have that mindset, you think that way And in this next passage, he's going to continue in that vein and give us some very practical, and there is a specific area that he does have concern for within the Philippian church. And he's going to make that more apparent in this passage, Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 through 18. He wants them to have the mind of Christ so that they'll be living and operating as a church with a testimony that is conducive to drawing people to hear the gospel. You are gospel proclaimers. Act like it, Paul might say. Act like Jesus Christ. And he's going to continue in that vein in our passage tonight. This is going to refer, I've titled this the essence of Christian Obedience. What does Christian obedience look like? What is its essence? we're going to see tonight. Let's read together, have a word of prayer and get into this further. Philippians 2, starting at verse 12 Therefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do, of his good pleasure. Do all things without murmurings and disputings. That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, and that I may not have, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. For the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice. Father, give us understanding from your word tonight. Help us to understand what Paul is proclaiming here and emphasizing that we might have unity as a church family, and um serve you faithfully and sacrificially, maybe even through suffering, together, rejoicing that you have called us to this And rejoicing that we have Jesus as our example. For it is in his name we pray. Amen. So Paul here is talking about what When we have the mindset, the humility of Jesus Christ, how that then motivates us, and what the essence is of Christian obedience. And he's going to show us, first of all, that obedience is true conversion and action. If we're believers, if we truly have a relationship with Jesus Christ, and we've been saved, Then there will be evidence of that in our lives. You can't hide it. If you're a believer, you have the Holy Spirit working inside of you Paul says, let that evidence shine, let it be apparent, as a church ministry, as a group of people serving God together. You're believers, you've trusted, you've worked with me as we've co-labored in proclaiming the gospel. Make sure even as from you And giving evidence to Christians. Verse 12 again, wherefore, my beloved. And some of these themes , he continues, it's kind of a review of what he's told us early on in the letter. We see his love. People, that term beloved is a strong term where he's describing. He's reminding the Philippians yet again how much he can How much he's drawn to them in Christ's love. You are people that have my heart, that I love, that I love ministering together with you. You're my beloved And he says, as your, my beloved, as you've always obeyed, as we obeyed together, he's referring to here. And here Paul is looking back, even as he did the beginning of the letter, and he's remembering the fellowship that they have as believers, co-laborers together in the gospel, and the joy that that brought him, and the joy that that brought them. And he's saying here that as I think back on that again, you obeyed well. But now that I'm out of the picture, he might be saying this, you know, I want to return to you soon, but events, the way things are looking as they are right now, it may still be a while. I may not be able to get back to you right away. So just as you obeyed in my presence, continue to do that while I'm away from you. Not just while I'm here, but in my absence. Isn't that the desire of every parent? Is that the children would obey? Certainly, yes, while I'm present. And it's even more disturbing when they're not obeying in your presence. Okay, let's work that out. Obey in my presence. But now when I leave the room, please continue to do what I've told you to do. And Paul could say the same thing as a spiritual father to these people. Continuing this. And it's obvious that he has a specific concern for the Philippian believer. A specific area that they're maybe weakening in and they're struggling with. He's going to show us that more in a little bit. But then he says something that sounds troubling to us. He says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. There's a couple of hard to work out passages. Understand. um parts to this passage, and this is the first one. Because when we read that, it automatically sounds like something That would go against the truth of the gospel, right? What is Paul saying here? Work out. It almost sounds as if he's putting it upon the believers to, through their good works , to work out their salvation before God. Well, first of all, we know that can't be what Paul is saying because we know, and this is where, again, we gotta remember the context of scripture. We know because Paul in Scripture has said so much elsewhere that salvation is apart from the law. Is apart from our works. That it's all through Jesus Christ and His grace. And He does all the work. So then when we come to a passage like this, we seem different from what we know to be true, what does that mean? It doesn't mean that we change what we believe, but it means we study it further until God and ask the Holy Spirit for enlightenment. What does this phrase mean? Well, it's actually not as hard as difficult as what we may take, or many scholars take it to be, because he answers it here throughout the rest of the passage. First of all, work out your own salvation. Whatever Paul means here, he's presenting salvation as this, as something that is already their possession. Your own salvation means You already possess salvation. It's your own. You have it. So if that's the case, Paul can't be saying that they need to work it out in order to obtain That's not what he's saying at all. He's saying you already have it. So then what does that mean? What he's really referring to here Then is since it's not referring to how they're saved, it's referring to how saved live out or work out their salvation in their ministry setting together. Does that make sense? Those that have Jesus Christ How they then work it out, and in the context, he's talking about together as a church family, even, work out, give evidence of that faith to those around them. And that makes sense then with the rest of the message that Paul has here. So again, to be clear, he's not promoting any type of work salvation, but he's saying the salvation you have. You need to work it out in your lives. You need to give evidence of it. Salvation that you have , live that out in your community. But he's also referring to this, is that as believers, those of us that have salvation in our possession, and of course, how do we get that? It's through faith and trust in Jesus Christ. be clear. Again, another opportunity to talk about the gospel. It's through faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone. Nothing that we can do. When we have that, though, there will be evidences in our lives that we are believers. Maybe some more than others. Maybe a faithful Christian that has followed the Lord for thirty years and has seen Him forty years, fifty years, and have seen him work in their lives, and they have this beautiful testimony of God's faithfulness. Or a young believer that's just Just recently been saved and still learning so much about God's Word. And they may not evidence as much fruit as a more mature believer. And yet there's something going on in them. It's a reminder to us. The book of James points this out as well. That if we're a believer, there ought to be evidence, something going on inside of us. The Holy Spirit's work inside of us. Let that work out in our ministry. Some sort of indication of God's work in us by our service for Him. Evidence that authenticates our conversion experience What is that evidence? Well Paul here is saying going forth, reminding yourself, The power of God that He is technically serve Him in a community set. And being in awe and in reverence of that power as you move forward Now, here's another aspect of this that as we continue on here in verse 13, that proves That Paul is not talking about work salvation. Because just in case we misunderstand, and it's as if he's writing this, he writes this next line, just in case you misunderstand. Our devotion to God is evidence of our salvation, but in verse 13, he's going to show us that God's power will enable our devotion and action. For it is God, verse 13, which worketh in you both to will and to do, of his good pleasure. Paul says, let me be clear. This is not referring to anything that would match or look like work salvation, because this is the work of God in you. It's something that God does. He gives you, he gives you the power to carry out, to be faithful, to be obedient with him, but in his loving kindness, it also says here, he gives us the will or the desire to want to serve him. Now that's a loving Heavenly Father who's got his whole plan in mind and everything ready to go when he's willing to even give us the desire. Because let's face it, sometimes in service we get tired. And um we become more focused on self and less selfless. And there may be some times where we wake up in the morning, even the pastor, and say, I don't know if I I can do this today, Lord. I don't know if I can do the type of ministry that you've called me to. I just don't even know if I have a desire in my heart today to do it. Lord, give me that desire. And here Paul says, God will give you the desire. He'll work that in your life. He knows we're weak. And God, God not only has provided salvation for us, that was all of his work, he also does the work for us as we serve him. He enables us, in other words, He enables us not just to be a believer in transforming us into one of his children, but he also gives us the power to live for him faithfully on a daily basis. We need his power for both aspects of this And Paul understands that. So again, don't misunderstand. Not work salvation here, but rather God will enable us to be faithful, to be unified in service for Him. If we're humble and submitted to him. And that service will be evidence that we are believers. It needs to be in our lives. And it should be. So obedience is true conversion and action. As believers, we should want to obey God. And now Paul's going to get really specific. Because obedience is faithfulness to God that endures. He's going to point out something, a weakness in their ministry life That 's a reminder to them. You were doing so well, you started so well. Don't disappoint me now. Continue. Specifically, what is that area? Verse 14. Do all things with murmurings and disputings The idea here of grumbling, of questioning, habits that affect the unity that Paul has called the church to display. You see how that theme is a major theme in the book of Philippians, unity. Now he's back to that again. He's saying we work together and serve God faithfully in unity together. And now I'm sensing that there's some disunity among you. There's some murmuring. There's some grumbling going on. Now, we don't experience any grumbling. rumbling in our church ministries today, do we? Everybody's happy and ready to work and and serve and I think this is a thing that we can still understand today that we all are in our weakness capable of at times. Rumblings. What does the second part have to be with disputings? What does that mean? People um visibly fighting among the church, going out after the church service, and having out in the in the parking lot or getting into a heated verbal exchange. Well certainly you wouldn't want that in a church. But that's not really what he's referring to here. What he is referring to is the idea more of questioning. Always questioning. Well, is that what God really wants us to do? Well, I know the pastor and the leadership really have felt like God's called us to do that, but I'm just going to question them. I'm not so sure about that. And things like that. Believers, though, grumble. Believers have disputes Paul is saying, don't let that affect your unity because there's something much greater at stake. And that is the gospel and the testimony of the gospel. Look at verse 15. That ye may be blameless and harmless. That means the idea of a good reputation. that you have a good reputation in your community, and that you're innocent, or that you have moral purity, the sons of God. And here's another, again another aspect of this where Paul makes it clear that he's not talking about work salvation. Because he's referring to them as, you are the sons of God. You are believers. And now he's basically saying, so act like it. You're the sons of God without rebuke. Act like it. Why? Why is that so important? Because you're in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom ye shine as light in the world. And I don't have to go into a lot of examples again about how dark this world is. I did that this morning. You all are aware of that. Even as you work in the world and you see different things, you realize that things are crooked, that things are broken, that people are twisted. That's a reality that we live in Examples abound in our world today. What do we do? You know, coming up from Maryland and living near Baltimore and hearing about all the shootings and realizing that our city has fame and In a not exciting way. Okay? Do we just hide under our beds? And do we just try to ignore everything? Oh Lord Jesus, please come and until you come, you'll bring me under my bed. I'm tired of all this That's not what we're supposed to do. What are we supposed to do? You're supposed to shine as light in the world Obedient Christians are lasting lights to the world. These lights that he's referring to is more of a generic term that describes all of the lights. In the darkness, you go out on a clear night, you can see stars, shooting stars, It's always cool, you know, my boys will ask me from time to time as we're looking up, we'll see this light that's steady And strong, and the others are twinkling. I'm like, that's steady strong light a planet. Well, which planet is it, Daddy? Well, I'm not sure, but it's one of them. And as I'm reminded of that, I think that's a good analogy and a good question for us. How's our light shining in the darkness? Are we a we Twinkling star. We're there, but you really have to look hard to see that. Or are we a bright, solid, continual, shining light like a planet How are you doing in your light? Paul says, I want you to be bright, continuous lights in this dark world, in this twisted generation. And you can't be that if you're fighting and grumbling and arguing all the time. So stop it in reality. But he knows at the same time that God will give them power to do that. Another aspect of this as we finish up is obedient Christians are in fact obeying and offering their worship to God. As you obey God, you're giving him Have you ever thought about that? Why should I obey God? Well, one of the reasons is it's offering worship to Him. And Paul's concerned about this. Verse 16: Holding forth the word of life. Holding fast to the gospel, that is the word of life, the word that gives spiritual life. It's the gospel that our lives should properly represent the gospel. Why? Well Paul says here's on a personal note here that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Paul rejoices in their spiritual progress. He's like a coach or a parent in the bleachers as he's looking on. Go! All right, great. But then if somebody uh messes up or does something they shouldn't , then they get They they get so upset that they kind of put the blame on themselves. We can understand that. Oh, you know, maybe I should have taught them better or you you've ever uh being on a basketball team, I remember a lot of times my coach as somebody that should have been able to do something that he had told him to do weren't able to do that. It was almost like he took it on himself and made it personal. Oh and it's almost like Paul saying that here. Don't disappoint me I've spent a lot of time with you all. Don't let this be in vain. If you've ever mentored a person or ever been in ministry where you've had people under your especially young people, you spend that time, hours, weeks, years with kids, with young people, with teenagers. And it's natural then to want to see them go forward. And you do take it personally when someone fails. You certainly take it personally. When people, when someone that's been under your mentorship eventually gives evidence that maybe they weren't a believer at all, that's the hardest. Paul says, I don't want to see that That means that I've run in vain. If by chance, and Paul believes and he has a confident belief that these all are believers, But he says, keep going, because if by chance I get to the finish line, we get to the finish line, and I find out that one of you were a fake, I'll feel like I did all this in vain. Don't do that. I don't want to have my labor in vain. We take it personally when we see somebody fall. We pray and we want God to continue to work in the lives of the people that we've had a part in. Then he says something interesting here. Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. For the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. Now this is actually harder in some ways to understand really what Paul's getting at than even the phrase at the beginning. And we could take a lot of time tonight to try and discuss this, but we don't have that. So I'm just going to try to describe it briefly, what I think he's referring to here. The drink offering part , actually, when it says be offered upon the sacrifice, it could be translated be offered up as a drink offering And you might see that in your notes in your Bibles or your translation might say that. An Old Testament drink offering was part of a series of offerings that went above and beyond a personal offering Okay? To sharing in a corporate offering with the nation together. So what is Paul describing here? He's describing their corporate offering of suffering. Which is the bond that they have together even while apart. Can suffering be an offering of worship to God? That's what Paul says here. When you're going through suffering for the name of Jesus Christ, don't despair. That's actually an offering of worship to Jesus Christ. To God. And then it won't feel like you're in vain, like just faith's got your number and you're going through these hard things. No, your suffering has purpose. It's an act of worship to God. And Paul is saying here, as I'm suffering here, and as you're suffering in in Philippi. serving the true Lord and Savior Jesus Christ instead of worshiping Caesar. He says, we're all worshiping together and we We can have the joy together that comes with people that have an understanding of what the other person's going through. You know, we suffer really for three types of reasons. I'll throw this in real quick. We're talking about suffering here. I'm suffering, Pastor Brock I wonder what I need to do about it. Well, there's really three kinds of sufferings. First of all, there's suffering because of a sin choice. We've done something, we made the wrong choice. And we're experiencing correction, chastisement, the effects of that. What's the solution to that kind of suffering? It's to repent and ask God to restore you to usefulness. That's what you ought to do if you're suffering from a poor decision or a sin choice. But a second point of suffering is just suffering from the effects of broken world because there's evil people out there. And we get hit by that sometimes. What do you do when evil hits home? Not your fault. We live in a broken world. Seek God and ask Him for help. Ask him to help you. Finally, the third type of suffering is what Paul's talking about here. Suffering for serving Jesus Christ. And the solution is ask God for strength for the trial. And be encouraged that He is using you for His purposes. Be encouraged in the midst of suffering? Yeah, I know. That's easy to say. Hard to do. And Paul's not here, by the way, saying, and they didn't have phones back then, but if they did. You know, you call me and I'll call you. Whenever you go through a hard time, just call each other up and say, hey, guess what? I just went through some suffering. Isn't that great? The other person's like, oh yeah, tell me all about it. Oh yeah, I had to go through some suffering too. This is great. Let's rejoice together. That's not what Paul's trying to get at. Because we can't do that unless but what he is referring to here, there is there is a joy. I have a friend that I have years ago, a pastor that pastored him And a couple years ago he was diagnosed with a very extreme form of Lymes, and it affects his health to the point where sometimes he can't even get up in the pulpit to preach. And he counts it as a good week when he's able to mow his lawn. in being with his family. And and yet I talk with him and as we've gone through our process, he has continued to text me and encourage me and tell me he's praying for me. And this guy sends me texts that just put me to shame. Here he is going through these health difficulties, going through far more than what I'm going through, and he's praising God and thanking God and encouraging me, you do this too. You lead your people in praising God and lead them in the right way and worshiping him. I'm like, oh my goodness, this guy is just a constant Testimony to me and a reminder that I need to do better. But as he goes through his suffering and as I go through my difficulties, we have a oneness of spirit that gives us joy. But when you talk with other Christians who are going through difficult things and you realize that you're going through these things for the cause of the gospel, for the cause of Jesus Christ, there is a joy that it's hard to explain unless you're in the middle. I see the joy in this man's life. It amazes me and it puts me to shame. And Paul is reminding his people here in Philippi that you need to get along. You need to be unified. Stop your grumbling. Stop your arguing. There's something Something much bigger at stake. That's a testimony of the gospel. Instead, rejoice through your sufferings. Pull together. Realize that there's a bigger picture for these Things, and that is that God will be exalted, and that He has a plan, and that people need Jesus Christ in this darkness today. Father, thank you for your Your word and help us to. Or we're tempted so many times to grumble and complain and question and dispute Help us to have the right attitude, the mindset of Jesus, who let go of all things for the purpose of service, and let that be our motivation for working together. And Lord, even though suffering isn't something that we enjoy talking about, we know that you've said it's going to happen in your word Prepare us for that. Help us to be a church family that shows love and encourages each other so that when suffering comes we're united. We're not broken apart and in chaos and a poor testimony of Jesus. Jesus love. Help us, as Paul reminds us, to work together. Do your power. We don't do this alone, Lord. Thank you. That you give us the power to serve And to be unified, and to go forth and be a testimony of Jesus. Give us that this week, Father, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.