Prayer. Well, another blessing yesterday in our sessions was to have the Moors back with us. They've been in the States since May and uh been looking forward just to spend some time With Josh uh personally as well, but he just gave a moving and sincere and heartfelt presentation yesterday morning um about his burden. for Ireland and what's been going on in their lives. And uh it was just uh it was um very encouraging for me personally I know for all of our folks. So I've been looking forward to this We're going to give Josh the rest of the time, and we're looking forward to what God has laid on his heart. So, brother, come up and share God's word with us. All right, good morning. It is It is good to be here with you this morning, and I'm looking forward to our study. Let's just ask the Lord's blessing on this time as we come to learn from His Word. Father, we thank you for how you have given us your word , clearly revealing your plan. Of redemption, clearly pointing us to your Son Jesus Christ, helping us understand that we are sinners, helping us understand the brokenness and suffering. In this world, and also showing us, Father, so many good things that you have given us that every good thing that comes from above, every good gift comes from you. And so we know that the greatest gift you have given us is salvation by grace through faith in the work of your Son, Jesus Christ. And so we thank you for him And for our salvation, help us learn how to take your word and your gospel and share it with others around us in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning, what I'd like to do with you is kind of work through some of uh the things that we have taught our people in Ireland as we bring the gospel uh to our town and to the people that kind of come to our town to visit. And uh so there is an outline. I don't know if it's available this morning, but there is an outline uh with some notes on it. Did you You have those or um. Yes, that's right. We'll get those Pastor Brock will have those available, but I'll try and give you the notes anyway, but they're There are some notes that with references and things like that for you to follow up on your own study. The first thing that I want to establish This morning, as we bring the gospel to a really a secular uh society in the West, okay, there are certain ways that we can approach bringing the gospel. And the first thing that we need to know As believers, is this. No one is neutral. No one is neutral. When you get into a conversation with someone, a co-worker, a friend, a family member Someone that you're looking to share the gospel with, they are not a neutral party. Everyone comes into the conversation with presuppositions. I know that's a big word. I know this is Sunday school, don't check out on me, okay? A presupposition is this something that you believe is true, and you will act on the basis of that truth Okay? Every person you come into contact with already holds to things they believe are true, and they're going to act and live according to those things. And what you'll find is this. Everyone knows what they believe, but most people don't know why they believe it. Everyone knows what they believe, but when you start digging deeper, do they actually know why they believe what they believe? And this is what we've seen even with with youth that have gone off to university sometimes, if they've gone to a secular university, um sometimes they get challenged in their faith and they're like Like, wait, I don't actually know why I believe what I believe. I believe these things are true, but why do I believe that they're true? And so we as believers need to be able to convey and communicate what our belief is. and why we believe the things that we do. So everyone has a worldview, a way in which they view the world around them, a belief system that makes sense of who they are and why they're here. Everyone knows what they believe, but they don't necessarily know why they believe it. And everyone comes into a conversation with pre-held beliefs. Presuppositions. That is helpful for this reason. Oftentimes when you get into conversations with people, they think when they find out that you're a Christian, that you are closed-minded That you are brainwashed, that you are a bigot, that you are a whatever else, right? They've already made up their mind about you. And you need to be able to stop and say, listen, Can I just humbly and honestly turn this around for a minute and say, I've I admit I'm coming to this conversation with pre-held beliefs. But I actually you are also. So let's share what we believe and then we can actually work through um the the the things on the table, all right? But let's let's step away from this mindset of a Christian is the only I am biased. I am. I believe this book and what is written herein, but you're biased too. And you are holding to these things. And I want to know why do you believe this? things that you say you believe. So give you an illustration before we get into our section on the five questions. I want you to think with me about the worldview rowboat. Okay. How many of you have ever been in a rowboat before? How many of you have been in a rowboat that's been sinking? Okay, I I have. I have this memory of being out on the bay with one of my uncles And um there's water s coming into the bottom of the roadboat and he's taking chewing gum and like sticking it to the bottom. I'm like, okay, we just need to get to shore. Okay, so that's my memory. That's where I'm getting the roadboat But the worldview rowboat is this. Every person that you interact with is in a worldview rowboat, and we are as well. It's called the Christian worldview. View. And every worldview rowboat has five holes in the bottom and is either going to stay afloat or sink based on those five holes and what you do with them. They are the five key questions. That every individual and every worldview must reckon with, and we're gonna come to them in a minute. What happens is this people have answers they've come up with for four of the questions And they think they've plugged those up, but when you get to the question of morality , objective morality, truth that transcends society They jump into the Christian worldview robote because the secular worldview robote sinks on the the issue of morality. And they don't realize they're doing it, but if a moral issue comes up, they hop into your rowboat and what we have to do is say, listen, You've actually just stepped into my worldview, and I'm gently, graciously, humbly, but firmly going to force you back into your roadbook. Because you need to see that you're sinking on the question. of morality. You don't have a consistent answer with the other answers you've given me for the four questions. Your question of morality does not match up with those things. So you actually are borrowing from Christianity for morality because you don't like the secular answer to morality. I I might be losing you, but it'll make sense in a minute. Let's get into the five questions. I'm just going to state them and run through them, some sample follow-up questions based on that. First Of all it is the issue of origin. Number one, origin. How did I get here? Where did humans come from? Is life an accident? Is it all chance? The question of origin: where did human beings come from? That's the first question a worldview must grapple with. Secondly, purpose Why am I here? What is the reason for my existence? What is the point of Life. I I have had young Irishmen, I've asked them this question on the street late at night when we're doing the late night outreach, and they have told me this: my purpose for existing is Is this I work a job Monday to Friday so I can make money so I can come out and drink. They're like that's that's what I'm living for. They s they honestly have had it happen multiple times. Young guys in their twenties, that's they'll honestly say to me, again and again, that that's my purpose. And I just look at them and say, Thank you for being honest with me That's really sad. It's really sad. I've told him that. Uh I had one guy, he had these scars all up his arms, and he was telling me about how he had almost died in a drink driving accident. He had come and drunk uh heavily that Saturday night and he had gone off and been in a horrible accident, almost died. And he's like, yeah, I almost died drink driving and guess what? I'm gonna do it again. I said, listen, man, I I have to tell you this. I love you. God is so merciful to you. You could be dead and facing an eternity in Torment and God has given you another chance. In fact, God has arranged it so that you would meet me and hear the gospel, and you actually have a chance to respond to what God has done for you. But I'm getting off track. You see, the question of purpose is a big one. Third, identity This is huge. This is all over the place, right? Who am I? What gives a person value and worth? Why should people be shown respect? Am I of more worth than an animal? Is human life valuable? Who am I as a individual. When we talk about transgenderism and and all kinds of other ideologies, it really when we boil it down is coming to down to a question of idea Identity. Young people a lot of times don't know who they are and they're trying to discover who am I as a person. And if they s if they listen to social media and influencers, they become shaped into the image of whoever they've let into their heart. And what we want to say as Christians, I'm getting ahead of myself. But from the Christian worldview, we want to say this. I'm being fashioned into the image of Christ. He's my identity. And I actually don't lose my uniqueness as an individual human being. By becoming more like Christ. In fact, each one of us is very different and yet the same, right? We have different interests, different um responsibilities, different roles, different functions. And yet we're all pursuing the same identity in Christ. And it's beautiful. And you don't get that in the other systems that are out there. Fourth, destiny. Where am I going? Uh, what am I seeking to achieve in life? What happens when I grow old and look back over my life? What was it for? What happens to my soul when I die? Where will I spend eternity? These are the questions of Destiny. And finally, number five, morality. What is good and evil? Who determines right and wrong? What is justice? What is the standard by which we can make any moral claim? Is there absolute truth, absolute morality? And what we need to do with these five questions as we ask people is first of all, we need to listen well and not cut them off. And we need to smile and be pleasant, okay? Because you're asking someone to open up and share things that are very personal. And they assume already that as a Christian you're there to attack them. I had a um a man on the streets, he was with two of his friends, these three Irishmen, and one of them was a homosexual And he would ask me a question, because I started asking them questions, and he would ask me a question before I could even give a response. He was like attack me. He's like, you are an American conservative Republican I was just like I never said anything about any of that stuff because I that's not why I'm out there. I'm not trying to convince Irish people of American politics. Like, but what if but he had already in his mind this whole thing about me and his buddies were kinda looking at him like, are you gonna let him answer your question. You know what I mean? I just sat I stood there and I said, Listen, I can tell you really heard. Um another lady from our church actually an Irish lady uh eventually took him to the side because uh I was having a much more fruitful conversation with the two other guys and she had a really long conversation. She said to him, Do you believe that all Christians hate you? He was like, yeah. By the end of their conversation, and as she was able to share the gospel, he was giving her a hug People we're interacting with in our society as we look to share the gospel with them, they already think that we hate them sometimes. They've actually not even listened to anything we've said. And if we cut them off to correct something they said when we've asked them one of the worldview questions, that's not going to go well. Give them an opportunity. You don't like being cut off. I don't like being cut off Give them an opportunity to express their thoughts, and then eventually we can come down to where we want to get to. Um, ask some other follow-up questions like this. Do you believe that your answers to these questions Questions are only for you, or should other people believe what you believe? What about the question of morality? Do you believe that your sense of morality applies to other people? Does it go across society? Does it go to other cultures? Or is it just here, just you, right here, right here Right now, do you want other people to abide by your moral claims? So some follow-up questions on this can actually help um bring things to the surface even more and then eventually Essentially we want it we want to the whole goal is this. We want to give them the gospel. We want to get to what we believe, and so a good way to transition to that after you've asked them questions and after that you've gotten their thoughts out there you can say something like Would you mind if I shared with you I usually say to people in the street would you give me 90 seconds to share the answers to the five questions from the Christian worldview based on the Bible. And oftentimes I'll be like, yeah, I'll give you a nice ninety seconds. And then I I answer the five questions and share the gospel in ninety seconds. I've already got it prepared and then I'll say something like so what do you think And we then can probe deeper into what I just shared because a lot of times they're like, a lot of that makes sense. Uh you've actually given me something to think about. So here's what we need to do as we approach the Christian Worldview. First of all, I want you to remember this. Everything that we base our belief on and our worldview on is based on the authority of the Bible. Okay? The authority of the Bible, the sufficiency of the scriptures, that's where we're coming up with our worldview. It's not because my pastor said it. It's not because my parents said it. It's not because It's not because my Christian school said it. It's not because you know my friend believes this. I believe these things because God says this in His Word. That's that's what we need to say. Two follow-up questions to that would be: what is the Bible? And why should I believe the Bible? And I'll just give you two. Two quick answers to those questions. First of all, what is the Bible? The Bible is God's revelation of Himself. To mankind. It is the story or the plan or the unfolding of his work of redemption. The Bible is all about Jesus. From the beginning to the end, it is pointing us to the facts that we are fallen, broken, sinful people. And we cannot rescue ourselves, redeem ourselves, work our way out of our sinful condition, but God in his mercy. In his love, looked on us, and sent his own son, God in human flesh, to die for us on the cross, rise from the grave, and offer us Salvation from our sin. That's the whole point of the Bible. What is the Bible? The Bible is God telling us about Himself and Pointing us, telling us about himself, telling us about our problem, and telling us about what he has done to redeem us in sending his son. That's what the Bible is. Why believe the Bible? Now I borrowed this from uh another pastor. He had a great sermon online called Why Believe the Bible, Bodhi Balcom. Um, I I watched this with our our youth because uh he basically came up with a definition for why he believes the Bible, because he wanted to be able to give something to his youth. when they went to university and they were challenged on the Bible, be able to say, This is why I believe the Bible because he got tired of hearing peop kids come back from school saying You know, I don't know if I believe the Bible anymore, because they went to a class and their professor said, Does anyone here believe that the Bible is the word of God? Raise your hand. And then they were publicly shamed and humiliated because when they asked them why do you believe the Bible, they said, I don't know. My church preaches from the Bible, my pastor believes it, my parents believe it. I don't know why I believe it, I just believe it. And they got shamed and he's like, all right, so give an answer like this. And I've done this on the streets in Ireland and people are like Like, oh, okay, right. That's helpful. I believe I choose to believe the Bible because it is a reliable collection of historical documents written down by eyewitnesses During the lifetime of other eyewitnesses, they reported supernatural events that took place in fulfillment of specific prophecies and claimed that their writings are divine rather than human in origin. Now If you can slowly like don't just rattle that off, but if you can slowly give that and know what all of that is saying, right, the historical documentation, the claim that the Bible is the inspired word of God, all of these things, if you can put that together in a statement so that when people say, I don't believe The Bible. Why do you believe the Bible? And you give them that. At least they know this. You've done your study on why you believe the Bible. Okay, and you have good reason for believing the Bible is the Word of God. And they might come away from that and say, Well, I still don't believe the Bible and you say, Okay Okay, and then you quote the Bible to them because you know and I know that that's our secret weapon. The Holy Spirit takes the Word of God in a special supernatural way and pricks Man's conscience with it. So even if they turn away from your definition of why you believe the Bible, and they're like, I still don't believe the Bible, you quote some scripture too to them and the spirit's already got them. And deep, deep down, even in their fallen, unbelieving, hardened state, they know it's true. The things that you will share with them and quote to them from the scriptures will resonate deep down inside. I I heard um a friend of mine is in uh Central Asia and he shared a gospel verse with a Muslim on the street one time and years and years and years later that Muslim secretly contacted him. He didn't remember his name or anything, but he secretly contacted my friend on uh social media and said, what was the verse you quoted to me on this stream? In Istanbul in this year. My friend was like, I have no idea. I quoting scripture all the time. I don't know what scripture was, but that man for years had those words ringing in his head, convicting Him. And that's the power of the Word of God. So we need to know what the Bible is, because people have all kinds of strange ideas as far as what the Bible is. We need to be able to see simply say, this is what the Bible is all about. And then we need to be able to share with them, this is why I believe it. And then we get to The gospel, right? We we the whole goal. Forget about the authority of the Bible, forget about answering all the questions. The whole goal of all of it is this: get them to the gospel. Point them to Christ. So, for instance, I've had people that have said, yeah, well, I tell them about why I believe in the Bible, and they're like, well Um, what about slavery in the Bible? Or what about this? Or what about that? And what I'll say is I have either let me think about that, I need to come back to you, because I don't I you know, that's a really good question. I haven't thought about that. Or I'll say something like, I have a good answer for slavery in the Bible and how the Bible addresses that issue. There's a good answer to that question, and I would I would be happy to share that with you. But first, let me ask you this. Um, and I'll say something like, why do you believe slave Okay. Or something like that. Or then I'll say, but let me let me share this with you first, and I'll share the gospel with them first. Because what you'll find is when people bring up these kinds of questions they're looking to sidetrack you and distract you and usually they don't care what your answer is because you could spend 10 Ten minutes giving them a really good explanation for um the issue of slavery in the Bible and how the Bible addresses that issue, you could give a great answer and you know what they'll do at the the end of it? Oh yeah? Well what about the Bible and women? Oh yeah? Well what about the, you know, Christians and this? Oh yeah? Well what about the crusades? And they'll just give you one thing after another and you'll never actually get to the gospel. And you'll come away from me and you're like, I just dealt with a hard-hearted person who didn't actually care about any of the answers I gave them. And they had me on the backfoot the whole time. So what you do is, I have a good answer to that question. And I would love to share it with you. But first, I need to share this with you because this has changed my life. I am a sinner. I do wrong things. And you go through the gospel, um, all of sin that comes short of the glory of God. God is good. God has given me every good gift. God is so kind, and the wage of my sin is death. Not only will I die physically one day, but spiritually I'm already dead. And if I die in my sins, I will be separated from God's eternal Eternal blessing and love, and I will be under his wrath for all of eternity. But God in his mercy has offered a gift. The gift of God is the eternal life through Jesus. Jesus Christ our Lord, He came, God in human flesh, died on a cross, rose from the grave, ascended into heaven, and is coming Back one day. And he says that by grace through faith are you saved, not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. If you repent of your sin and turn to God and ask for mercy and you put your trust in his son Jesus Christ, he will save you. And he will begin a change in your heart. That's what I want to get to with someone. I I would love to share the other questions, the answers to those questions, but First and foremost, I don't want to get sidetracked. I don't want to get distracted. I want to get to the gospel with them, and that is what they need to hear. That is most important. They might reject my answer for why I believe the Bible. They might not listen to me when I talk about what the Bible is. They might not care about my answer to the five questions. But if I can at least install 60 seconds say to them, listen, I would love to talk more. I would love to share more. I would love to ask you more questions, but before I do, I just have to share this with you. This is changing my life and share Christ with them. Okay? But come back with me for a moment here. And I'm trying to think, I'm getting I'm I'm getting too excited And I'm forgetting some of the things that I was going to uh share. Let me think if it comes to me. Oh, what you do, by the way, when you have a when you say to them, I have a good answer. to that question, but I can't share that with you yet. I'd be happy to. You actually create in them a curiosity for the answer that you have. So maybe later on they actually come back and they're like Could you actually tell me when you know what the answer is to like they might actually listen to you when you do that because you created an incentive when you say to them, oh, there's a really good answer to that question. Um I would love to share that with you, but first I need to ask you this, or first I need to share this with you. Then oftentimes you'll find in them like, well what is their really good answer to that question? I actually want to hear what they have to say now. And it can actually totally change the course of the conversation. And I've seen that kind of thing happen with people Now, we've dealt with the Christian worldview so far. We've got our authority, which we need to know, even if If we don't get to share about that with them and we just go right to the gospel, we need to know why we believe the Bible and what the Bible is all about. But secondly, we've dealt with the gospel. To in conversations with people and in our relationships is to share Christ with them. And third, I want to share with you how does a Christian answer the question? the five questions. And again, the notes will be made available at some stage. There are further references you can look at. We're not going to look at all of them right now because we don't have the time to. But we have lots and lots of passages to answer these five questions. And so we want to be prepared and we want to dig deeper and know how do Do we, as Christians, answer the five worldview questions based on the authority of the Word of God and based on the gospel of Jesus Christ? First of all, the question of origin Genesis 1, 27 through 28 clearly tells us that God has made man, and he has made man male and female, and he has created them in his image. So male and female are of equal worth in God's sight And both are made in the image of God, and therefore a human being which is made in the image of God, who gives life to all of us physically, Means that we are special and unique from all the rest of creation around us. Are human beings more valuable than the forests? Yes. Are they more important than the ocean? Yes. Is a human baby in the womb more valuable than any An eagle egg in a nest? Yes. Why? Because the human being is made in the egg image of God. Now we also want to say the human being in Genesis 1 is told, you now have a man. mandate from God for how you are to fill the earth and how you are to manage the earth, how you're to exercise a godly dominion over the earth. So we have a good answer. for issues of climate and issues of um litter and all these other kinds of things and and helping protect endangered species we have an answer for that as Christians and we don't just laugh it off or dismiss it. We come back to well based on origin, I have a good answer for how I as a human being created and in the image of God should manage and watch over the things that God has made. Okay? So that's our answer to the Issue of origin. Purpose. Revelation 411 is where I love to go with the question of purpose. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created What is the purpose of man? The purpose of man, created in the image of God, is to know God Glorify God and enjoy God forever. And that is only possible through the gospel of Jesus Christ So because of what Jesus has done, I have a new purpose. Not to live for myself, not to make a lot of money, not to, you know, be the best person I can be But to know God, have a relationship with God, love God, glorify God, thank God, praise God, and enjoy Him forever That is the chief end of man. That is why I am here. To glorify God and enjoy him for me. That is present and future. That is right here, right now on this earth, and in the reign of Christ, and then in the new creation. that he is making. Third, identity. Identity. Come with me to First Corinthians six. I think this is a really important passage We should be quick to go to with people that we're interacting with. First Corinthians chapter six, verses nine through eleven, that there are so many verses in the New Testament that deal with with identity. Do some study in Ephesians and just pick out these are the things I am in Christ. Just even the first fourteen verses of Ephesians. chapter 1. This is who I am in Christ and preach that to yourself every morning as you go about your day. It will change the way you look at your identity, at who you are. Not based on In Christ, I am loved, forgiven, accepted, saved, granted eternal life, sealed with His Spirit and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. The New Testament has tons to say about our identity. And this is where I want to go through go to um with people, oftentimes in conversation And I want to bring them to 1 Corinthians 6 and verses 9 through 11. Let's look at this passage together. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God Of God. And I'm going to stop there with them for right at that point and say, that is talking about me before I knew Jesus. And that is talking about you, if you don't know Jesus. Unrighteous. Will not inherit, will not enter. will not experience the kingdom of God. Be not deceived. Listen to these identities. Listen to these lifestyles. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. And that's just a short list. There's other lists in the New Testament. Testament. The idea is this any one of those sinful lifestyles, sinful identity, sinful choices, any one of those things is enough to prohibit me from enjoying God forever. And you know, whether the person we have obviously homosexuality is dealt with in there, but what about revilers? What about Covetous. What about um the issues of the heart? Adulterers at heart, Jesus says, looking with lust on on someone else. Um These things mean we cannot approach God. But look at verse 11, and such were some of you Past identity, past lifestyle, past sinful choices. But you are washed. You are sanctified. You are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. So through your faith in Jesus Christ, your sinful man the old man goes on that cross and dies and is buried in a tomb and through and baptism being a picture of this, you are raised up out of the grave, new person, new identity, new New man in Jesus Christ. Now we as believers understand that's our justification, that's our regeneration, that is our salvation Right there, that is security in Christ, and yet that gospel, that identity, is my daily sanctification. I don't ever outgrow that. I don't ever get past that. I always come back to put off the old man, put off On the new right. I know that's happened, that's a reality, that is secured. I don't I'm not getting saved every day, but I know this, I never outgrow that message because the new Testament says that is a daily struggle in our walk. We're constantly saying, Lord, help me put this off and put this on. Lord, help me to walk in the way I ought to. Help me to remember that in Christ I'm washed. I'm sanctified, set apart for his glory, set apart to worship him, set apart to enjoy him. I am justified. I am declared righteous in his sight. That is my identity in the name of the Lord Jesus. And that is the reality for my heart, because who has come in? The Spirit of our God has entered my heart and implanted those realities within. He's washed me within. It's not Just the external that has been cleaned up, it is the internal heartwork of the Spirit of God through the gospel. That is the passage I want to go to with people when I'm in conversations. With them. And I want to help them see this is what I'm talking about. This is what's happened in me. And this is what Christ offers to you: a new identity. A new person made in the image of his son. Destiny. And we have to move quickly here. I want to get to morality. Destiny, um, we can go to Revelation 20. We can go to Revelation 21. There's lots of other passages. Ultimately this, Christ is returning to judge the world. Christ is recur returning. And there will be a great day of judgment, and either you will be found in him, written in the Lamb's Book of Life, or you will not be found written there, and he will save These words, depart from me, I never knew you. And so this is the seriousness of, yes, at the end of my life I want to be able to look back and see what God has done in bringing me through this life, but I also am looking ahead all of the time and saying there is judgment day coming, and on that day, the only thing I can plead is this: Jesus Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That's it. That's that's all I have. Not, you know, I I was really good and I went to church. And I went to the mission field or I shared the gospel with people or I I gave money or oh that no, that's just the overflow of my love to the Lord. Lord. That's what he puts that love in me and it comes back out of me in service to him. That's it. He fills me up with that and that comes back out. And it's actually not my work. It's actually his gracious work all all in me All I can say is, Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, look at what he has done. Look at how he has changed me. Finally we get to morality. Lots of passages. I would want to go Romans 13, 8 to 10, where there's a restatement of the Ten Commandments or Ecclesiastes 12 verses 13 and 14, what is the whole duty of man? Right? Um to fear God and keep his commandments. Micah 6. 8 is another good one. Again, there's tons of passages of scripture that address The issue of morality and where we need to get to with them is to say, God tells me what is right and wrong. God tells me what is good and evil. God has established an objective standard for morality across the face of the earth, doesn't matter what country, what culture, what time period. You're in, God gets to say what is right and what is wrong. That's it. And that helps when I come to difficult issues in the old test. The Amalekites are being judged and they're being killed. And I look at that and say, God said that is what needed to happen? And I say, then that's what needed to happen. God is the one who determines what is good and what is evil. God is the one who determines what is justice. God is the one who determines Determines when he will punish in this life, and he gets to judge at the end when all are raised and standard. before his throne. God is the one who determines what is right and what is wrong. This is so important. I know we have to wrap it up. Let me just say a few final things on this This the issue of morality is so important because the people we live amongst have enjoyed the benefits of the Christian worldview, the prosperity, the blessing, the security, the justice that comes from the Christian worldview. It didn't just happen And they enjoy living in a society that is knit together with the Christian worldview and Christian morality, but they hate the God who established it. And now they're looking to rebel against his morality, and they'll make moral claims, and we have to be ready to again, graciously but firmly Say, get back in your boat. You know, you just gave me your answers for origin and purpose and identity and destiny. You've given me your best answers, but your answer for morality is not consistent With the rest of your worldview because you're stealing the Christian worldview. And you can't do that. You cannot stand there and tell me, well, I had this happen. I'm speaking with two Irishmen, uh middle-aged Irishmen, and sharing the gospel with them, and I've asked them the questions, and I say, can I have 90 seconds? And I I give the answer and I talk about God made us, He made Adam and Eve in the garden and we sinned and da da da da all this stuff and they went back to that and they just mocked me. They laughed me to scorn on the street and said, Are you you joking you believe Adam and Eve. You believe they were the first human being. You believe that nonsense. And they just mocked me. And I looked at them and I said, alright. Alright. I can take it. Can I ask you one question and follow-up to that? Do you believe your ancestors were fish? And and they looked at me and they said, Well yeah, of course. Oh I started laughing a little bit. I just thought, okay. I said I just want you to hear this now, ready? Not observable, not repeatable. I believe God made Adam and Eve, because he said it in his word, and we're made in their image with dignity and worth, value. Respect because we're made in his image. You believe, not observable, not repeatable, certainly not repeatable, right? Certainly not repeatable. You believe that your ancestors were fish. So you believe, I believe. You see that? But here's the issue: you cannot tell me your ancestors were fish, and then a bigger fish comes along and eats a smaller fish and tell me that's wrong. No one cares. And I said to them, look , the world, the universe does not care about your suffering. They don't care. Horrible, evil, wicked things are done. Abuse, shootings, rape, go down the slavery The universe does not care. Where did you get the idea that that's a bad thing? How can you look at a society that practiced slavery, at a society that had concentration camps? How can you look at them and say that they did something wrong? When you turn around and say it's okay to kill a baby while it's still in its mother's womb, how dare you make a moral claim like that And and you can say that with love and sincerity, but they have no ground, no foundation for making the Moral claims. And by God's grace, as we work through the worldview questions, we can help them see that and show them Christ. and that his morality is is what we need. His righteousness and his way of saying, do not steal, right? Be faithful, be kind, be compassionate, all these various things. It is Christ who gives us these things. So to him alone be the glory. I went long. Please forgive me. And let's prepare ourselves for worship this morning.