We sing of his sacrifice, we sing of his power to deal with our sin and to make us like him, and we sing of commitment. Children, if you're not already headed there, you can head to children's church. The happy tramping of little feet to get down there. We sing of our commitment to follow after him. As a side note, I should say I really am thankful for uh Tim and the others who helped uh put up Another projector so that those of us here on the platform can see the words without having to constantly look at at our books. And so that's been a great help to us as well. Like that can really aid in worship. And so I'm thankful for all of the that help. Well, now we get the chance to worship as we hear from God's word. Word. We worshiped in our singing. You have the opportunity to worship in giving by putting in in the box in the back there in the foyer. We worshiped in our prayer. corporate prayer together and now we worship as we hear from God's word. So let's turn back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Just a few more weeks in this helpful book, and then Lord willing, and look Looking forward to a study in Philippians together. But first Thessalonians five, we see here As Paul is ending the letter. There he has had a major emphasis on effective ministry taking place, and he's described it in detail. He's described what the believers there in the city of Thessalonica are doing. And again, what is effective ministry? It is directing the unbelievers. Around us to Christ, even as we sang this morning, of the hope in Christ that they can have. Um and and folks, as we do that, we One of the prayers that we ought to have, I believe, on our hearts is, Lord, help this to be a more natural transition into a conversation about Christ. Give me that freedom to be able to share Christ with those that you've obviously put in my path for a reason and help me to fulfill my responsibility in that But effective ministry is also reminding each of us in the local church to daily depend upon Christ for victory from Temptation as we saw in Sunday school this morning, and ability to serve Christ and to reflect Him to a lost and dying world. That is Is effective ministry, basically pointing everyone to dependence in Christ. And when we do that, God honors that, and he was honoring these believers and thought Thessalonica. But Paul, as well, as excited as he was about their witness for Christ, he has many things he wants them to continue to To work on, and in this last part of this letter, I think he's giving them some homework. He's called on them to love each other, to edify, to build up each other. He's basically called on them These believers to disciple each other. And so he's basically he says, I think here's your homework. And he gives a list. I originally counted six 16, but I actually think there's more like twenty when I went back through again. In uh the span of maybe ten verses or the last half of one chapter, Paul gives almost twenty different Different exhortations and admonitions. Some are literally two words long. And it's kind of it kind of seems like as he's finishing up, he remembers things. Oh yeah, I want you to do this as well. Oh and don't forget this. Oh and and uh remember this, this is important too. But we must not see these things as just kind of add-ons that Paul's like, yeah, if you could do that. That'd be helpful. No, Paul wants all wanted all of the church and Thessalonica, all of the believers to practice and diligently do these things. Things with the power of Christ in their life, and so he wants us to do today. And so he gives us here at the end the exhortations And you know, nobody likes homework, I guess. Well, maybe that's There were some kids that that that do. Don't want to disparage you if you do, but a lot of people don't like homework. But you have to admit homework is helpful. Now sometimes some of you in the back, some of you uh young people you say, well, I regardless, I have way too much homework, Pastor Brock. It's ridiculous. Well, I'm not gonna argue the merits or uh the reality of that in your life. But there are two other A certain extent, homework is helpful. And Paul is giving us homework here to check, kind of a checklist. How are we doing in this as a church family? How am I doing in this area as an individual? And so he has a lot of things that he wants us to check in our lives as he finishes this letter. Last week we saw he was exhorting, encouraging believers to seek peace among their own. And they would do that by respecting and valuing their leadership And that they would also, besides that, they would encourage each other in right living. In fact, let's just go back to verse 12 and a little bit of back. Background here, remind ourselves of these truths. He says, We ask, and that is a very strong request. We ask you, brothers and sisters in Christ. To respect or literally to know those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord. The reality is God sovereignly ordains leadership. And gives some leaders a responsibility to be over the church. But they submit as well to the power of Christ in the Lord. All in submission to Jesus Christ, even the leaders. And the best leadership will remember their own need to submit to their leader And so they'll be much more humble. But Paul says, respect them and that that rule that are over you and admonish you that remind you of the The things of Christ that point you to Christ, that help correct you when you're going the wrong way, help encourage you as you're seeking the right way. And verse 13 to offer Also to esteem them, to appreciate them very highly in love. The love that we have in Christ because of their work as we toil and labor, the respect There. And that brings a sense of peace. Be at peace among yourselves. Instead of fighting with the leadership, a sense of rest and peace. As we do the work of the ministry together. And then we finish last week with verse 14. We urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. Encourage the faint hearted, help the weak, and then be patient with them all. And I wonder if also he's also referring to the leadership that he talked about just in the verse before. Be patient with them too. Just as a recap here, as a reminder, what are those categories again? Because Paul is now, he ups the Emphasis, he says, We urge you not just ask, but brethren, you we urge you to do these things. Admonish the idol, the exhortation And when we hear the word idol in many of our translations, we think, oh, those are the lazy sloths. So, you know, those um the freeloaders in You need to pay attention to that and stop being so lazy and slothful. But actually, as we saw last week, that is a broader word that means the And it really is a military word for in the military, and those of you that have been in the military, uh, you understand this. Uh many years ago, uh my father-in-law gave us the opportunity as we were vacationing, my family and I, in Hiltonhead uh with them. Um he went down uh to the island there. Um I just the the name just escaped me, but the island where where the Marines go for their training. It's one of those things you're brain, I guess it's over fifty, Staten Island came to mind. I'm like, that's not it. I'm not gonna say that. But I did anyway. So whatever. Uh Paris Island and You know and we saw um a group of young men and women that were giving their all and were under very specific, very heavy um rules And I remember my father in law having a great appreciation. He loved being back and now having to watch everybody else had to go through what he He went through 's doing. for the rest of us. It was like, oh, we felt kind of bad for them. But it was good. It was it was it was growing them and it was helping strengthen them. And this word For the idol has the idea of somebody who's not falling in line in the military, who's not doing what they're supposed to do. Um and if that happens, especially at a Place like Paris Island, you get told very quickly that you're not in line. And you're dealt with. Well, in a much more loving and gracious way God deals with his own when we become undisciplined, when we fall out of line. Now that can have application for a lot more than just laziness, can't it? Because Folks, sooner or later we all fall out of line in the expectations that God has for us. Whether it's our relationships with other people, whether it's Things that we say , whether it's things that we forget to do, whether it uh it's a lack of passion and resolve for ministry or our own response Responsibilities that God has given us within the home, if it's a lack of patience, a lack of kindness and gentleness, I mean you name it Sooner or later we find ourselves undisciplined, falling out of line with what God expects and wants for us, with the power of Jesus Christ enabling us to be able able to do that. to Um when leadership and others see people within the church that are becoming undisciplined, that are falling out of line, we need to love Lovingly admonish and direct them back. Get back in line. This is what Jesus wants you to do. This is what God's Word says that we must do. And we admonish not in a Stern, harsh way, hey, get in line, embarrassing others, but we gently, carefully say, you're looking a little undisciplined in this area. And we want to help. We want to help you be as useful for Christ as you can be. And we all need that. Whether it's a pastor or The deacons, we all have areas that we're blind to and that we're a little undisciplined in. And so that admonition to gently again to go back And be disciplined is so needed. And Paul says, we urge you to do that. But then there's another group that just they get tired. They're weary. People that normally can do uh the job that God has called them to do or fulfill the responsibilities in their home, but for whatever reason reason They're physically and they're just emotionally wore out. And they are referred to, as Paul says here, the faint-hearted. And those folks don't really need admonition as much as they need encouragement. They don't need rebuke. They just need encouragement. Brother, sister, don't be so anxious, don't don't be so concerned concerned or um don't be fearful. Now there's some admonition in that, but there needs to be a real gentle encouraging for those that just don't just are Tired, and maybe they've been through a lot of ministry and they've been burned up by ministry. Um you know, you know, because we're all in that situation sooner or later. We're just weary. We're weary of life. We're weary of ministry expectations. We're weary of um jobs Expectations and Paul says you're gonna have a lot of those folks in ministry, so just make sure you encourage them. Don't be stern with them, help them to remember Remember, they can keep going because they have the work of the Spirit, as we saw this morning in Sunday school, the power of the Holy Spirit to help them. But encourage them. And then help the weak. Those are are those that really just don't have the ability to continue on. They've been damaged, they've been hurt. And they've been so wounded that they literally have to have others come alongside. That picture I mentioned last week of the two soldiers propping up the other soldier trying to get him off the battlefield That literally is the picture there. Help the weak. That we come alongside and we say to those individuals, Come, I'll help you. Involved. I'll help provide the enablement and the help that you need financially, physically, or whatever, maybe spiritually, mentally I'll do my part. I'll sacrifice my time to make sure that you get the help that you need because you obviously are in a situation where we can't where you can't do it alone. And that takes two aspects. That takes people, first of all, that are noticing others around them that are weak. That takes us looking around our pews and looking around each other after the service or before the service and noticing others that may be struggling. Someone in tears or you know whatever. Now if you see somebody crying after the service, don't let's not all mob them and rush them, okay, after the service. But I think you get the point. It takes people that are They're aware of the broken, the weak people around them, but it also takes the weak people being honest and saying, I need help. Sooner or later we're all gonna fall into this category. And really, in essence, we are in the fact that none of us can do the job that God has God has called us to do without the power of Christ. But sometimes we just need a little And we have to be willing to admit that. If we're always coming to church putting on the best face , And we're never willing to open up to people to let them know we're hurting and we're tired and we're at our end. We're tying a knot holding Holding on, but we're at the end. We need to be honest and candid with each other as well. Paul says, do all of these things, admonish, encourage. Get in there and help the weak, and then be patient with them all. Be long-suffering. We all have different personalities, we all have different struggles. But we need to be willing to be patient with those around us who are different from us and who are having struggles and with leadership. Be long-suffering. Be careful. Remember how patient that God was with you, and how loving that Jesus Christ was with you. And that'll go a long way to being patient. Forgiving with others. So all of that is important. I have a quote here that was helpful for me. Love itself is forbearing. Forbearance is a necessary quality in the service of God. It links knowledge and kindness. It's what we know what God has told us to do, and just a heart of kindness and love for people. People, um patience links those two together. It is a spiritual force that has its origin in the divine glory and works itself out in joyful Endurance, folks, the stronger, closer relationship we have with Jesus Christ, the more we're able to be long-suffering with others. If you are always Always have a short temper and never and always frustrated with others, you might want to check to make sure. Maybe your relationship may have grown dis Distant from your loving Savior. Maybe you need to run back to Him and be reminded of all that He has done for you and then get that motivation to be a little more patient with Folks that really frustrate us sometimes. Be patient with them all. Well, Paul's going to continue here. Many more exhortations in verse 15. And he points out that he wants to exhort, encourage believers to respond to difficulties with maturity. Our need to grow in Christmas Christ and the power that we have to do so that we sang about this morning is so important because we have so many faces, so many difficulties and challenges in our lives that we need to be Be able to handle these with maturity and spiritual strength. And one of those that we need to be able to do is We must, as believers, choose right responses over wicked ones. And especially when we have people that hurt us. That cause us pain. A mark of a mature Christian is one that will forbear and be patient and not always be ready to immediately But to assess the situation, to take stock of what's going on around them, to be careful with that person, realizing that that person And as well as one that Christ died for, maybe they need Christ in their lives, or maybe as a believer, they need further growth. So I need the maturity to be able to handle that. those people in the right way without immediately retali retaliating in anger. Again, let's be candid about our culture. Doesn't our culture and don't we Tend to like movies that cheers on the hero who in some of these movies uh undergoes intense abuse. And then at the end he gets back the enemy. He gets back at the enemy and he gets retribution and we all cheer him on or huron in the end. I mean some of the And you're like, wow, I don't see how anybody could even survive that. You know, the person lost their family and The bad guy did this to them, and the evil person did that to them. And the whole reason for watching that or watching the end of the movie is we want to see the bad guys get what's coming to them. Right? And then when they do it's satisfying. Ah, see, good wins out in the end. And it does. But good wins out in the end. Because Jesus was willing to forego the ultimate suffering and agony from great evil and show love in the midst of that Not retaliation. And so Paul says, verse 15: See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another. And everyone. We love a good movie with a good action hero and someone that wins out in the end. But can I just be candid again with you folks here? I don't think that's really what God's interested in when it comes to our ministry and the life of our service in a church. God isn't interested in us being Action heroes that can retaliate and get vengeance in the most effective way. That's not what we're called to do as God's children. Would you agree with me on that from what we see here? What does he want us to do? He wants us to rather live out the love of Christ to all. That doesn't always make for a very good plot, does it? Or an interesting plot. But it's much more satisfying in God honoring And it's much more effective in leading people to Christ. Because when they see those that they've hurt and done evil to show love to them, the love of Christ, it makes an image Impact for all eternity, folks. And so we must sacrifice the desire for immediate personal revenge. Sacrifice that for the glories of perhaps eternal eternity in heaven with one that sees the love of Christ in us and is attracted to Christ and wants to know more and perhaps. Trust Christ as a result of our forbearance and love, and so we seek to do good to one another. That's the church, first of all. Let's start here. Good breeding ground for or a good um homework assignment for us is that we look around at the people in the church and we learn how to treat each other well. And once we learn how to You've got a whole group of people here that you get to um try out being kind and being good to. It's it's an exercise that we get to function or we get to uh carry out here. And then he says, not just to one another, to everyone, to our whole community. Isn't that a isn't that a valiant good thing to be working on in our lives is that we're practicing good and kindness and love towards each other and then we're able as we strengthen to go out there. And show that to a world that hates Christianity. And we can show the love of Christ to them. I remembered whenever I think of this principle. My lead counselor was Rand Humble. Son, uh Josh. Uh but you know, every every Monday as you the campers came in, you always wondered, I wonder if I'm gonna get a real challenge this week. I wonder if I'm going to get one of those situations that's going to be really challenging that I heard some of my fellow counselors talk about last week and thank the Lord that I didn't have those kids in my cabin. I wonder if I'm going to have one of those this week. Well, there was one week where I ended up with a challenge. I'll just say that his name was Hank for discretion. Um Hank seemed like a really nice kid that was excited about being at camp. And this is when I talk about camp, I'm talking about the wilds of North Carolina. I was um privileged to be able to be a camp counselor there one Summer. The Wilds is a Christian camp that many of our church family are familiar with that we we send our kids to throughout the summer. This summer we're going to the Wilds of New England. God gave me opportunity to be a counselor one summer at this camp, and this kid named Hank seemed excited about being there, but I noticed very quickly that he could change the that he had kind of almost like a split personality. And I almost wondered at the end if maybe the possibility that he that he had been taking something in his life and that That he was going through withdrawal that week and it was affecting him as well. Because there was an anger in him that was obvious when things didn't go his way or people didn't treat him in the right way. right way he would lash out really nice kid but then when somebody does something he didn't like ooh you could really feel the effects of that and so I was trying Praying and trying to help Hank and trying for him not to be angry with me. Sometimes he was thrilled that I was his counselor. Other times you could tell that he did not want any part of me at all. Well We were finishing up middle week. We were at lunch there, and those of you that have been to the wilds, you know the lunch room and the little train. And we were finishing up lunch, and one of the kids from the other table got up to And Hank with his ad And with his struggles he was going through, he'd had enough. And for the first time that summer, we had an instance of a kid actually punching out another kid. Well, I don't know if he knocked him out, but he did punch him pretty hard. And I looked at Hank, I'm like, oh no. What am I gonna do now? I went to my lead counselor. What do we do about this? And he's like Like this is my first time lead counseling. I've never had this happen before. And so we talked with others and we we gave Hank a warning because as we talked to the other kid, it was Obvious that it didn't hurt him too much, but we had to do something. I said, Hank, uh, really, if you can't control your temper and that happens again, they're gonna ask you to leave. So I'm praying for you that that you'll get control of this. Well, the last night, Friday night, was a night where they give the gospel at the camp and where they really encourage the young people to live out the choice That they make in Christ. I said another thing I told Hank too is Hank, you need to be in a position, you need to be willing to s to go to that young man that you hit and ask for forgiveness. So I was praying for him because I didn't know. He came up to me after that Friday night and he said, he said, Brock, I'm ready. And so I went up with Hank the hitter and we went over to the cabin where the young man that he had inflicted pain on, where he had slept that where he stayed that week Knocked on the door, the counselor came up. I said, and he knew Hank. I said, Hank's here, he has something he wants to tell so-and-so. The young man came to the door, and I said , Come on, Hank, go. And he kind of stuck out his hand. He said, Well, no, he didn't stick out his hand. He said, uh, I'm sorry. So I'm sorry for what? I'm sorry for him. That was good. And then all of a sudden it was like the Lord just gave him this rush of relief. And it wasn't too Two seconds he said, I'm sorry, uh, will you forgive me? Then his face brightened and he stuck out his hand and he said to this young to this young man that he'd done this to earlier in the week, he said, Well It was sure nice getting to spend the week with you at camp. And he shook his hand. Well, that's great. Uh Hank learned a valuable lesson. That many of us need to be reminded of. Retaliation and anger is never a right testimony, and it's never the right response. But we must be patient with others. Hank went through. And that we don't retaliate in anger, but we seek to do good to one another in everything. We'll go through this again more next week. But look at verse 16. Rejoice always. Verse 17: Pray without ceasing. Here's some more exhortations. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. You know what I find interesting as Paul admonishes and exhorts the people to do these These things. These are kind of what we would call no-brainers. Like, no duh. Of course we would do these things. Nobody's gonna argue, well, I don't know, Paul. That's a little That's a little out there. No, these are common expectations that we would expect from our Christian community. Rejoice. Have the joy of Christ. Working in us in all things. Pray without ceasing. Not praying all the time without doing anything else, but having a constant spirit of prayer. Prayer for help for us, prayer for help for others, thankfulness to God. And then it goes right into verse 18. Give thanks in all circumstances, not just when you've had a really good day. But in all things give thanks. And he says, This is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. At the end of this, I just like to point out as we finish up this morning. I think sometimes the more uh the more mature, the more um seasoned we get In our walk with the Lord, folks, we can get frustrated and irritated by things that are small. Can I put it that way? By things that are important to us, preferences, certain standards, whatever, uh um that we may even have a biblical basis for. Our expectations of I think that people ought to do this, and I think the church ought to do this, and I think that people ought to conduct themselves in this way, and all these I mean we have a million preferences, right? Well i the more I've studied this and the more I've the Holy Spirit has worked on my heart, sometimes we get so um focused on the little picky things that we forget the Big things. We get angry and frustrated with little things in the lives of others if they don't live up or they don't do exactly what we think that they ought to do. And we forget, in other words, like Jesus said, there's a splinter in the eye of someone else, and many times we can be lax on these very basic things that Um scripture is very clear about. I've got to get that little tiny moat in your eye, but I've got this big old beam in my eye because I'm not Thankful, and I don't have joy in my heart, and my prayer life is really atrocious. But let me pick on that little tiny thing in your eye. This is A good reminder to all of us folks as we finish up this morning that we need to make sure that we're doing well in the basics. And Paul Paul is reminding a people that were fervent in their witness for Christ throughout their whole community and beyond. He's saying, but don't Don't forget the basics. Do you have joy in your heart over what Christ has done for you? Are you in prayer for other people? Especially those that irritate you. Are you praying for people? Are you praying? Are you offering prayer to God and thanks for all that He's done? Are you a thankful person? Are you grateful? These are the big ones that all of us need to go back to and say, Lord, help me in these things before I get nitpicky towards Others. And I think sometimes I find that the more that Jesus, that the Holy Spirit impresses these things on my heart the big things that I have less time to be as nitpicky because I realize more the work that I need Some of those concerns just kind of fade. And I think we find that all in a regard that that's true. And that's why Paul admonishes us And that's why Scripture admonishes us. We have a choice in these things. Make sure. Are we an angry person? That's constant. Constantly thinking of vengeance. Are we a ornery or grumpy person that you just don't see the love of Christ reflected, the joy of Christ There is joy to be had in the Christian life in this world, folks. Are you one that has been neglecting prayer? Are you one that has been Focusing on all the bad things and all the frustrations, and yet you haven't you've lost your thankfulness for all that Christ that God is doing, that Jesus Christ is working in your life. See, Paul says, don't forget the big things. These are the will of God. This is what God is working in you through your relationship with Christ. Make sure you're doing well in these things. These are the exercises, and many more, folks, of effective ministry. The more we focus on Christ, the more these things will be a regular part of our lives, and we will be a more vibrant testimony than ever before. Wow, that person has joy. That person is thankful. In this crummy old world, they prayed for me. I can't believe that. Something different about that. That ought to be the testimony of all of us as the children of God. Father, thank you Thank you for the reminder of these things, these exhortations, as brief as they are in the end of this book. We need them. We need them We need the reminder to curb our anger. We need the reminder to be patient with people. We need the reminder to rejoice and to be thankful. And to be in regulation. Prayer. Thank you that Paul reminds us of these most important things. Father, help each of us to examine our Lives even now and acknowledge that we are weak in some of these things and um commit to doing better. Work of Christ in our life, certainly not our own efforts. But to humble ourselves and be dependent upon Christ to work miracles And progress in these areas that we so desperately need. Lord, as well, I pray for if there's one here today that doesn't know Christ, and they don't know the power that He has to Change their lives, to give new life, and the power of your spirit, then to change and help us to be what you want us to be, and help us to care about I pray that if they don't know Christ, today would be the day that they trust Him, that they put their faith in His bloody offering For our sin, the fully sufficient bloody offering that He gave us on the cross. May today be that day that someone that still doesn't have a relationship with Christ Within the sound of my voice, that they put their faith and trust in Christ. As we consider those truths that I've just prayed about. Take some time, folks, to examine your hearts. As Leslie plays, ask the Lord, ask the Holy Spirit what things you need to do better. Do you need more joy? Do you need more thankfulness? Do you need more prayer? Or do you just need Jesus in your life? Take time to reflect and seek God's help and seek Jesus as Leslie plays this morning.