A couple things that you may not have realized, um just throwing this out this morning, is that uh as my family and Uh went up to New Hampshire, the cops came at the same time, and we both have to deal with COVID issues all at the same time. And so that was a challenge. Um also another fun fact is that Actually, Joe's wife uh was Luke's violin teacher for a year. Probably none of you knew that. And uh our oldest son Arden has worked under Joe's violent Ministry and he worked a summer or part of a summer anyway at the wilds of New England. Obviously, there's a lot of strong ties. We're thankful Joe could be with us and share God's word with us. Well it is a joy to be with friends and And uh it's kind of kind of a fun thing to be able to travel and get to see them. And uh for the camp we get to uh we get to go different places and see different things and uh and even the the aspects of getting to share what's happening up in New England. It is a wonderful thing. You know, a camp ministry is is um uh some sometimes you consider it the high points, you know, of of uh you know someone's summer. Uh some people say this is the best week of my life when they come to camp. And it is a joy to be able to experience that with people. You know, and and uh many many people get to come to camp. This is a picture uh from up above. This is what our campsite looks like. It's um Uh originally it was an old dairy farm uh built in seventeen eighty-five. Okay, some of the oldest buildings there, uh the the barn, they built that in seventeen eighty five, lived out of that, and then they built the house. And so there's a lot of history right there in that area. Even with the Underground Railroad, uh there's a uh Uh history of that being part of that um the Underground Railroad and hiding slaves inside that inside the house there. They um they they have written down some of the historical records that there were hiding spots inside that building. And as they were doing renovations, they they found one of these closets with a false door on the back, hinges that were hidden. hidden behind all the shelves. And and so this was probably where they would have put people to hide them. And um so just a lot of history, but even a lot of uh great things that have been happening in the most recent years You know, God has uh been blessing the camp. It's been there for about sixteen, seventeen years now, and um and even the the growth of the camp over the years. years is has been fun to watch. Uh this this this summer we had um our our capacity we if you've seen camp ministries, about two hundred people is about how many we have at a time. You got to see some of the videos with that many kids. And it's a lot of excitement. And so 200 kids, we had 1700 campus This past summer. And so we're just praising the Lord for all those different lives that got to hear the Word of God and they got to uh learn from different um aspects of camp ministry. And so it is a lot of fun. Well, as I want to challenge you this morning, I want to look together at Matthew chapter 4. So if you have a Bible, would you turn there if you want to just follow along? I'll try to read the verses really clearly, but if you have a Bible and you want to follow along, Matthew chapter 4 is where we'll be for the message. My boys, um they've been into fishing recently, and uh they they recently got into it, they got uh new fishing pole in a tackle box. Well each of them have their own fishing poles and tackle box and and um I I went and got some worms at the store and And they were fishing and learning how to fish as they went. And I'm not much of a fisherman, but I knew enough to get them started. And um there's a little pond right behind our house where they where they started, you know, learning how to fish and you know casting their line into the water and we didn't know if there was really anything in there. Surprisingly the stuff is not all that big tiny little pond and I think the fish were like uh they were representative of the size of the pond. So tiny little catfish. They were the cutest little things. And uh and so we're we're fishing and catching these little fish. It was kind of a fun little hobby. But you know, as I think of fishing, um There's there's different kinds of fishermen. Have you ever have you ever gone fishing fishing with someone who who does it like really seriously? Like they are serious. About fishing. There's some different kinds of fishermen. You could say that they're fair weather fishermen. They only fish when the the The weather's nice and they know that they can go out there and they can cast a line in and pull something out, or they're only gonna catch a really good fish. They're fair weather fishermen and um but there's also some that are like die hard And they are they have the boat, they go out, maybe even uh in when it's raining, sunshine, it doesn't matter. Uh it they will they will be out there fishing. I had a friend named Aaron Coffey. I don't know if you've ever met him. He travels and preaches as well. And uh and he was one that was one uh to be um fishing no matter what the weather, he loved fishing. Um, there's some guys up near me where when the lakes freeze over, they're out there and they're drilling a hole in the idea. And they're casting their light. I don't know. That's dedication to go fishing in no matter what the weather. There are some that you could call them professional fishermen. Do you know there's fishermen who do this for a living? Especially up where we are, uh you can go to the coast and uh the coastal region, there's people who go out in these fishing boats and they have f They have nets and they cast their nets and they they bring them in with a boat. And when they come in, I I remember being in uh like near one of these these ports as they were coming in It smelled terrible. I mean, these men, they I I don't know what they were using to to catch these fish, but stinky, ugly boats, and they they they caught fish, and that's how they made a living. There are there are other kinds of professional fishermen that are like on ESPN, but that's a different story, okay? There's all kinds of fishermen out there. And what we don't I want to do this morning is I want to walk, you know, just kind of visually come out onto one of these shores. And I want you to picture some fishermen that Jesus Encounters. And in Matthew chapter 4, there were fishermen that he encountered, and he started talking to some fishermen. And in Matthew 4, he's starting to notice these men and call them out by name. And he found some men that were fascinated with him. He had some that followed him, but there were some that actually went with him, and they became fishers, not of fish, but fishers of men. like Jesus. Look with me. At Matthew chapter 4, I don't want to read in the verse 23. Look at what Jesus does. He says he went about he was all over Galilee. In verse 23, it says he was teaching in their synagogues and he was preaching the gospel of the kingdom. He was healing all kinds of sickness and all manner of disease among the people and his fame. Went throughout all Syria and they brought him all kinds of sick people that were taken with diverse diseases and torments. And those which were possessed with devils, and those which were lunatics, and those that had the palsy, and he healed them. And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee and from Decapolis and from Jerusalem. Jerusalem and from Judea and from beyond the Jordan. Let's pray together as we get looking at this passage. Father in heaven, I thank you so much for the The example of Jesus, who was a fisher of men, who went out and he demonstrated how to how to fish. But not just how to fish for fish, but Lord, how to how to reach people. I pray that even as we look at the disciples and how they follow Jesus, And the crowds of people that were fascinated with him, I pray that we would learn how to respond when we encounter Jesus As well. We pray that you'd be glorified with how we respond in Jesus' name. Amen. Jesus, he stepped out onto the shore and he saw various people. Uh some of the people that Jesus saw um in his travels, uh if you back up in verse twenty-three, what does it say? He was about he was in Galilee, and he was in teaching in synagogues, he was preaching the gospel in all these different places. And and and with it, all these different places that he went in verse 24, his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought him all these sick people. You see, Jesus, he was famous, you could say, he was famous for his message. And people became fascinated with what he was doing. They were fascinated by Jesus. And just notice some of the things that they were fascinated by with his teaching. It was teaching that was from it was in the synagogues, it was religious teaching. You could think of the difference between a Sunday school lesson or even a lecture at school versus the preaching of the gospel. He was doing both. He was teaching, but he was also preaching the gospel of the kingdom. The gospel is how to be saved. It's the it's the message of salvation that says, turn from your sins and trust. It's a simple message, but it's hard to accept. It's so simple that a child could understand and receive the gospel. He could receive this But it's hard to turn from your your wife your way of life and maybe the things that you you've loved for so long. And turning to trust in Jesus. But Jesus preached, He said, repent and believe the gospel. Repent and follow me. So, this is the good news. This is the gospel message that Jesus was preaching. And people were fascinated by this. Have you ever been fascinated by someone? And been interested in their message? Well Jesus was famous because of what he taught. He was also famous because of the miracles that he did. Just notice some of them and says that He was healing the sick people. He was casting out demons and uh people that were possessed with devils. Uh verse twenty-four, the people with torments and pains in their body, um hurts and chills and muscle aches and coughs and congestions and runny nose and headaches and fatigue and dishes. It almost sounds like COVID, right? You know, the remember all the symptoms of COVID if you if you have aches and pains in your back and I don't know if any of you went through the pain of COVID, but it was it was one of those things. You just felt like you had all these problems with your body. Well, Jesus, he healed people. With torments and pains and diseases , people possessed with devils, problems that were spiritual in nature, he could heal them I can't forget the the instance of Jesus going over to the Gadderenes, this area where he walked out onto the seashore and people uh there was a dem a demoniac, a demon possessed The demon was called Legion because he says that we are Many. And all of these demons cast out into the pigs, and the pigs ran off the the sh the coast and fell into the water and were drowned. But These amazing, miraculous stories of Jesus. He healed people who couldn't walk. They were paralyzed. They were confined to a bed, and he helped them stand up and walk. Some of them immediately strength was restored to them. And Jesus became famous not just for his message and the miracles that he performed in front of people, but it became known among the multitudes. What's a multitude? Basically lots of people, okay? Lots and lots of people. Thousands of people would have come to watch Jesus perform these miracles The towns and the villages and the cities where he was, it was named places like Galilee, a place of three million people or so. Decapolis, a A region of ten cities, Decca, the Decapolis. So there's these ten cities that were east of the Jordan. A place far away called Jerusalem. Another place called Judea, another faraway region where they're referring to, or a place beyond the Jordan. East of the Jordan, this area, basically you could say that Jesus was known far and wide. He was known all over the place. His fame was spreading all over the area. And he was the real thing. I mean, it was fascinating for people to watch Jesus. And that's It's not a bad thing for people to be fascinated by Jesus. Let people be fascinated by the miracles, and I hope that you can be fascinated by the miracles too. Have you ever met someone who was famous for one reason or another? If Jesus was a famous person, think of someone who's the most famous person that you met. Like maybe in person you shook their hand. Or you went to a show or a talk or a a concert and you heard them speak. Have you ever met someone like that? I I know that um I've been to different things and Um one notable thing was uh the president elect, I think it was uh President Bush, he came to our college when I was when I was in college and I remember I remember seeing him there or it was as a high school But I I saw him come and I I I was like really close to him. He was in this crowd of people and he was talking to people and I was there Um I I remember going to uh a monster truck rally one time and uh the driver of the monster trucks they came out and they were signing autographs and I went over and I was talking to the to the the the driver of the the grave digger truck. You know, he's off he's on TV. I met him You know, little stars like that. Musicians, people who are very accomplished at their ability, and and uh professional musicians getting to meet them. Sports stars. It's really neat when you can get an autograph on like a you go to a baseball game and you get the players to autograph the ball. You it's it's really special when you can meet someone like that. I I remember uh going to a little theme park and And they had these go-karts, and um there's this family, and um and we're sitting in this go-kart, and one of my friends leans over and they're like, Oh, that's the so-and-so family. They're they're like huge influencers on Instagram. They've got like millions of followers. They're famous. I remember thinking, okay, wow, that's that's neat. And um, you know, my kids go beg to go to like dude perfect shows or meet Mark Rober, or these kinds of these kinds of Kind of stars in their mind. They see popular people, they see famous people, and they're wowed by whatever ability or whatever following or skill they have. And here's Jesus, who is popular, he's famous, people are starting to hear about him, and they are fascinated by him. They're fascinated by his message, the things he's teaching, the miracles that he's doing. Just by being famous among multitudes, they're starting to notice who He is, and they want to get to know him. And that's a good thing for people to get to know Jesus. He's a good one to be fascinated by. And my question for us today is: here we are , 21st century looking back at Jesus in the past. Can we still be fascinated by Jesus today? Yes We can. By reading the miracles and reading the what what he did in his life and even the whole of Scripture. And how it all points to him from the Old Testament prophecies to the miracles in the New Testament to how the future is proclaimed and prophecies are given of how he will return. We can still be fascinated by Jesus. So be fascinated, be amazed, and look to Jesus and be amazed. By what he has done and what he will do. So it talks about that all throughout his miracles and what he does and where he goes, he travels, and he starts To gain what you could call a following. And some of the people that encountered Jesus would follow him. Look at some of these crowds of people that followed him. From people in Galilee. It says, and there followed him great multitudes of people from Decapolis and from Jerusalem and from Judea and from beyond Jordan. These people were coming from all over the place to come and see Jesus There were some that were just following him because they wanted to see him do more miracles, and they heard that he served thousands of people. In one sitting, you know, he fed the multitudes with a boy's lunch There were amazing things, and there were reasons for people to want to follow and see him. And so they would come from long ways away so that they could watch him perform those miracles. I think some people actually wanted to learn more about Jesus, and so they wanted to get to know him. They were sitting in the crowds and they they paid attention to every word that Jesus said. They would maybe m memorize and and write down the things that he said so they could learn about it. So they were paying attention. And and then there were others that actually wanted to follow him with their lives. When Jesus said, follow me, he expected people to follow him and to live their lives for him. If you get very specific, here's the disciples in this passage. Just earlier you see Jesus Calling some of those disciples. And he starts to notice specific people. He notices James and John and Peter and Andrew And he calls them out specifically, and he says, You follow me. So disciples of Jesus are ones who would follow Jesus. But it wasn't just those ones that are named. Named as the twelve disciples, and later the twelve apostles. It's not just those twelve. You know, there were others that followed him And I think this leads us to see all these different groups of people that were coming from all over to follow Jesus. And we're not just talking about, okay, this is not just a social media follower type thing. Um, you know A lot of kids look at their social media friend count. I used to look at that and care. Now it doesn't really matter. Because you know how you those people are. It's like you got people from high school. That want to friend you, and you're like, I haven't talked to you in 20 years. You know, it's like, I I don't know you. I I I did know you, but I don't know you now And there's so many people that are maybe following you with a social media like or a comment or something else. It might be a name or a contact in your phone, but what does it mean for people to follow Jesus? Um, you know, kids follow their parents. They follow and they learn from their parents. They follow a teacher. But I hope we can say that we follow Christ How long will we follow, though? Will it be forever, like for the rest of our lives? If I were to ask you right now, are you following Jesus? Would you be able to say, yes, I am? In what I'm doing, I'm looking to Jesus and I'm striving to do Do what he calls me to do, live my life after him, model my life after him. You see, the disciples realized that following Jesus meant more than just going wherever he went. It means doing whatever he did. It's obeying him. It's listening to his teaching. And putting it to heart. It's trusting in him. So each of these different groups of people would have followed Jesus and they um started to look like Jesus too. So many of those people were fascinated by his teachings and they wanted to follow him. But here's where it takes another step of commitment. I mentioned those disciples, and then we start to see these disciples being called to do something even different than just follow. They're called to be fishers of men like Jesus. In verse 18, it says that Jesus, he was walking by the sea of Galilee, and he saw two brethren: Simon called Peter, and Andrew. And he said unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And they straightway left their nets and followed Him. And going on from thence he saw two other brethren, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their net. And he called them. And they immediately left the ship and their father and followed him. Now, fishing was a big deal in this region. Um It was around the Sea of Galilee that they were. It was it was a basically a big lake, uh thirteen miles long by eight miles wide, so a very large lake. And during the first century there could be As many as two hundred and forty boats, they would say, on this lake at any given mo moment. And the lake was filled with tilapia. That was the fish. And sometimes they even called it St. Peter's Fish, because Peter was a fisherman on this lake. And so they would have lots of fishermen, lots of activity. Lots of fish being brought into the markets and being sold and and so it it wasn't just fishermen in boats. There were fishermen um that would go out in the boats, yes, and they would loop around. with the nets, but there were others casting their nets in from the shore. And they could take these nets and uh throw them into the water and pull the um fish in from the shore. So Jesus, here he is walking along the seashore, and he's starting to see some of these people, and he sees These fishermen, and he calls them out and he knows them. Apparently Jesus was looking for some disciples, and so he calls out Simon and Peter. Peter, fishing was their life. This was their calling, this was their job, their full-time job. And he just says, leave your nets. Come follow me. The same to James and John. They were with their dad. They were working and mending their nets. And um basically these People they weren't waiting for something to just show up. They were busy about their lives. They were just doing what they were called to do at that moment. And Jesus calls them. And he totally transforms their lives. Does this ever happen to you? Where you don't it's hard to describe, but You just feel the Lord pushing you or pulling you in a certain direction. So often we hear from maybe pastors, preachers, missionaries, evangelists. And things like that to say, the Lord called me to do this. But I hope it's more than just full-time ministry people who are called to serve the Lord. God might call you to have a conversation with someone. He might call you to pray for someone. He might be working in your heart to reach out to someone. To send a message or to write a note and to be a fisher of men, like Jesus is talking about. And he calls them to become fishers of men. Now I always have to joke with kids. I say, now did Jesus take a a fishing pole and put a stickers bar on the end, throw it in the water, and hope to catch a kid? No! He's not fishing for people like that He's talking about sharing the gospel message. It's the preaching that he was doing. It was Publishing the message, proclaiming this message so public so that people can hear and they can respond to the truth. And we see Jesus preaching with Such authority. The message was true, it was life-changing, and it would even silence other religious leaders At times. Even from a child, Jesus was teaching this message. So, in other words, it's never too late to start, but you're never too young to start. Jesus, he shared this message. He was preaching this message and he made the truths clear. Jesus spoke with authority. And can you imagine Jesus saying, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand? What does that mean? Well, if the kingdom of heaven is at hand, then we better hurry. We better not delay and wait We can't just sit on our hands and wait for something miraculous to happen. No, the time is now to respond. And Jesus called them to respond. He called them with authority, spoke. And he pushed people to repent, turn from their wicked ways, and turn and trust in Jesus. Fishing for men, this is uh for these guys it was a full time job. They couldn't do two things at once. They had to turn from their their former job, and they had to turn had to follow Jesus full time. Sometimes pastors, preachers, missionaries, they they they understand this better than anyone else. That, you know, we might get up in a pulpit on a Sunday or preach a message to a group of people, but there's a lot of work that can be done outside of the pulpit. There's a lot of work that can be done in your neighborhood. There's a lot of work that can be done to reach people with the gospel message all the time. And so there are certain people that have to do this. Like nonstop all day long every day. And it is a full-time job. But Jesus, He He called certain people to do that, but I believe that all of us should be sharing the gospel message. We might not all have a net that we can throw out on a weekly basis and catch hundreds of people with this message, but each of us can have a fish. Fishing pole and in your own relationships, maybe it's with a co-worker, maybe it's with a grandson, or a mother or someone else in your neighborhood that you've reached out to, you can share the message with them. You know how like sometimes a fish You throw the line out and you pull it in and there's nothing. And you throw it out again and you reel it in and there's nothing. Sometimes it feels like that, doesn't it? Fishing for men, sometimes you throw it out there and you don't get a bite, and you don't get a bite. But you know God calls us to keep fishing. And to be faithful with it. And he teaches them how to be faithful, to share the message with people who will respond and some who don't respond. The point is, just share it. So fishing for men, it it it demands even personally following Christ fully. When he calls these men, he says, Follow me, and I will make you into fishers of men. Follow me. They were to set their lives apart as examples to other people. People, but really they were going to be made into something different by Jesus. They were going to be made into followers and and and fishers of the Men. Your fishing um is you know it's it 's enjoyable. It is something that it does take some work. I had um some some kids in my youth group when I was in Utah, and um they they got connected with someone in Alaska, a fishing a fisherman up in Alaska that was a professional fisherman. Basically he uh was a salmon fisherman and so he would catch these these fish And uh sell 'em. And so he would hire a crew of young boys, young men, and he would hire them to work and to uh to to bring in all the nets for him. And so I had a couple guys from my youth group at different times that would go up there. And and particularly this one family, I remember them going up there and um the the one boy named Caleb, he he went and uh he's a scrawny little boy, just you know he It it n not not super strong that he he went up there and and I remember him coming back after that summer of hard work And he looked different. Like he was tan and he had, he seemed like he bulked up a lot. He looks stronger. And and I looked at him after doing all this. He's like, Yeah, it was hard work. And he told me about it, how they had these nets and they would go out on the shores and they had They had a four-wheeler, but they would also be pulling these nets in, and they would yank these nets and pull them all the way up and pull up all these fish onto the shore. And fishing can be hard work. But it and it could be exhausting. But it's so rewarding. When you pull in a whole catch of fish and you see all of the fruit from your labor, per se. Here's what happens when we fish for men though. When you fish for men, and you find someone who's willing to respond. Jesus. And you share the message with them and their heart re understands it and they they respond to the gospel. Don't you love it whenever that person gets so excited about that message? That they want to go and tell other people. And the people that they tell actually want to tell other people. That's when it gets really exciting. And that's the discipleship picture that Jesus gives us all throughout the New Testament. We see disciples going out, and they're not just listening to Jesus, but now they're going out and they're teaching others also. This whole weekend I've been studying this concept of discipleship. And how disciples go and they share the gospel with others who will be able to teach others also. We are called to do this, to be fishers. of men. You can give a man one fish and you can feed him for a day. You probably heard this. But if you teach a man how to fish, you can feed him for a And here we have this opportunity to not just get a fish, but to learn how to be fishermen, to learn how to reach out to those even in our sphere of influence. And to reach out and to share the gospel message with them and to see what God will do. Throw out that line, cast that net And let God's word work. It's the joy of sharing the gospel with other people. So let me ask this. Talked about some who are fascinated. Some who follow Jesus. But some who are fishers of men like Jesus. So where are you today? Are you even fascinated, first of all? Have you come to that point in your life where you have turned from your sin because you've realized that Jesus is the only way to heaven. You turn and you trust in him. You become fascinated and amazed by Jesus' work And have you become a follower of Jesus? Where you've given your life, you've turned from your sin, and you said, I want to give my life to Him, I want to live for Him. And then Are you fishing for men like Jesus? Are there people that you're praying for that they will respond to Jesus Are there people that you're sharing the message with? You're preaching to them with your life. You're preaching to them with your messages and words to share the message. Of Jesus with them. With God's help, we can be fishers of men like Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for How we get to look at this picture of discipleship and how Jesus called those disciples on that That Sea of Galilee, Lake Shore. I pray that you would also call some of us to reach out to those who are in our circles of influence. Influence, to reach out to them and share the gospel message. It is the power of God unto salvation, and I pray that you would use it to save souls. You would grow the the church for your glory, and you'd even use us to do that. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.