Oh my that's great. Ephesians five And we're back in this chapter. There is a whole passage here that we're going to have to take two weeks to go through. Ephesians 5, verses 1 through 14. If you can remember that far back a couple weeks ago, I presented in my Christmas message how the light was prophesied that would come. And that was a great tie-in to this part of the passage because Paul tells us, instructs us as we get to Ephesians chapter 5, that we must follow that light. For those that have put their faith, independence , belief , trust in Jesus Christ alone, not in their own works. Not in others, including Christ, but Christ alone. For those who have relationship, faith relationship with Jesus Christ We are truly changed. The Holy Spirit does that amazing work within us. And we reflect more and more the citizens of a different kingdom. Not the kingdom of this world. Oh no. When we trust in Jesus, His work is applied to our lives and we are truly changed. We're born again. As it says, as Jesus says in John , we are made new creatures, and we continue to reflect then not the old ways, but the new. And Paul at the end of Ephesians 4 made it clear how that works, how we reflect the old. The example of Jesus Christ, rather than the selfishness and the example of that old devil, the temporary ruler of this world. You see, we we are involved once we trust Christ, we are changed, we are involved in the process of progressive sanctification. Which means that we become more and more spiritually mature. We don't stay spiritual infants. Praise the Lord. But we are changed to reflect more and more of our Savior. And that process is described in Ephesians 4, verse 22, to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life, and is corrupt through deceitful desires. See the old ways, the old selfish ways, the ways of of me ism, of worshiping myself or worshiping anything other than God, those garments are inappropriate for the Christian Oh no, we've been dressed in the garments of righteousness. So we shouldn't be continually involved in the old stinking putrid sins. That we were before we were saved. Oh, we put those off. And verse 23, we're renewed in the spirit of our minds. And we're renewed in that spirit. How is that possible? Through reading God's word and studying it. We've encouraged you this Christmas season to reflect on all that the coming of Jesus provides for us and means to us as God's children. I hope you've done that. I hope you've taken time to delve into Scripture and understand better what all of this means for us And that you continue to be a student of God's Word. And if you will put yourself to that challenge and you will do that. Jesus or the Holy Spirit will shape your mind and your thinking and change you to reflect more of Jesus and less of the old world. Wouldn't you agree with me that this world doesn't need any more bad examples of how not to live? No, they need examples That point them to Jesus Christ. How can that person be so sacrificial and loving in the midst of all that I've done to them How can that person be so patient in the midst of those frustrations that are obviously in their lives? How can so-and-so in this corporation be so patient with those individuals that are just irritating and frustrating. How are they long-suffering? Why does that person always have a kind word rather than just putting it straight what they think about things? These are the reflections of the new person in Christ. And that is what we ought to reflect to our society today. That's what they ought to see. They ought to see a difference. And we put on them as we learn more about what the expectations of God is in our lives. Verse 24, we put on the new self created after the likeness of God and true righteousness and holiness Not through our own efforts. We were never able to clean up this old mess by ourselves. That's the work of Jesus Christ. And once we accept that and trust in his work, he does the work. He gives us his righteousness. He took on our sins. We're cleansed. We're made righteous. He's forgiven us of our sins. And he then enables us to live differently than we did before. To put on the clothes of those that are a part of the future kingdom, the victorious kingdom, when Jesus will one day come, we ought to reflect citizens of that kingdom Not the citizens of the kingdom of this world. It's inappropriate. For us to continue wearing the sinful rags of the old life, of the old world. And so as we get into chapter Five, Paul is going to continue. He's already giving us a list of things that we've looked at that we put off and things that we put on The beginning of chapter 5, he first of all gives us a list of things that we put on, the new self. These are our new clothes, and then he'll give us a list of things that we should put off that are not appropriate. And he will end with pointing out that we are now in the light. We walk in the light of Jesus Christ. We just saw in John that Jesus is the light of the world. And we are children of the light. We reflect his light in a positive way. And so we should have no more part in the works of darkness, but we should expose them. And show them the way of Christ. So we're going to read the whole passage this morning, and we're only going to cover half of it. Chapter 5, starting at verse 1. Ephesians chapter 5, starting at verse 1. Therefore, be imitators of God, as beloved children, and walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints Let there be no filthiness, no foolish talk, no crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous, that is, an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not become partakers with them. For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true And try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, Awake, O sleeper, and rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. You see, folks, we should no longer, as God's people, reflect the darkness of the world. That's inappropriate. But we reflect the glorious, righteous, pure, holy light of Jesus Christ. And we bring conviction by the work of the Spirit into the lives of those that were in darkness. And we call them to not live in that darkness any longer, but to forsake their sin. And to put their faith in Jesus Christ. You can't be a proper testimony this morning if most of your life or a lot of your life reflects the darkness of the world. Nobody's going to be interested in following you, in following that example. No, what Paul is saying here is we need to be the right example of Jesus Christ that we may reflect his light and guide people. To relationship with God. So let's go back then to the first verse in chapter 5 and look at this again We are supposed to follow the loving example of Jesus. We follow our Father because we are affirmed in his love. And Paul in verse 1 calls us to imitate God. As beloved children. You may have had the experience, you that have been fathers, or you that are recently are recently fathers of young people is that there are times where you realize that your children are following in your example. And they're mimicking how you act, for good or for bad. You might catch them mimicking your frustration with something. Or it might be mimicking your kind gesture to someone else. Whatever it is, children many times mimic their parents. And that is really what Paul's pointing out here. Those that are truly the children of God, that have experienced the love of God through the sacrifice of his son. And understand, my heavenly Father loves me enough to send the Son of God, his Son, to die for my sins. And to conquer the grave, that's love. And he was willing to do that for me. Oh, I want to mimic and imitate that love and show it to others. I want to be an imitator of God. Now, let's be clear. Imitation here means in the sense of discipleship, of obedience to God's word and the will of God. And this would certainly include characteristics like forgiveness and love that we've covered in the recent verses at the end of chapter 4. It does not mean that we can in every way and essence copy our Heavenly Father. We can never copy God in his ultimate power. We'll never be all wise. We'll never be all powerful in the way that he is. There are things about our God that are transcendent, which means he's beyond us. He's different from us. Paul is saying not that we can somehow imitate those qualities that we'll never be able to reach because he is God and we are not, right? I think we understand that. But he's saying here, imitate those values of righteousness that were just mentioned. Don't steal any longer. Tell the truth. Don't let corrupting talk come out of your mouths. Live a proper example of Jesus Christ. And the Holy Spirit enables us to be imitators of God. The fruit of the Spirit. Many of us know that verse? If the fruits of the Spirit are growing in your life, folks, you are imitating God. Because the Holy Spirit is giving you those fruits. Joy, peace, love, patience, and so many more. If you see those fruits in your life, you are imitating your Heavenly Father. And that's a good thing. We should want to do that. Too many times as believers, I'm afraid, we still find ourselves imitating that ruler of the world, the devil, Satan himself. And that ought to cause us grief, folks. You will not find in the example of Satan, the prince of the power of this world, the great Deceiver, you will not find example of love. The world that submits to Satan's rule will never experience the love that we that are the children of God experience. Satan, even those that follow him, his purpose is to destroy them. He hates them. And Satan hates you as the children of God this morning as well. He is not your friend. He is not one to be imitated And so we ought to grieve when we look into our lives and say, you know, today I think I imitated more the prince of this world Then I imitated in my life the King of Heaven who will return and usher in his glorious eternal kingdom Oh Lord, help me to be a better imitator of your ways, because you have loved me. We pattern our lives after his love and holiness. Our motivation is the love that he has shown us. John 15, 12-14 describes this love. This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. And you are my friends if you do what I command you. And Jesus says, I will show you the greatest love by laying down my life and give offering it up and providing you new life. And so you can show love because I have shown you love. We can do that. And that's when he says he gets into verse 2 then, and walk in love, as we just described. God loved us. We're his children for those in Christ. We can follow his ways. But we also follow the Father through the example of his son. We walk in that sacrificial love because Christ loved us and gave himself up for us A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Total self-giving, first that of Christ. And we must replicate that in our lives, that we are willing to sacrifice and give of ourselves even at a cost to our own convenience. We must do that because we're following the example of Christ who gave all The ultimate, never-again duplicated sacrifice of Jesus Christ. He voluntarily presented himself to be offered up as a sacrifice. And he was the spotless Lamb of God, and therefore he was the epitome, the ultimate fulfillment of all the sacrifices, where it says in the Old Testament. that the sacrifices brought a pleasing aroma to the Lord because it was atonement for the people's sins. Leviticus 1. 9 says, the priest shall burn all of it on the altar as a burnt offering, a food offering. with a pleasing aroma to the Lord. And even though God had to send his son and sacrifice his only son for our sins in one sense, in a real sense, it was a pleasing, a pleasure. a pleasing to him, a pleasing aroma, because he would be able to provide salvation To the world for those that will put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And so Paul says that sacrifice that God, that Christ Gave was fully sufficient. It fully pleased God. It was fragrant in his nostrils. And so when we put our faith and trust in Jesus alone, Folks, his work, his death on the cross, his shed blood, is fully sufficient. We don't add any of our own works. We don't add allegiance to anyone else. No, the death And the resurrection of Jesus Christ is all that we need to put our faith in. It is sufficient. It is fully pleasing to God. And because Christ has offered himself up as sacrifice, and we look at his love, then we say, by God's grace, I can walk in that love too, and be a sacrifice for others. Those are the clothes. Of the redeemed, of those that know that their kingdom, their citizens, their citizenship, excuse me, is not of this world, but it's of a future kingdom that's coming. And so we walk in the love of God, in the love of Christ, and in obedience. Those are our clothes. We follow the loving example of Jesus But then secondly, things that we put off, we reject the dark deeds of the disobedient, and we reject the impurity of sin. We don't want those dirty, sin-stained garments. We shouldn't want to wear them any longer. And so now Paul gives us another list. of things that are dirty, that are inappropriate for the children of God to wear. And a very practical list here. Of impurities of the world that should not be named among the people of God. Verse 3, but sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among the saints It's an all-encompassing statement. But Paul says, here is a list of things that God's people should never be comfortable with in their lives. That are characteristics of the world, but are no longer characteristics of God's people. And so it's inappropriate for these things to even be named among you. It's not proper. It's not done. But we need to reflect the love of Christ. Sexual immorality That, in just in a general sense, probably no surprise, and includes any sexual activity outside of marriage. Sex is a gift intended for the marriage relationship, and Paul says anything else outside of that. is not appropriate. It's sin. It's wrong. It's a dirty garment. There shouldn't be worn among God's people. And you might hear this and say, well, I'm glad that he included that, but I don't know that I'm really struggling with that today. Oh, the audience The audience in Paul's time certainly did. This was a great problem for the Gentile Christians that were coming into the church because sexual immorality was rampant. This was how they worshiped the gods of the world many times. There are idols that we still, archaeologists have uncovered, that are lewd. um inappropriate in um in their portrayal Of sexual immorality. And yet this was a part of the regular worship of pagan temples. It happened all the time, folks. It's interesting. We think we have, we look at our society today, and we think our society has a corner on immorality, that we're worse off than we've ever been. Well, I've got to tell you, it was just as bad in Paul's time as well. They were involved in this, and they said, this is good because this shows homage and honor to our gods. And so the Gentiles coming out of that and coming into the church would have almost been shocked to hear. What? I mean, I have to be pure except for in my marriage relationship? That would have been a new concept to them. And yet Paul says, It needs, you need to be pure. In fact, it's interesting. As you study the Jewish reaction to the Gentiles, as you probably remember, the Jews and the Gentiles didn't get along so well, right? They had that animosity between each other, but one of the reasons the Jews were so appalled by the Gentiles was because of their involvement In this immorality. And even in the Jewish literature at the time, they say, don't ever be caught alone with the Gentile, because they're always involved in immorality. Interesting. Even though Paul is very clear that this should not be a part of the lifestyle of a Christian either. of He goes a little more broad here and says, all impurity. And this has the idea in the Greek of uncleanness. Filth in our thought lives and in our actions And so again, he's referring to a group of people that are constantly looking toward these pagan temples and saying, huh, I wonder if that's okay for me to do. And thinking along the lines of their old lives, and they used to be involved in immorality, and Paul says, don't think on that anymore. Well, folks, we have our own problems with impurity today, do we not? You can literally take your phone and pull up things that none of us should be looking at very, very quickly and be thinking things that we should not be thinking. It's easier than ever. And Paul says, oh, that's impurity. That shouldn't be named among God's people You should not be involved in anything that would lead you to consider being immoral outside of the bounds of marriage. So he he includes immorality and impurity in this list, but then he throws kind of a a curveball here. And covetousness, that kind of seems like out of place with the rest of this, but just as important, covetousness must not even be named among you. What is that? Well, covetousness is basically greediness. Not satisfied with what we have, but always wanting more, wanting what everyone else has. The sinful desire to acquire more and more, and we're never content. We're never satisfied. We can't look at all that God has given us and just be content with what we have. But we're covetous, we want more and more and more. Did you struggle with that this Christmas season? As you look at all that God has given you for Christmas season, did you still have a tendency to look around and hear what somebody else got for Christmas? See, this isn't just with kids, right? Kids do that. They look at what their brother or sister got or the friend got and oh I really want that. All I got was socks and a pair of jeans Well, adults can do that too. We can be dissatisfied as we look at what God has blessed others with, and that is wrong. And we need to address that in our hearts as wrong. Lord, if I'm not content with what you have given me right now, then I am sinning And I am not wearing the proper garments of one that will be a citizen of your kingdom forever. Forgive me. Forgive my covetousness. I was an undergrad in college many, many years ago. And I went to a Christian college. Now this may sound strange to you, but back then it was Pensacola Christian College. college and one of the things that a lot of these Christian colleges did um for the evening meals was they would have what I guess you kind of think of it as family style but you would sit around a bunch of round tables, at least at this college, you were assigned a seat. Every month you were to sit at that seat And they would bring you your food and you would get to know people around the table, and it was kind of nice, but you know, it would it was it did impact our schedules and it was a little frustrating. Um but every month we got to meet some new people. And we would sit there and our food would be brought to us and we would say thank you. But everybody was always excited about when the dessert came. I remember hearing some friends of mine telling me a story one time in the midst of this scenario that there was a table. In fact, I remember it was one of the people that was at my table that had just been at a different table. And she told a story about how there was one young man in particular that was covetous about the dessert. And whether it was cupcakes or cookies or whatever, um many times it would be given to him first. for whatever reason, or he would get at it quickly and he would take his finger and put it and stick it into the dessert, the biggest one. So that he could have that and nobody else wanted to touch it after that. This one's mine. So after a while the folks got tired of this and his covetousness. and his desire to immediately, as soon as they got that, get the biggest one. And so one day it didn't go to him, it went to the other side of the table, and they passed it around. And each of them took their fingers to one particular cupcake, and they took their finger and said, This one's his, this one's his, this one's his, until everybody had touched his cupcake and then it was presented to him. Well, the visual of that was you're being a little selfish and covetous covetous, and it's not appropriate among God's people. I think you got the point. But are we comfortable with these sins being named among us? As long as we don't get involved with it too much, we're going to be okay. No, Paul says very clearly You should not be wearing these dirty rags of immorality and impurity and covetousness. Oh, don't let it be named among you. It's not proper. You won't be a proper representation of Jesus Christ if these things are named among you. Reject the impurity of sin. Well, he continues, and he gets even more personal. We'll go to verse 4. We'll end here this morning. Here's another list of things that you should not be as God's people dressed in clothes that are inappropriate Let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. Paul's so helpful and applicable. He says, this is what you should not be wearing as God's children, and this is what you should be dressed in. And here we have presented to us filthiness. And that filthiness, let there be no filthiness, really is referring to indecent, obscene behavior. And furthermore, foolish talk really has the idea of filthy talk or shameful talk. Not kidding on this, but in the Greek, that word foolish actually is Moralogy , moralia, and it's where we get our word moron from. And so Paul is almost literally saying, don't talk like a moron. But talk like one that has the wisdom of Christ. It's not convenient. What does this include? Well he also says foolish talk nor crude joking, and he says all of these are out of place. Crude joking has the idea of dirty jokes, vulgar speech. Coarse joking, indecent talk. Now I grew up as the oldest of four boys. I'm not saying this problem is limited to young men. But it is a characteristic many times of young men, even saved young men, in dormitories and in schools, and when they get together. joking around about things that are inappropriate or having double meaning. Boy, that's a big one in our culture today. A double meaning where we say one thing and our friends know, yeah, and they're laughing because they know we mean something indecent by it, but then if somebody says, What are you guys talking about? Well, uh I just said this. What's wrong with that? And there's an innuendo that is obviously wrong. It's inappropriate. Saying things That bring to mind sexual immorality or things that shouldn't be a part of our thinking Filthiness, things that are obscene, foolish talk, just offensive foolishness Now I have four boys as well. And there are struggles there as there are with many young men. Now again, it's not limited to young men. Sometimes women can be just as crass. But we do have to be careful. I always remind in my wife, we always try to try to remind our boys and remind ourselves. you really need to put a filter on what you say. It really is not appropriate when something comes to mind just for it to come out. And that can happen. I've been in youth ministry long enough. Oh, I'll just say whatever comes to mind. No, you really ought to put a filter on some of what you're saying. We adults, we kind of tidy it up a little bit more. Well, I just speak my mind. I just say whatever comes to my mind. Well, you know, really, you ought to use the Holy Spirit as a test on that. The Holy Spirit ought to be the filter because just because it's in your mind doesn't mean it should come out in your mouth. We still struggle with brokenness. We still struggle with evil thoughts. And it may be funny I mean, you may have something that you know are going to make your friends laugh, and they're going to remember it for a long time, but is it appropriate? Are they going to walk away from that conversation saying, I have just been with a follower of Jesus Christ? Or are they going to say, boy, whenever I want to hear something that's funny and a little dirty, I know who to go to. I don't want my I want my children to be the former and not the latter And folks, really, when it comes down to it, when people really need help. They know that the jester, the one who's good for some laughs, the one who can take dirty things and make them funny, they know that that person really isn't going to be much help to them when they're in seriously serious trouble or when they need spiritual help. That person will just be the court jester. Oh they're funny, you know, when I want to laugh, but when things are serious and I really need help, there's no way I'm going to that I'm going to the one who speaks truth, who speaks wisdom, who speaks the beautiful words of Jesus Christ. In the end, don't you want to be the discipler and the helper and the counselor to help people to grow in their relationship with Jesus rather than the one that's just joking? It's good for a couple laughs, but you're never taken seriously. I know which one I want to be. President George W. Bush, I heard, I read a book, I think I heard an interview as well, our 43rd President. He gave a very candid illustration of this in his own life. Life. If you'll remember during his campaign season, that was a number of years ago, right? Um, he admitted to the general public that he had had in his past a problem with With drinking, that he had been a drunkard. And yet he said that his relationship with Jesus Christ had steered him away from that. And it really was, he wasn't a perfect man. But that testimony of Christ steering him in a different direction was beautiful. And I read this testimony that it all came to a head one time when in his twenties, of course his father was one of our presidents. Number 41. Yeah. And his father, so he would be invited to dinners with important people and things. Um and his father as a president of the United States expected a little decorum from his son. But there was one time where his son came into one of these dinner situations. He'd been invited to. There were people around that were very distinguished. And George W. Bush said he was drunk. And he walked into that situation, sat down at the table, and as they continued to eat, his parents started to get more and more embarrassed, as he had lost control of his speech. And he said some things in particular to a particular lady at that dinner table that were inappropriate and embarrassed his parents. Later on, his dad confronted him about it, and he realized I've got to get control of this problem. My drinking is causing me to say things that are appropriate, and I am making myself look like a fool. People won't trust me. How can I have any political future if I'm nothing more than a jokester? And I'm shaming my dad? I have to get control of this. And by God's grace he did. And he was able to curve that inappropriate speech to the point where people trusted him enough to elect him as our 43rd president. Folks, the Holy Spirit can help us get control over those desires to want to say things and talk about things that we shouldn't. But it's hard and sometimes they're so funny. What do I do? Well, Paul says in the end here, remember, how do you replace those things? Well, instead, just talk more about how thankful you are about the things that God has done. It's really simple. Oh, I've got I've got a really funny one, guys. Oh, you're gonna love this. And the induendo, and it's like, oh wait, the Holy Spirit, um you know I'm thankful for you guys. I'm thankful for Christmas and all of these things. Well, what's the joke? You know, I I don't need to say that right now. I think I'm just going to turn my thoughts to how much God has blessed me and how thankful I am. That'll pour cold water on any desire to be rude and crude or to say things that we shouldn't. To think instead of all the things that God has blessed us with. And of course, then I want to be a proper testimony of Jesus Christ to this world. And saying these crude things and laughing with my friends. Is not appropriate to a child of God and it does not represent Jesus Christ well. It does not represent a mature believer. We cannot be involved in this vulgar talking and these things and try to convince people that we're growing in our faith. They don't match up. No, take off those filthy garments of our vulgar, inappropriate speech and put on speech of gratitude and thankfulness to God for all that He has done for us. You really can do that, whether you're a young person or whether you're a little older, whether you're a pastor or a deacon. Or whatever God has called you to do. You don't have to give in to the temptation to be the funniest person in the room and be crude. You can be the most thankful person and the one that is the best representation of Jesus Christ in the room. That's the better way to choose. When we do that, folks, we'll see this in two weeks because next week I'll be away and have Dr. Mike Erickson with us. In two weeks we'll say we'll see that when we put off these old sins and put on the things of Christ, that we will be a light, an example of Jesus that will shine in the darkness. And point people to Jesus. And that should be our number one motivation for making changes in all these areas. That I need to be a better flashlight for Jesus Christ. So help me to put off these things that Paul says to put off. Help me to put on the things that are befitting a child of God who will live in eternity. With our Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ forever. And folks, if you today don't have a relationship with Jesus and you don't know where your eternity lies , You don't know whether your eternity will be with God forever or where whether you're facing eternal punishment in hell. Remember, today you can come talk to me. You can put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Christ and his death and his blood shed and cleansing, and you can have new life through his resurrection. You can become a child of God. And you can reflect better things than the dirtiness and just the wickedness of this old world. Come talk to me if you would like to know how to have a relationship with Jesus Christ this morning. Let's pray. Father. Thank you for this reminder of how to better reflect Jesus Christ. It's so easy in our world today to give in to filthy humor. To immoral thinking, to desiring the things of others, and a lack of contentment for what you have given us. Help us to be convicted again today, though, that these are not appropriate for the children of God. That we will wear the robes of love and satisfaction and contentment. and purity and thankfulness to be a right example of Christ. Lord, convict us in our hearts today. Help us to repent and submit to the Spirit's work that we would be different than the world. Father, if there's one here today that still needs relationship with Jesus, Jesus, I pray that they would put their faith and trust in their in the Savior this morning and experience the miraculous change that you will do in their lives. Folks, focus and think on these things. As Leslie plays the piano this morning.