Father, and about the Son, Jesus Christ, and all that He has accomplished for us, our salvation, our redemption. Through his blood, his blood sacrifice on the cross. All of this for those that put their faith in trust, we say faith is the victory this morning. morning. For those that have real relationship with Jesus, we just put our faith, we put our dependence. Our faith isn't a work. But it's a response to what Jesus has done. We just accept his gift, right? That's nothing that we do, but we accept his free gift of salvation. And we become God's children. We acknowledge our sin. We acknowledge that as sinful people, that all of us are deserving of eternal condemnation in a place called hell. And yet God loved us so much that he sent his own son to take that penalty so that we could have eternal life. And we could be proper testimonies of glory and honor for all that God has done for us when we follow the light. The light of Christ. And that is the title again of this message. I gave the first part of this passage a number of weeks ago. I think it was before. Christmas. Well, I actually was right after Christmas. So we're gonna do a little bit of review, read the first part of the passage, but then into the second part of this. And so we're discussing here our need to follow the light and follow the loving example of Jesus. And so we started here in chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. And walk in love, as God loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints. Let there be no filthiness or nor foolish talking nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving This we covered a few weeks ago. And this again is part of the working out of what we saw in chapter 4, of the methodology, or the process is probably a better word. Of our new life in Christ, and that is that we put off all the yucky, nasty, dirty old garments of the former life. They're not appropriate to wear anymore. The sinful stained garments of this world are not appropriate for the children of the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom that Jesus is king over now and will come one day and establish rule back on this earth. It's not appropriate for us to have those nasty old clothes on anymore, but rather we put those off and we renew our minds in God's Word. One of the emphasis for this year. Uh again, is that as a church we are regularly studying God's Word, seeking to understand its truths, and when we do that As God's children, the Holy Spirit will renew our minds. He will change us. He will help us to think more like Jesus Christ. That's his job. But we have to be in the Word, renewing our minds, and then the Holy Spirit provides us the new garments, the new actions, and enables us to put those on. And so as we continue , Paul, the Apostle Paul, who is writing this to the Ephesian believers is continuing a list of things that we should put off and things that we should put on. Through the work and the power of the Holy Spirit. So in that, those verses that I just read to you, we need to be mimickers of God's character. We're his children. and put on the sacrificial love of Christ. But we should not wear any longer the old garments of sexual immorality or impurity or covetousness. Desiring those things that God has not given us, it's not proper. It's not appropriate. I hope that as you continue to walk this earth as really embaptist ambassadors for Jesus Christ, that you want to be appropriate in our society today. And so this is how that we know that, that we are conducting ourselves in our lives as uh appropriately as is proper among those who are going to live in God's kingdom for all eternity And furthermore, the Bible indicates that those of us who are saints, who are children of God right now, in the future kingdom, we will rule and reign with him. And so isn't it appropriate then for those of us who will rule in God's grace? That's such a grace thing that God would allow us as sinful, broken people. To become his children and then rule and reign with his son. Amazing. And there is a certain sense of appropriateness among future leaders that we ought to show in our lives today. So, he continued, remember no filthiness, no foolish talk, no crude joking. All of that's out of place. Spend your time rather being thankful Expressing your gratitude. Next time you are tempted, whoever it is in your circles at work or Yeah, talking with neighbors, and there's a temptation to talk about things that are inappropriate. Better just to turn that conversation as children of the kingdom of light. Into how thankful you are the blessings that God has provided you in your life. That would be a much more edifying thing to talk about, don't you think? Well, we continue here then. We follow the loving example of Jesus, we follow the Father through the example of his son, and we reject the dark deeds of disobedience. We reject the impurity of sin, as I just said, and we reject the actions of those in darkness. There are ways that people that have rejected Jesus Christ, there are ways that they conduct themselves. in this world that we as believers need to reject and say, that should not be, and by God's grace it will not be a part of my life any longer. So verse five continues. this idea. For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous, there's that same list again. That is, and now Paul gives us a little more insight into what covetous means. That is, an idolater has no inheritance. In the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Back to verse five. And let's go back to this list again. Paul says, mark this. Be confident in what I'm about to say. Everyone who is sexually immoral. The King James has that great old word whoremonger, right? What does that mean? Well, folks, it's just someone who conducts himself is constantly and has a pattern of being sexually immoral. It's really simple and basic. And Paul is writing to a group of people that are living in a society where even among religious people this is common. They are commonly unfaithful in their marriages, and they give it a religious righteous twist, which is almost hard to believe for our ears today, but it was true. And the Gentiles were known, those who were not the followers of God, were known for being regularly involved in sexual immorality. And so Paul's literally saying, stop. Don't do that anymore. Be faithful to your wife. Be faithful to your God. It's inappropriate to do anything else. Be sexually pure, not sexually immoral. Or impure. This has the idea of uncleanliness. And just a lifestyle in our thinking and in our actions of impurity. This would have the main taint of this would be sexual purity, the main emphasis, but in a more general sense, moral purity. So are we if we're allowing things into our lives that keep us sexually impure in our thinking and are tempting us to do things that are wrong in our actions, or if just in a general sense, maybe in our speech, we tend to, our humor tends to be impure, as he's just mentioned before in verse 4. Um whatever impurities, maybe there's um ways in our lives where we're breaking the Ten Commandments, we're being um inappropriate in not following after God's law. And we have the power of Christ through the Holy Spirit to convict us and help us to grow in those areas. So there's no excuse to be impure. Are you tainted? Do people look at you and say that person is just a little twisted or tainted? They're not all right. If they're a Christian, they're not a very good example of one. They don't seem to be following their God's ways Well, folks, that's inappropriate. That's improper for people that will one day rule and reign with Christ. No, don't be named impure or covetous. Always desiring things that we don't have. Things that we wish. God, why didn't you give me this? Or God, why didn't you give this to that person when I'm obviously more deserving? of that honor, or maybe that those finances, or that object that I've been wanting for so long. Uh that's something that I'm deserving of and you gave it to that person over there and you're coveting that. And Paul says, actually, let's not beat around the bush here. If you're a covetous person, you're actually an idolater. You are worshiping false gods because your focus is on things that God has not given you. And yet that is your whole many times that can be our whole purpose. We can be focused on things that God has not given us, and I've given you those those different categories of what we tend to desire. And we tend to fixate on those things that we don't have, and eventually that becomes worship. And so Paul says: if you are a covetous person, you are worshiping other things besides your God. And that is inappropriate. That is false worship. You're an idolater. And why are these things inappropriate for the children of God? This is an important aspect of this passage here. Because Paul says, because people that are regularly doing these things, that are sexually immoral or impure or who are idolaters. These are people that will have no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. And notice how Paul makes it specifically, it is the kingdom of Jesus Christ, yes, but it also is of God the Father. And so here you have the kingdom led by God. And he's saying if this is a regular part of your lives, you are indicating that perhaps you're really not a part of the kingdom. So it's a cause for introspection then. Do I truly have relationship with Jesus Christ? If I am constantly allowing these things and a lot more things into my life and it never bothers me or concerns me, am I truly a child of God? Have I truly put my faith and trust in Jesus alone? And then if you can answer that question with a confident, yes, God has saved me from my sin, then if God has saved you from these sinful things. then why are you still uh conducting yourselves and letting these things be a part of your life when these are the very things that will condemn people for all eternity? No, it's not appropriate to allow these sins to continue. Because people will face eternity in hell because they do these things. Television and movies make all of these things sound oh it's okay. Everybody does it. Everybody has impure thoughts. You know, ev everybody or a lot of people kind of fool around and And are unfaithful in their marriage. And it's just it just happens. But they're still good people in the end. If you follow most of the world's entertainment today, these themes are there. But folks, that's not appropriate, actually. We can't allow ourselves to be comfortable in the values of the world because we live for a kingdom that has entirely different values. And we must not conduct ourselves as those who have no future inheritance in God's kingdom. As those who are not kingdom citizens as God's children, we must not conduct ourselves in that way because we're not being a light to the world then. It's not proper. Verse 6, let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. That's basically what I've just said. We have to be careful in our world today that we don't minimize these things that Paul says are truly a problem because it's easy to do. Paul says, don't let anybody deceive you or twist what you know is right with empty words. He says, if anyone is trying to encourage you that this list of things that I've told you that you need to put off, that it's still okay to wear those dirty old garments, he says, they don't know what they're talking about It's empty words. Don't listen to them. Because it's these things that God's wrath is directed toward them, and they will suffer for all eternity. Don't buy that line, folks. Therefore, verse seven: Do not be partakers with them These that consistently do these things and have rejected Jesus Christ, they will not inherit God's kingdom. And they are headed toward a dark eternity. And when Paul says that we should not be partners with them, he says, you should not share in these sins with them. You should not buddy up to them. You should not be drinking buddies with these people. You should not share in what will condemn them. But rather, you need to walk in the light. It's inappropriate for you to be stumbling around in the darkness. But we are light when we're following after Christ. And that's the rest of, or verse 8, I'm sorry. Therefore, do not let become partners with them, for at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light For the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true. Paul says, You've spent enough time in the darkness before you were saved. Stop stumbling around in the darkness. You have the illuminating light of Christ to guide you through the illumination of the Holy Spirit. And we should not allow people of the kingdom of this world, of the kingdom of darkness, to persuade us to continue to walk in those ways. Don't let them influence you. They're headed for condemnation. You follow Jesus Christ. You follow the light that God offers. Here is an ancient imagery that Paul is using that is certainly correct spiritually, but is an ancient imagery of light versus darkness. Kind of remember the old westerns where you had uh the guy wearing the white hat and the white outfit versus the guy wearing the the dark hat, the black outfit, and you knew really well who was the villain and who was the hero by what they wore. That's kind of the picture here. That people ought to know that we walk in light by wearing the garments of righteousness, the garments of those that are in the light. It's inappropriate to be in the darkness any longer. And we are light when we are in Christ. And we need to remember that. I remember uh an incident when I was in undergrad at a Christian college. It was at Pensacola. Christian College and one of the neat things about being there was we had access to the beaches, which were really remarkable. But they also besides the beaches there in Florida, Florida beaches, on the better side of Florida uh where the the white sand and and it's just it's it's a nicer experience there. But there in Pensacola they also had a naval, um not naval, but an Air Force museum and they had a number of old forts. Some friends of mine decided and I decided we would try to uh explore one of those old forts as it was getting dark one night. And so we drove out there, I I forget the name of it right now. It might have been to Fort Pickens. Um, and we were walking around. There was a group of people that were being led in the dark by a uh um by an assistant, by a guide, and they were all safe. But of course, we wanted to go our own way. We wanted to walk in the darkness, so to speak, because it was cool and we didn't want anybody to think we Needed a guide. We just wanted to explore in the dark. What could go wrong in a fort we'd never been in before? Well, we almost hurt ourselves a number of times by jumping through holes in things where we didn't know that bel And on the other side of that was actually a drop of several feet and different things. And we were kind of wild and crazy as college students. students can tend to be. But there was one point where we got to this, it wasn't a cave, but it was this square hole in the side of this fortress wall. And we of course looked at it and said, yeah, we need to um go in there and see where it leads in the dark, not having any idea even what it is. So we noticed that we had to crouch down, uh, and it was four of us altogether, me and my buddies, crouched down. and kind of just straddle walk as we went through and we were just having the best time. This is so fun. This is so cool. We're so smart. We're so wise. The guy in front of us, the guy in the front of the line had the light. Now we should have known better than to give this particular guy access to the light. the light because he was a practical joker and yes about halfway through that tunnel as it was he turned off the light. He thought that was hilarious But we literally couldn't see in front of us. Well there was one of my friends directly in front of me, and what he couldn't see as the light went off was that in this tunnel that the uh The ceiling, the stone in the ceiling actually came down at one point another inch and a half. And the dark, he couldn't see that, and all of a sudden he He slammed into that, his forehead hit that stone, and he cried out in pain. And then finally the guy in front of us felt bad and turned his light back on. after the guy had a big welt. And while I'm thinking, boy, I'm glad that was him and not me. But we learn from that. Is that, you know, it's pretty foolish to walk around in places you've never been in the dark. And yet, as believers, folks, we're often involved in foolishness. In the fact that we walk around in the darkness of the world acting like believers, and it's inappropriate. We have the light to guide us in the darkness. We need to be guided by that light. And not be foolish. As a church, we're a part of the kingdom of light. And it's foolish to continue to hang on to the way of life in the kingdom of darkness. People ought to when when they when we're in the room they ought to have the idea like the old um s uh w out towns out west many years ago when a uh foreigner would come in or somebody new, uh they would watch how that person acted. And they would say, you're not from around here, are ya? Folks, when we're in groups and out in the world, people ought to say something like that. You're not from around here, are you? You're a little different. Yeah. Because I reflect the light of my Savior, Jesus Christ. I'm a follower of light. And I'm not involved in the things of darkness any longer. We need to follow the light of the Lord and live a life that is spiritually fruitful. Continue, verse 9, here. The fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true. And so try to discern what is pleasing. to the Lord. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. Here Paul even gives us a few of those fruit of the Spirit that he describes in more detail in that passage in Galatians. Probably even as I say that, many of you think back to the fruit of the Spirit passage in Galatians 6. Paul gives us a few of those here. He's as a reminder, he says, by the way, you want to live a fruitful life by walking in the light. The light of Christ enables the fruit to grow in your life. And here's some of those fruits. Goodness. Righteousness and truth. This word for goodness has the idea of full spiritual health and well-being. That we walk in such a way that people know that we have uh the approval of God's pleas pleasing or pleasure in our lives, that God is pleased with our conduct. That is the idea of good. Not that we're perfect. We're never going to be perfect in this life, right? We're always going to struggle with sin. But we can live a life That shows that God is pleased with how we're walking in morality and righteousness rather than immorality and impurity. And that when we walk in that way, we will still have struggles and troubles, folks. But in one sense, it will be a better life for us in the fact that we're walking in a way that's pleasing to God. We don't face his discipline and chastisement. And things do go in one sense easier as we know that we are walking in a right way before our God. And we're not walking in guilt and the consequences constantly of our sin. That goodness, but also righteousness, there is a most important word for righteous or meaning for righteousness in our Bibles that has the idea of the righteousness that Christ obtained throughout his life That he is able to offer to us because he took our sins on the cross, and when we put our faith and trust in him, we get his righteousness. We call that forensic righteousness. But that's not what Paul is referring to here. He's referring to our experiential righteousness that we can live in a more and more right fashion. We can walk in the right ways as our path is illuminated by the light of relationship with Jesus Christ. As the Holy Spirit shines that light and directs us, our conduct can in all situations be right. And I hope when I say that, folks, as believers, I hope you don't think, well, that sounds like a boring way to live. That doesn't sound like very exciting at all. I kind of have my own sinful pleasures that I like to enjoy and live that way. I don't know, Pastor Brock. I mean, God's a God of grace. He'll forgive, right? Well, certainly. But folks, it's unnatural. It's inappropriate for us to not want to live a life that's pleasing to God after we see all that Jesus has done for us. us. Again, we're not going to live that life perfectly, but we ought to have a desire. I want to please God and I want to be right in his ways. And we can do that. We don't have to walk in darkness. And verse 10, we can discern then what is pleasing to the Lord. So that verse 11, we take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them, for it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. And yes, the more we follow after Jesus Christ and we follow his light and the Holy Spirit is changing us through submission, to knowing his word well, renewing our minds. We can discern, folks, it is in theory, it should be practiced, but in theory, we can discern what is pleasing to the Lord for our lives in every decision that we make. It is possible. We just don't always rely on the Spirit and rely on Jesus Christ and his guidance. We don't always follow the light like we should And so we make errors and we make wrong value judgments, and it gets us in trouble, and God picks us back up, and by his grace we serve him faithfully again. But we can know What is pleasing to the Lord. If you are one that in your life, you're walking in your life in your relationship with Jesus Christ, and you are sensitive to the things of the Spirit. And you want the fruit of the Spirit to grow in your life, then you will find yourself more and more in every decision that you make thinking , I really want to do this. I wonder if God wants me to do this. So, Lord, let me take some time. Usually I just kind of make my own decisions in this matter. Maybe it's with your job, or maybe it's with ministry, or maybe it's with your family, but Lord, I'm just convicted that I need to follow you better, to follow the light better. So Lord. Help me discern. Help me to know. Do you want me to be involved in this? Do you want me to go this direction? Lord, is this a sin? If you're uncertain, Lord, is this a sin that I should not pursue. Folks, when we pray that prayer, I guarantee you that the Holy Spirit will be delighted in that and he will show you. He will help you to discern. We have the promise here that we can walk in a way pleasing to the Lord because it's inappropriate to walk in darkness. Because those folks walk and never have fruit showing in their lives. They never grow in fruitful works. We had uh a frustrating thing many years ago when we were here Um before we moved to New Hampshire, we planted we would plant a garden every year over by the shed in the back of our house. By the utility shed there. And we would plant a lot of tomatoes and different things. But because we never quite figured out why this would happen. Um but a lot of times we dealt with a lot of blight. Those of you that work with gardens, you know what I'm talking about. And it was especially creep over our tomatoes. And maybe it was because um actually the where where the garden was located there was a lot of darkness and sh shadow. And so the tomatoes and sometimes the other vegetables would would get a lot of blight and it would be so frustrating because we couldn't figure out how to get rid of this. Here we had these um these vegetable plants, these tomato plants that we wanted to be fruitful and they would show promise and then they would die and get soft and get gross. Folks, we don't want to walk as believers that have this blight of sin constantly attached to us. That really make us unprofitable in many ways for what God is trying to do or wants to do in our lives We shouldn't accept that blight of darkness, but instead we should expose it. Because really, so often we look at the sinner of the world because we're still broken in many ways and we think, oh That would be the way to live. That would be cool. All those folks, they really enjoy life because they're not shackled and burdened by all these rules and commandments. Oh And Paul says, actually, it's a shame to even speak about what these people do in darkness. Rather than hold them up in our lives and um and uh complement them For how they live their lives and wish we could do that. We ought to look at the darkness of the world and the lives of those that have rejected Jesus Christ. And say, oh, you know, it's even a shame. I'm embarrassed to talk about that. At work Or in your neighborhood, or as you go around and doing responsibilities in this community, when you hear people talk about things that are inappropriate. Does that make you laugh, young people? Does that make you laugh when people around you talk about impure things? And joke about things that they shouldn't joke about? Or do you have in your heart something that rises up that says, oh, that's embarrassing? I'm embarrassed for them And I don't want that to be a part of my life. And a part of my speech. No. That's shameful. And many times they do it in secret in the darkness because they intrinsically know that it's shameful. But many that have rejected God also, and we know in this culture today, brazenly proclaim those things that they shouldn't be ashamed about. But that should never be the conduct of God's people. It's disgusting and inappropriate. But rather, verse 13, when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. How does the world, the unbelieving world , how can it know that its deeds are shameful and wicked and evil? Well, it's partially the job of God's people to shine the light of Christ and expose those deeds of darkness. And you know, really, all we have to do many times is proclaim God's word and show them the light of God's word and show them the light of Christ. Sometimes it's just a simple statement of truth. You know, I can't speak that way because I don't take my God's name in vain. My Jesus Christ gave his life for me and shed his blood on a cross. I will never use his name in vain. And so just understand that you'll never hear that from me. You might see me grimace. That's not who I am. There's a million ways that we as the children of life Light should be exposing the deeds of darkness. I know of a couple guys uh when we were in high school together, uh my Christian school, and um they, well, let's just say the one um spent the night at the other's house. And they they became bored one evening. And so they decided, what can we do since we're bored? That's never a good start to a conversation Well, they decided, hey, let's do this. Let's go over to our friend's house down the road here, and we will um What uh I gotta remember how this worked. Oh, they they they decided that they would go unannounced to their friend's house and just show up and ask that person if they wanted to do anything, if they wanted to talk and hang out together. Together, and they got to this person's house that they thought was the right house, and they rang the doorbell and knocked on the door, and it was somebody they got the wrong house. It was somebody different. And they were so embarrassed they ran off. That was probably not a good wise choice either. But they didn't get caught. And so then the idea came to them, hey, this is kind of fun Let's just continue to knock on doors and ring doorbells and then run off. So they did that. But then they found out that us some people in the neighborhood didn't appreciate that and actually called the police And when they realized they saw a police car headed their way, they realized, you know, this was pretty stupid. This was not a good idea. We should have been wiser and thought through this a little bit more. So they what they did was they ran over to another home and they hid in some bushes and they got some great bush cover here, some great foliage cover, and they thought that they they were good. And all of a sudden the police car that had been down the road He pulled up and he stopped right at the bush that they were in. And they thought, well, certainly he's not going to find us. We're too well hidden here. The policeman stopped his car. He came out, got his flashlight, and shone it on the bushes, and it stopped right where these guys were hiding. He said, okay guys, you can come out now. And so they very embarrassed and fearful came out of those bushes They were put in the police car, taken home, and the parents had a few things to say. The parents gave them some extra things to do because they were so bored. But the funniest part about this was how did the policeman know that they were there? Well, the light exposed this. That one of those guys in his infinite wisdom was sitting there at the bush and he was sitting down and his feet were underneath the bush and his shoes were sticking out of the bush on the other side. And so, of course, when the policeman showed his light, it was very obvious that somebody was there. That light exposed the foolishness of those guys' situation and their sin. Well folks, God has given us the privilege And he is the one shining the light, but he's given us the privilege of being a part of that light and shining that in the darkness to expose sin so that people know that they're sinners and then uh they will see their need for Jesus Christ. Christ. That's a part of our job. But a big part of that problem is in this world today, we get lulled by the things of the world and we fall asleep. And we fall asleep on the job. So that's why Paul ends this then. Look at the end of verse 14. He says It's the job of the children of light who are reflecting the light of Christ to make visible those things that are dark, for anything that becomes visible is light. So why don't believers do that? Paul says, this is why. He says they're asleep. And they need to wake up. Therefore it says Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead. And Christ will shine on you. This may be a reference to the passage in Isaiah 9 that says, the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. Paul is saying here, for you that are Christians, you need to wake up. You need to turn the light of Christ back on. Stop acting as though you're dead. You're not dead. You've been given new life. You're not sleepers any longer. But you have been energized with the life the eternal life, the new life of Jesus Christ. And Christ will use you yet again to expose the darkness. Stop sleeping. Be the light that Christ has called us to be. And all that means in the end, folks, I don't want to make this too complicated or too fearful. We don't have to be known as the person that's just um uh critically honest and never careful or gracious in their presentation of what people are doing wrong. But we just need to basically point out what God's Word says when we say Or when we're in a dark world pointing out that this is why I don't do those things, because my Bible, and I know my Bible well, it says I shouldn't do this. And I'm a child of the future kingdom. King Jesus is going to come back someday. I'm going to rule and reign with him. It's not appropriate for me to do these things. These things are wrong, and I will not be a part of them. It can really be as simple as that. So how are you doing in being a reflection of Jesus' light? Are you going? I want to ask you as we get finish up today to commit again to knowing this book well. And then to being a better example, for us all to wake up from our naps, our spiritual naps And to be a better example in this terrible world that's not getting any better. Would you agree with me? To be better lights for Jesus. Christ. Stop getting involved in the sins of the world. Stop giving assent to people who do these things. Behave yourself. Live appropriately. Be a bright light for Christ. And again, for those of you that don't have a relationship with Jesus, if there's someone here this morning, Come to the light. Confess your sin. Put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ Stop trying to be good in your own works. Recognize that you need Jesus, that you can't be good enough to get to God. And trust in Him. Trust in the light of the good news, the gospel, the salvation of Jesus Christ. And have your eternity secure in what Christ has accomplished for you. Let's pray together. Father, these are great truths. They're convicting. Because we will admit this morning we get so caught up in the things of the world, many times, even the entertainment. That we get sidetracked and we get lulled into spiritual sleep. And in this world today, I'm convinced that part of the problem, Lord, that it continues to descend into such darkness is because those that are supposed to be light Are asleep, and their light is not shining. Lord, convict us, help us to be better tools, better flashlights In this darkness for Christ. Let the Holy Spirit do a powerful work in our lives that intensifies that replication of the light of Christ. Help us not to be satisfied and comfortable in this world, but realizing that we need to be uncomfortable And following after the things of Jesus, because this is not our home. And we are meant for another home and another kingdom that is eternal and that is pure and righteous. And help us to long for that in our hearts, even this morning. Give us a taste of what eternity will be like with Jesus as our King And help us to live like that today. Lord, for the person who still today needs Jesus Christ as their Savior, I pray they will put their faith and trust in Him alone. Recognizing that it's only through Jesus that they can be saved and have eternity with you. Oh Lord, let today be the day that the light of the gospel shines and persuades in their hearts. And folks, let the light of the Holy Spirit Shine in your heart and persuade you on these truths. Think on these things. If you need to talk with me, come forward. I'd be glad to talk with you. I'd talk with you after the service. You think on these things and let the Spirit work as