Love that music. Um I there we go. Thankful for being able to sing those truths about Christ. Isn't it true, folks, that we need to constantly be reminded it's not ourselves, but it's Christ through us. It's the only way we can accomplish anything. Anything we try to do in our own strength will fail. But it's through the power of Christ. And we have to depend upon Christ every day for that. So thankful for that reminder. Turn to James. James chapter 3. And I too echo the sentiments of Memorial Day, as Pastor Marty said, you know. There are so many folks that were here before we left that served our country faithfully, that are no longer with us. The Lord has taken them home. And I know that you all still miss them, we miss them. I won't get into a whole list because I'll miss somebody and I don't want to do that, but we remember those even in this congregation. That served this country faithfully, served their Lord faithfully, and now are with Christ. They're not lamenting that, but we miss them all the same. And Memorial Day gives us opportunity to remember those folks. James chapter 3. I would trust that most of you have read through James before. It's a marvelous book. But if we were to meet James, and actually we will one day, the brother, or the half-brother technically. of Jesus Christ the pastor, if you could put that way, of the Jerusalem church. This man had a lot of wonderful wisdom to proclaim to his people, to his congregants, and to us today. But he was also someone that was uh just basically stated it as it is. And maybe you're one of those. You just say, the Lord's giving me a personality, I just put it out there the way that it is, Pastor. And I don't try to sugarcoat it or anything like that. Well, be ready. James does that too. And if you enjoy that kind of thing, well, it's God's word, we should. I'm just preparing you. He doesn't mince words in this passage either. He's very direct, and yet I think we need this for today. This is something that the Lord put on my heart a number of weeks ago, and it's always appropriate and a reminder. We I would think that all of us in ministry would like to categorize ourselves as wise people Uh we certainly, as we read through Proverbs and read about the fool, I would hope that nobody here has the goal of living out the life of a fool in their life. Nobody wants to be a fool. a fool. We all want to be counted wise and wise and mature in our Christian faith. For those that are true believers, that's a desire that each of us want to have. But folks, there are those who are faking it, if I can put it that way, that are hypocrites that may come across many times as having wisdom. may be respected in many ways for their service and the church and all kinds of and teaching whatever. Lots of people putting in a lot of of hard effort and we understand that. And yet, for each of us, the question should be asked in our own lives, are we truly wise? Well, how can we know that? Well, actually, James gives us a very clear way that we We can know that today. You know, isn't there so many people that consider themselves wise in our culture today that as we as believers, as we hear what's coming out of the mouths, they expose themselves for who they really are. whether it's politicians or um even even local librarians. I'm not trying to beat on any Anybody who's a librarian in here. But how many of these situations have we heard of in our country? Whether these libraries, and when I go to a library, I always uh If I need some help, I know there'll be somebody wise there that knows what they're talking about and somebody to recommend something to me. We just expect uh these folks to know books and to know well. And isn't it frustrating and and just grievous to hear of Um throughout our country these programs of transgenderism and allowing some of these folks to actually come in and affect the minds of children and we start to realize this in many other situations there's a real gap here between biblical wisdom and worldly wisdom as becoming more apparent all the time. And we have to fight for the biblical right to name um to to name the fact that or name the Describe the fact that God has given us two genders and that He has intended for both and for us not to mix them in and of ourselves, and there are people that seemingly are very intelligent and wise that would argue otherwise, we have a real gap in wisdom in a lot of ways. Well, sometimes there's a gap in wisdom in our church culture as well. And we need to be aware of that And we're going to see this morning that the fruitful results of true biblical wisdom from James chapter 3, verses 13 through 18. I'm reading from the ESV this morning, who is wise and understanding among you? And Paul, and excuse me, James is calling for some self-evaluation. Are you wise? He's asking you the question. By his good conduct, let him show his work in the meekness of wisdom. His works in the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition In your hearts. Do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice. But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason. full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Father, thank you for these words from James this morning. And may we be motivated through the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. To desire and to be effective in being kind and loving and tender and careful and patient with each other Lord, help us to submit to the reality that we are not truly wise people if we cannot care and love each other in the way that you have called us to. The true wisdom has compassion, has carefulness, has patience for others. And it is exemplified in that way. Lord, I know that each of us will be convicted by this. Let the Holy Spirit work as we get further understanding. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well again, James is one that doesn't mince words, and his focus here is the practical actions of one's knowledge. So if an individual says, I know God, I've walked with him for a while, the Lord is working in my life, I'm a wise person, then we should expect there be evidence of that in their lives. In our lives, in the life of the pastor. There ought to be evidence of that. And so James is referring to spiritual leaders here, but really broadly the church in general. So how do we know we are wise? And that's a question, again, verse 13. First of all, it must begin with humility, folks. If we are arrogant, if we're striving after our own way, if we're exalting ourselves, that's a key That is a key bit of evidence that we are not where we should be. So let's go back to verse 13 though. Who is wise in understanding among you? Wise is knowing God's word, but not just knowing God's word, but being able through the wisdom of Christ to apply God's word to every aspect of our life. Theoretically, we know we're not perfect, but if we followed wisdom the way that we should, and one day when we're with Christ, we will, folks. But theoretically, every decision that we make would be a wise one because we're not just learning God's word, but we're putting it into practice Step by step, and that's understanding. The more we practice God's word, the more the Spirit gives us understanding for every situation we face. If you face a situation right now where you're not sure, What the Lord would have you to do. Well, I can think of one. The calling for us to be the pastor of this church. You know, and we want, as Pastor Marty said, we want everyone to follow the Lord's leading. But folks, we must make sure it's the Lord's leading. Not our own personal frustrations or concerns or maybe this wasn't addressed or that wasn't addressed, not exalting ourselves, but seeking in this and in every situation we face. Is this the Lord's will? When you submit yourself to that, the Bible promises that we will have that kind of understanding. Well, let's just be honest. Many times we make decisions and we go through things and we just forget. Or maybe we don't think we need to. Submit that decision or that aspect to the Holy Spirit. We don't ask God what He thinks of it, and therefore we make wrong choices. were not wise. So James is saying, so you as an individual in the church, you think you're wise, you think you're mature. Basically he says, prove it. Well, how do I do that? By his good conduct or her good conduct. Let him show his works in meekness. of wisdom. Conduct is the daily aspects of life. It's our daily, the Bible also uses the word the word conversation. It's our daily pattern. It's how we live our lives in the testimony of our lives. And then that how we live our lives plus what we do in our lives, our works, the things that we're involved in, and those should portray the fact that we are meek. Now, that's another word that we don't like to if it let's just say it put it this way. If you had ten characteristics of spiritual qualities that you would like to see in your life. Many times you may have your own favorite, you know, goodness, mercy, um uh teaching, whatever But meekness doesn't always make that list. Because meekness sounds like another word that we don't like. Weakness. And a lot of times we hear of meekness and we think, oh, that's being weak, and who wants to be weak? And yet we need to understand furthermore, actually the Bible refers to some of the greatest men in Scripture, even Moses, as meek. Jesus Christ was meek. It shouldn't be something that we're afraid of. It shouldn't be something that we avoid. We need to understand it more. The more we understand God's expectations for us and how He wants us to live, folks, it's just natural it will humble us more. We will not be arrogant. We will not be prideful. But we'll be more dependent on him. And that idea of meekness acknowledges the fact that everybody has strengths. Everyone in this room has strengths that God has given you and talents and abilities And so it would be appropriate for you to acknowledge, yes, the Lord has given me this talent or this ability, and I'm able to do this well. That's not arrogant. But what it becomes arrogant is when we try to act on those things apart from submitting and relying on Christ. Meekness is taking our strengths and submitting them to Christ. The work horses, and this is a good example even from Scripture, but as powerful as they are, and we've seen pictures of these powerful horses and have known even people at Restoration Farm that have worked with horses and uh ended up being kicked by accident. It wasn't their fault. And it did some major damage. Powerful animals and yet they come under the control of a small piece of metal, right? And really we ought to think of meekness in that way, that we have these strengths that God's given us, but we've submitted them to the control of the Holy Spirit. of Jesus Christ. However you want me to best use these Lord, that's how I'll use my talents and my time. And that is the one of the key, the first key aspect. Of whether we can know that we are truly wise, and that is, are we truly humble? Are we submitted and dependent upon Jesus Christ? Well also beyond that then there's this aspect of that biblical wisdom is not deceptive Or does not, when people are struggling with anger and jealousy and things in their life, they're not trying to cover it up with their abilities and their wisdom and all of these things. Verse 14, if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not wisdom that comes down from above. And then James makes it very clear here. It's actually from earth. It's not spiritual. It doesn't belong in a list of spiritual characteristics because it's not. And it's even demonic. Man, that sounds extreme. What is he referring here to? Well, let's go back. That bitter jealousy. That word bitter can have the idea of sharp, of a sharp stick or something that pokes and does damage and causes bitter pain. Bitter jealousy has the idea of bitter rivalry, of um just jealousy or uh frustration over something that someone else has that that I would like or a ministry position or an effectiveness that one has in a particular ministry and another person is offended by that because they're they're jealous or even worse, they're envious. They don't want to see that for the person succeed because they want that recognition and you can just continue to uh apply those uh aspects to every area of ministry, right? It's a very ugly thing. Jealousy also reflects the selfish ambition that we tend to have. Sometimes we tend to draw a circle around our area of ministry. And we say, this is mine, and I won't give it up for anything else or whatever. Because and and if we're not careful, we can do ministry to exalt ourselves without even realizing it many times, folks. That's a good question to ask ourselves in ministry. Why am I serving and why am I doing what I'm doing in ministry? Is there a secret desire to want that commendation and that recognition? Now I gave some recognition to Sunday school this morning. some folks that were not seeking it , but they were worthy of honoring because of their sacrifice. And many more are. It's a beautiful thing when people just give their all in service to Christ, not expecting any um accolades or any promotion in any way. And those are the people you love. to honor and thank. And ultimately it's Christ's work in their lives, we understand that, but you want to honor those. But those that seek after it, and you make it clear, they want that and they want that recognition above all things. That's not right. That's a wrong attitude to have. And so James says, don't boast and say that you are an effective leader in the church. or that you love the Lord or that you're humble and all these things, if you have these attitudes in your heart, you're being deceptive. You're lying to yourself. You're not being real with yourself if you have these kinds of attitudes. That's kind of bitter envy and jealousy that's so ugly and damaging in our ministries that reminded me one time, uh, I don't know if you've ever been to Atlanta and been to the Coke museum there. I remember being there my first time with a ministry, uh Young People's Choir, a ministry choir. And we were able to take the day and do some shopping there and they had the underground mall in Atlanta. I haven't been there in a long time. I don't know if it's so impressive. But at the time for me it was like it was so cool because you could go underground and see all these different shops and everything. But the highlight was this Coke museum that was near, I guess, in the same area as the Coke Corporation, the Coca-Cola Corporation. It's just the idea of a museum dedicated to soda. Who would like that? And you you go and you hear the history and you walk through and then they have this glorious room where these all these samples And you know, there was a lot of kids with a lot of energy, I seem like running around and sampling and making, you know, mixing up all the drinks and everything. They're having a great time. Like, oh we gotta try this. And there was actually sodas from all around the world And I don't even remember the name of it, but as I was tasting some of these, I'm like, oh, that's good. Yeah, that's a little too fruity for my taste. That's a little too intense. Don't like that. And then I tried one, and I should have actually been more careful because I saw some guys behind me kind of pointing to me and Because they knew they'd just tried it. And I put my glass underneath that and I think I got half a glass. I was like, this sounds interesting. It's you know, um It 's from another country, so of course it has to, it'll be distinct and interesting. And I took a sip of that And if you can imagine like the bitterness of coffee with um carbonation in it and no sweetness at all, it was the nastiest thing that I'd ever Tasted in my life. And the thing was, I couldn't get the taste out for the rest of at least another couple hours. It just stayed with you. No matter what else you drank. It was horrible. It was terrible. It was not what I expected. Folks, in a ministry setting where we're all depending upon Christ, it should not be expected that there is this type of jealousy and rivalry. And self-promotion, that's not appropriate in the Church of Jesus Christ. It should, it should, when if we look into our hearts and we see this kind of attitude, we should be appalled by that. You should say, Lord, whatever it takes, help me to be doing ministry for the right reasons. Because those that embrace this type of ministry that portray themselves as a faithful servant And that they're wise and yet they're jealous of others and they want to constantly promote themselves and they will not repent. They are not reflecting wisdom that comes from a relationship with Christ. And this is where James gets right to the heart of the matter, right? What are they reflecting? They're reflecting the type of attitude and actions that don't come from God's realm. They come from the enemy's realm. Anger and bitterness and rivalry and hatred and all of these things, those don't come from walking close with Jesus Christ. Those don't come from citizens of God's kingdom. Those types of attitudes come from that other kingdom. Satan's kingdom, the demonic kingdom. Now, don't get me wrong, and I don't think James is saying here that you be careful because if you have these attitudes in your heart, you're not really a believer. Now, he is trying to get the attention of some. That is true. There are some, and even some leaders, who are doing these things for the wrong reason because they don't have a real relationship with Christ. But I think in a broader sense for us folks, what we just need to understand is when we're not doing ministry with a sweet spirit of humility and love for others, that we reflect the ugly characteristics of God. the other side of the other kingdom. And none of us would want to do that. And that's why James is trying to get our attention I think he's saying you don't want to reflect the side, the team of the enemy. You want to be characteristic of the kingdom of light, of the people on Christ's team, of his kingdom. And so we need to examine ourselves because we can think, even as leaders, that we're being effective or whatever, and yet if we're angry, if we're frustrated with others, if we're we have this um spirit of ambition and all these things were not truly wise at all And that ought to cause each of us to pause and say, wow, what am I evidencing in my life? He goes further, verse 16, for where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder in every vile practice. One commentator said, When we operate with worldly values, seeking our own honor and status, we even offer Satan an entrance into the house of God. Our actions no longer demonstrate our faith, but rather show our commitment to the world and its standard of behavior, and pretty soon the more of these folks that are doing things for themselves and having the wrong attitudes and the wrong focus. It starts to represent the kingdom of the enemy in our churches. There's disorder. There is chaos. You see, if you have this in your heart, and a number of people have this in their hearts that are in the church, they can't hide it forever. It will become apparent at some point. This disorder has the idea of chaos and rioting and anarchy. Now, there's a lot of things in our news today. It does seem like more recently We've heard of a lot of news of rioting and anarchy and but we can all remember recently, right? Whether last year or a few years ago, of these groups that would go to cities and stir up all kinds of commotion. and fires and um looting and all these things. And it was a grief to us. It grieved us that there was this kind of anarchy that was uncontrolled. And no believer looks at that picture and says, that's the life for me, or they shouldn't. But folks, if we harbor these attitudes in our heart at some point, do you realize the church can act actually reflect that kind of chaos and anarchy? It can happen. It shouldn't. And we should want to um Stay clear of any attitudes or actions that would bring that kind of turmoil. Churches can be in turmoil. Not agreeing and angry with each other. But what that reflects really is not a spirit of true biblical wisdom then And humility and meekness. So that picture that James is giving us, would you not agree it's a pretty ugly picture? My prayer is that nobody in this room would want to be characterized in that way. But thankfully, James gives us this other side of things that's beautiful and wonderful. Well, how do we know then? How do what is the fruit of those that are truly Growing in their spiritual maturity, that are wise, that are understanding. What do they look like? Well, James says here in the last two verses, I'd be glad to tell you. True biblical wisdom produces genuine spiritual fruit, the fruit of the Spirit. Paul's listed those fruits in Galatians. Here is James' list. And verse 17 says, but the wisdom from above is first pure. Pure has the idea, it's really the primary characteristic of biblical wisdom. It is moral purity, and really it comes from a committed devotion to God above all else and a lifestyle that exemplifies that. Folks, if you are committed to living life in the way that God wants us to, to applying His word and wisdom and understanding, then your life is going to reflect moral purity. It's going to be different. From the people of the world. You're going to reflect the fact, you're going to wear the jersey or the uniform of those of the kingdom of light, of the kingdom of the beloved Son. Paul in Colossians warns us about still having the clothes, the dirty, nasty, terrible old clothes of the opponent's kingdom, of Satan's kingdom But we should be wearing the clothes of the kingdom of light, and those are pure, and it makes it clear to those around us that we're different. And so those that have spiritual wisdom are different from the world. And that can be in so many different ways, right? Our language, our actions, what we do. Really, it's easier to be a testimony in some ways of Christ than it ever has been , even just not swearing. Or or um Just being even being kind to people anymore stands out in our world because people are so angry and terrible so many times It really, in some ways, doesn't take that much if you are a true child of God to make it clear to others that you're different. And we need to do that. They need to see our cleansing, our moral purity, but then it continues with this wonderful list. Then peaceable, gentle, open to reason. full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. And we could take a series of messages and park on each one of these. But when we are submissive and dependent upon the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives, he produces wisdom and all of these things come out. Peace is the idea. of or it says in the ESV peaceable that means that you're always ready for peace. You're always ready to do things that that bring peace within the church. That you're always looking for the way. Now you don't compromise God's word in order to bring peace, but there are ways that you can in your speech and in your conduct That people always know when that person's in the room that they're going to do their best to be peaceable, to have good relations with other people because they want to, because it's important to them. Unity is important to them. And they will go the extra mile in what they say and what they do to be ready for peace. There is always going to be conflict within the church. Because we're broken people that aren't fully glorified yet. There's going to be misunderstanding. There's going to be differences of opinion. Are you going to take the tack of I'm going to hold to my particular preference or my particular outlook on something? Or are you ready to, Lord, it please just show me the way to make peace? with this individual so that we can worship and minister together. That ought to be our desire. This next one, this list is gentle. Now, again, the idea of meekness or just being careful or forbearing with other people, rather than having a brash, angry, or um Even confrontational tone all the time. There are times to be more stern and confrontational, but even that should be love and within love. But most For a believer that has true wisdom, their speech and their attitude ought to be careful. As I'm talking and dealing with other people, I want them to know that I still love them. This has to be dealt with, but I'm going to go the extra mile to be careful in my speech. And gentle. That's not a bad thing. And it's so beautiful and helpful. It's like a healing balm, folks. To those within a ministry, those where the Holy Spirit is controlling their speech and they just say the right thing at the right time. Is that a goal that we all desire? I would hope so. Do you desire that, Lord, in all things, you know, I don't want to be the person that's always put my foot in my mouth But I want to be the one that 's always as much as God enables me to say the right thing and to be an encouragement to other people. We should all want that. Well, that's only two of these. Let's continue on here. Open to reason. This is so important. It's just someone That is reasonable, open-minded. Some of your versions may say obedient, and that's certainly true. Obedient to God to God's word and to um God's expectations. But I like this definition and I did come up with this one myself, I will readily admit. But this has the idea of open-minded, reasonable, but basically ready to be understanding. Not ready to prove my point, not ready to let people know or um how angry I am or whatever where I'm at on something, but ready to be I'm ready to listen. I'm ready to hear your side of things. I'm ready not to jump to conclusions, but I'm ready to be reasonable. Ready to be reasonable Understanding your point of view. I so appreciate Pastor Kondik's ministry. I know that you folks miss him today. One of the greatest things that I learned under his ministry is there's always two sides to every story. And to make sure that I know both sides before I say something that I shouldn't say. Many times as we would talk about things, I'd get kind of worked up and I just can't believe that person's acting that way. And then Pastor Bob would say remind me of the other side or let me know some more about the other side and it's like oh well now I can see that person's perspective on it yeah There's got to be a way forward, but knowing both sides and ready to be reasonable, ready to be understanding, not ready to have my own way, regardless. Is a wonderful fruit of biblical wisdom, of one that is submitted to the Spirit. Well, there's other aspects here too, full of mercy. filled this this idea of full is filled to the full extent that someone fills a cup up to the very extent that it can hold and our lives ought to be filled up. to the full extent of mercy, which is pity and compassion, loving kindness. It's that Attribute that the good Samaritans showed to that person that was beaten on the side of the road, not like the religious leaders that went by and that were cold and uncaring. It's basically folks the opposite of uncaring. Just ask the Lord to help you care more for people. Ask the Lord to help you to care more for your fellow ministry servants. For your neighbors that have rejected Christ, perhaps, and that you know are destined for eternal punishment, to care about that. To have loving kindness, to be ready to act on pity and compassion, filled with mercy. That's a wonderful attribute of someone who is truly wise. And also good fruits. Good fruits, that just means we ought to see the Holy Spirit doing something in our lives. It ought to be apparent. We don't want to be the picture in our spiritual lives of the old dried-up fruit tree where uh there's no fruit ever coming out of it and it has to be removed. Nobody wants to have that picture of spiritual unfruitfulness, but that may be We're growing, certainly. We're we're getting um we're becoming more fruitful as we as we depend upon Christ, but there ought to be some kind of spiritual fruit going on in our lives. And some sort of thing that's being continued, people ought to see something going on between us and the Holy Spirit and our relationship with Christ. There ought to be good fruits. As well then, impartial, lack of bias, or hypocrisy, or even unwarranted suspicion That we're careful, that we don't go into suspicion as our first mode, but it's reasonable. Careful. If folks, that's one aspect of this that we can we can gauge ourselves if we're constantly, whenever we look around at other people, people in this church. other ministry servants and our first reaction is to be suspicious of them or we hear one thing about leadership and immediately, oh I knew it, I knew it, I I knew that I had that suspicion about them. That's the exact opposite of this wonderful fruit of being impartial. Be careful. Don't be biased. Just because that person's in leadership doesn't mean they're working against you. They have reasons, you pray, for what they do. And you can talk to them and ask them. Don't immediately be the one that's always suspicious. But be ready to give the benefit of the doubt. Impartial. And sincere. Another beautiful fruit of the Spirit here. Genuine. Not someone that's complicated. But just is who they are in wonderful, sincere simplicity. You know, even in our faults, being ready to admit those. Or none of us are perfect. If you uh vote on us to come and the Lord works that out, you're not getting a perfect pastor. I can promise you that. And I'll add something else to that too, folks. Sometimes I think with our leaders that if we're not careful we can expect too much out of them, and we forget that they're falling human beings. Remember, we only, each of us, we have one Savior, and his name is Jesus Christ. And if I can say it in this way, part of my English, but we ain't Him. The rest of us. We're trying as the Holy Spirit works in us to reflect more and more of Jesus Christ. But you have all your dependence in a leader But sooner or later that leader is going to disappoint you, unless that leader is Jesus Christ. He will never disappoint you. There's only one savior, and no pastor is going to be that savior, no leader. That position is already taken and we're glad for it. Jesus is our full sufficiency. And so we can be sincere with each other. We can share when we have struggles. We don't have to try to hide them. Or pave them over or whitewash them. We can be honest with each other. When we see these things going on And we see these things to one or lesser extent in our lives, we can be encouraged that God is building wisdom in our lives. And there's one more aspect in this of this as well, verse 18. It produces the fruit of the Spirit, biblical wisdom does, but it also produces a peaceful, productive environment. And this biblical wisdom in the life of the church provides action that provides a healthy spiritual environment that benefits the church and its leaders. It doesn't incite rivalry and chaos and bitterness and suspicion. But biblically wise people working together bring a harvest of peace and it's a beautiful harvest. Verse 18, a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. We're known for a lot of things in ministry, and I hope that we all have a desire to be known for the right things. It'd be good to pursue being known by these characteristics that we just went through, not through selfish ambition or bitterness or all these things. But folks, do you want to be known as one that is interested at least in being peaceful, in making peace? Within the community, rather than stirring things up. If you have that desire, then the Holy Spirit is doing a marvelous work in you, and you can be confident that He is and that you're submitted to that. See, each of us have the responsibility in the end here as we get to the end of this passage to examine each of our lives and make sure that we are filled with biblically wise living. That is also then creating a healthy environment in our church and maybe in our own families as well, where peace and spiritual vitality can prosper. Are we helping promote an atmosphere where people can grow in Jesus Christ without any hindrances? Are we actively pursuing peace? What does the world around us reflect? Chaos, evil, anger. I mean, there's just so many angry people out there. You hear about ridiculous situations now with road rage and people just uh killing each other um uh unnecessarily and in uh probably always always unnecessarily but just without even thought because they're so angry and they're so bitter We expect that from the world. But that shouldn't have or play a part in the church. That should never be a part of the spirit and the picture of the church. We must submit ourselves to God and not the world's wisdom. So are we filled with spiritual fruitfulness? Are we actively seeking the spiritual benefit, well-being of others, of unity, peaceful interactions? Well, we can ask the Lord Jesus Christ to help us to do that better. Lord, help me to grow in this. And then what can we experience? We can experience a beautiful harvest within the church of spiritual fruit. And the effective work of Jesus Christ in our hearts. When we're submitted to his work When we're submitted to the process of the Spirit and we're seeking to show the love of Christ, patience, gentleness. Sincerity, we're reasonable, we're ready, we're ready to be reasonable with others in all of these things. Then we can continue and see a vibrant church that's ready to serve Christ that the world needs to see. And I hope that that's a desire that each of us have in this church. That we desire a harvest of peace, and we're ready to make peace with each other through submission to Jesus Christ. Father. Thank you for this passage. It's so important to us. I pray that you will do this work and work this marvelous characteristic of humility and patience and gentleness, all of these things and more. That we would not be self-centered and desiring to promote ourselves, but that we would be submitted to your work within us. And that we could be in peace together as a church family and then have effective ministry in the community that's literally right outside our door, that needs A proper representation of Jesus Christ. Help us to be that representation and not just another bitter, angry, frustrated picture of the world. But a loving example of Christ. Or we all need that. We're all struggle with anger. We all struggle with these things. Give us victory through the power of the Holy Spirit. And help us to reflect true biblical wisdom in that way. For it is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Pastor Morty, you and