When Jesus returns and we're with him for all eternity, we will never tire of singing of the characteristics. And the love that Jesus Christ has for us. So I hope you're getting a good start now. He is our foundation. He is our dependable rock. But he has redeemed us from all sin and cleanses and brings renewal. He is worthy of our worship then, and so we're continuing in our worship series this morning. Today and in two weeks, Pastor Marty will be with us next week. And so we're continuing the very practical aspects of really it's kind of like why we do what we do in this service. We've talked about preparation, the need to prepare our hearts way before we ever come to this building on Sunday mornings. This is, this hour is our worship service. The official time that we give the sacrifice of worship to God, although we worship him all the time in every aspect of our lives, certainly. So we must prepare for that. Our saying must reflect God's expectations, and we talked about that. The fact that, again, as you are singing, you are literally teaching those around you and counseling them to remember God's goodness. I hope you did that well today. Our prayers, as we pray corporately, we all ought to be able to agree of the content of those prayers. And honoring our Lord in that. And today, we're going to talk about giving, honoring the Lord with our money in worship. Now I know, you know, the two some one of the two of the most sensitive topics in any church is number one music, and the next is money. And I guess I'm a glutton for punishment here because we're covering both of them in this series. But folks, they're important. How important is it to talk about finances and about gifts? Well, if you read the gospels, and I trust that you have, it's one of the topics that our Lord Jesus taught the most about. So certainly the shepherd of the local flock also ought to be teaching on that as well. Now, I need you to do some finger exercises this morning because we're going to go through a lot of passages. This is one of those more rare sermons. This is definitely more topical. You can start by turning to Deuteronomy. We're going to be in Deuteronomy quite a bit. But I'm just warning you, we're also going to be in Genesis, in Luke. And Malachi, you might want to figure out where Malachi is if you haven't already, and Mark as well, because in order to properly portray what God has to say about giving and worship, we need to look Look at multiple passages this morning. And money is not a topic that is avoided in Scripture. But you know, it is misunderstood. And so many times, if we're candid. And we're not careful. The very reason for giving in a church worship service can be misunderstood. Folks, it's not in any way a compensation of services. I enjoy what the church does for me, so then I give back almost like a glorified sense of tipping. Or something. Rather, it is giving to worship God From that um that uh humorous site that I go to a few times um I found something that kind of helps relay the misunderstanding of what we have in giving sometimes Now again, this is humor, right? Uh although I think it does reflect sometimes our misunderstanding. It has a uh news A mock newspaper headline from Dayton, Ohio. Explaining his disappointment with the overall experience lately, local man Brett Thomas confirmed reporters Thursday his plans to stop tipping unless the service at Calvary Baptist Church of Dayton improves significantly. I remember a few cert years ago the service was way better, Thomas noted. I could tell the greeters were excited to see me walk in the door. Sometimes there were even little donuts or Danishes and just sitting out right after the taping. And they went out of their way to make me feel special, and so I tipped accordingly. But much to his dismay, Thomas has noticed some changes recently I don't know if it's the new owners or what, but the experience just doesn't have the same energy, the same vibe it used to have. The worship songs seem to fall flat a lot more often. The pastor has been teaching from the Old Testament And the ushers just don't seem as sincere. The programs aren't as nice as they used to be. Even the pencils aren't as sharp as they used to be. And it's the little things, you know, that make all the difference. Now do they really expect Thomas continued to get a good tip with service like that? I might throw a five or ten in the plate, but don't even talk to me about percentages until things change around here. Do you realize the pastor had the gall to do a sermon on tithing last month? A frustrated Thomas added, I hope it doesn't come to this, but I tell you, on more than one occasion The wife and I have discussed taking our business elsewhere. It's humorous, but unfortunately, folks, there is that attitude many times within the giving of the local Church. And that totally misses the point. I think you caught that by referring to tipping, but we know we're not doing that here. But we are worshiping God with our money. Offering him worship. One form of worship, of giving and worship, is something called the tithe. And that's controversial in our day and age today. We're going to talk about that God's expectation of Israel was a 10% tithe of their possessions. And by the way, the very word for tithe in the Bible means 10%. It means a ten, that that segment of ten. And so the very word refers to that. But even more so, sometimes we get caught up in numbers, don't we? Well as long as I get that 10% in, or it's not ten percent, that's what they prescribed in the Old Testament, but we're not under that expectation anymore Folks, in the end, in that debate even really, what is it that is most important? It's our hearts as we give. And as your pastor, that's what's more important to me than any giving that you might distribute and might give forward to the church, is your heart attitude. While We are worshiping together. I'm going to read from Malachi chapter 3, and then we're going to pray together. We'll turn to there later. But God confronts his people. Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. And you say, how have we robbed you? And your tithes and contributions. You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. And then he gives a test here. Bring the full tithe into the storehouse that there may be food in my house, and thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts. If I will not open the windows of heaven for you, And pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need. All the nations will then call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the Lord. Lord of hosts. Father, as we continue to study what you have to say about your qualifications and expectations for worship. Help us just to be submissive to what your word says. Give understanding. Lord, let these not just be my words, but let The words of Scripture, your words, be understood and come through, that we might all agree together that giving is another wonderful opportunity in which to worship you. And we should not shortchange. you because of all that you have done for us. Pray that you would help us in this, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's get started in Deuteronomy chapter 12 verses 5 through 7 if you want to turn there And I want to start with this idea that I do believe in the midst of something that's somewhat controversial, that God does expect at least a 10% tithe in our worship And I'll give more indication of that. It's in Deuteronomy 12, verses 5 through 6. The very Hebrew word, again, for tithe, is masir. That means tenth part. It's like the word baptism. It just means Immersed. That's what it means. Same with the word tithe. Look at chapter 12, verses 5 through 7. But you shall seek the place that the Lord your God hath will choose out of all your tribes to put his name and make his habitation there. There you shall go, and there you shall bring your burnt offerings and sacrifices, your tithes. That's your tenth part in the contribution that you present, your vow offerings, your free will offerings in the firstborn of your herd and of your flock And there you shall eat before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice, you and your households, in all that you undertake, in which the Lord your God has blessed you. God is making specific expectations for worship from his people. And these are very detailed. We can't argue that these are very specific From the location, which is God's house, to the very presentation. God is expecting that people give of what He has given to them, out of the bounty of what He has given to them. from their cattle, and we could say today from their finances and all that God has given us today. And they're supposed to come. Did you see this? With a heart filled with gratitude and joy. Verse 7, you shall rejoice. That's a command. Well, God's even going to command our attitude in giving. Well, folks, he has a right to do it. And he says, you need to come and give and be joyful and thankful Because of all that God has given you. Look at the end of verse 7. In which the Lord your God has blessed you. You're so thankful. You rejoice. Now I get to bring something and give it back to him. What a wonderful opportunity. I get to worship him out of all the many things that he has provided for me. And that is, I think, clearly described here. Part of the controversy is, well, God doesn't expect from us what he expects from folks from the Old Testament in a lot of ways. Well, we're going to see more about this in a minute, but wouldn't you agree with me that the principle of joyful giving still continues, folks, for God's people today? The principles are still relevant and expected. And that is, is that when we give, it ought to be with rejoicing. I know of a situation many years ago where the pastor, in order to emphasize the need for tithing, But also he wanted to emphasize the blessing that we'll see in Malachi here in a few minutes. He would actually tell his parishioners, his congregation, He said, Tithing is so important and I believe in tithing so much that if you will commit to tithing and for some reason God doesn't meet your needs now that was kind of telling me cheek because the whole point was God is going to meet your needs. But he said, if for some reason you come up short and you need help, I will buy your groceries for a week. Now let me be clear, that's not me saying that. That's this pastor that I knew about twenty years ago, okay? Too late. Bob's already writing that down. It really made an impact with people. And I know one person in particular that that kind of struggled with tithing. And i it was when he heard that, he thought, well, I can do that and yeah, I and I haven't been tithing like I should, and the pastor will take care of me if I if for some reason But you could tell that he really just had a lack of faith in God, that God would provide for his needs. And he really had a lack of joy. He was treating it as something that he had to do, that God required of him. And he missed the whole point. One commentary said this Tithing was never meant to be an honorous weight that one must give a tithe of what one earns. Rather, the tithe was a liberating act of joyful worship. The surrender to his use of a small proportion of what one holds in trust by his grace is a graceful act of submission and dependence. Let me read that again. The surrender to God's use of a very a small proportion of what one holds in trust by his grace is a graceful act of submission and dependence. God expects our giving, folks, but it also shows our dependence upon Him, doesn't it? Lord, I am going to give because you have required that I do so, and I'm going to give joyfully, but I'm also depending that you're You're going to meet my needs because there may be some times where we give and we say, I don't know, I don't know how the Lord's going to meet needs next week. But God says that he will. And we need to depend upon that. Well, let's talk about this issue of is the tide still expected today? Turn to Genesis 28, verse 15. 20 through 22. And what I want to show you is tithing actually was a priority for God's people before God ever gave the Ten Commandments for the law at Mount Sinai. Alright? Because we that those that say, oh, God doesn't expect tithing today, they look at it and say, that's something that God had for his people, the nation of Israel, expectations when they entered into the promised land. But actually Tithing is one of those issues that was taking place long before the nation of Israel, God ever instituted that nation, even in Genesis with the patriarchs. Abraham himself, the patriarch of Israel, the father of the nation, gave tithes. And we see in this passage, 28 verses 20 through 24 , his grandson Jacob also continued that tradition and that expectation which he associated Jacob associated tithing with worship of God. Let's look at this. Genesis twenty-eight. Verse let's go to verse eighteen. So early in the morning Jacob took the stone that he had put under his head and set it up for a pillar and boiled oil on the top of it. He called the name of that place Bethel, but the name of the city was Laz at the first. Then Jacob made a vow. And as you probably remember, a vow is a very serious oath given before God. saying, if God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so then so that I come again to my father's house and peace. peace, then the Lord shall be my God. And this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God's house. And all that you give me, there's our word for tithe, I will give you a full tenth back to you Jacob is associating that tide with worship long before Israel was in existence. And he promises to give God 10% of the possessions God gave to him as an expression of honor and gratitude. So this was an expectation that was early on. Well, Pastor Bach, that's still the Old Testament. Well, I understand that. So let's turn to the New Testament. Luke chapter 11. And let's listen to the words of Jesus here in verse forty-two. Just a heads up, this is Jesus in the midst of rebuking the Pharisees for their attention to detail. But their lack of love and responsibility towards others. Luke 11, 42. But woe to you, Pharisees! For you tithe mint and roux and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God. Here are these men that are so dedicated to the tithe. Now again, at this time it wasn't just finances. Of course, in the Old Testament, I don't know that they had money in the sense that we think of today by the New Testament. some ways that they did, but they mostly tied through um livestock and and um vegetables and things like this but these men Went the extra nth degree here and would take their very herbs from their precious herb gardens. Everybody would see them do us as the priests would take these herbs and they would divide and they would be careful This is exactly 10% and weigh this. So everybody could see their dedication to the tithe. Very impressive. But Jesus says, that's great. You're spending all this time measuring herbs, but you're not doing the job that God expects of you. You're not at you're neglecting justice. You're not showing love to God's people The priests were not being fair and righteous in their judgments with the people that they were leading. They didn't care. They didn't care that there were injustices. Do you remember even how Jesus had to cleanse the temple twice because there were people allowed into the temple complex? that were taking money from from people that had very little and misusing and abusing them and taking their money And the Pharisees, the people or the leaders had no concern because they were getting some of that money as well. They were concerned for the poor. They were concerned for righteousness. or justice. They had no love for the people of God, and yet they were so wonderful in raising these herb gardens. They had more love for vegetables and herbs than they did for people. And Jesus says, that's not right. And I think we all understand that's not right. Well, what does that have to do with tithing, Pastor Brock? Well notice what Jesus says at the end of that verse. These you ought to have done Without neglecting the others. Jesus doesn't condemn them for the tithe. He says, you're supposed to be tithing. That's that 10%. But certainly don't neglect even the more important things of being righteous and fair and showing love to other people. Or it's just a show. It's not real. So I think we get the point here, but at the end of this verse, I just want to make it clear that Jesus is not degrading or making illegitimate the tithe. He says, no, you're right to do that. It carries that expectation into the New Testament. So, with that, folks, I am convinced That giving 10% of our finances is what God expects, but really, let's just be real here. I think that's the bare minimum of what we should be giving to God. Measuring out like the Pharisees did that 10% and okay, I've got it, so we're good. That's not the spirit that God's talking about, is it? Should our tithing be meager, just giving God that exact 10 and saying, okay, the rest is for me Or should it be joyful? And so for those that want to argue, well, I just don't think the tithe applies. And if they were to say, well , I don't want to give just 10%, Pastor Brock. I don't want to be tied by that. I want to give more than 10%. Then I would relinquish the argument and say, fine, go ahead. I'd be glad for you to do that. We'll agree to give disagree on the tithe, but if you say I want to give more than just 10%, Pastor Brock, then I would say, certainly, go at it. That really ought to be the attitude that we all have. If you want to give that But if if any way, folks, we tend toward the other side of this where it says, I'm not sure that I have to give 10%, maybe a little less this week. You know, I've got a lot of difficulties and a lot of things in my life, and maybe, you know, so so God can't mean 10%, and I'm not going to give him that full ten. Well regardless of whether you uh believe in that tithe or not, would you agree with me that less than 10% really is rather slight and meager? Compared to all that God has done for us? Isn't he worthy of much more? Now, even as I say that, what you may tend to think Is well of course the pastor is gonna say that because he wants he he looks at the finances of the church and the church needs money so of course he's gonna preach well it's gotta be at least ten percent but give more but folks don't misunderstand me that's not my spirit at all. I don't stand up here worried that if we don't get a certain amount and if you don't tithe your 10% on a regular basis, that somehow the church is going to be in detriment. I I'm not worried about that because Jesus Christ is going to take care of his church. So I don't need to be up here and preach, folks, if we're getting a little low. Now I I might make the Budget Finance Committee a little nervous on this slightly. But they they understand and they would agree with me as well, is that we're not the leadership is not worried that if you don't give what God prescribes, that somehow it's going to affect the church. Now that may be an outgrowth of that, but Jesus Christ is going to provide, so I'm not concerned about that. What I am concerned is that we're obeying God in worship and that we have hearts that are ready to obey Him and worship Him well and honor and thank Him. I'm more concerned with your heart attitude. As we give together. That is my burden for you. As we give, is it hard to let that go? Or do we say, Lord, I wish it could be even more? But here's the here's the basis. That tends to be And I'm so glad that I'm able to give it. You know, we have uh this kind of, and I've been talking to many of you. I've had the opportunity the past couple weeks or so of just talking with you about a multitude of issues. And one of those is do we bring the offering back? And we're kind of just kicking that around and deciding. One of the things that I appreciated as I talked with some of you About the offering is that you said, Pastor Brock, that would be okay as long as it doesn't inhibit the singing and the and the scripture reading. I'm like, that's great. I appreciate that attitude. But whether we pass a plate around or not, or whether we just put our offering in the box in the back I can't say one's more biblical than the other. , I do like the visible representation though of the plague going back and forth as a reminder that it's worship. But in the end, whether it's the plate or the box, you also have the widow giving her two mites, right? And she didn't put it in the plate. She put it in the box. So work regardless. However you give, make sure your heart attitude is right as you're Giving. But here's something, another principle as I finish up today, that I'm not so sure that we've given as much consideration to, because when somebody first presented this to me and Leslie, we thought, wow We've never really thought about that before. But the more that I've sought God's word and prayed about it, the more I've been convinced that God Expects and wants this as well. And this may be a little bit of a surprise to you. But I think it's reasonable, and we'll look at some scripture here, that God wants us to give every time. We worship together. Leslie and I took a seminary class together. Had the opportunity, and there was a man, some of you that were from Bob Jones, a well-known, distinguished man, his name was Dr. Penosian And he had this wonderful, wonderful voice of a historian. He taught church history, he taught history classes there, Bob Jim. university. They're very low and deep. And it was just he just sounded like a sage and a wise man. And as he was going through church history, he said something in the midst of the class, I forget the connotation or the connection with what I said what he's talking about. But Leslie and I were married. We were able to take this class together. We were enjoying this bill and sit next to each other and we could hold hands, you know, while everybody else couldn't because we were married. Um but it was it was fun. But then he said this and we kind of looked at each other like wow he said you should be prepared to have something to put in the offering and have reserve. We looked at each other, wow, I've never really considered that before. Every service? That's well, it's Dr. Pinosian. Who's going to argue with Dr. Pinosian? But eventually I started looking at Scripture because I wanted a basis for this. And so let's turn to Deuteronomy chapter 16 and look at verses 16 through 17. This is just, this is God's expectation for people as they worship, and he gives specific examples. of festivals, but there is a principle involved here. Deuteronomy 16, verses 16 through 17. Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose. at the feast of unleavened bread, at the feast of weeks, and at the feast of booths. They shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed. Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God that he has given you. Three celebrations listed here on the Israeli calendar. And they were giving was expected by God as they celebrated the grain harvest and the feast. Feast of Tabernacles celebrating the Thanksgiving for God's provision for his people. And God makes it clear in these verses that his expectation was that his people always be ready to give something at these important times of worship to show their gratitude and thankfulness. Now folks, I'm not going to prescribe that to you this morning. I just want to throw that out to you as something to think about. As Leslie and I prayed about it, and I came from a background. Every family has their strengths and weaknesses. And in my family, the whole issue of the tithe, I will admit, was rather weak growing up. So when I actually heard the concept of giving something every Sunday, I thought, man, that's new to me Now even as I present that this morning, now you may think, well, now that's really an opportunity for Pastor Brock to just expect and try to, you know. fill the coffers of of the church finances a little bit more, but it's not. In fact, what Leslie and I decided to do with this particular issue is that we would divide up our tithe , making sure that it was the 10% of our paycheck, and that we would always have something to give at every service and divide Because God knows that He we only have so many resources and for me to be up here and saying, Well, you must get something every Sunday, I know that that may sound hard. and difficult. And it's just something that each of us need to reflect on. You've seen this principle in Scripture. It's in other passages as well. But what we've decided is to split up the tithing so that we always have something to give and that if for some reason there's a fifth Sunday or whatever, at least some cash, at least something. A dollar, whatever. So that we are fulfilling this aspect of worship. As we give every Sunday. Well, this type of giving is a test of faith. And that's why turn to Malachi chapter 3, verses 8 through 12. I read from that already. Certainly for God's people, when times were hard, like when the exiles came back from Babylon and came back to their homeland. And we're trying to build the temple, and the temple just didn't look as nice as it used to, and there were a lot of struggles, but they didn't have extra cash floating around But God said, even with that, that you must trust me and worship me in the way that I prescribed. And he's accusing them here of robbery, just in the fact it seems that they weren't tithing at all, or very little. Verse 8. Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. This is Malachi chapter 3, verse 8. But you say, how have we been robbing you? God's people questioning him. What? Almost like a a rebellious child to a parent. You prove God how we're robbing you. That's a lot of arrogance, isn't it? In your tithes and contributions, in your tenth part, you are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me the whole nation of you. You're a bunch of thieves. Oh, that's pretty direct. Bring the full tithe into the storehouse that there may be food in my house. Now, God does address the need here. There needed to be food in his house because there was this group of servants called the Levites that totally depended upon the tithing and the offerings of the people in order to have their food, in order to be taken care of. And so God says, my house needs to be full. This was also a way that people that didn't have enough money or that didn't have enough food, the priest could then distribute this food and these contracts Contributions as needed, and the poor and the needy were taken care of as well. And God says, you've been neglecting this, and so My servants and needy, helpless people are not being taken care of. But notice that's almost a side note for him. His main concern is for worship. So because of that concern, God does something, really one of the rare times he does this in Scripture. Look at that second part of verse 10. God says, you put me to the test. Test me on this if you don't believe me. He says, thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts, the Lord who is all powerful, who can meet all needs. If I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need. God saying, stop robbing me and being thieves of my worship. You are being glory thieves. That needs to stop. Begin tithing again. So that the storehouses may be full. And God says, I will make sure that your storehouses are full as well. I will meet your needs. It's a promise, folks That God's people can depend upon. Let's be candid. Money is important to us. Even as I'm preaching up here, I understand that We find ourselves many times, as I'm saying collectively here, sometimes wondering, God, how are you going to provide for us this week? Money is an important issue. But even more important is our faith and trust in God that He will meet our needs when we obey Him. In the way that he prescribes. And here we have a test. And God isn't, do you think in any way God's going to fail his own test? It's not possible. God will provide. He says it here. And that principle goes to his people today as well. A remarkable thing. An invitation to test the Lord of hosts, the Lord of heaven, but not by disobedience, by obeying. God saying here, you obey me, just give it a try. Give it a chance And see what I will do. Evaluate the dependability of my promise. And you need to give with a grateful heart. He says, verse eleven, I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruit of your soil, and your vine in the field shall not fail to bear, says the Lord of hosts. Then all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the Lord of hosts. I think here the Lord is actually even tying his is taking care of his people with his very reputation. God says, I'll tie it to my reputation that people around will see that I am taking care of my people as they give in worship to me And we know that God is very concerned about his reputation and that he will receive glory from the people. So God will do this thing. He will meet all our needs. He will take out the hindrances to our having our needs met. What a wonderful promise. So as we talk about giving this morning, don't be nervous, folks. God's got this. Be thankful and just give and enjoy that part of the service. Test God, He will answer, but also finally turn to Mark 12. Giving really is also a sign of our devotion to God, not just our faith. But our dependence and our devotion. And Jesus makes this clear. Jesus is with his disciples, and he's there near the temple, and all of a sudden Jesus just sits down. With the disciples there and he just starts watching people. Almost like if we were at the end of the service, if we were fellowshipping together, and I just went out and I sat in the lobby here and I just stared at the box Well that would be a little awkward, wouldn't it? But that's exactly what Jesus does here. And I wonder what the disciples thought about that. But he was watching. Why would Jesus do that? Because he was enjoying people, not because he was sitting there thinking, boy, I hope we get the money that we need to help the temple uh keep up the temple uh appearance And to keep all the, you know, things running and the Levites taken care of. He wasn't worried about that. Jesus was just enjoying watching people worship, folks. That's what he was doing. And he was inviting his disciples. You enjoy watching people worship with me. And there were a lot of people that put things into that box. That was a chauffeur chest, by the way. Jesus and the disciples probably were at one of the nine gates in the dividing wall around the temple proper. They probably would have entered in the court of women. And there were 13 receptacles for receiving religious and charitable donations. They were called chauffeur chests, shofar chests, excuse me, because they were shaped like a trumpet, the shofar. And each bore an inscription for what the money could be used for. It's one commentator's description of this. So here Jesus sits. Many wealthy people are putting in large sums. But you know how this goes. Verse 42, a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny. Let's just say if somebody had made a $50 donation today, this widow's might would have easily been under a dollar. Not very impressive in a lot of ways. But Jesus is very impressed. Not that he's belittling those that have more money and that they're giving, but what he is saying is that some of those that are giving those large sums are doing it. just for show or out of ritual, but he said, this one woman that gave this little bit of money gets it. She's devoted to me, and so she's given all. Verse 43. He called his disciples to him and said, Said to him, Truly I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who were contributing to the offering box, for they all contributed out of their abundance. But she, out of her poverty, has put in everything she had. All she had to live on. For the most part, these wealthy people were doing it because they had it, but they didn't have any concerns. They knew they had enough afterwards. But this one lady, less than a dollar in today's terms, That was all she had. And she took God up on that test of faith and said, Lord, I love you more than my own needs. And so I will give all. Expecting that you will provide for me. And it also seems to indicate that this was her regular practice, folks. It wasn't a one-time thing, God was meeting her needs because she was still living and breathing and able to do this. And there was her regular practice. Again, God knows the hearts of the giver. And he's going to bless us when we come before him, not because the pastor twisted arms. Or because the church is in dire need, but because, wow, Lord , look at all you gave me. Look at my house. Look at my job. Look at my kids. Look at all these wonderful things. And now I get to come to you in the worship service in give you back just a little bit in the big scheme of things. Lord, I'm excited and ready to do that. So yes, I do believe that the tithe was an offering from the law of Moses requiring at least 10% of an Israelite's first fruits. But more important was the heart attitude because God provided the harvest. This was their part to return it back to him. And it was a reminder, as one commentator says to all Israel, that all things that we have are his. And it's a show of thankfulness for his provision. Folks, in the end, again, I don't preach on money to say church needs your money. Help us out. But I preach And we talk about it because giving is our opportunity in worship to show our thankfulness to our Lord Jesus Christ for all that he's done for us. I hope I've made that case clear, but I hope that in the midst of hopefully conviction in all of our hearts, that there's a sense of, yeah. God deserves that. I'll gladly give it to him. That's the attitude that he wants. That's the attitude that we should have as we give together and work Together. Father, a good reminder for us from many passages of scripture this morning of your expectation. Lord talking about money is tends to be a little awkward in church situations. Well, Father, I know I'm not nervous, I'm not worried. God, that that you will provide for this ministry. But I pray that each of us here today will again recognize in maybe a more full way the joy of giving in worship. Even in the specific ways that we do that here at this church. That we would worship you out of thankfulness and look on all that you have given us. Some here are in the world standards poor, many. Some you granted with a little more financial assistance than others. But in the end, we know it's all yours. So regardless of whether we think we have little or much, help us to be thankful and glory in what you have promised, that you will need our means. our needs and Lord I pray that as we maybe get back to this and maybe we're convicted and we start giving more some some in the way that you prescribe, I pray that those folks would as well see your hand a blessing in their lives and be reminded we can't outgive our God And trust you and depend upon your protection and care for us.