And so we never need to fear, or to be afraid, or concerned, even in what God calls us to do. And yet, as the children leave for children's church, and as we get ready for the first in this new series, I'm excited about the ability to take you through the book of Jonah. This this is a book that was one of our favorites probably since we were children. And seeing the pictures of the big whale with the or so many times the little happy whale. With a little spout of water coming out, and um Jonah's flailing around like a cartoon figure in the water. Um and all All all of that, it tends to it tends to make the whole thing more uh children's story like and cartoonish, doesn't? And yet when we get in The details of Jonah, we actually see a servant of God that really does the unthinkable, a faithful servant of God. Who yet looks at what he's called to do and says, that's not for me. I'm not playing the game. Anymore, Lord. I'm going my own way. Remarkable. And what we're going to see here, many times we get focused on Jonah's sin, and it is great. As a faithful servant that does is not a faithful testimony of a faithful God, Jonah blows it. Plain and simple. What I really want us to see is Jonah, the rescue of a selfish servant, that at our most selfish as God's children, God is still out to rescue us. Rescue us, folks, and he will do his changing work in our lives, even if he goes to what we think are extreme techniques in order to bring us back to Him. God will not lose us. No matter how, as true believers, no matter how much we rebel and We fall away in a sense from what we know we're supposed to do. God is there to pick us up and keep us in. And that is one of our great hopes, the great hope. Now, as I start the book of Jonah, I'm going to ask what may sound like a really silly question. Question. But where do we first hear of this man, this prophet Jonah? He is a prophet. We're going to see that. You might think, well, Pastor Brock, it's in The book of Jonah. Of course, of course, you just announced that. Well, actually, that would not be correct. This isn't the first time that Jonah is named. And actually, in the book of 2 Kings, if you'll turn with me there, chapter 14 verses 23 through 27, we are first introduced to Jonah, and Jonah gets uh command Commissioned by God to do something wonderful and exciting. And he gladly obeys God. And sees God's power in the midst of his people. Now, just a little bit of background. Joseph's prophet Jonah, excuse me, Jonah's prophetic ministry took place during the time of a king. Named Jeroboam, but it was the second king named Jeroboam in Israel's history. And this time, we'll call him Jeroboam the second, this king, God graced the nation. Of Israel with one of the most prosperous errors, eras of time that they had since the reign of Solomon. Which is really remarkable because Jeroboam Boam II wasn't a very good king. He was in that line of wicked kings. His grandfather was Jehoahaz, and God brought judgment to the northern Kingdom, because of that man's great wickedness, the Syrians came and God brought judgment to them, but God also brought mercy, and in Jehoah 's son Joash. Um Joash actually had an encounter with the prophet Elisha. You remember when Elisha uh was close to the end of his life and there was that that that king that Elisha was with and had him pull back on those arrows in that bow and he said, shoot off many arrows. Well that was Joash. Joash didn't shoot as many arrows as Elisha Had intended him for uh to do because of a lack of faith. Elisha chided him for that. But God still gave much victory and success to Joash. Um just really Because Joash wasn't that great of a king either. And so we wouldn't expect then for Joash's son, the second Jeroboam , To be much better either, to be very impressive. And yet in this, God still in his grace, even with evil kings leading His people is willing for his own glory to show mercy upon his people and give them great success. So, with that as a background, we have 2 Kings 14. Verses 23 through 27 , notice the guy who gets to deliver the message of success and victory. In the fifteenth year of Amaziah, the son of Joash, king of Judah, there we go, Jeroboam, that's Jeroboam II, the son of Joash, king of Israel, began to rule in Samaria. So this is in the northern kingdom, as the kingdoms are divided. And he reigned 41 years. And let's be clear, verse 24, he did what was evil in the sight of the Of the Lord. How disappointing. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin. But God in his grace still, verse 25, restored the border Of Israel from Lebohamoth as far as the Sea of Arabah, according to the word of the Lord, the God of Israel, which he spoke by his servant Jonah. There we have Jonah, the son of Amati the prophet, who is from Gath Hefer. For the Lord saw why would God do that, by the way? Why would God um give such benefits to a rebellious This evil king. Verse 26, the Lord saw that the affliction of Israel was very bitter, for there was none left bond or free, and there was none But the Lord had not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, so he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Jeroboam. Joash. God just has grace and pity and mercy on a rebel people. He knows that they're in dire straits and that they're hurt. Hurting and God wants to be a comfort to them. And so He calls this prophet Jonah in this passage. He says, Go bring a message of hope and success and victory, Jonah, to my people. Now I'm certain that That as Jonah was asked to do that, that he was thrilled with the prospect. Wow, I mean, I get I get to go to King Jeroboam and tell him through what the The Lord has told me that He is going to give us success and that He's going to strengthen the kingdom. Sure, Lord, I'll be glad to take that message. Man, that's wonderful. Life as a prophet is great We just skip to run around and give all these positive, wonderful messages. Well, I don't know if he was that unrealistic. But for his career to start in this way, it had to be in an encouragement. Meant to Jonah, right? So that's the background. Jonah received the privilege of giving a positive message. But as we get more into this story, we're going to see that this time God comes to Jonah again, and you can turn now to the book of Jonah. And the commission. That the great ruler, sovereign ruler of the skies has for Jonah this time isn't quite the same, doesn't have the same level of excitement. And yet it's still just as important. God this time has a message for Jonah to give, not to his people. But to a cruel enemy nation named Assyria. Let me just give you a little bit of background on Assyria. Assyria, the nation of Assyria, had arisen to become a dominating threat to Israel. in the reign of Jehu. I mentioned Jeroboam the Sec. Jehu was Jeroboam's great grandfather. Okay? So Assyria had been a dominating Threat to Israel for a while at this point when God comes to Jonah. And they were a powerful and very cruel force to be reckoned with. But they had not yet reached their superpower status that they would in the near future. Not yet. And at this point, when God comes to Jonah, it seems Like they were having a period of maybe weakened leadership and power. And it was at this point they were more of a weakened empire that were Struggling, this is Assyria, to maintain the power that they had, God would use them eventually as a very mighty tool to Correct his people, to discipline his people, to chasten his people, the nation of Israel, probably in less than a hundred years. But it's almost as If before God allows that to take place, that He wants the Assyrians to know that He's watching and He knows them. And He knows what they're up to. And so God has a message for Jonah and he sends him to Nineveh. Well, what does that have to do with the Assyrians? Well, Nineveh would eventually be the Assyrians. Assyrian capital, but it was a very important city for the Assyrians. It's where it was the worship center for their god Ishtar, and it was located on the eastern Bank of the Tigris, it was a great legendary city that represented the powers of the of the Assyrians and would soon become the capital. Of a great superpower. And God says, I have a message for this enemy of my people. And Jonah, you're the one that gets to deliver it. And so let's look at verse 1. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitabh Saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me And so God comes again to Jonah, and he says, Jonah, I've got another mission for you. And I can just imagine Jonah after what we just read in the For 2 Kings thinking, now this is my imagination, right? I'm guessing. But Jonah thinking, great. Okay, God, I'm ready. What blessing am I going to tell our people about this time. Are you are you gonna make us more financially successful? Are you gonna give us um victory over this enemy over here? You know, I really like this this profit job. And this prophet ministry. So what message of blessing do I get to give people this time? Just lay it on me, Lord. Tell me. And so God does. It is interesting in this book of Jonah, just to be just to make note here, that it the word of the Lord is mentioned more quickly and directly And immediately than any other prophetic book. Right away, the author of Jonah, who is a very gifted writer, by the way, there's so many nuances and So many different aspects to this that I want to bring forth. And it's a very well-written book. It's a jewel of a book, really. And I'm glad we're able to get into it But it directly in the first verse mentions that God has a word and a mission for Jonah. And this is What it is. By the way, Jonah's main name I should mention means dove. Interestingly enough, what we're going to find is that he's a rather ornery dove. But his name means dove. And it says, the word of the Lord, that means the covenant God Yahweh has a specific mission and Um and weigh ahead and forward and details for his servant, the dove. And here's what it is, verse 2 Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city. And call out against it, for their evil has come up before me. God is describing here. We sang this morning Sovereign ruler of the skies. And we see in this second verse here, God sovereignly ordaining judgment for the peoples of the world, not just his own people. God, as creator and sovereign ruler over the world, gets to call the shots. And he's saying to Jonah, Jonah, the time has come to deal with the enemy, the Assyrian. In my sovereign plan, their arrogance and their cruelty, I'm gonna deal with. And maybe God is doing this, we don't know for sure. Maybe as He's allowed Allowing them soon to be a superpower, he's reminding them: I'm watching. I can put a check on you, Assyrians, anytime I want. And so I want to make it clear: I know what you're doing. And your evil has risen up to me. It almost has the picture of I can smell your evil, and judgment is coming because of that. Reminds me of I mentioned recently that I guess it was a couple months ago now that uh some of our boys we were we were Over fishing in a pond with my father-in-law having a great time, and um one of the boys caught some turtles, or maybe it was two of them. Um little turtles, they looked innocent and cute and Of course, then the question was, Dad, can we bring these home? And if you remember, I told you before, I said, well, certainly. Leslie was away, so she wasn't able to give her input on that. But I thought, what could two cute little turtles, how much trouble could they be? And so I was like, okay, well you can bring them home. And he found, and they were very responsible. found a tank and then they found even a bigger tank online on Facebook Marketplace. So we went to get that. And really it was quite impressive. I think from a homeschool aspect, I'm trying to sell Leslie on this. This has been very educational for us. I've certainly learned a lot through it. And particularly one of our boys has done research about the food and he's like, you know, he'll he'll order the food and he'll show it to me. Look at Dad. This has real shrimp and real worms in it. Turtles love this. Okay, son, that's great. Happy turtles. Happy son. So he put all this together and it's out now in the garage. It wasn't working so well in the basement. We put it out in the garage because there was one aspect that the term Turtles that we had a problem with. And it wasn't necessarily that they were hard to take care of. You just open up the top, you dump it in, they're happy, they swim But there is a reason, folks, that ponds many times are stinky. Did you know that? It's because ponds have turtles in them. And turtles can start to smell really bad in their environment after a few days. And so every so often, as we go into the garage, uh we'll notice That's really rank. So and so, it's time to clean the tank because it's come to our nostrils and we can't live with this much any longer. And so he'll dutifully go out and clean the tank. And so, you know, turtles, it's been fun. But who would have thought? Now, maybe you knew a little better than I did on that one. But folks, this is kind of a picture really of what's happening with God here. God is saying, Your the smell of your evil, Assyrians, has reached me. Not that he didn't know about it before in his sovereignty. But the time is time has come for me to do something about it. So we're gonna clean the tank, Assyrians. And Jonah, you're the one that's going to get the privilege to tell them so. Well, that actually, folks, was not a small thing. This was a rare thing. Most of the time prophets would take God God's word to his people saying, if you don't shape up, right, I'm gonna allow an enemy nation to come and deal with you and bring correction. But not so often would a Jewish prophet go to an enemy nation and say, You better shape up, or my God is going to deal with you too. And this wasn't just any enemy nation. As I studied for this, folks, the Assyrians were known, and if you've ever read anything about the Assyrians, they were known for their cruelty. They were They were just terrible in what they would do. And so much so in a mixed audience here, I I can't, I don't even want to go into detail because it would be too disturbing. For you. But they they would purport these cruelties so that they would have dominance and people would just be intimidated immediately, and nobody wanted to go through what And so their cruelties and their arrogance and pride reached God, and he basically said, No more. But at the same time It would be in today's terms, and this isn't any exaggeration, folks. It would be in today's terms like God sending a prophet or whatever His people to go talk to Hamas or Iran. Now, which one of us or which one of or any Jewish person would raise their hands and Willingly ask for that task. And if you hear and you study what the Assyrians did to God's people and other nations , It was even more terrible than even what we've heard currently, that the the terrible things that Hamas has done to Israel and what happens over there, the Assyrians were even worse. So, can we give Jonah a little bit of the benefit of the doubt here that maybe a timid dove might be fearful of this assignment? And might not want to follow through, one would have to be confident in the power of their God. The question is. Is Jonah confident? And how is he going to react to this? Now the Jewish mindset as they read the book of Jonah would immediately explain Like all the other prophets, that, and especially when God's word is so direct. I mean, at the beginning of the book, bam, this is what you do, Jonah. Go do it. I am the divine ruler of the skies. You are my emissary, and all emissaries ever do are obey and take the messages of God 's people or to um the messages to the receivers. God uses his people for those purposes. So the Jewish reader would have thought, okay, well now we're going to hear about how Jonah's going to take. Wow. This message of judgment to the Ninevehes. That's going to be interesting. But instead, what we have here would be a shock. To the Jewish mind. And really, it might be to ours too if we weren't so familiar with this. But what does Jonah do? Here is a clear command. There's no mixing of words here. God said, go to Nineveh and tell them. Again , That they their evil, or this has the idea of disaster or even cruelty. I know of their cruelty. Go And what does Jonah do? Verse 3. Jonah rose. And again, you'd be thinking he rose to obey God, but no, he rose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. What? How can that be? Prophets don't run the other way from what God tells them to do. They just obey. That's their job. And it says here that Jonah had the hubris to rise and go. It says to Tarshus. Well, where is Tarshus? Well, folks, we don't know for sure. It could be that it could be on the coast of Spain, that's one good guess. Um it could be on one of the coasts near Greece, but we do know this much. God told Jonah to go to Nineveh, and Jonah, the prophet of God, went the exact opposite way from what God told him to do. That's bold rebellion, folks. He basically told God, I don't want any part of this mission. And really, what he's saying in his disobedience Says, Lord, I really don't want a part of being a Jewish person or a part of you anymore. Because for a prophet to disregard and be disobedient to what God's called called him to do is basically in many other passages of scripture a prophet could be barred and thrown out of the community, considered not a prophet. Part of the Jewish community any longer if he would not obey God and do what God called him to do. And I think as we continue to go through Jonah here in the next few weeks. Weeks, we're going to find that Jonah is not a dummy. He's not a spiritual clod. I think Jonah knows God very well. And I think Jonah knows that as he does this, he goes the exact opposite way that God's called him. to go. He knows that he's giving up everything. And here's the thing, I don't think he cares. Because for whatever reason and It's interesting as well. The Bible doesn't give us yet what that reason is. Look through that passage again. Do you see any uh motive for Jonah? No. It Jonah doesn't seem to say anything, he just immediately goes the opposite way And does the opposite thing that God's called him to do. We'll find out later his motive. But it says he went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down and Into it to go with them to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord. That port in Joppa was a very important port, a very important seaport. It was actually where in the New Testament Peter would have his vision of those unclean animals. Remember that? And God would call Peter to a greater understanding of the gospel and God's acceptance of the Gentiles. Today, it's referred to as Tel Aviv. So you might be able to now think we have a better idea of where this important seaport is located. Jonah goes there, and really he says, uh you could describe it this way. In his actions, he pursued Rebellion and he was even willing to pay for it. He found a ship going to Tarshis, and so he paid the fare and went down into it to go with them. There is Jewish tradition, and there is some room for this within the Hebrew, that Jonah actually chartered the whole ship. Jonah had seemed to have access to funds to where he thought that he could get away from God. You know, with someone that knew God this well and it had served him faithfully, Before, did Jonah really think that he could run away from God? I used to think so. Because let's be honest, no matter the most faithful servant of God, one And has served God for many, many years. We can all forget about the truths of who God is. Isn't that what Habakkuk did? We just saw that study. Habakkuk knew who God was, but he forgot the truth. truths and was not able to apply the truths of God's character to his own situation. I don't think that Jonah thought that he could actually run away from God God. I think really in my interpretation of this as I've studied, I just think Jonah thought that he could disqualify himself From being part of God's people , and that he could find a place where God's word wouldn't be so prevalent. That he could literally run away from having to hear God's word being spoken because he wanted nothing else to do with it. Now, folks, do we ever find ourselves? Do Christians today ever find themselves In situations where God is calling you to do something, or there's something so painful in your life that you just Say I I'm kind of done with hearing from God for a while. And we just neglect his word. Or we think if we can just, as his people, just Kind of neglect and and we just have a less of an enthusiasm to study his word, so we neglect it for a while. We may think maybe um if I just stay away from God's word. That he won't keep this conviction and guilt and work in my life. I won't have to deal with it anymore. We fool ourselves in a lot of ways, just like Jonah did. Just like Habakkuk. If Jonah thinks that he can get away from his consequences and can get to a place where he doesn't have to hear from God any longer. I think you know, right? He's sorely mistaken. And he's going to find that out soon enough. Because God is going to come as the mighty warrior, and he's literally going to hurl a spear, a weapon of judgment. At Jonah. Now we don't have time today to get into that second part. I'm looking forward to that. It only gets more dramatic from here, folks. But you think about that, even what we've seen so far. Can anybody relate to Jonah? God gives him an assignment that's like really cool. Wow. I yeah, I get to announce God's victory and blessings in my people's lives. I'm the one that gets you know, there weren't very many prophets, if you think about it, that had that opportunity. Most of the prophets, their Message was negative. And didn't God tell Jeremiah, Jeremiah, I'm going to give you a message to give the people, and by the way, they're not even going to listen to you, so just you know, buck up. Jonah got to deliver a message that was encouraging and people afterwards said, hey, there's the prophet Jonah. He's the one that you know that prophesied about our success. Success. Way to go. I like him. But when we're a faithful servant of God, folks, do we get to pick and choose? Um which Of God's missions that we're going to want to do? Does God allow us that possibility? That option? No, He doesn't. So as we finish this morning, I'm wondering. Are there people here today where God has made it clear what he wants you to do? And you are actively ignoring what he's calling you to do. You know, we talked about membership here, we've talked about being evangelistic, we've talked about proclaiming Christ. It could be all sorts of things, right? Is there something in our lives today where God has made it clear, this is what I want you to do? And we've said, God, I you must be talking to somebody else, right? Or maybe there are some that have stopped coming to church altogether. Because they realize, well, God wants me to do that? No. Maybe if I stop attending church, I won't have to hear that anymore. Folks, we're fooling ourselves. And we're playing Playing a game that God won't play. And God will come at some point and remind us in His grace that He has something He expects for us to do, and He wants Wants us to do that. But folks, it's not as much to judge as it is to save us from ourselves. Because when a servant is called to do something and they refuse to do it, They're not living the life God intended for them to live. They're robbing themselves of true joy and true. peace and happiness by doing the will and being the emissary that God has called them, has called us to be. They're robbing themselves of great joy. And God says, I'm I'm not going to allow my people to do that. I'm going to save them from themselves. They need to be involved in this direction that I'm sending them to do. It's part of my sovereign plan for them. And if they balk or if they're fearful, I will send reminders gentle, and as we'll see in Jonah next week, maybe not so Gentle to turn them around and turn them back to me. See, I think we come to the book of Jonah many times and we think, oh, that's not really that applicable to me. That's just that crazy Jonah who thought he could run from God. I heard one pastor one time preach a message on Jonah, and the title of the message was Jonah. The jerk. And it just had the idea of, look at this Jonah. How could somebody act that way? What a jerk he's acting like. We would never act like that. That. Well actually, folks, the more we understand Jonah and his propensity to run away from God, I think I I know we're gonna see a lot of Of our own motives and temptations to run from him and rebel against his ways in our own hearts. This is then a book for all of us. And it has much to teach us. Are you running from God today? Are there those here today that are running from a relationship with Jesus Christ? He's calling You to trust in him. He's calling you to salvation, and you're trying to run away from that. You can't run from God. You can't run from a God that is seeking you out and is ready to save you. Father, thank you for the start. Of this series today. That you rescue selfish servants. And so, Lord, if there's anyone here today that is rebelling Against you, that is not in the right frame of mind, that is not willing. To act and serve in a manner that you've called us to. Lord, help them today. Help us today to repent of that And remember that you are the sovereign ruler that saves his own people from their own ignorance and their own evil ways. And so we must rejoice in that and turn humbly back to you and repent of our sin and commit again to serving you and whatever you've called us to do. Knowing that you have our back, and that you will be with us regardless of what you call us to do and what you have us to do. You will be there and follow us through Through and carry us when we need to be carried. So today, as Leslie plays, I call upon you to just be real with God and train Transparent, if you're running from God today, folks, repent, turn, and seek Him again