Our children are going to go down for children's shirts at this time, but uh we are gonna bring them back up for communion. Um it's a blessing to announce that as I was thinking through the This morning. We actually have two families that will be able to take communion together , all the members, for the first time, as a number of our young people were baptized. A couple weeks ago. So we are looking forward to that as well. My family and the Hansons. And so before we do that, though, we need to deal And prepare our hearts. And this passage will certainly do that. So turn back to Matthew chapter 5. We skipped ahead a few weeks ago to cover divorce, but now we're going back to Matthew chapter 5 and dealing with the practical implications of dealing with Our anger. Matthew five, twenty-one through twenty-six. And we saw a number of weeks ago. That God does not condone any spirit of anger except of righteous anger, and we had to admit that most of the anger that we experience Is sinful anger. And I know I talked to many of you afterwards that were convicted, as I was as well. The fact that our irritation and our sarcasm, you know, those little comments that we let go to our wives or to our husbands or to those that are closest to us because we're frustrated. Irritated. All that is sinful anger that God says should not be a part of a kingdom citizen's life. Because again, whatever happens in the These elections, folks, we're citizens of another kingdom. And that election is secure and eternal. In fact, there is a Jesus is King. We just acquiesce to that. And so we prepare for His return and we ask Him, Lord, even in this issue of anger Help me because I so often, and all of us folks, let's be honest, we we um disobey this commandment on an almost daily basis. If you're able to get through a day without any frustration or anger at all, that is the Holy Spirit's amazing work in your life, and don't discount that at all. all. But there are um reactions and expectations and applications when we're dealing with the anger of our heart and that's what we're going to to see as we finish up this passage this morning. But let's continue let's first of all go back to verse 21 and we'll We'll read through the whole thing together just to remind us of the whole passage Revelation twenty-one starts out. You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you that everyone who Is angry with his brother. And Jesus is saying that they are liable to judgment as a murderer. Whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel. And whoever says you fool, and remember that's not just an insult, but that is a condemnation of someone who referring to them almost as an enemy of God. Or one that is antagonistic to God. And he's saying is those that will do that will be liable to the hell of fire. That we need to be very careful. In our evaluation of others, that we're not acting like we're God and we know their hearts. But we soberly assess and we give room for misunderstanding. Because people that act in this way apart from Christ, folks, if someone has anger in their heart, if someone has ever insulted or been sarcastic to another person. If someone has condemned another person, apart from their relationship with God, these are sins that will condemn people. To hell. That's how terrible our anger is. And so we were called to repent and detern from that. We saw that God's kingdom law judges sinful anger. He demands heart obedience. He demands To be careful certainly of accusations Or slander. Better not to say anything about anyone at all, folks, unless you're certain that God has called you to be part of the solution. And then there is a way to handle that, right? You go to that person one-on-one. Don't talk about other people in an angry fashion. Don't talk to other people about that person angrily without having gone to them. It's slander. If they won't admit fault and they have clearly sinned, then you take others and eventually it comes before the church. But we have to be sinned. So careful in our speech about other people, where we break this commandment from God about murder. And so part of our being sensitive toward that, then, God also, his kingdom law, requires reconciliation. Jesus knows practically that we all and that his all in his audience, including the religious leaders who had the best righteousness of the whole group, right? That's right. Jesus had said before, Oh, actually you need a righteousness that's better than even the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the best of you, because all of you have anger in your heart. All of you have people that you need to reconcile with. You need a righteousness that's greater than that. And Jesus points to himself then, and following him, that he will provide the righteousness needed. And so, folks, today, as we look to our relationship in Christ, if you have trusted in Christ, you are a new creature. You do have the ability to do what Jesus is saying This morning. And we need to be convicted and act on this. You're going to see that Jesus makes us immediate. In fact, he's going to say, stop what you're doing. And go make this right. He's very direct. Jesus makes it clear he doesn't want us to be content with damaged. relationships. I think primarily this is within the church, but also even with unbelievers. So many times don't we? We we have Things that come up, whether it's our fault or something that we've said or something the other person has said, and rather than deal with it, we just contend to have that broken relationship, maybe for the rest of our lives. We all have that tendency. It's much easier for me just to forget about it, and even if it bothers me and it hurt me, or if someone has sinned against me. Just and there are things, there are things, there are small slates that we need to be careful of. We have to decide, you know, is this really a big enough deal? Has this person, you know, uh sent egregiously Against me that needs to be dealt with, or is it just a slight that I just need to say, I give it over to the Lord and move on? It really in our society we have to be careful. We are far too Too sensitive. Sometimes we call it being woke. Whatever, you know what I mean. But when it's egregious, when it when it is something that is hurtful. We can't be content with just letting it go, folks. To the point where Jesus says, stop what you're doing, even in worship. And get restoration. Verse 23. So if you are offering your gift at the altar, altar and there remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother. Be reconciled to your brother. And I should say Say or sister, context is both, and then come and offer your gift. Jesus is really saying here, don't perform public worship without private Restoration. His expectations are high, are they not? That's why we need his help. Well, let's get a little more of the details here. Now that Maybe, in case you forgot, this is a situation where um people are still operating under the Old Testament expectations of worship. Sacrifices were still being performed. uh people would travel in order to uh make those special days, those special days that God had required um God's people to be there, the the Passover. the Day of Atonement and all of these things, regular sacrifices, regular pictures of the sacrifice that Jesus would very soon in just a few years would accomplish once and for all. But this sort of worship was still going on, was still expected By God. And so Jesus' audience, if you'll remember, he's probably most likely from what we can tell, he is giving this near the Sea of Galilee. this particular message. And so you have people that would travel to Jerusalem once, maybe twice a year for the sacrifices, the ones That were most expected, the atoning sacrifices and things. And once they got to Jerusalem, that could take a number of days, right? From Galilee down to Jerusalem. Once they got to Jerusalem, there were the long lines, probably worse than a Disney World or at an amusement park, where you had to wait and wait For your turn, and if you didn't have an animal, then you had to buy one and you had to wait in line um and purchase a a sacrificial animal to be able to offer up in the Had to wait your turn. It took a while. And so what Jesus is saying here, let's read this again in that light. That these are people that have traveled days. They're waiting in long lines. Can you imagine? Have you ever had this happen? You're waiting in the long line for an amusement park or even for Walmart and you remember that one thing you forgot. Or in my case Your wife texts you. Oh, by the way, as we're getting close, right? Can you pick this up? Oh, and we have to now there's other ways to work It out. But many times we have to leave the line, go find that thing, get back in line. Oh, it's such a frustration. Well, can you imagine traveling many, many days? Waiting in line for your sacrifice. And then Jesus says here, you get to the front of the line, and then you remember, oh, I have someone that has aught against me for something I do. I should probably take care of that, but I'm right here at the front of the line. I'm ready to go. And if I if we're really going to follow through on what Jesus is saying here, what What is he describing? If you're offering your gift at the altar and remember that your brother or sister has something against you, leave it there and go be reconciled with your brother. Many times That would mean all the way back in Galilee. Get out of line, travel back , find that brother or sister Be reconciled, travel back , get back in line. This was not a small thing that Jesus was asking of the people. And I don't know that I could say literally that Jesus meant if that happened, that they needed to do that, because I think in as in many of these, Jesus Is talking more not of the actions but of the Spirit, but he is saying that as you come to worship me in the way that God has called us to worship Worship. If you are not reconciled to your brother or sister, you need to understand you cannot offer right worship to your God. It's impossible. And you had better take that seriously and do what you need to do. Remember, there were no cell phones back then. There were no phone lines. There was Not even any Morse code. I mean, in order to touch base of that individual, it was going to take a lot of work. But Jesus is saying he Here it's more important to be reconciled to your brother because until you do, you have not just a problem with that brother, you have a problem with your God. And you need to be restored in that relationship before you can have sweet communion. With your God again. Now, again, to be clear, Jesus isn't saying you can lose your relationship with your heavenly father, right? That's not possible, and that's not biblical. But he is saying that we will lose that sweet communion if we don't deal with that. And so reconciliation should come before outward worship takes place. I tell you that story because it is accurate, but also, folks, I want you to understand, aren't you glad we don't have to go through all that? This morning, if the Lord is bringing up someone in your mind, That you say, I need to be reconciled. Yeah. You don't have to get out of line and travel two days back home unless we have visitors that are from out of state or something. You can literally now I uh let's be clear. I don't think it would be best for you to get up right now in the middle of the service, okay? I think God understands. And reconcile with that person. Oh if the Lord if the Lord led you to do that I wouldn't argue with that. But I I I think we understand what this means is that as the Lord is bringing people to mind, we ought to um say, Lord, forgive me Forgive me. I'm going to worship you now. And certainly preparing our hearts for communion. But as soon as I have opportunity, I'm going to reconcile with that brother or sister in Christ. It's immediate and the need before we worship on a regular basis, before we come together and put on a show that we're ready to worship God. If we're not reconciled with our brothers or sisters and we have disag we have opposition and aught with them, we're not ready to worship folks. We our lives, our worship faces at that point are at that point are a sham. We're hypocrites. We need to go deal with those things so that we can truly worship before God. God. Don't be distracted from reconciliation, I believe, is what God is saying, what Jesus is saying here. But seek as quickly as Is possible reconciliation with your brother, with your sister, with your family member, with your spouse. Before I preached this this morning, I thought in my mind, Have I said anything or done anything to Leslie that I need to be reconciled? Have I been inconsiderate? Have I get been frustrated I'm preaching about anger this morning. Have I done this with my own family? Is there something with my kids that I need to apologize for? And I have done that. I have done that before on a Saturday or even a Sunday morning. I think more Saturdays. I try to get it done by Saturday. But apologize and make sure that that relationship is there and is restored. Be immediate about it. And don't be content then with that broken relationship. Verse 25, come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge and the judge to the guard. and you be put into prison. And so this describes again who is the ultimate judge. Jesus is using the picture that he He has used earlier about anger. Remember, he said if you are angry with a brother or sister or you insult to that brother or sister, that you are guilty and liable for the courts because you are basically A murderer? Now he's going back to that. And so he says, until if you harbor anger and bitterness in that relationship is un Unreconciled, then you are a murderer. And so you need to quickly come to terms with that person. And your accuser then seems to indicate primary Primarily it is he is speaking to those who have sinned against others, but folks that doesn't let the rest of us off the hook. In broader application, I believe This is referring to any of us who are holding on to hurt and bitterness of wrongs that have been done to us, and we will not reconcile, and we will not see To try to heal that relationship. Yes, it is true that even believers sin against others And when we do that, when we know that we have done that, we need, as the Holy Spirit is prodding us, get it right, get it right, get it right. We need to do it quickly. Don't wait, because the judge is going to act at some point. Your accuser, hand you over to the judge. The picture here is of a local judge or even the Sanhedrin or the Supreme Court. But who is the ultimate fulfillment of this picture that Jesus has given This morning, folks, who is the judge? us? It is God. And basically, you could say it like this: Jesus is saying, the more you wait , The more you are putting yourself in position to be judged by the judge of the world, and that is a sobering place you don't want to Want to be in. be Don't wait. Don't hold on to that hurt or bitterness, or the judge will act. He will bring correction Into your life. This I don't believe is it is in its um its its most narrowest uh application, I don't believe this is referring to eternal judgment, but I do believe it is referring to um God 's dealing with With his children, if they won't do what he says they should do. And every moment we wait is another click, another step closer to the judgment of God in our life. Lives and that ought to make us fearful, folks. We want to get these things resolved quickly as soon as possible. I was reminded of a rather humorous story because I know this is a heavy topic. In high school we went to I had I had three brothers I'm the oldest of four brothers. And we went to a small Christian school. I didn't have my own set of wheels till my senior year. And it was an embarrassment to me. On the other hand, it taught me a lot about valuing those sorts of things and financial responsibility. And all of that, but it was embarrassing. So I actually had to ride the school bus until I was a junior in high school. That was not a high status at that point. Hey, I I get to ride the bus with the elementary kids. Boy, there it is. We rode the bus many times. And my brothers and I would ride the bus together, long day of school, fun with friends, talk. Then um and Uh if if you have boys in your family or have sons, not that young ladies don't have um vigorous appetites as well, but we get hungry very quickly as men And toward the end of the day, we realized that we'd eaten our lunches at noon and that we were getting ready to go home. And so we would get on the bus and we would think through in our minds, what does mom have And many times we would do the count because we weren't so great at math, but on this particular One we could do the math pretty well. And that is that mom had broken out that morning a box of little Debbie snack cakes. And on that box it said, I think it was eight count. And so each of us had gotten Two, you get two in a package, and so we're counting through. Alright, all right, there's one package left, and who's gonna get it? Well, obviously, the person Who gets to the house first? And so then at that particular moment, as it seared into my memory, began what I call the great Swiss cake roll. Race. As the bus pulled up to our stop, which was down the road from our house. So first of all, we had to position ourselves in the one that was able that got out of class first and was able to sit toward the front had an automatic advantage from everybody else obviously. And so try to sit as close as you can into the front. When um the driver has checked the roads that they're safe, she opens up the door. We try to somewhat quickly without getting in trouble. By the bus driver, get off that bus, and then we would check both ways because we didn't want to die over a Swiss cake roll, and then the race would begin. And so we would Run down that I remember this particular day running down the road and I was the oldest and my my uh brother Scott, who was about a year younger than me, he was next to me and we're neck and neck and we left the other two way back in the dust, you know, very quickly. We were running, I get a little bit ahead, he'd get a little bit ahead. We got to our lawn and he kind of shoved me out of the way and then I ran and I shoved him out of the way and we got to the door. And something that we hadn't thought about is how are two of us going to fit through that door at the same time. We got it open and we almost got Got stuck trying to get through. And we ran to the living room, into the kitchen, and my brother, final elbow, and he got to the cupboard first, grabbed that loose cake roll and said, aha! A shout of victory. Now, folks, I wasn't feeling nice thoughts toward him at that point. In fact, I was really irritated. And bothered. I found out I had anger issues after that. Because the devil, I think, or my own flesh, put a thought into my mind. You know, he got there. But I'm not going to let him enjoy that snack cake. And so I'm going to do something that's going to decrease the value of that as he eats it. And I raised my hand up as he had that swiss Cake roll in a uh sign of victory. I raised my hand up and I put my hand around his hand and I squizzed his hand as tight as I could. And that thing was a mess. Would you believe that my brother wasn't that interested in reconciliation with me at that point in our relationship? And and now my defense, he did some things afterwards that weren't very lucky. Loving for him either. But um the point was is that I let my anger get the best of me, and because we weren't willing to work it out, there were some consequences to that I hope that at this point he's forgiven me for that act of anger. It was inappropriate. And it did damage to our relationship. Folks, we know that anger can do all kinds of damage. And if we're not willing, when the damage is done, to reconcile and make it right, that's That damage to our relationships is inappropriate and it is sin. So look at this last verse here. Verse 26 Truly I say to you, you will never get out until you have paid the last penny. Now we could read that and say, Well, is Jesus talking about some sort of purgatory? That if we don't forgive our brothers or sisters, that we're going to be, and is he referring to eternal judgment, and that somehow we can pay enough or do enough To get out of that judgment. And some religions have actually taken that interpretation. I obviously that's not biblical. I don't believe that's the correct interpretation. But what is Jesus saying then? I think he's saying here that that word that last penny referred to the quandrus. The smallest Roman coin. In Bible times, debtors were jailed until they could pay the full amount. And so what I think Jesus is saying here is you will Be first of all as believers imprisoned in your guilt and bitterness until you are ready to fully reconcile with those that the Spirit is calling you to reconcile with. Multiple people, and you may need to seek full reconciliation, or you will be imprisoned in anger, and God will deal with it. with you in correction and you won't have that close relationship. I think that's the primary interpretation and application here then is that Jesus is saying don't wait. You let God do the judging, but you don't let bitterness reign in your heart, or if you're the perpetrator, you seek forgiveness and make that right with that person that you've wronged. And do it quickly. Don't wait. It's inappropriate to wait days, weeks, years, sometimes a lifetime. Folks, that's not what kingdom citizens of the future kingdom of Jesus Christ do. People are important to us, and so we reconcile and we go to them and say our relationship is dead. Damaged, and that's not right. I'm gonna dwell with you forever. Why not be reconciled now? I do think Think as we finish up this morning, though, that there is a broader application here. And I do think that Jesus is also saying for those that are never interested in reconciliation, and And hurt others with in abandon and don't seem to care at all, those that act that way truly are not kingdom citizens at all. They've rejected being a citizen of the eternal kingdom. They've rejected Jesus Christ. And folks, they will have the full eternal judgment. And it will be terrible. Now I trust that doesn't describe any of us this morning. I trust that as we hear Jesus Teach that the Holy Spirit is working in us and we're sensitive to these things. If that's the case, you're a kingdom citizen. And Jesus can help us Help you to reconcile with even the most broken, most difficult, damaged relationship. Folks, Jesus can enable us to have that reconciliation. And we shouldn't wait. But we must act differently than the world. We must view relationships with great importance. We must not allow anger to be destructive, and we must run to a solution of reconciliation with others that we have ought with and um and bitterness. And strife with. God 's people cannot be comfortable in broken relationships with others. And Jesus Jesus can help us to heal those and move on. And worship God in an even more sweet way. Father, as we get ready for communion , Lord, this is one of those things that we need to check our hearts about. We need to seek where we're at as far as even communicating Union is concerned. Have we been obedient to you in this area? Lord, if there is one here who does not know Christ, may today be the day that they trust Him. And know the power of love and the end of bitterness and the ability to reconcile with others. May they come To me or others, and know how they can trust Christ and have a relationship with Him and have a citizenry and an eternal Kingdom. Starting today , Lord, for those of us that are kingdom citizens that are looking forward in anticipation to the Return of Christ, may we be ready even at the end of this service to go to others and reconcile or to reconcile soon. Help us not to wait. And then let us enjoy the sweetness of worship and communion together as we reflect on all that Jesus has done for us. Give us that sweetness as we're willing to obey you this morning. Folks, think on those things that I've just prayed about as Leslie plays and gives us time for reflection together.