Alone for salvation. Salvation is of the Lord. And that He is all I need. He is my life. He's all I live for. He's my foundation. He's my high priest. And I am Ready to see him return and praise him forever for all eternity. Well we're finishing up Jonah this morning, and you can turn to Jonah chapter four. Jonah has had the incredible opportunity to send to proclaim a message. From the God of heaven, from the God of Israel to a pagan people, warning them if they continue in their sinful life. Ways and their cruel, terrible, terrible, evil ways that God will judge. And really, what I think is the greatest miracle in the book, not just Counting that amazing fish, right? That's what we always think about. That had to have been quite a ride for Jonah. That's an amazing miracle, but really, folks. A metropolis of thousands. We're going to see that uh God at the end of this book says a hundred and twenty thousand people People all turn to him and repent of their sin and turn to God for salvation. I'm convinced that's the real miracle of the book. And this book, then, is really, in essence, a missions , has a direct missions focus. It is a missionary report. From granted An unlikely missionary, a rebel, selfish missionary, but a missionary nevertheless. Why do I say selfish? Well, the title of the series is God Rescues a Selfish Servant. Selfish servant as Jonah, who saw the glory of God and was given a message for God to give to an enemy people that were cruel and terrible. The Assyrians, but specifically one of their great cities, Nineveh, a great city of wealth and worship. And it represented the Assyrians They were the superpower that God had used already in the past in the world, and he was getting ready to use them again against his people to Bring repentance to his people. But this enemy nation, the Assyrians, and this city of Nineveh, needed a reminder that God was watching and he saw Some of you, now I I won't even from the pulpit go into the terrible things that they did, but some of you You actually told me even last week that you googled it and you were astonished. And you would be. Truly terrible things. And yet, God says, I want you to give a message, Jonah, to these people People. And again, the expectation is that the prophet of God just goes and does what God tells him to do, but not this prophet. He goes the exact opposite way from where God tells him Charters a ship on his way, and the whole um narrative describes Jonah going down, down, deeper away from God and deeper toward his own demise and God graciously rescues him by throwing a violent wind, a storm at the ship. The pagan Mariners are more spiritually sensitive than the prophet of God. They eventually, through Jonah's testimony, find out that Jonah is the reason that they're experiencing the This terrible storm, nothing like it that they've ever experienced in their lives. And so they plead for God's mercy. As they throw Jonah overboard, because that's what Jonah told them that they needed to do. It does seem, and I'm convinced of this, that Jonah was trying to manipulate God. We're going to see that, I think, again. In this final chapter, chapter four, where Jonah's basically saying, God, you either leave me alone or you're gonna have to end my life because I'm not gonna serve you. I'm not gonna do what you tell me to do. And God gives Jonah what he asks for as he's sinking down into the ocean. He senses that he's close to being a goner, and we see in chapter two That he cries out to God, God, this this isn't what I want. Save me. And that was the judgment of God that he allowed Jonah in the Judgment. The rescue was that fish that came along and swallowed Jonah up. And Jonah repented and turned back to God. But he still had s God still was doing some work in Jonah's life because Jonah, even at the end in chapter 2 and verse 8, sounds a little self-righteous. Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their Hope of steadfast love. All of those that don't worship God have no hope. They've forsaken their hope. But since I serve God, even in my foolishness Foolishness, God will rescue me. , Salvation is of the Lord. Well, all that's true. But I think Jonah might have had actually an issue if he had seen those pagan sailors as they were worshiping God. The one true God and turn to God when they had formerly worshipped all those other idols and all those other gods. And I do do believe that there's a good chance those mariners did trust in the One true God. And I wonder if Jonah would have had a problem with that. Well, chapter 3, God does a reset and says, Let's try this again, Jonah. Rise. Chapter 3, verse 1, he says, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. So Jonah travels quite a long distance, but he's headed in the The right direction. Finally, we have the prophet of God that's headed in the right direction, ready to obey. What is the message? Verse 4: Yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. I'm sure that as Jonah preached this and as he walked throughout the city, that he probably looked a sight. I wonder if the digestive juices in the fish bleached his hair. Or bleached his skin. Or maybe wrinkled it a little bit. I have a feeling that Jonah was a man that at least commanded attention as he was walking around, that he that People, he definitely caught the eye of people. What happened to him? Hey, hey, brother, you got some seaweed in your hair. You might want to remove that, you know? And so So they're listening as Jonah gives this message, but then again, the miracle of the book here is that the people believed God. They trusted in him. They believed and they claimed Called out for God to save them. And that goes all the way then to the king of Nineveh, who Nineveh, who, a very powerful man , who is certainly um guilty of these terrible, torturous crimes that we discussed already, and uh was was capable of great evil. He sees the people turning to God, he hears the message, and this king turns to God as well and commands that there be a fast and to make it complete, not only the people but also the animals. Nobody gets food and water. We're seeking this God of this strange prophet. We're seeking his mercy. Because He says, verse 9, who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish. And when God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God God relented of the disaster that he said he would do to them, and he did not do it. And God shows great mercy. And this would have been a surprise. Really, to Jonah? Well, maybe not so much, but still a little bit of a surprise, maybe, to Jonah, but to God's people, because God is showing mercy not on them, but on their enemy. God throughout this entire uh book, the pages of the Old Testament, is a God that shows mercy to his people, the people of Israel. But here in this Book. God shows mercy to their enemies and he turns and he does not bring that punishment and that judgment that he had Noah proclaim. Again, God had Noah proclaim judgment, but I believe God had already decided and dictated. that he was going to show mercy upon these people. And we talked about the balance here between God's sovereignty that's so important. We must not diminish the Sovereignty and the control that God has over his creation. And yet, these people had a choice, an opportunity to turn to him. And how that works together, we talked about that last week. If you're still curious or you want to know more, we can talk after the service. But we have chapter four to get to. So let's jump into it. Now you would think Jonah delivers a prophetic message that results in thousands of people, as much as 120,000 people. Again, can you imagine even uh a missionary in New York City and a third to a half of that city turning to God? And here we have the whole city. This is incredible, folks. You think of any prophet in the Old Testament, who wouldn't want to have that success rate? Isaiah, Jeremiah, Elijah. Okay, Elijah. Elijah called fire down from heaven. And yet had a number of people after his own life, and that discouraged him. But Jonah gives a simple message Only a few words. Forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown, and thousands of people, the whole city, turn to God. It's remarkable What servant of God wouldn't be excited and joyful about that kind of success? Well, I can name you one, Jonah. As we see here in chapter 4, Jonah isn't moved at all by this incredible success that God has gifted him with. This is twice, by the way. Remember, we saw at the beginning of the story. That in 1 Kings, we saw that Jonah was able to deliver a message to the northern kingdom of Israel and say, God is going to bless you and give you victory. And this is a second successful Message. Jonah's got a good track record here. But isn't it interesting? Look at the first few words of chapter 4, but it displeased Jonah exceedingly. And this is strong words. Do you realize in the Hebrew it means this was evil to Jonah? And he is basically livid with anger. At God. How can that be? Well, we'll see more here in just a minute. But folks, what we're going to see today is God reveals a servant's selfishness. God rescued a selfish servant from his own way, from going his own way, and turned him in the right way. God miraculously Turned a whole city of people toward him. But I think in the end, as we see chapter 4, actually the main focus is God's discipleship in his mercy. Work in the lives of one rebel servant who's turned against him. And as God reveals Jonah's great evil in his life, here's the thing, folks: we must Be prepared to recognize that this same problem that Jonah faces is really a problem that most of us face too. We actually reflect And this is one of those that God has used in my life as I've studied for it and brought great conviction. So I'm just warning you, okay? Heads up. If it brought me great conviction, I have a feeling It's going to bring great conviction for you too. Because Jonah isn't alone. I think many times we reflect him more than we realize. How many times are we concerned with our own preconceived notions about how God should work? How many times do we in our hearts almost want to tell God how he should work and what he should Do rather than rejoice in his mercy and grace for people. We get caught up in a lot of different aspects of ministry. And faithful, experienced servants of God can actually lose their love and care for individuals and people altogether. And it is a great evil, folks, when that happens. And it happened to Jonah. We tend to sometimes pray for vengeance and personal justice rather than mercy. And our personal indignation Results in our indifference toward people. And that must change. We must repent of our indifference and our lack of concern for people. Just as Jonah needed to turn from this as well. So we're going to see here, first of all, God has a question for a selfish servant. Why is Jonah so upset? Well, he's going to tell us, and we finally find out, by the way. Why Jonah fled from God in the first place? We haven't been told that throughout the whole book. And Jonah's going to tell us now, and it may surprise us, but it displeased Jonah. It was evil to Jonah, exceedingly Exceedingly, or uh it was exceedingly evil to him, and he was livid, angry, and he prayed to the Lord and said Said, Oh Lord, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? This is why I made haste to flee to Tarshus. God, I knew you were gonna do this. At least let's put it this way. I think this shows that Jonah knew God well enough that there was a real possibility that he might do this, and even the possibility of God showing mercy to Jonah What does he say? That is why I went the opposite way in the first place and rebelled against you, for I knew that you are a gracious God. Knew that, and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster Jonah is upset because God showed grace and mercy to a metropolis of people. And God brought salvation. That's mixed up, folks. That's broken. And yet we We see here, isn't it interesting? God's wrath has relented, but Jonah's wrath is now stirred up. And that even causes us to think through the This question is that are we angry with the same things that God is angry with? We're going to continue to highlight that question, but I want you to ask that With so many things that we get upset with in ministry and with other people. Are we sure that God shares our anger and our irritation? He sure didn't share Jonah's anger at this point. Jonah's on his own, and he's angry that God showed this grace. And it's really, uh it seems as if Jonah is um quoting Exodus thirty-four, the actual um experience where God passed before Moses and God provided Proclaimed himself the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin , who will by no means clear the guilty. And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worship. That's from Exodus 35. God graciously revealed himself to Moses, and Moses bowed his head and worshiped. But what does Jonah do with the revelation of God's grace and mercy? He gets angry with it. What an incredibly selfish individual. He's angry at God, whereas Moses and many other of the servants humbled themselves and worshiped God as a recognition of His grace and His mercy, Jonah gets livid And so now he tries to bargain and manipulate God. Because why again is Jonah so upset? He does Believe that these people deserve the mercy that God showed them and the grace that God showed them. Now remember, folks, these folks that the these The Ninevites, these Assyrians, were no Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts. They were an evil people that tortured their enemy in terrible ways. We'd have trouble today if the Assyrians were still around, being excited, possibly about God's grace to them. And Jonah is very Very upset. He said, I knew that this was a possibility, and this is why I left in the first place. And maybe he's thinking, and you dragged me back. So now he's going to give God an ultimatum, which is never a good thing to do, folks. If you are to the point where you're so angry with God that you're giving him ultimatums. You really need to check your heart. You really need to ask God to soften the fire within you because you're not in the right Right. But here's his ultimatum. Therefore, now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than live. God, if you're going to show grace to these people, then just Take me now. Just end my life. I have no more use for you serving you further. It's either them or me, God. You decide. Would you say that's a little arrogant? That that's prideful? That a servant of God would be so angry about how God is functioning, that God has um moved in a direction that Jonah wasn't expecting and because it what didn't meet his expectations or his preferences or whatever, he's livid And he's angry. I'm not ever going to serve you again, God. Just take me and end my life. Now, with someone who's that bold in their rebellion, I can think of all kinds of things that I would like God to say to that individual, can't you? I mean, here God has done this miraculous work saving thousands of people that any prophet again would love to have this assignment. And Jonah is livid that God would show grace to his enemies. enemies and he gives God this ultimatum. I could I would there's a part of me that will love God to say how dare you who are you the nerve of you that you would ever Ever talk this way to your creator, you get ready, buddy. Judgment's coming. But folks, look what God does. This is remarkable. He's gentle and careful, and he just asked one penetrating question. What is that? And the Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? Jonah, you're all worked up. You're obviously incense. You're livid. But are you right in that anger? You see, Jonah was thankful for his life in chapter 2 that God rescued him. Now he wants God to take his life again. And we may see that and think. Again, the nerve of this guy that he would talk this way to the Lord after all this. Well, folks, I'm convinced that many times that we are angry in ministry And we are angry with people in our lives, and we're in the wrong as well. And yet we harbor that anger, and it makes us more More and more stirred up and livid. And so the question that God asked Jonah, I think, is very applicable to any of us that struggle with anger. Are you an angry person here today? What are you angry with? Maybe you're angry about the way things are going in ministry. Or in your life, or with family, or with your neighbors. And you are just incensed. And it shows on your face, even. So the first question when we're struggling with that kind of anger, folks, is the same question that God asked Jonah: Do you do well to be angry? I think also, I think what God is saying here is, Jonah, did you seek my perspective on your so-called righteous anger? Because I don't share your perspective. I'm not angry. I've relented for my anger, Jonah. Why are you so angry? And it points, it it swerves Jonah around and it forces him to Look at his own heart. Why is he so upset? Another question: Is God with us in our anger that we think is right? Righteous? Or is he displeased by it? And I'm convinced, folks, that when we are out of sync many times with God's purpose When we see God doing things and we're angry about that, that well that , can stir up more anger within us. When we see God doing things and acting in a way in our ministry or in our world, That we just don't like or we just don't think is appropriate, that can cause us to be very angry because we're out of sync with our Savior, with our Lord, in the way that He desires to do things. Things. And we're at a dangerous moment. There's an old Puritan pastor. His name is William Cooper. It looks like Cowper, but his name is Cooper, and he wrote this. I think it's very penetrating. Dear Lord, accept a sinful heart which of itself complains, and mourns with much and frequent smart the evil evil it contains there in the heart fiery seeds of anger lurk which often hurt my frame and wait but for the tempter's work to fan them to a f Flame, a poem called Self Acquaintance. Do we have among us today the embers of a flame that Satan is able to stir up? And cause us to be angry in a very evil and sinful way, to the point where we could be in conflict with what God wants to do in this ministry. in his ministry in general. Folks, if it happens with Jonah, a faithful, experienced servant, any of us can experience that kind of Anger. And so God puts this simple question to a selfish servant. You know, the blessings of being a pastor is that as you Study for these things that God brings events into your own life to prepare your own heart before you preach it to others. And I found myself, even as I've been studying for this, the Lord has made is showing me ways where, you know, I thought I was a pretty nice guy. I think overall I've got my faults, but I'm I'm a nice, I'm a I'm a decent fellow And God has been showing me in many ways that actually you're a little too self-righteous. You're actually more angry than what you think. Look at this. Look at this. And even this weekend, there was something about ministry, even this last week, where I was starting to get pretty worked up. And I And sometimes when you do that, the conversations are longer conversations like they are with Jonah, but sometimes they're pretty short too. I went to the Lord, I said, almost before I could say, and I didn't say this out loud, but in my mind, Lord, am I right to be in? No, I'm not. Okay, Lord, you win. We're gonna do it your way. Folks, that what that's what we all need to do when we struggle with anger. Make sure that you look inside and you go to the Lord and say, Am I right, Lord? Lord, you show me, am I right to be angry? Is this truly a righteous anger? Or am I wrong? Am I actually fighting against your ways with my disposition? And Lord, if that's the case, I'm ready to repent and turn and ready to To do things your way. Folks, that's what we always must do when we have a anger, a fire of anger in our heart. That's stirring us up. That's causing us Damage with the relationships around us. It could be causing damage within our church ministry. All of us, the pastor included, need to go to God and say, Lord, am I right? Am I truly right to be angry? And Jonah was faced with that question. In the second part here, God gently rebukes the selfish servant as he He continues to disciple and reveal this servant's selfishness. God just lets that question hang. And then look what Jonah does. Jonah's still in the midst of his ultimatum. Verse 5: Jonah went out of the city. And sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there, and he sat under it in the shade, till he should see what would become of the city. Why did Jonah do that? Because Jonah's still in the midst of his ultimatum. He goes outside the city and he says, Okay, God, I'm gonna give you last chance. I'm gonna sit out here. And I'm going to see, are you really going to give them mercy or are you going to take my life? I'm just going to sit out here and I'm going to build this little booth, this little hut, to give myself Some shade because it's pretty hot out here, and you know, maybe Jonah was like me, a little less hair than some of you. And when that sun beats down, it beats down hard. And so he builds himself Some sort of shade or hut, and then he just sits down and he waits. What are you gonna do, God? Them or me? Are you gonna judge them? Again, the boldness and the nerve of this selfish prophet. I think there's a lot of us that would like to see God just kind of deal with this servant more directly. Look, God shows grace to Jonah too. Verse 6. Now the Lord God appointed a plant and made it come up over Jonah that it might be shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. This is This is interesting. So Jonah was exceedingly glad for the plant, because of the plant. By the way, throughout this we see God's sovereignty. Again, God sends the fish as the rescue vehicle. God sends the plant. And God has a few more things to send here in just a few minutes. God is sending all of these things. He's totally in control of nature, and he's using all of these things to disciple this rebel. But folks note, this is important. What makes Jonah exceedingly angry and glad? What makes him angry Is God showing grace and saving people? What makes him glad is a little plant that provides him some temporary Um, I'm not sure what I'm saying. Do you realize this is the first time? Look at the end of that verse six. This is the first time that Jonah Is glad for anything in the whole book. He gets this little plant, it comes up, it must have been sort of sort of bush or whatever, something large enough, and it must have come up. Up very quickly to provide shade and help for Jonah. And so Jonah is glad. He notices that God, but he had to have known that this was God's grace on him. him and yet he still isn't where he needs to be. But he's as excited about the plan as he's excited about anything else that's happening. Thousands of people saved, and the only thing that moves Jonah is a plant that gives him a little bit of shade. That ought to convict us, folks. Here you had an entire city in spiritual darkness, and they turned to God. Today we're in an entire world. Filled with spiritual darkness. And I ask myself the question I'm going to ask you: what brings you the most joy? Is it you know, um do we get excited about the fact that there's no line at Walmart and we can walk right up and that's the most exciting part of our day. Or the fact we go to our favorite bakery and our favorite pastry or donuts still there. Yay! I'm guilty of that as well. Or our f I'm really guilty of this. Our revered sports team, whatever that is, they've been losing for so many times and now they've finally won again. Praise God. And we get all excited and we yell at the TV, or we got a good deal at Aldi or on Amazon, and we're feeling really good of ourselves. I got this feeling. It's the most exciting thing that's happened in our day. Or maybe we found a place that has a really good cup of coffee or a good latte. Yes. I love this. We get so excited about the small things. Maybe it is over our garden. How excited are we even tonight? to meet people that need to know the Lord. How excited are we in a couple weeks to celebrate the fact that young people, people have come to Christ and they're going to be Be baptized. Does that move us? Can we admit that all of us tend to be more like Jonah than we realize a lot of times? What really moves us shows us where our heart is. And yet, God, because of his love for us, folks, even as ornery as Jonah, and even as ornry as we tell us God is gentle with him. And he's gentle with us. So Jonah gets some shade and he's glad and he still sits out there. Now God Are you going to judge them? Look what happens. And there's some real humor in this. Don't miss this. We're going to take a few extra minutes this morning, but this is important. I don't want you to miss this. But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm. Attacked the plant and so that it withered. The only person, Jonah is waiting for judgment upon Nineveh. And who's the only person that gets judged? Jonah. And And do you notice as well, I mean this this would be so convicting, right? All in all these, the animal kingdom, the fish, right on it, Lord, and he's there and he's obeying. God. The plant obeying God. Even the little, maybe microscopic worm obeys God better than the prophet. Worm says Okay, God, I love to destroy things, and it destroys this plant. And if that wasn't bad enough, here comes judgment on Jonah when the son rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah so that he was faint. These eastern desert winds could be terrible and terrible Torturous. And God sends so the worm eats this little plant that Jonah's so excited about, and then God sends the wind and it blows away the rest of the plant like Um like a tumbleweed. It's gone. Nothing left. Jonah has no shade, no shelter. And the only person that's being judged here Is Jonah so that now he's faint and maybe his head is bald and the sun's beating on his head, and he is he is wore out Is he going to turn to God? Unfortunately, it says, and he asked that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than live. Jonah is basically saying. Okay, God, obviously you're not going to judge Nineveh. You've obviously chosen me, so let's get it over with. Just end my life. Let's just do this now. My ultimatum is been clear. Again, God could say so much to this rebel prophet and rebuke this selfish servant, but this is all that he says. Verse 9 God said to Jonah, Do you well to be angry for the plant? Is this right? Is this righteous anger for this plant? That I dig And here is Jonah full in his self-righteousness. And this is the anger that many times many of us face. When we get so angry with people and with God that we dig in deeper, we double down, right? And Jonah says, I do well, I'm right to be angry, angry enough to die. I'm not giving in And at this point, we just want God to do something and deal with this. Rebel. How can you talk that way to God? And look how gentle and careful The Lord said, Well, you pity the plant, for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in a night. Night. You have so much concern for this plant. And you had no you had no involvement on whether it grew or whether it died. This had nothing to do with you, and you're so affected by this. And yet, if you're so worked up about a plant, then God very carefully says verse ten or verse eleven, shouldn't I then? Jonah, don't you think it's right that if you're that emotionally involved with a plant, that I should Be emotionally involved with Nineveh, that great city. Hundred and twenty thousand persons, Jonah, who don't know me, they have no spiritual discernment. At all. Jonah, you have spiritual discernment. And all you can do is cry a river for a plant. But here are a hundred and twenty thousand pagan people who don't have spiritual discernment. Don't you think it's right that I should care about them too? Or how about this just If you don't think it's right that I should care for the people, how about the cattle? How about the animals? One plant versus 120 Twenty thousand people and their animals saved from destruction. Hmm. And that's how the book ends. No resounding final Judgment on Jonah, just a penetrating question. And so we're left to apply this, folks. And I think, I know we don't have a lot of time today, but there's so many good applications. That we need to make to our own lives in this, right? Because I'm convinced, myself included, that sometimes experienced, weathered servants of God can harbor great evil in their hearts. Because Jonah, in his knowledge and experience, he developed his own perspective and how many ministry should function and how God should operate. And whether God even agreed with them or not, Jonah said, God, you better do it the way that I think you ought to do it. Do it. And I'm convinced that many times, if we're not careful, that we get angry in ministry and it's long-lasting anger, is because we think that God Should be doing something, a certain thing in ministry, and God is not working it the way that we think. We're out of sync with His with His dealings in a ministry, and so we just get angry. And maybe we don't, maybe we're not as open as Jonah and say, just take my life, God. But let's be honest, if we're not careful. We could just say, I don't care how much damage I'm gonna do in the church, Lord, if I things don't happen the way that I think that they should. I don't care how much damage my family Experiences because God, you need to do things my way. And we double down and bring great distress and damage. Upon the lives and our relationships with other people. And so God ends up making this a book about discipleship. You see, we can um sometimes I'm convinced of this that when we have conflict with others that we need to examine that. I've seen this in my own life. Where I have conflict I'm angry with others and actually as Jonah shows us my conflict is with God. And I need to own that and you need to own that and we Sometimes we can see situations where there's conflict in the church, and we always need to be careful to listen to both sides, but Jonah's story does tell us, folks, that sometimes we need to encourage people to make sure that their conflict isn't really just with God. Or it's pretty one-sided. And sometimes it comes out like it's against other people. Jonah could say, Well, I don't agree that these Ninevehites don't deserve to be saved. Look at the cruelty, look how terrible they are. And yet his real conflict, his real problem is with God. And so what do we do when people try to draw us into our conflict and we say, well, you know, if they're angry About it. There must be a reason. Well, first of all, whether it's ourselves or where it's someone else, folks, shouldn't we just ask that person? Shouldn't we ask ourselves the question? Do you well To be angry? Are you right? Have you checked this with God? See, God rescues a servant's usefulness by Revealing his selfishness. I'd say he did that pretty well. Isn't there one more question we're all wondering as we end? We're finishing. Finishing up now. But did Jonah ultimately respond repentantly? Well, we're not told. I think we can surmise though. Jewish tradition that the writer of this book is none other than Jonah himself. If that's the case, then I think we could pretty clearly say that Jonah got the Point. If Jonah's willing to write his own story as embarrassing as this is, I'm sure as Jonah's writing this saying, man, I was stubborn. Oh. Oh God, do we have to tell him that? Alright. Yeah, I I really said this to God. It's embarrassing, but it's true. I think I think there's a good chance that Jonah got the point, folks. That when he looked at the situation, he realized: here are all my concerns, and yet I don't have a love for people at all. And I need to make room in my own ministry mindset for what God wants to do. And so just like Jonah, folks, as we end this morning, I want to ask you. Do you have a heart for ministry? Let's test our hearts. Let's do it right now. Are we cold and cynical to the spiritual plight of others? Do we care about people that may be visitors and visitors Do we care about our neighbors as they may come and we may meet them tonight? Or have our priorities shifted to matters of less consequence? Are we even as we prepare for We all have to be careful of this, but we don't want um people coming and neighbors and getting to meet neighbors kind of drift into something like, boy, I hope they don't mess up the grounds and I hope they don't Don't mess up our facilities and I wonder how much of this costs or whatever. No. Keep it keep the right focus. Keep it on the opportunity to To direct people toward salvation in Jesus Christ. You know, there's a story of Cory Timboom. I don't have time to give it this morning, but as she, after the war And she um she and her family experienced the terrible cruelty of the Nazis in World War II. After the war, she was a believer and she would speak to groups, and she was in Germany speaking. Speaking to a group about forgiveness, and a German sol soldier came up to her afterwards and asked for her forgiveness. And she had to ask God to steal the anger so that she could put out her hand And forgive him. How about in our world today? These Assyrians, these Ninevehes, were terrible people. We pray and we want God to help the nation. Of the Ukraine and for God to protect them. But folks, do we allow for the fact that God could also show mercy upon Russians? We know in our world today that it seems like there's less and less support of the Jewish nation, and that's wrong. And we support the Jewish people and we pray for them. But do we allow Or have room for the idea that God could also show mercy to Hamas or even Iranian? God can show mercy to anyone. Folks. And rather than argue with him, arguing with God like Jonah did, what should we rather do? We should relent to his grace. God offers us a chance even now for inner reflection and repentance of this. Do you care about people? Do you really love your neighbor? When it comes down to it, folks, I think we all need a little more help in this and a little more Reflection. Lord, I've lost my heartbeat for individuals in my care and concern that they may be dying and going to hell for all eternity. God, give me again. Just like Jonah, give me opportunity to love people again. And help me not to hold on to my perspective and expectations of ministry that I know. Miss the most important thing, and that is showing the love of Christ to people that come in this church and that come on our property and that I see on a daily basis in my neighbors and in my world. Lord help me never to lose focus of that. And when we pray that, folks, God can help the anger, no matter how intense it is, to dis Participate, and he can remind us of our need to show love for others. Are you willing to do that today? We all need to be willing to do that today, Father. Thank you as we finish, Jonah, that we're reminded that our anger many times can be misdirected, and that we have a responsibility To go to you and ask you, Lord, do I do right to be angry in this? Father, all we most of us, if not all of us, here have a tendency to just get angry and to harbor bitterness and anger in our hearts like a fire and we let in Satan fans those flames and before all too long we're incensed and we're living And we've never asked you, is this something that I should be angry about? Lord, you taught me that this past weekend This past week. Father, I pray you will help me every time I'm angry to ask you: is this worthy to be angry about? Help each of us to ask that question, and that we might relent then from our ungodly, evil anger, and accept your grace Grace and mercy, and show that love to our fellow church members, to our neighbors who need Christ. Lord, help us to be the sweet savor of grace and mercy that you expect. From us, because you are a gracious and merciful God, and yet you are patient with hardened, selfish people Lord, thank you that you are gracious with us. Thank you that we can turn to you in our anger, and you will give Forgiveness and that you disciple selfish, stubborn servants. Father, continue that discipleship in each of our lives. Plead with you. And now we have time for you in your seat there to plead with God. Repent and be willing to To ask, Lord, in the future when I get angry, am I willing to say, Do I do well to be angry? Let's take some time and turn to God as Leslie plays. Father, thank you that you are a loving Lord Who rescues and disciples, your stubborn, um, unloving servants. Lord, turn our hearts to say, in fact, all I ever want to be is what you want One of me, Lord, I give my life to you, and all my hopes and dreams and plans I place within your to hands, Lord, and give my life to you. Help us to resonate with that message as we sing it together. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Folks, are you going to be stubborn like Jonah? Are you going to sing this Song, All I Ever Want to Be is What You Want Of Me, Lord. I give my life to you. It's your choice. Let's stand as Tim leads us in it. In both verses of All I Ever Want to Be. Oh whatever want to be is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you, and all my hopes and dreams and plans I place within your hands. I give my life to you here am I for you three Take my life and move me. All I ever want to be Is what you want of me , Lord. I give my life to you, and all my hopes and trees and plants. I place within your hands, Lord, and give my life to you. I guess the tip One verse. Alright. We're going to go ahead and uh close in prayer. There's only one verse in there, so thank you. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day you've given to us. Us and that you provided this reminder through Jonah's life that uh you know you are willing to show grace to even the most evil nations in that. I pray that you would help us To just realize that the greatest reality in the world today is that people are dying and going to hell, and to just seek to have the opportunity to have you use us to reach out to those around us. us and to extend your grace to them and to be grateful when they choose to accept that grace. I pray that you would give us a good afternoon today. Help us to have a good evening tonight with the community picnic, that we would look for those opportunities to engage with those in our community and to share your word with them. And in Jesus' name, amen.