And you could turn your Bibles this morning back to Jonah. As we continue to study now the third week into this, and we're taking some time in chapter one to really lay um the groundwork for what we're what's going on here throughout the rest of the book. Because again, and our children are getting ready to go down. This sometimes can just kind of be relegated to a children. Story. Um, you know, what there's a lot of coloring books. Jonah and the whale. And it's a big whale, and it's a happy whale, and a sad Jonah. Jonah inside the whale, somehow making a fire. I don't know if he's eating s'mores or whatever. And then And Jonah gets out of the whale. You know all that. But it just sounds so crazy, right? That's like that's okay, that's great for a kid's story. But you know, part of us maybe think sometimes, but is that real? Did that actually happen? Well, I actually looked this up. One time, if it was possible for a person to be swallowed by some great aquatic mammal and for them to survive. And of course, if you Google it, you can trust everything you find on Google, on the internet. And there supposedly is a story of some a few people that have survived survived. In some form or fashion. Um they they didn't look too pleasant, um, but they did survive afterwards. That is rare, right? But folks, I want to be clear. I don't need to go to Google and try to prove that this happened in order for us to believe it. If it's in Scripture, it happened. And we trust, we believe because God gave us this narrative that it is true. And that God, if God was going to allow some sort of aquatic mammal to swallow Jonah, then that was a perfectly prepared creature to be able to handle Jonah. And at the appropriate time, let Jonah go. We trust by faith and not by sight. But it is interesting to note that uh supposedly out through history this has taken place. So here we have, again, just a summary here: a servant of the Lord who has been used of the Lord before In a wonderful way to go to his people, this servant, this Jonah, whose name means dove, God sent a dove, we found in 2 Kings chapter 14 to go to the people of the northern kingdom of Israel, the Jewish people in that kingdom there, and tell them even though they were rebelling against God, that God was going to in his His grace bless them and provide them stability. And our dove, Jonah, he loved that message, I'm sure. And he was very excited to proclaim that. Well, here we come to the book of Jonah, and God has a much different message for Jonah that he wants him to deliver to a much different group of people. And again, let's remind ourselves of that because this book is very direct. It doesn't wait for the message of the word of the Lord. It gives it to us right away. Verse 1. Saying, Arise, go to Nineveh. And that Nineveh would have been way east of where Jonah was located. That great city, and call out against it, for their evil or their disaster, their cruelty has come up before me. And we made mention that this was actually in From a human uh standpoint, a very terrifying mission to be sent on. This would be like um God going to a Jewish man today and saying, I want You to take a message of judgment to Hamas or to Iran. And in fact, folks, again, if history is correct, the people of Nineveh, which Nineveh, by the way, The way represented the nation of Assyria that was close to becoming a world power. God would use them for his purposes. But these people, these Assyrians, were terribly cruel, unspeakable things they would do to their enemies, even more than what we hear about today. So it would have been a daunting thing for Jonah to consider this, but remember it says in verse 3 that he was in In the presence of the Lord. That means that he was in the midst of a vision, a revelation from the God of heaven. He was experiencing Fellowship, the presence of the Lord was with him. And so in every prophetic book, the readers would have expected, okay, now the prophet's going to do what God's called him to do. And of course, this prophet did the exact opposite. He didn't go east, he went west to Tarshish, wherever that is. The exact opposite. Without a word, we hear no word from him at all. He just in his actions turns around and goes the opposite way, and he even funds the voyage. He puts money into it. He pays to rebel against God. I mean, as far as low of lows go, this is a very low moment for a servant of God who has been in his presence. He's trying to get away from the presence of the Lord. And as we continue to talk about this, we saw that really, that's a ludicrous Effort, is it not? A servant of the Lord trying to run from the Lord, whether it's Jonah or whether it's a servant of the Lord Here today. God has called you or I to do some things. To think that any of us can run from His presence and somehow get away from His word is ludicrous. It's craziness. Because then we have in verse 4, we have the rescue of a selfish servant. That's really, that is the Theme of the whole series. Verse 4. The Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea. Think of a mighty warrior with a spear. A spear, excuse me. And And he takes that spear and he hurls it. This is God hurling like a weapon, a great storm. And it's directed right at Jonah. And there was a mighty tempest on the So that the ship threatened to break up. This personifies the efforts of the ship. The ship is threatening to break up. And again, I mentioned last week it almost sounds like to Me like the ship is saying, I'm not going to help you, Jonah, in your rebellion. I'd rather break up first. Whatever. Folks, this is a good reminder for us. That when as God's servants, if we try to run away from God, God will come after us. Remember the one lost sheep? God comes after us. And seeks out people. And so Jonah thought that he could somehow get away from God's presence, or it may have been deeper than that. But what we see here is he cannot escape God's presence in his life. And this may sound like a punishment, folks, that God in his anger, how dare the servant try to run away from you me. I mean direct rebellion. Who does this? Who does this guy think he is? So God in his anger sends a storm. I'll get him. But we shouldn't think of it that way. We should look at this is this storm and all these other things that God is allowing in Jonah's life are really vehicles of rescue for him. That's why I've entitled this series, The Rescue of a Selfish Servant. Here is a servant totally immersed in his own selfishness, and God is rescuing him from his own way. Folks, if you are a true child of God today and you're trying to run away from him or rebel against him, God's going to do the same thing for you. You can guarantee God's going to send things into your life that are going to rescue you from your own way. Because God knows what's best for us. Sure. The whole idea of sending a message from God to a cruel, powerful enemy surely was a little daunting. But it was the best thing for Jonah. And we're going to find out at the end of the book. It is what God has planned for Jonah. It's the best thing for Jonah. We may try to run from what God's trying to do in our lives. Folks, but what we have to eventually come to the conclusion is if God's called me to do this, whether it's to be a testimony of Christ at work, or whether um it's to go on a missions trip, or Or talk to someone about some concerns that you have , or for some that God might be calling them to the mission field or to some sort of leadership within the church. That even though that may seem daunting to us and we kind of um rebel in our spirits thinking, I can't do that, it's actually, folks, it's So Jonah thinks that he knows best and he's running from God and he's running toward disaster. Again, as you look through the text, God told told Jonah to go up. And there's Three phrases in the next few verses that says that Jonah's going down. It almost has the trajectory as he is causing him or he is moving away from God in a downward direction, and it's only Going to bring pain and difficulty into his life unless God reaches down and saves him from himself. And God is going to do that. that. So let's continue to read here because caught in the midst of this are these salty sea mariners who have been on the sea all their lives. They've seen it all except for this storm. And they're terrified. I mean, you know, there might have been, I don't know, one of these guys named Blackbeard, and he might have seen all kinds of things on the sea and had all kinds of kinds of stories, a very salty, um uh experienced the world type of guy, and even a guy like that is terrified in the midst of this storm and so they cry out to their God, these pagans at least have a sensitivity toward deity, toward spiritual things. And they're crying out to their false gods, we should say, and they realize that's not working, so they start throwing stuff off the ship to make it lighter. We see that in verse 5. But where is the servant of God who knows the one true God? Well, he's the least spiritually sensitive. He's the dullest figure in the whole book. And he's gone down to the inner part of the ship, and he's fast asleep. He is hiding out, trying to get away from what God's called him to do. Again, we may read this and say, how could this guy, how boring In his disobedience. Folks, haven't you ever felt or experienced a time where you just want to get away from it all? Where you're tired of ministering in the church, where you're tired of being a witness for Christ, and you just finally feel like telling God, find someone else, please, to do it. I'm just gonna go find a place where I can be all by myself and take a nap. I'm tired of being used, Lord. Find somebody. Find somebody better. Find somebody younger, find somebody who's more attuned, who can do this better. I'm taking a lunch break from spiritual things. Yeah, see, I I think we really can relate to Jonah a little bit more than what we what we admit a lot of times. And so these terrified sea mariners get the captain. The captain is is going to get some more of the cargo and they pull it aside and here's this sleeping prophet. And so the captain is surprised. The captain came and said What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call out to your God. Perhaps the God will give a thought to us that we may not perish. The pagan sea captain who doesn't know God is more spiritually attuned To the situation than the faithful servant. What an embarrassment to be chided by this man in this way. But it's almost like it just rolls off Jonah's back. It doesn't even affect him. So they're getting rid of all the cargo, but this is a weapon of the Lord to rescue his servant. So of course it's not gonna do What they want it to do. They're still in grave danger, so they finally think, you know what? Sometimes we've heard, and maybe they've they've heard of the Jewish practice of casting lots. To find out what God or the gods want them to do, somebody comes up with this. Well, let's cast these lots, probably stones or something that maybe were colored. One was colored one way. was colored another and they throw these out to try to get some idea of what this angry God wants from them. This storm is so vicious that these seasoned mariners realize this could only Come from a God, from deity. God 's mad at one of us. Is it you? No. Is it you? I don't think so. Well, who is it? Well, let's talk These lots, and so they cast the lots, and God somehow made it very clear he pointed his finger at Jonah through the lots. Who is it? Who is it? You mean it's the guy who is Taking a nap. It was the sleeper. However, God made it clear through these lots. He did make it clear that it was Jonah, because Jonah wasn't going to say anything. Jonah's checked out. He doesn't seem to have any real concern for people or for himself. A very selfish servant, wouldn't you say? But ex Again, folks, don't we get some times where we just want to check out and say, Lord, I'm just I need some me time. Need some me time in the midst of all this serving. We all have tendencies to be selfish servants. God's not going to let Jonah get away with this. He's going to make it clear. This is my servant, and he is rebelling against me. There he is, guys. It's him. And so what is their response? They're amazed. And they want to know more. They want to know more about this man. Who has this all-powerful God that is seeking him out? So tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. What is your occupation? And where do you come from? And what is your country? And of what people are you? They want to do something. They want to be relieved of the situation. They want to be rescued. So they want to learn as much about Jonah as they can. And then He gives this amazing statement in verse 9. I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. And that would be a wonderful, inspiring statement. If it hadn't come from a man who is running from God and rebelling against him, I fear the Lord. But I'm running away from him. And these pagan sailors again fear God more than God's servant. What a terrible testimony! Testimony on Jonah's part. Look at verse 10. The men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, What is this you have done? Jonah still has not come to grips with the evil and the rebellion of what he Is doing, but these pagan men who don't know God, they even know. They're more spiritually in tune than Jonah. Is and they're looking at him, and as they hear him say this, they hear him say that he is a Hebrew, and that would have been an ethnic term for the Jews. Jewish people, so already they would have known his background, and then that he fears or that he respects and serves the Lord, the Lord Yahweh, that was God's technical Personal name for his people. So he serves the God of Israel, but he also serves the God the one true God that they're all trying to seek out with their seeking out of these false gods and he's saying, I actually know the real God, the true God who made all of this This and who made this storm. And so when they hear that with their ears, they're appalled. Wait a minute. We've been trying to reach out to all these gods, we weren't sure Sure whether they were real or not, probably false, but this guy, this guy, knows the one true God who created the heavens and the earth and who created the storm, and he's running from him. He must be crazy. You could just kind of put that in the review here or in the translation. What are you crazy? For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Again, does Jonah seem to be bothered by this at all? Not really. Why do you think that is? See, I don't I have a hard time anymore thinking that Jonah really thought that he could somehow get away from God. As we see later on in the book, Jonah knows God very well. We're going to find out later on why Jonah didn't want to go to Nineveh, and it's probably maybe not for the reason that you would have thought. But Jonah knows God well. I think Jonah knows that he can't run from God. And I think that as we find out here, he knows That the only way that the storm is going to be quieted is for him to be thrown into the water. He doesn't seem to be bothered at all. Is he really insane? Has he lost his senses? No, I don't think so. I think it's something like this. I think he was willing to obey God when he liked what God asked him to do. Give a message of hope and inspiration to my people. Yes. I'd be glad to do that. Pick me, Lord, pick me. That's Jonah. Take a message of judgment to a very cruel and mean and powerful enemy? No. Not so much interested in that. But here's how here's how rebellious Jonah is. I think this is his mindset. That He's thinking that God, I'm gonna go the opposite way that God wants me to do, and God's either gonna have to leave me alone or he's gonna have to kill me. Because I'm not doing what God wants me to do. Me to do. Wow. And yet, is there sometimes where we can relate to that too. Do we ever get so stubborn against God that we literally sometimes in our hearts, we may never say that, but in our hearts we come up with all kinds of excuses to do what God wants us to do. And when in reality, we may be saying as well, God, uh no. In fact, I'd rather you end my life and just finish my usefulness altogether than to call me to do that because I can't and I don't want to do that. Can we really be that selfish? I think we can. I think if we're on Honest with our hearts sometimes, folks, that God calls us to do many things. That we literally put a hand up and say, No, I'm not going to do that. And Lord, you can just end my life. I think that's where Jonah's at. And let's continue to then as we finish up this morning with the rest of this. As we finish up. Jonah chapter 1, and let's see if I'm right. Then they said to him, verse 11, What shall we do to you, that the sea may be may quiet down for us? For the sea grew more and more tempestuous. So I'm sure that these um mariners who had seen just about everything, they're getting more and more afraid because Because the sea is getting worse and worse and it's obvious to them this is the man that caused all this and he has the key how to stop all of this and we don't. Maybe some of them are getting sick at this point. Some of them are sicker than they've ever been in their lives. And they're just asking him, this is getting worse. What do we need to do? How do we need to satiate your God? What do we need to do? To please and to stop your God's anger on us so that we can be saved. And Jonah knew the answer. He knew the way of salvation. He said to them, Well, here it is. Pick me up and hurl me into the sea. And then the sea will quiet down for you. For I know, I'm convinced, that word there ought to be, I am fully convinced and know that it is because of me that this great tempest. Now, I know in those words it's hard to know Jonah's attitude as he's saying this, but folks, it doesn't sound to me, and I don't hear any repentance. In this. I hear this is what you need to do. God's told me that the reason you men are being troubled is because of me. He doesn't, I don't hear him apologize to them. You know, that would have been appropriate, right? Man, I'm sorry. Look, I I was foolish. I thought I could disobey my God and run away from him. Yeah, I know. I know it's crazy. I'm not crazy But this was a foolish thing for me to do. I'm sorry that I brought all of this on to you. It wasn't your fault. But you need to throw me in, and God will take Take care of me and all of this will be over. Unfortunately, I don't get that from that statement. Um Jonah Jonah is so selfish that I don't think he really Cares much about these men at all. Because it wasn't until they questioned him that he finally gave them the answer. He just doesn't seem to be tuned into the feeling And concerns of others at all. It's almost like the way of salvation has to be prodded, pulled out of him. What do we do? Come on, tell us. Maybe they had to threaten him. I don't know. But he said finally, pick me up and hurl me into the sea. This is why this storm has come, and this is the only way to deal with it. And I honestly I believe at this point with Jonah and his attitude that he's basically saying, guys, the only way um for this to stop is for you to throw me in the sea. Um my God's after me. I'm not gonna do what he says, so my God's gonna have to end my life. There's no way that I can live through this. The storm's too great. There's I don't I there won't be There won't be a vessel of salvation for me. So uh either way, I win because I've manipulated God. I'm not gonna do a God God's told me to do. He has decided he won't leave me alone, so God's gonna have to kill me. So throw me overboard, boys. Either way, I get what I want. What a fool! Foolish thing for Jonah to think that he can manipulate an all-powerful holy God. And yet he does so. And this is striking in verse 13. Jonah may not have cared much for these men, but it is amazing these pagan men who don't know the one true God show concern and care for this selfish prophet. Because look what they did. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to get back to the dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them. I think what happened here is these men literally, um, through their rowing and through their effort, they got blistered hands. I can almost imagine that. They're doing their best to get This Jonah Jonah back to land so that they don't have to do what he's called them to do. And they literally, I'm sure, get blisters over trying to save this man. God says, nope, that's not the way. But they were so concerned about him. Jonah wasn't getting blisters over these men. He was asleep. He didn't care about them at all. at all. Folks, again, uh we have the confession of a disobedient man here. Who is willing to accept the disastrous consequences in order to still not have to do what God would call him to do And we look at that and think, how could somebody be that callous toward God? I think there's an indication in here. I think when we look into our lives and we have Have less and less concern for other people. When our lives become more enveloped in our own scenario and in our own story to the point where we're not even looking around that the hurts and uh the other things that people around us are going through? Or that we'll do something without any care or concern about the difficulty it's going to put somebody else in. I have seen that a lot. I have seen Christians willing to do things or not willing to do things without any concern for the hardship it's going to place on others. I'm not going to get involved in that. I'm not going to get involved in that project. And other people may have to fill in and sacrifice more of their time, but hey, you know, I've got my own life to live. We can actually be very callous toward the concerns and the um plights of others. And I think when we see that In our hearts, we ought to have a red flag that says, Oh, am I rebelling against God? Am I kind of telling God, Lord, here are these people that do Notice these things in their lives, they need help, or I I really don't care about what other people are going through because I have my own schedule and my own time and my own things to worry about. Maybe that's an Area that we run from God in. That we flee and run from God to Tarshus in order to avoid having to minister to other people. I think that happens many times. Many times, that almost we'd rather God just take us home than us to have to deal with the difficulties and hurts of others. Very, very selfish. You've often heard this. Sometimes the people of the world seem more caring and generous than the people Of God. What a terrible, awful testimony about God's people. Do we really want that to be named among us us here at Upper Crossroads? Or do we want to say, Lord, I see today after hearing more of Jonah and understanding more of the story, you know what I've I've been selfish. I'm I am a selfish servant, Lord. I've not been aware of the needs of people around me. I've not even really cared about even the names of maybe some visitors or some people that are sitting there. I've got my own worries to deal with. I've got my own frustrations. Lord, I've been a selfish servant. It's just plain and simple. I see that now. And Lord, I ask forgiveness, and I want to turn back and serve you. And then, folks, you can experience the sweetness. Of seeing you being used as a useful tool for God's service. And can I tell you, and this is from years of experience now, even though I'm not perfect, the Sweetest things in life are seeing God use me and my family to help others and direct others to Christ. It's the sweetest thing in this whole world is to be used of God in that way to direct others toward Christ. And folks, If you have other things on your list you think might be more exciting or more fulfilling than that, well I'm just telling you from scripture, you're wrong. The sweetest things in life are being useful to you Tools for God, for his purposes, and seeing people change and know you had a part in that. Because none of us deserves that. So often we want to pick and choose how God is going to use us and which people whose lives God is going to use. Lord, I like these people. Use me for them. Help use me to help them. No, don't don't use me over here. I don't I don't really get along with those people. I don't really like them. Just personality conflict. There's got to be somebody else who can help those people, right? We have to stop being so selfish. Look what these men do, verse 14. Therefore they called out to the Lord, and that says the Lord. These pagan sailors are now calling out to Jonah's God, to Yahweh. They're talking to God more than Jonah's talking to God. O Lord, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood, for you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. I think what they're saying is. If I could put it this way, Lord, this servant of yours doesn't seem to be very concerned about his relationship with you, but we've realized all of a sudden you're the one true God, and we are very concerned. That you don't hurt us or that you do save us. So please, regardless of whether this prophet is concerned about you or not. We are. And he's told us to throw him overboard. So Lord, we're going to do that. Assume That's where the word from you. So please don't hurt us. Please let us live. And in fact, I think, as we'll see here in a minute, it is these men Then it is their salvation testimony as they turn to the one true God because they say at the end, You've done as it pleased you. What are they saying? These salty run-of-the-earth sailors who have seen it all, they're saying at that moment, you are a sovereign God who has full authority. Authority to do whatever you want, and we submit to you in what you want us to do. Even pagan sailors are having a better response toward God. Than this selfish servant. And so they did it. They picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea. And can you imagine that moment? I mean, this is the greatest, the most terrible storm these expert mariners had ever experienced, and they heave home, maybe they did one, two. Two, three, and they throw him out, and as soon as he hits the water, blah blah it's quiet And every one of those sailors and mariners knew at that moment that God had worked in their midst, and look at their response. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly. That is a word of worship. These men turned to the God of heaven and they They feared him. See, Jonah was giving lip service. Jonah said, I fear the Lord, but he was running from him. Terrible testimony. These men actually, in their hearts, feared the Lord and turned to him. And were gloriously saved. And so they offered worship, a sacrifice to the Lord, and made vows. And folks, isn't that what each of us should do when we're reminded Again of our own selfishness, and we're reminded that God will pursue us until we do what He's called us to do. And when He rescues us from our own selfishness, the first thing we ought to do is turn Around and worship him and say, Thank you, Lord, for your salvation. I'm sorry I forgot it. I'm sorry I neglected you And these pagan men do that. Well, we're going to see this more next week, but look quickly at the last verse there. Did Jonah get what he wanted? Did Jonah end what No, God's gonna teach Jonah a lesson. That even when a Faithful, selfish, or a selfish servant is trying to get away from God and manipulate God and like give choices to God. God, you've got two choices. That's really Jonah's saying here. God, you got two choices. You either leave me alone, let me go my own way, or you kill me. In verse 17, God says, nope, Jonah, there's more than two Two choices. There's a third option. Number three. That's what we're going to do here. And the Lord appointed, we don't know what it was, if it was a whale, it was obviously some sort of whale. Of mammal fish. It was a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Nope, Jonah, I'm not going to end your life. I'm going to pursue you. I'm going to give you a second And we're just you're just going to sit in my uh vessel of salvation here, and we're going to have a little bit of a talk about why you You thought you could run from me. And that I love you too much to let you get away with it. You notice another thing here at the end, folks. This just cracks me up. There's so many humorous elements to the story of Jonah. Even the animals obey better than the prophet. Even the fish knows how to obey God more than the selfish prophet. God says, fish, now's your time Now is the point for why you were created. A fish with a special compartment that could keep a man safe, go at it, and the fish doesn't argue. Everyone in the book just says, okay, Lord, except for that rebel dove. And God's going to now talk to this selfish servant who He has Just rescued. And beautifully in chapter two, we're gonna see in two weeks, because Nick will be with us next week. We're gonna see that Jonah finally responds. In the right way and turns back to God. Folks, what uh how are you deceiving yourself and thinking that you can run away from God From God and flee to your own Tarsus in your heart or in your actions. How are you thinking? God's called me to do this, but I don't really need to follow through on it. How are you rebelling against the God of heaven? If you are God's child today, folks, remember like Jonah, he's Not going to let you get away with it. But he is going to graciously provide rescue for you. But if you don't turn to him and repent like Jonah needed to do, you're not going to get to choose the Vessel and the means by which God saves you and rescues you. Once Jonah was in the water, he didn't get to choose the rescue vehicle. Better, folks, than for God to end up in a nasty belly of a great fish? Isn't it better just to turn back now? And they say, Lord, I'm sorry, I've been selfish. I will minister to those people. I will proclaim Christ. I will do that thing in ministry that I've told you I won't do. Because I know that you want my best, and that you are intent upon rescuing me from myself. And so I turn to you my Lord, and I submit myself to you. One other thing again, if there is someone here today who does not know Jesus and you're trying to run from him, and Jesus is calling you and drawing you, And you know you need faith, a personal faith relationship with Jesus Christ, folks, don't ignore that call either. But trust in Jesus Who sacrificed his life, who shed his blood and provides forgiveness for our sins, new life, and eternity with God rather than eternal separation from God. Because of our sin, Jesus offers forgiveness for our sin, redemption from the curse of the law, from eternal punishment, and provides renewal and eternal Life with God for all well for all eternity. And if He's calling on you to turn to Him now, let today be the day you turn. And trust in Christ for salvation. And God can do an amazing work in your life as well. Father, This story, it really is more practical than many times we give it reason to be. Lord, if we are really honest, we would admit that there are all times where we say, Lord, not today. Or Lord, not those people. Or Lord, I'm not going to repent. I'm not going to make things right with those people. Or whatever you're calling us to do. Lord, let us be submitted to your will. Let us see the folly of trying to run away from you and trying to manipulate you with giving you options for what you need to do. Let us be reminded that you have many options of salvation in your toolbox when it comes to rescuing your people. There's only one way of salvation from it Sin and death, eternal death, and that's through Christ. But once we've trusted you, you have many ways to bring us back to you. And to help us to be committed, faithful servants. Help us to stop the running away and help us run to Christ for salvation And for sanctification, for true spiritual change. And folks, you do that in your hearts right now Now, run to Christ. If you need to be saved from your sin, run to Christ and trust in Him this morning. If you need to be redirected from your rebellion, run to Him And seek repentance, ask for his forgiveness, and listen and follow after him. Let's do that in our hearts as Leslie plays now.