So we are grateful for that reflection this morning. Folks, if you are here this morning and you have a relationship with Christ, You are of all people most blessed. And no matter whether we're a spiritual rebel In an ornery way, not submitting, not wanting to do fully what God has called us to do, or whether we're fully committed God in his grace will still use us. And we're going to see that this morning as we go back to the book of Jonah. And children, you could turn with us too. To Jonah chapter 3. The title of this series is God Rescues a Selfish Servant. And that rescue we saw took place as we went through chapter two recently through a very unique vehicle. Through the lungs, the throat of a giant fish. And isn't that normally what we remember? About the whole book. We hear about the book of Jonah, and we think of the great fish, the whale, whatever. Jonah in there crying out to God. And Um that's that's the most vivid picture. And that's understandable. Um it is something that's unforgettable, and God used that But we think of many times of that fish as God's discipline upon Jonah. And we saw last week that's not the case. The discipline of Jonah from for I think the correct interpretation Interpretation of Jonah is that Jonah was uh in his rebellion against God. He went the exact opposite way. The prophet of God was viewing the glory of God, and he turned and went the opposite way. Thinking that either God's going to let me alone or He's going to have to end my life, but one way or another I'm going to get what I want, and that is I don't have to go and proclaim his message to Nineveh. And remember that message that God gave Jonah. He said in chapter Chapter 1 verse 2, arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come out before me. And so a Jewish prophet was being called to a terrorist nation, a terrible and cruel nation. That were renowned for their torture and cruelty of people. And God said, You're going to send them with a warning from me, Jonah. Jonah did didn't like that. It's going to take us actually to Jonah chapter four to find out all of the what was going on in Jonah's heart, why he didn't want to do what God had called him to do. Do. But all we need to know for now is that whatever the reason, he decided to go the opposite way. And I think that Jonah was basically saying to God, God, you either let me go or you End my life, because as the sailors, as God sent the storm as a weapon against Jonah, and the sailors were truly terrified, and they found out that it was Jonah who was the cause of all this. And that he was the true servant of the one true God and the creator of it all, they were terrified. Why would you run? Jonah doesn't even seem To be bothered by it. Yeah, I serve the one true God. I fear him. And yet, he really wasn't fearful or concerned about the things of God at all in this instance. But the sailors were. The sailors were fearing God. And so Jonah says, Well, guys, I guess you're going to have to throw me overboard. Again, he seems. kind of nonplussed about it. Doesn't seem bothered. And I think Jonah's thinking, well God, and to end this, I guess you're just gonna have to kill me. So either way I don't have to go to Nineveh. Nineveh Was a great city that represented the terrible nation of the Assyrians. If I hadn't made that clear already, they were the enemy of the world, they were the superpower of the world. And they were the enemy of God's people in Israel. And so the men threw Jonah overboard. And then chapter 2, verse 1. Jonah died. Describes his descent. And he describes how he got close how he sank down further and further and further to the point where we almost reached the Bottom of the sea, and the seaweed was wrapping around his head, and we find in that really Thanksgiving song and prayer to God in chapter two, that Jonah thought he was a goner. See, God gave Jonah a little taste of what he wanted. Jonah, you just want to end your life? Well, this is what it feels like. And Jonah got that taste, and as he was sinking further and further, he began to think to himself, you know, this isn't all I thought it would be. This is actually terrible. Lord, save me! And he called out and he cried. And God saved him in an amazing way. So the chastisement of Jonah was giving him what he wanted. And folks, if you continue to pursue and pray for something Something that God has made clear at this time that He doesn't have for you or doesn't want for you, and you continue to rebel against Him, one of the ways that He might draw you back to Himself is giving You, what you want, and finding out that there's no true pleasure there, that the taste is of bitterness, that it's not all that you thought it would be Are you pursuing something today that God has made clear that you shouldn't be pursuing? Or do you have something in mind that you want to do that God has said not? Right now. And you're not willing to listen to that. Really, I think as well, one of the scariest places we can be is when God lets us have what He's told us He does Don't want us to have. And Jonah gets that and realizes: what was I thinking? Lord, save me, and this incredible fish that was prepared just for this moment. This whole fish, this huge great fish existence was to be a vehicle to save Jonah. Jonah's rescue. Vehicle. And it came and it swallowed him. Um and Jonah cried out to God, and uh we I say repented. He turned to God. I don't believe it was a full repentance. Because he still, remember in verse 6, he still sounds rather self-righteous. That those who pay regard to vain idols forsake God And again I pointed out, wouldn't it he have been surprised to see the mariners when they threw Jonah overboard and the seas were calmed and they were jumping for joy and worshiping God. Would Jonah have been surprised by that, based on what he says in chapter two, verse eight? That God would have grace for these seafarers, for these mariners? I believe from the information that we have there that those men did turn to Christ as they're worshiping the one true God or turn to God for salvation. Salvation then it was turning to the revelation of God. Salvation for us today is turning to Jesus Christ. But I believe these men turned to God. And I kind of wonder: would Jonah have had a problem? Problem with that. Would he have been bothered by that? And yet, he thanks God for rescuing him, for saving him. And he Ends this beautiful psalm, Thanksgiving Psalm, with those wonderful words that still resound today at the end of verse 9: Salvation belongs to the Lord. And folks, that's still true today. If you're looking for salvation in anything other than the way that God has prescribed through our life Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, you will not be saved. It is squarely and only a vehicle and a way that God has Has established and has chosen for us through Jesus Christ. He is the only way that we can be saved from our sin and from the curse of our sin and from our rebellion against God. And Jonah at least acknowledges that. And he has turned back to God. And he's ready to be used again. And so God has rescued Jonah physically, but also spiritually. He's learned a lesson. And so now this is a great picture, right? Especially for kids. Can you imagine verse 10? And the Lord spoke to the fish. Okay, fish, lesson learned. Jonah's returned. Let him go. And he's vomited out right there upon the dry land from the context here I think it was really probably the same place from where he tried to run away from God. And now God says okay Jonah take two second chance. Let's get it right this Time. And Jonah's finally ready to do what God called him to do. I'm sure he looked kind of a mess. I kind of hope God let him take a shower first. Before he went off to Nineveh and proclaimed the message that God gave to him. Seaweed wrapped around his beard and all of This and God says, Okay, Jonah, let's try this again. And so He is now going to use this somewhat reformed, but I think still rebel Prophet to proclaim a stark warning of judgment that has powerful effects upon an urban population. Folks, here's an interesting thing. One of the most notable things in this book that many times goes unnoticed, and that is not that Jonah was saved by this incredible But this story is actually a mission story. We heard a lot about missions this morning and how God is using people around the world to proclaim Christ. This story This book of Jonah celebrates missions. Don't miss that. The greatest aspect of this book could be said that as As Jonah, I don't want to give away where we're headed here, but some amazing things happen as Jonah proclaims this message of judgment. And it's going to show us if God can use a rebel prophet, folks, he can Can use any of us to proclaim his message of salvation. Don't you think that God has left you out? He can use any of us. Us in this regard. And here today we're going to see that God uses even a very selfish servant. And so let's look then at At chapter 3, verse 1. A prophet's opportunity for reinstated service. A second chance. This is the only time I think really in this context that God had to give a second chance to a prophet because normally the prophets just obeyed what God told them to do. But here God gives in his grace a second chance. Verse 1. The word of the Lord came to Noah the second chance time, take two. But it's got an even more specific. Notice the message now, verse 2. Arise, go up To Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. And so we're going to find out soon what that message But even in verse 2 at the beginning, the first word that he uses I think is significant because throughout chapter one and chapter two we have it described as Jonah going down to the ship Go Jonah getting into the ship and going down. Jonah going down to the very belly of the ship. And there really is a picture of Jonah headed toward destruction going down Down and now God says, Jonah, second chance, go up, arise, go do what I've called you to do to Nineveh, that great city. I don't want to Take too much time to emphasize this, but I do think in the context here that God is actually describing this city as great because in his sovereignty he's allowed it to be great. And you're going to call out a message of judgment that I give to you. And so we kind of wait with bated breath. Has Jonah Learned his lesson? Is he going to do what God told him to do? Well, let me encourage you, he does. Verse 3: Jonah arose, he went up, he did what God told him to do, and he went to Nineveh. according to the word of the Lord. This uh certainly this was a quite a bit of distance. And then it didn't mean or um Jonah didn't have a car or train. Or a plane or anything. It's sort of taken him quite a while to get there, but at least he's headed in the right direction. He's not headed away from God. He's headed toward the mission that God's called him to do. And it says Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breadth. Now, what does that mean? Well, let me describe Nineveh It was a thriving royal city among the Assyrians. It had public squares, it had gardens, it had parks, and seems like from archaeological evidence that Nineveh even had a zoo. The size was approximately around over 1,1850 acres. So what does this mean? It describes that Nineveh was a Three days' journey in breath. Is it talking about Jonah's journey to the city? It actually, in context here, seems to be talking about Jonah after he gets to the city that it takes him three days to walk around the city and proclaim this message. Take his time? Well, we don't know. But it does correlate with the three days that he was in disobedience to God and the fish. And now it's three days in obedience as he Proclaims this message that God gives him to proclaim. And God gives him another opportunity to do what's right. Folks, let's remember as well that this really is not just best for the people of Nineveh. They're cruel. They think that oppression and bullying other nations and over Overpowering them is a way of life. There's no care and concern within these people that live in minima for their enemies. They need They need to be confronted by their sin. And they need to be offered grace to turn to God. And Jonah has the uh wonderful privilege Of being able to do that. But God had to deal with Jonah first. We uh, as our kids were growing up, there were a variety of ways Ways that we dealt with when they did things that weren't appropriate or they disobeyed, whatever. But one of the things that we read about from some some books that were And so we started to try to um incorporate this into the disciplinary measures is after we had dealt with the problem, we would go to the boy, the one That had done the wrong, and we would say, Okay, let's try this again. Now you have an opportunity to do it the right way. Now you have an opportunity to go to a brother. And say the right thing. Now you have an opportunity to go back and do it over and do it right the second time. What did that do? It provided practice for them in doing things the right way. Well, that's what God is doing here with Jonah. He disciplined Jonah, and now he's saying, here's your opportunity to do it the right way, Jonah. And so Jonah is going to To go ahead and do that. Um here's verse four, the message. Jonah began to go into the city, going a day's journey. So obviously it was a big enough city. It took some time. Now here is a message that God gave him yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Succinct, to the point, probably the kind of message That Jonah was comfortable in giving. Okay, 40 days, and God's gonna destroy you all. What is the outcome? Folks, look at verse 5. This really is the true miracle in the book. Don't miss this. The people of Nineveh believed God. And they called for a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them to the least of them. And the greatest miracle is this fish and this whale. But folks, this is the real miracle. This is the mission's emphasis here that the entire city repents. Can you imagine being called to, I don't know, the great metropolis of New York City, or since we were recently in in New England, let's say Boston, and we send some missions Actually, we know some missionaries in Boston that are church planners there. A brother named Toby. And what if I were able to To come to the pulpit one Sunday and say, my friend Toby, that is ministering in Boston, has just told us of an incredible, amazing thing. That as they were going around preaching the gospel, half of the entire city of Boston turned to God and trusted Christ. If I said even a third of the city of Boston, I mean our eyes would be popping out of our heads, right? Wow, that's amazing. But the whole city? It's incredible. It's a miracle. This wasn't in the end. Jonah's personality. I mean, he had a very simple message, right? You don't have to be very persuasive with those words. Yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. It is interesting as I contemplate. that and we think of the fact that in a city this large certainly we're talking thousands of people And they all turn to God in repentance and recognize their sin. I mean, this is complete. It's remarkable. It's amazing. What factors Could have caused this great of a number of people in a great city like this to all turn to God. Well, it is interesting historically that remember, I mentioned this already, but the Assyria Assyrians were the world power at this time, and God would use them and ramp them up and give them more power in the near future to even be a disciplinary measure against his people. In the northern kingdom of Israel. But at this time, and it seems as if Jonah, as Jonah is going in, actually the Assyrian power had diminished for a while because there was internal stress. Strife amongst the leadership and weak leadership, and they were being threatened by a number of other nations. They weren't as powerful as they had been. place at this time as well that certainly would have been frightening for ancient peoples as the sun literally disappears. They would look at that and say, the judgment of the gods! We better turn And Nineveh, the Assyrian capital, was the worship center for the Assyrian god Ishtar. It was the main center of worship among the Assyrians in Nineveh. And these things would have happened, and they would have looked at their god Ishtar and said, Hey buddy, how come you're not helping us out here? I also wonder, have you ever wondered I wonder what Jonah looked like when he came into Nineveh. Maybe we think of him as maybe having a little bit of seaweed wrapped around his head. But folks, remember, he was in the belly of a fish. Digestive juices and acid in those bellies, right? For a long period of time, maybe for the rest of his life, was that his skin was a little more wrinkled, and that maybe it was more a little more bleached, and maybe his hair was bleached. And maybe as Jonas Walking around, people are looking at Jonah, and he's quite a spectacle. And they're thinking, this guy's scary. We better listen to him. Or they're terrorized by him. These are all possibilities. I think Jonah was definitely an unusual looking creature as he went around and gave this message of Judgment. But folks, really, we just need to go back to this is a miracle of God. God did this. A whole metropolis of one of the most powerful Cities in the ancient world, and they all turned to him. It wasn't the powerful nature even of Jonah's message, but it was the powerful work of our God. And it is the most powerful Powerful miracle in the book because God gives the people an opportunity for repentance of sin. And they take an opportunity Up on it. And so then to the king himself, the word reaches the king. It started with the people. The message and the repentance started. This was very common uh amongst uh the Jewish nation amongst Israel, and they would worship the one true God. Somehow these Ninevites got a hold of that um Of that way of repentance, and they started doing it. And from the least of them to the greatest of them, the lowest in society, the poorest Poorest to the most wealthy, the ones with the most money. All of them, the most powerful influence, all the politicians. Isn't that a miracle? All the politicians. Turn and humbled themselves and put on the sackcloth and cried out to God. And eventually it gets word finally to the king of Nineveh, the the power Leader of this powerful city. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and he removed his robe and covered himself with sackcloth. And he sat in ashes. He goes the full distance here. Totally humiliates himself as he realized God's judgment is coming and he is repenting. And he issued then a proclamation and published through Nineveh by decree of the king and his nobles let neither men nor beast, herd, nor flock taste anything. Nobody's allowed to eat anything. No snacking. No meals. Let them not feed or drink water. Nothing. A total fast here. So that we can concentrate as a city, verse six or verse eight, let man and beast be covered with sackcloth. Even the animals are gonna fast by My decree. We're gonna take this seriously, folks. And maybe as the politicians flare for the appearance of things, so even the animals, even the pets, even Nobody gets to eat, nobody gets to drink anything. That'll make an impression. But instead, let even the animals be covered With sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. And remember Remember, one of the great sins of the Assyrians and of the people of Nineveh is that they had no concern for their enemies. And they would do cruel things that folks I can't even describe to you this morning because Because it just wouldn't be appropriate. They're so terrible. But the things that we hear, even of Hamas in Iran, and some of the terrible things we we heard last October was Still getting reports of the great atrocities that Hamas committed against Israel. And we marble and we were disgusted by that And yet, some of the things the Assyrians were doing were even worse. And he says, we have been wrong. And we need to turn to this God that Jonah's talking about, the God, the God of heaven. And we need to turn from our evil ways, not just Oh, sorry, sorry, God of heaven. Uh we didn't mean it. But this is a full-scale repentance, folks. Don't miss the miraculous nature of this. We were wrong when our kids, again, not to be always on the negative, um, but we would encourage them when they did wrong, um, to uh when they need To make it right to go to the individual and say, I was wrong. to This is what I've done. I shouldn't have done that. Will you forgive me? As a complete Message of their concern for their sin and repentance. That's what these people are doing here in the city. Their enemies, it was wrong. And who knows, this king says. Who knows? Obviously, there's a possibility here. They don't know this God. Most of the gods that they know are vindictive and Angry. But the king says, Perhaps this God is different. Maybe he will turn and relent and turn Turn from his fierce anger. We're in for it, folks. But if we repent and turn from our wicked ways, maybe, maybe, we may not pay. So the next big question is: what's God going to do? This marvelous verse, verse 10, when God saw what they did. And how they turn from their evil way. God relented of the disaster. I know some of your translations say repented. Some may Say, changed his mind of the disaster that he has said he would do to them, and he did not do it. And God God shows grace upon a cruel tyrant of a people that we would all agree did not deserve to have grace Mercy shown to them. Think of terrorists today. Are we prone to want to see God's mercy against terrorists in our world today? We struggle with that. And yet God makes it clear here that He is willing to show grace to all who will turn to Him no matter what What the level of evil. You think of the worst dictator. You think of the cruelest leader that ever lived, even in our modern times, and folks As much as we despise those people, you realize that even those folks in history, if they would have turned to God, that God would have had grace for them and saved them. And that should cause us to rejoice this morning that if God will have grace for people that are that cruel , And mean and awful, that God has grace for all of us. That today his grace operates through us A relationship with Jesus Christ. That Jesus took all of the punishment for our sins and died on that cruel cross and was risen again. And when we have faith and trust in Jesus, we can have that salvation as well, no matter what our background is. We see God's grace in this, we see God's grace Today. There is not one person in this room today that has done something so terrible and so awful that you can't turn to Christ and receive Forgiveness of sins, and be a child of God. And be loved and embraced by Him as your Heavenly Father. Marvelous, amazing love And God shows it to this terrible city. But I know, as we read these verses, there's a question that comes up In our minds, a concern, right? Even the translations. That King James translation , well known for many years, it says, God repented Some versions say God changed his mind. What do we do with that? Because I can give you some other verses. In fact, I will just briefly Here. 1 Samuel 15, 29. Says, also the strength of Israel, that's God, will not lie nor repent, for he is not a man that he should repent. Or Psalm 110:4. The Lord hath sworn and will not repent. Thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. It continues on there. Here we have these verses that make it clear that God does not repent. And here we have in this verse. Now the ESV says God relents. We'll get to that in a minute. But in some versions it says God repents. What do we do? It's got to be one or the other. Right, Pastor Brock? And when we read this, it almost sounds like in verse 10 of Jonah chapter 3 that God sees the repentance and he's moved. And it's almost new information for him. Well, they took me up on my offer. Wow. Okay. I'm a loving God. I'll forgive them. Like it was a new information, a new experience. Like he hadn't wasn't going to give consideration to it. And almost if you have the word repent in there, it almost has idea of God says God thinks something like, you know, I shouldn't have been so angry with these people. It almost kind of sounds like he's saying he's sorry. If God repents. And we know, according to these other verses, that God never is in a situation where he has to repent or say that he is wrong, or even in any Any way, um admit in any way that he's wrong because he always does what's right. It's not pride or arrogance, it's God always is righteous, he always does what is right. What do we do with that? Well I do like the translation that the ESB has of relent rather than repent. And when in the King James translators, um when they use that word Word, it made sense to them at the time, and the idea of repenting with those translators also had the idea that God did something different from what he proclaimed. But today in our culture today when we hear the word repent, we really can't get away from the idea of, Oh, he feels sorry for something that he did and he turns and from From a man's point of view, when man repents, that's true every time. That we do feel sorry for our sin and that we do turn from that sin. But I don't think it's That's the best word to use, and I like the word relent better. In fact, the Hebrew word that's used here is in for uh repent or relent is Often is most often used for God, and there's another Hebrew word that's used for man's repentance. And so I think a better understanding, a more accurate understanding of This that recognizes the truth of those other verses that says that God is unchanging, that God doesn't repent. I think the best interpretation here that is correct is that God is reacting to the changing ways of men, but he's still accomplishing his sovereign purpose. In other words, when Jonah was proclaiming judgment, it was proclamation, but it was not determined. Jonah was proclaiming judgment, but judgment had not been determined by God. Jonah was saying, This is a possibility that I am proclaiming to you. But he was not saying, God has determined this, and there's no way going forward. There's no other option. And then God sees the repentance of the people and says, okay, I changed my mind. No. In fact, I think what this shows us in this is that God had determined that He was going to Forgive these people. And so, and another aspect of this, really, this word when it's used, it really does reflect God's emotions. Emotions against sin and his love for his people. So rather than repent, the picture here is of God relenting He had something that he could have done, but he had already determined he was going to give forgiveness. And that's exactly what he does. As a sovereign God, he had determined already what he was going to do. Well, then there's the question of: well, why did Jonah. Give them the option. Because isn't that what he's doing? He actually says, 40 days. Why would God give them 40 days? Why doesn't he just bring judgment? Why did he even send Jonah in the first place? If judgment was predetermined by a sovereign God, there's no need to send a prophet. There's no reason to make Jonah go through it. All that. No, there is an option, a proclaimed option, to turn to him because he gives a time frame of 30 days. God had determined to save. Yet he gave them time to turn. You know, isn't it true? Even as we're trying to contemplate how both of these things can be true, remember, even as The New Testament. A couple more verses here as we finish up this morning that kind of help us. And I understand with our young people, especially, we're talking some big concepts here. So, kids, thanks for hanging out In there, okay? You've earned the candy today. But these are big things. God is sovereign. I believe He determined that He was uh going to It was eternally determined that he was going to forgive the Ninevehite people. Why even give them an option then? If he knew it was going to happen? Folks, doesn't God give us the option today? Colossians 1, 9 through 11. Paul is praying for the people. We've not ceased to pray for you Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work. Work and increasing in the knowledge of God. Paul is praying that these believers will choose to walk in his ways and to follow after him. And he's Praying that they'll choose the right option, that they'll make the right choice in that regard. And so God gives us, I'll put it this way, the opportunity to obey his moral will. Here's another interesting from Jeremiah 8, verses 7 through 10. This is really interesting. In fact, go ahead, I know we have a few minutes here, just real quick, turn to Jeremiah 18. But God says, if at any time I declare concerning a nation or kingdom that I will pluck up and break down and Destroy it. And if that nation concerning which I have spoken turns from its evil, I will relent of the disaster that I intended to do to it. And if at any time I declare concerning a nation or kingdom that I will build and plant it, and if it does evil in my sight, not listening to my voice, then I will relent of the good that I intended to do to it. And God says unequivocally here that if there's a nation or kingdom that He has uh the ability to destroy and to bring judgment to it, and if that nation turns From its evil, he says, I will relent of the disaster that I intended to do because of my grace and my mercy. How do we put these two together? God's sovereignty, his determined actions, and yet he gives us opportunity to respond to his call. How can it be both? Well folks, I know this sounds like a cop out, but I think it is true that there is only so much, there's only so far That we can go in these things with before we just say, I know that both are true, and yet I trust a sovereign God, even when I can't understand how those two things Things come together. I know they're true. I have a statement here that was very helpful for me. This is from a man, an author that I've told many of you given you um Or recommended his books before Paul David Tripp. He has been a Presbyterian pastor. Um he attends a Presbyterian church. In near Philadelphia. He is fully reformed in his thinking. And he describes the sovereignty of God versus the opportunity. For in this case the Nineveh to turn to God, he describes those choices in a very helpful way. Remember, this is a man who Fully embraces the full sovereignty of God. He says this God rules his world in a way that does not violate the true significance and validity of secondary agents. What does this mean? It means God establishes what he has ordained. without ever reducing us to robots. What we think is real and important. What we say has meaning and purpose. Our choices are valid. Our thoughts, desires, Actions, choices, experience, relationships, and locations are all the means by which God accomplishes what He has ordained. So we can never say that since God has ordained everything that happens and rules Everything all the time that what we do and say doesn't make a difference. He rules his world in such a way that our choices are valid and our actions are important. He is sovereign. Over the ends and the means. And that's from a Presbyterian pastor. Not that that's the final go-to. I think that's a good way of summarizing what's going on here. God is sovereign, He will do what He will, but again In this picture, God is a merciful, gracious God who is ready for those that turn to Him to relent of the disaster. Folks, what does that mean for us today? How do we turn from the eternal disaster that comes toward us in our rebellion against God and in our sin. Folks, here's the wonderful answer in this miracle of this whole city repenting before God. Today if you are still breathing, if you're still alive in this auditorium Today, you have time to turn to Christ today and trust in his salvation from sin's curse of death. You have opportunity. Even as we get ready to reflect, And celebrate all that Jesus has done and his saving work on the cross. You have opportunity this morning to come to me to they're in your seat. Just repent from your sin and turn to God and turn to Jesus Christ, and you can experience salvation. And folks, if you are here this morning and you do have relationship with Jesus Christ, hears some other hopeful things. That is that if God can use Jonah to present salvation, he can use any of us. So be confident to tell others about him. Folks, it's his power to save. It's not ours. It's not the power of our presentation How effective really without God's power is 40 days, and none of us shall be overthrown without God's power. There's nothing helpful on that. That but God's power and his sovereignty work and to work as we tell people of the salvation they can have In Jesus Christ today. Let's rejoice in the salvation that we have in Christ as we go to prayer and we get ready for communion together. Father, Father, thank you. This wonderful mission's miracle that you saved , that you determined Determined to forgive an entire metropolis of cruel, terrible people. And we rejoice That it's possible for people to repent and go your way We rejoice in the fact that you are sovereign. We rejoice in the fact that you give grace and mercy to people. And Lord, we may not be able to understand how all those things work together. But we trust you and know that you are. A sovereign God. You are higher than us, and we'll never fully understand your ways. We can't fully understand the Trinity. And yet we believe That it's true, the concept of the Trinity. And we also believe in your sovereign work of salvation. Salvation and your love for people. So, Lord, let us be encouraged today, and for those that need to turn and have seen their sin and need to turn to you today. May today be the day that they do that. And for those that have a relationship with Christ, Lord, let us turn from being fearful and afraid of presenting you and the gospel and let us Let us be confident and hopeful in that