And so that we could become kingdom citizens. Because as we saw recently, again, I think the key verse of the whole Sermon on the Mount, you could turn to Matthew 5. The key verse I'm referring to is verse. 16. Appreciate all that had a part in our worship service this morning, and I trust your hearts were blessed by the music. And as you sang and as we heard the These wonderful truths from God's word, from these songs. But Jesus said in verse 16. Or I'm sorry, not 16, verse 20 of chapter 5. For I tell you, and when Jesus says that, he's making it clear, he's announcing something Very important. Unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. And so Jesus is pointing to a righteousness that is greater than the best among these people. The best rule keepers, the best moral citizens in their community. Jesus says there is a righteousness that all of us need, including those in dis Individuals, or all of you, need, that is greater than anything that we can accomplish on our own. And that is the righteousness that Jesus accomplished on that cross That we just sang about. That sinners come to Christ in need, and because of his death on the cross and his resurrection into glory We can look forward to his return one day. And through the power of Christ in each of us, we can live. We can become kingdoms. Citizens by trusting in the righteousness of Christ, that righteousness that all of us need, and we can live in a way that's pleasing to God. And for example, then, the rest of the chapter really of chapter 5 is Jesus emphasizing this principle. He says, in essence, if you doubt me, I'm going to give you some scenarios. Here of understood commandments in the law, and really the ten commandments, that everyone agrees with that we need to follow, but I'm going to deepen. Your understanding and deepen your culpability because Jesus is going to include the heart Heart attitude behind these commandments. And so illustrating that there's no one that has a righteousness that can boast Both keep the law and the heart attitude together. We can't even keep the law. How many of us can keep the Ten Commandments? And that's just ten. Of God's moral expectations. And we certainly can't keep the heart attitude that God expects is involved as we And so Jesus, as we continue through the Sermon on the Mount and through chapter 5, will point out that many of the commandments that people thought that they were following, they actually Actually, were guilty before God because they didn't have the heart attitude that accompanied it. And folks, it's the same for the people of God that are here today Today, we need to be reminded that without Jesus Christ, we can't accomplish these things and that we struggle with these same things as well. Remember, again, the theme of all this is the kingdom of God. And it is, again, plugging all that together, it is kingdom citizens who have trusted In Jesus Christ as the gate, as the doorway, in entryway into the kingdom, how God expects them to live, and how Jesus can enter enable them to live. See victory in these. And certainly when it comes to this issue of anger, I think we can all, if we're honest, in Admit that all of us are culpable because all of us get angry in ways that are sinful. There's not a one of us that can claim Perfect righteous anger. In fact, most of the time our anger is far from righteous. And so this is going to be Convicting today for the pastor. I've had opportunity to repent first already. And I'll continue to have opportunity in this life in the future as well. To repent of this sin, but folks, all of us here need to repent. And Jesus is going to emphasize the need for change. In some of these areas that we tend to let slide or excuse away, and anger is certainly one of those. So is there even a right kind of anger? Well, there is, but not one that we We normally follow. I should make a note here as we get ready to read from Matthew 5, verse 21. I just want it to be clear that next week we're going to To skip ahead and we're going to cover the issue of divorce. It's here in the Sermon on the Mount, but it's also something that's necessary for our church family to consider And this is something that I've brought up to our leadership before. We're all on the same page with my interpretation of this as well, but we're also going to talk about the fact or the concept of what divorce um includes and excludes as far as leadership within the local church. And so I want you to be prepared for that because pretty soon Soon here we're going to be thinking of nominations again. So it's a good time to discuss that. And I'm going to be bringing you not my own opinion, but what I am convinced Is the right interpretation from God's Word on that issue of divorce, and especially when it relates to who can serve in the local church. I don't think you would agree with me, that's important. And so we're going to look at that soon. But today, let's talk about anger. We're going to see that God's kingdom law judges sinful anger. Anger. One of the requirements of kingdom citizens, those that will be a part of the future kingdom of Jesus Christ, and already serve him as their king. Is that they don't allow sinful anger to control them. Already we're starting to feel a little guilty, aren't we? And that's That's Jesus' intent. So verse twenty-one, Jesus gives the command from the Old Testament God's law that nobody would have disagreed with. You have heard that it was said to those of old, uh those probably Referring to those Jewish interpreters of the law and the traditions of the law, you had these men at this time. And throughout Israeli history, that were considered interpreters of the law and scribes, and they would help the people better understand God's law. That was a positive thing, but on the negative side, they added things to God's law that God never intended. But Jesus is saying, these people That helps you to understand God's law. Here is a command that everybody would agree to is important. You shall not murder, and whoever murders shall be liable to judgment. And as Jesus said those words, pretty much everybody in his Audience, and I'm sure even here today that we would all assent. Amen. True. If someone ends the life of another person , In whatever way, then they are liable to go before the court and be prosecuted. Isn't it interesting, though, as much as I say that we ascend That don't include the murderer Of unborn children in this as well. But Jesus does. Those that would murder would end the life, whether they're unborn children. Adults, the elderly. There's a move for that, isn't there, too, with many of the elderly. Just you know, help them end their lives as quickly as As possible. There are no more use for us here. Instead of waiting for God's timing, and all those are controversial. But I think all of us here in this room would assent Yes, you end the life of someone else, you're liable to judgment, to God's judgment. That is a fair expectation. Expectation, and that is just. That is right. We would all say amen to that. But Jesus doesn't leave Because see, at that point, uh certainly the best among us and the righteous the Pharisees, um the the best of the best of the people of God of Israel Israel at that time, um, they would never be characterized by murder, at least not that you would know of. And God's people would say, of course you wouldn't murder someone. We can follow that standard, but Jesus is going to deepen the standard to help these folks realize not even the best of the best among you can actually meet and obey this commandment because it's much deeper than just ending someone's life, but it's also anger is a heart attitude. a destructive heart attitude, and it is murder within the heart. And therefore we must not deal just, we must not pat ourselves on the back with, well, it didn't murder anybody I didn't take any lives this week. But we must deal with what is my heart attitude toward other people. Am I angry with anyone? If I'm angry with them, and most almost always it's in a sinful way, then I am guilty of murderous Well, because that's what he says in verse 22. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother, that means a heart and Attitude of murder, his brother or sister, will be liable to judgment. And some um manuscripts or Some translations say without a cause, and that's just to kind of put a caveat in there that he's talking about sinful anger. But I don't even think we really need that Because it's obvious in context, and it's obvious as Jesus continues that he's talking about sinful anger and not righteous anger. And again Again, folks, let's be candid. We show the anger that flares up within us, whether it's in our hearts or it shows in our faces or in our words or in our actions, most of the time We're dealing with sinful anger, are we not? Rarely, too rare, is it actually righteous anger. And so we all need this passage and we need to be dealt with in So Jesus says, the anger of the heart makes you liable as well. He's saying here that God will judge the anger of the heart. Heart. An angry heart attitude is worthy of God's attention and judgment. And so he says here, Well be liable to the council. What is that? The heavenly council? Well he's making this very practical and that council refers to a local court in the Jewish court system that was a group of twenty-three members that dealt with serious crimes like murder. And so this court would meet whenever someone would take the life of another And they would prosecute, and that person, the justice would be recognized, hopefully, if things went the right way. But Jesus is saying here, no, actually, if you have murder of the heart, you also are liable. They could, in um, in one sense, and it's spiritual sense, you could go before that court that normally prosecutes murders and all of you would be guilty as well for having harboring that wrong Anger in your heart, you'd be just as liable. And so all of a sudden, I'm sure Jesus' audience listened a little more closely. Wait a minute. That's something that I struggle with. I've seen our local Pharisee, our local religious leader. Or get angry before. That's something that we all struggle with. And I think one of the reasons Reasons that we need this in our lives today is that this is one of those things that when we get angry with someone else, how does this anger show, by the way? The anger of the heart. Some people have that silent anger that you might not even ever know about. They just won't talk to those individuals that they're angry with. They give them the cold shoulder. They won't deal with whatever reason why they're angry with that person. Others might make it very clear that they're angry with someone in the tone that they use and the words that they use, and that'll be dealt with here in a minute. And there are those that, yes, might come to physical altercation because of their anger. But a lot of times when we have That anger of the heart, whatever the expression is, sometimes it could be sarcasm or biting words. I'm not gonna kill you, but I'll hurt your feelings. And I'll kill your spirit with my unfortunate and caustic words. And I'll get at you one way or another. We tend to think of those types of attitudes as, whoa, of course, Pastor Bach, we know that's wrong, but everybody gets angry. Sometimes we blame it on our heritage. Well, it's the background. You know, there was anger in our home. And I grew up in an angry home, so sometimes it just comes out. You know, anger runs in our family, in my family. And it's just, you know, so it's a part of what my family has to deal with. Folks, no, we can't be that cavalier about this because Jesus is saying Here, no, it is murder in your heart, and it is worthy of judgment. And if this is a regular characteristic Of your life. This may be an indication that you are not a kingdom citizen. Because kingdom citizens Are fill the guilt. We talked about the right kinds of guilt and the wrong kinds of guilt in Sunday school this morning. The right type of guilt leads to repentance. And those that are kingdom citizens of the heavenly kingdom of Jesus Christ, when they experience that anger, at some point they will acknowledge that wasn't right. I shouldn't harbor that kind of anger and hostility and murder toward other people. I should never, Lord, help me to do better, help me to gain victory. Over this, because it is not the conduct of someone that is going to spend eternity with Jesus Christ. And so we need to take it seriously. Jesus continues. As you would expect, he just doesn't stop with anger of the heart. What else does he say here? Verse 22. Whoever insults his brother, or you say his sister, either one, will be liable to the council. And some of your translations use the word rock up. And you probably may you may read that and say, well, you know, what does that have to do with it? Any day. Yeah, I I don't know if any of you are um uh are guilty of a biting tongue, and maybe you tend to be one that throws Insults if you're not careful. Probably very few of you have ever turned to someone in your anger and said, You rocka. Because if you had, they wouldn't really understand that anyway. Well, uh, thank you. I mean, what did you But in this time period with um the people the audience that Jesus is referring to, basically it was like calling someone an idiot or a mortal How about that? Now does that relate a little bit more? Getting so angry with someone that you turn around, you Idiot. You person that is stupid and has no intelligence or whatever else. Some sort of insult. And we get pretty creative with our insults. And then what we do if sometimes, if we're really um crafty about it, then we say, but you know, I still love you. God bless you. I'm just kidding, but you know, you just get on my nerves sometimes. You know, we have to deal with this um in our own home. If it if for all of you that have had small children and have small children In your home or have had small children, you know that sooner or later you're going to be dealing with this issue. Because they're going to hear something, uh, they're they're going to be they're going to be angry. And they're gonna want to lash out and they know that they can't hit or be physically involved because mom and dad's really gonna come down on them, so it just comes out of their mouth. And something angry comes out, some sort of insult that demeans the other person and their character and makes it raises the one person, the one that's using the insult in their own minds, and it de Dethrones or demeans the other person and puts them in their place. And so, as parents, that's something you're constantly dealing with, right? You don't say that word to your brother or sister. No. That's not funny to call them that. Do you realize what you're saying? Now there's there's a difference right between insults and terms of affection. Maybe sometimes those lines get clouded. But we always have to ask ourselves whether we're dealing with our kids or even dealing with teens and young people. It can be cool and funny to call other people names or degrade them or demean them. And as a youth pastor, as a pastor, sometimes I have to step in and say, you know, that's not really funny. That's actually hurtful. Have you ever thought about that? There was a while, and I'm so glad I think this era is over, but maybe you remember this. I think it was in the late 90s. I remember this in youth ministry, that it was really fun. Where you say something demeaning about somebody's mom and it's really funny and ah your mom and all this and I you know I folks, I have my own struggles, but I will say on that one, I always I never found the humor in that. Um especially if they were talking about my mom. But they would throw and it was just like, oh this is funny. I'm insulting your mother. And it's like, there's nothing funny about that. I'm sorry. It's an insult. Rock up, moron. But everybody does it. Now, I don't watch the show, but I can use it in illustration because I think I know the basic context of the content. I don't think that there was ever an episode of Law and Order That was reviewed or was promoted with these words. Make sure you watch our next edition of Law and Order, where some person Will be convicted and will be prosecuted for calling another person an idiot or a moron. And they'll get a very special edition of Law and Order as we pursue this terrible Well nobody I don't think anybody would watch it or if somebody did it would just be out of curiosity like why in the world would you do that? Why would you prosecute someone for s for just insulting Someone else. That's what the world, that's our expectation. And yet, what does Jesus say? The one who insults his brother or sister. Someone else will be liable to the council. Well what is the council then anyway? Well actually it's referring to another step up. The second court here referred to is a second Sanhedrin, this was basically the supreme court of the whole Jewish system. It had 71 members with the high priest as head and the chief priest as influence. Influential members, but also included law professors and city elders. This was the highest court of the land. Could you imagine sending a case up to our Supreme Court today? about somebody that called somebody else a moron or an idiot, I don't think it would get very far. Why is Jesus using this ridiculous illustration then? What's his point? The point here is that he's saying that God's standard and the standard for his kingdom is so much higher than the world's is. And that when you call someone an insult, And insult their intelligence or whatever something about them, you're exalting yourself, like I said earlier, and you're demeaning and putting that other person down, and you are Using it to benefit your own reputation. And because you're angry at that person, and God says that's wrong. It's sin, and I will judge it. Stop excusing it. Stop just watering down the seriousness of what you've done Jesus says that those are a part of my kingdom will not allow anger to demean and put down anyone else. Else with an insult like this. Well, he continues, and this is one that's often, I think, misunderstood. And it almost like Jesus is saying the same thing, but it's even deeper than that. So it's the one who has anger in his heart first , then the one who insults his brother, and then finally Whoever says you fool, this is the last part of verse 22, will be liable to the hell of fire. Now, is this we we may look at this and say, well Okay, he's saying that we shouldn't insult people again. Well, why would Jesus repeat himself with the same admonition twice in the same phrase? It can't be that. It's got to be something deeper. Well, what is he saying here? This is actually when he's talking about someone calling someone else a fool. He's saying that this one is accusing Someone else of a wrongdoing that is an offense to God, or literally recusing someone else of having rejected God and being a rebel. against God. How do I get that? What does the Bible say about fools in Proverbs, folks? That they are rebels against God. That they are antagonistic towards God. That they are the enemies of God. I actually had a pastor one time that admonished I don't think I don't know if I use the word, but he for whatever reason we were talking about this and he said, you know, you should never really call someone a fool ever, because Jesus takes it so seriously and it really is condemning someone as if they are an agent against God and you can't know their heart. And I've I've never forgotten that Because folks, wouldn't you agree with me that for someone to condemn somebody else without knowing for sure for someone calling someone else a rebel or an unbeliever or dissenter against God and confidently saying so When only God knows hearts, wouldn't you agree with me that that's uh territory that we ought to tread very lightly and carefully? And that's what God knows That's what Jesus is saying here is that someone is accusing someone else of being a rebel and of great sin and an enemy of God without being able to prove it. That's slander, folks. And what I want to propose to you is I think many times that happens, and too often in Church. Today, where we're so quick to jump into, well, I see what this person is doing. They must be the enemy of this church, and they are my enemy, and they're the enemy of God. And it's like, whoa, wait, can you look into the heart? Do you know beyond the shadow of a doubt that they are a fool? Then all of us better tread really carefully. Before we would ever accuse someone of that. And Jesus says that those that would handle this, he he say he's He uh keeps the worst judgment for these folks. He says they'll be liable to the hell of of fire. And this refers to here in the Greek a uh gehenna, the the Valley that was right outside Jerusalem, where in Old Testament times human sacrifices were offered in false worship to a god named Moloch. And this was at the heart of Israel's idolatry. And it was literally right outside the city. And so when Jesus says that these that would condemn their brothers and sisters, acting like they know they have knowledge that only God knows, they're guilty of Genhenna. That was a picture to people in Jerusalem that was very vivid. They could look right outside their walls and see it. Because it was a picture of Israel's idolatry in the past, and in their times it was a garbage dump. That burned day and night, and so it became a fitting example of eternal punishment in hell. And Jesus Jesus really does say here that if we would dare to condemn someone else as the enemy of God confidently , Without full evidence, even that we are guilty and that we are guilty to be Condemned to eternity in the lake of fire. And he offers that picture. That's something that we don't contemplate very many times, folks. But what it's saying here is God takes this type of anger seriously. It's not enough to say, I've never murdered anyone. Because if you harbor anger in your heart, or you've insulted someone, or you've condemned someone that you think you know what they're doing, and in fact only God knows, and you've treated it As such, then we are very guilty before God. Now that should be convicting and that should sober all of us. Because that really, doesn't that folks really cover all of us of our anger. What other forms of anger could we cover in this? Explosive confrontations, irritability, cruel sarcasm The silent treatment. All of those are wrong expressions of anger that Jesus says here, you're guilty. You're guilty. You're guilty before God. And as the audience here is hearing this, they're realizing even our religious leaders, the best of the best, are guilty of those things. Things, what can we do? We're all guilty. All of us have been angry. All of us have condemned someone without knowing the true nature. All of us have insulted someone else and hurt their feelings. We're all collectively guilty before God God, folks. And that is why Jesus said again, that's why we need a righteousness that is higher than the best people in our society. Because none of us are going to reach that level of righteousness. Well, who did? Well, again, let me read to you Romans 3, 21 through 26. But now the righteousness of God has manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified, are made righteous by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Jesus. Jesus Christ, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show, here we go, God's righteousness Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. All of us, folks, are condemned before God because of our wrong anger. And yet gloriously Jesus paid the price because he never was involved in sinful anger his whole life, not even one time. He perfectly fulfilled God's law. He perfectly obeyed that commandment about murder. And he was He was able to offer himself up on a cross and he was raised again so that we could have his righteousness in a bunch of murderers of the heart, even in this room. Could have the righteousness of Christ and become kingdom citizens and know that our eternity is secure through Christ. Because otherwise, we're all a bunch of murderers. We need Jesus. And that's what he's pointing to in this picture. What do we do? For those of us that still need to trust Christ, we turn to Him. We recognize: wow, if I can be a sinner by being angry and saying Hurtful things toward people, I'm in trouble because I've done that. And I'm liable before God, and I'm deserving of eternal punishment. I need Jesus. And we know Jesus provided his righteousness to cover that sin. For those of us who have trusted in that righteousness of Christ, and we have the righteousness. Of Christ that covers our sin, we still need to acknowledge that these are the types of sins that people will face eternal punishment for, folks. And they're serious. I remember one time in college being involved in a discussion with a group of young men, and they were talking about a friend of ours that was involved in sin. And the one, and if if it was true, we weren't even sure it was true, but if it was true, it would have been very grievous. I remember one of the young men saying, you know, I just I don't even think he's saved. And even at that point, I didn't agree with them, but I thought that's a pretty dramatic thing to say. Actually, folks, like an example of what Jesus is saying here. None of us know. And yet, if we've condemned or we've slandered someone else for not knowing Christ, when all Only Christ knows the heart, we're guilty of the full punishment of hell. That's not a light thing. But through Jesus He provides forgiveness of sin, our righteousness, eternity with him, and he helps us to have victory over these areas in our life. There's not one kingdom citizen here today, those who have trusted Christ Christ who can say it's too much, it's too hard, I can't have victory over anger. No, you can. Because it's through the power of Jesus and the work of the Holy Spirit and nothing that we do on our own. You don't have to say all those mean things to other people. people. You don't have to leave sit you don't have to constantly sit in condemnation and in your heart trying to figure out who's um uh a real friend of the church and and who's the child of God and who's not. Um if God needs us as a church to discipline someone, folks, he'll make that very clear. He doesn't need us to guess about it. So many times, instead of being clear about who needs discipline In the church, too many Christians are just guessing. That's not appropriate. But Jesus has come to help Help us to deal with our anger in the heart. Have you been irritable with somebody lately? Yep. Have you shown your anger or yelled at your kids? Yep. I could go on and on with a list. Of ways that we show our anger. Are you willing to repent? Turn to Jesus and say, Lord Jesus, help me to do better. I believe I can do better through your power. Yes. And you can do the same thing. Father, we're convicted of what What we know now, beyond a shadow of a doubt, is wrong actions and wrong heart attitudes. Jesus has made it clear. We all stand convicted. But we also know that we can stand forgiven because of the righteousness that Jesus accompanied. So, Father, simply I ask if there's someone here today who realizes, even because of the sin of anger, that they are guilty of hellfire And eternal punishment, that they will turn to Christ today and have that forgiveness and be able to walk in your kingdom as citizens forever. And for those of us who have trusted Christ, help us not to diminish or make light of this sin of anger But help us to acknowledge it as sin, repent, and seek your help for forgiveness. And know that Jesus can give us victory over this so that we can be a proper representation of Him. Folks, meditate on those things and repent and turn to Christ. Price today as Leslie plays