Well, I hope you've seen a theme again in our music this morning. It is a um discipline and effort that we make. To make sure that we're doing as much as possible, highlighting the theme from God's Word with our music, and it certainly has been the case today, especially. Trusting in God That old hymn that we sang this morning, 'tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. That is beautiful truth. And yet so many times we just glide over that, but in the midst of anxiety and worry, you know More busy today in our lives than maybe ever possible before because of technology and different things. We need that reminder of that sweetness and just Trusting in Jesus no matter what comes our way. Well, we continue to be to go through the Sermon on the Mount. Turn to Matthew chapter 6 this morning. And we're going to skip to verse 25 through 34. And we're covering a topic. It's one of these things. Sometimes we cover topics. where initially you might say, well, I'm not really having a struggle with that, Pastor Bach. And you know that would be good information for the person next to me. And then hopefully by the end of the message we're all on the same page. Yes, I actually we we struggle with those things. But this is a topic that I don't believe any of us would argue that we struggle with. That is worry, anxiety. Letting the cares of this world and of our lives really imprison us and almost strangle us. With technology and with the busyness of life. And you know, technology allows us to, in a sense, we kind of kid ourselves this way, to be able to to cram more into our schedule. And so many times it just makes us more anxious and more concerned and worried about getting everything done. And we need this passage this morning now more than ever. What are things we worry about? Well, the list could go long. And there's probably, I guarantee there's some things in this list that I may not cover that you worry about, and that's fine. We worry about all kinds of things, though, don't we? Family. You know, what's gonna happen um with my kids and struggling with raising them or if you don't have kids yet, what's it gonna be like to uh parent kids someday or kids that have grown up and now they're on their own and Somebody told me once that um you may think that once your kids are out of the house and it gets a little easier and they told me actually it gets worse because you tend to want to be anxious even more for them because you can't be with them and help them all the time And I guess that's true. We're not to that point yet. And I'll let you know once we are. We've still got a few years left still. Family concerns, how they're doing. Financial concerns is a big one, right? Lord, not sure what's going to happen with this job, or you know, well um we've had to downsize or I'm not making as much as what I think I need to to help maintain things with my family and with our lifestyle. And just not sure. Lord, this is worrisome. Not sure how we're going to pay the bills. Ministry concerns. How are we going to reach to our outreach to our community? Lord, how are you going to grow Village Chapel Baptist Church? Father, there's things within our ministry. And obviously as a pastor, I'm well attuned to the temptation to be worried or anxious or concerned about ministry aspects. Different things that go on in ministry. I understand that temptation and uh fail at that many times as well, too. With friends being anxious over what how people view us or think of us. Or just difficult things friends are going through, and we're worried about that. We're anxious for them. Our reputation. Anxious that somehow somebody might find out maybe some of the sin that we've been involved with, and we get anxious about that. And we should be concerned. But being anxious and worried isn't the way to go about it. Repentance, and we'll get into that in a little bit. But worried about what people think about us, anxious about that. Sickness, guilt. There's so many other things. There's a lot to be worried about if we let ourselves, isn't there? And Jesus knows that. And as we continue in chapter 6 here, Jesus actually has just finished. We'll go one verse. Earlier than 25 -24. Jesus has just finished saying that no man can serve two masters For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon or wealth. or money. And Jesus is saying, you can't serve two masters. It's impossible. And so what is he calling for here? To make the right choice, to call for people to put him, to put God first, rather than their own financial concerns. They're concerns over how they're going to make life work to be able to take care of themselves and their family. And so the question that might arise from people after he says that is. Well then how am I going to take care of my needs, Jesus? How am I going to provide and deal with these things? And Jesus gives us that answer here. And he points out that while we're serving him, he serves us. And he takes care of us. That's a wonderful thing that when God calls us to something, He's going to give us what we need to accomplish that. And so we don't have to worry. And here we have this beautiful passage. We'll read it together. Pray. and look into it a little bit more. Verse 25 Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body more than raiment? Behold, the fowls, the birds of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them Are you not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all these things, But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought of for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Lord, thank you for this passage, for your encouragement, and yet, Father, even as I am reading these words We know we're frail, and we don't always put this passage to the test. We don't always trust in these words that we've read this morning But we struggle with worry, anxiety, nervousness for the future, discouragement Lord, help us to be reminded again today that we can serve you faithfully, and that as we serve you, you'll take care of everything else So help us to go boldly from here, even this morning, even as we hear this passage this morning, to be ready to serve you faithfully and give our worries and concerns to you. For you know best how to handle them, and you know what we need. And so we're grateful for that. Let the Holy Spirit work this morning in our hearts, for it is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen God 's care is the cure for anxiety. And we see that throughout this passage. One of the things that Jesus wants us to know here is we must believe and have faith that God can take care of our needs. Sometimes in the struggles of life and the things that we go through, we even forget that simple principle that God has the power To be able to take care of everything that we worry and we're so anxious about. Why? Because God values us Our Heavenly Father values our lives. He values us more than we value us. And we see this in verse 25. Therefore I say unto you, take no thought. And really, let's just be clear, even at the beginning of this passage, it's not that Jesus is saying, don't ever think even one time about concerns in your life. That's not what he's portraying here. It could also be translated like this. Just do not be anxious. We're going to think about these things. things in our life as they come up, and it's not sin to think over them. Yes, we have a responsibility before God to take care of matters and concerns in our life. But what's really important here, Jesus is saying, don't be anxious for your life. Well, what is there to be anxious about? Well, what you shall eat Or what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body more than raiment? Jesus is giving examples here of the basic needs of life. We all know that we need food to survive. And even more so than food, we can live for a while without food, but we also need water, very important. And he's also referring to the clothing that we wear. Clothing obviously is very important, especially here in New England, especially with the zero degree temperatures even of this last week. Those coats and those warm clothes come in really handy. And so Jesus is obviously making the point of the basics of life here, but it is interesting that these are things that we know that we need. But I'm not sure, and there could be people in here, I don't want to discount that, that are worried over these things, but I'm guessing that for the most part the people of Village Chapel Baptist Church aren't worried about where their next meal is going to come from. Or even about their clothing. God has provided and has been so gracious to us even here in our country overall that people do struggle for those things. But overall, we don't struggle with knowing where our next meal is going to come from. I'm guessing that nobody was up all night last night wondering what they were going to have for breakfast because there was nothing So is Jesus just referring to these things? No, he's using these basic things as an example, the application is to all kinds of things that we worry about. Those specifically were the needs in the century that Jesus and the the people that Jesus was referring to, the disciples that were listening to Jesus, there were many of them that didn't know where their next meal was going to come from. They and the the disciples were traveling with Jesus. They didn't have a roof over their head. They were provided for. And even their clothing, there were people, and we're going to see this later on, there were people that were wealthy that had access to some very nice clothing and some people that didn't have much at all and their coat was also their blanket and their pillow and all of these things. And so those were real concerns for them. And Jesus says, don't worry about that. To us today, he says, whatever you are tempted to worry about, that you're wondering how God's going to provide for your needs, Don't be anxious about that. This uh word for anxious, interestingly enough, um or take no thought in the King James, but it really can be translated, don't be anxious. has more than just the idea of worrying and being distraught about something, but it can also mean striving hard and working diligently. And if many of us are honest in this room, we're really good at working hard at worrying. We work hard at being anxious. It's something that some of us struggle with more than others, but it's something that we all struggle with sooner or later, and when we do it, we do it well. And so Jesus says, it's not right to be anxious. We can work hard at it, but it's not worth the effort. He says there's more to life than even the needs that you have. Well, what can that be, Jesus? Well, he's going to tell us later on. what that is, but then he goes to some pictures here that we'll we're well aware of And that is the fowls of the air, the birds. For they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. And yet your heavenly Father feedeth them Are you not much better than they? We were um in our in our house in Maryland, we had this nice picture window. And actually we have, the Lord's blessed us in the house in Katukuk actually with a nice sunroom where we eat is even more windows. space than in Maryland. But one thing we had, um we could look out into our front lawn in Maryland and we had a bird feeder and we could see, you know, birds at times, and there were some really nice birds that we see we've seen some nice birds up here too. And some different things. But always look forward to the Cardinals and Blue Jays are kind of an ornary bird. They're pretty, but they're ornery. I love the blue birds. Those are my favorite. Unfortun I love to watch the bluebirds. Unfortunately, um one day, you know, our cat was a very good hunter and um he was very good at getting rid of the varmits in our house, but sometimes he would go overboard and he actually got one of those bluebirds one day. And I almost got rid of them because I'm so mad. The bluebirds! Get the mouse and the rodents and all that. But anyway, that's beside the point We would look at these birds and they were beautiful, but you know there were some birds that were more exciting than others. When we would look out and my sons might say, Dad, look at a sparrow. I'd be like , It's a sparrow. It's small, it's kind of ugly. There's a lot of them around. Not really concerned. about those as much as the others. They don't have as much value in my mind, a sparrow. What do you do with a sparrow? It's not even that pretty And we're reminded of that even as we look at birds out in our front yard. But Jesus reminds us that all kinds of birds, even the sparrows, that we don't think twice about. What's the big deal about a sparrow? If the cat gets a sparrow, it's not a big deal. Get a bunch of them. I don't care. But Jesus takes care of all kinds of birds. He created them all. And he takes care of them all. And the point here really in verse 26 is not even that he takes care of them, but they're not worried about whether he's going to take care of them or not. Little birds that can literally some of them fit in the palm of your hand. And they're not up at night worrying about, I wonder how the Lord's going to provide worms for me. Or whatever they eat. Birdseed. I wonder if those people in that big house there are going to remember to fill the bird feeder again before the squirrels get it again. You know, they're not worried about that. They don't stay up all night being concerned. And what a beautiful picture, then, as Jesus says, don't you think that as inconsequential sometimes as those birds are, that God cares for you more than Than they, that He loves you more than they, that you're of more value to them. If God can care for a sparrow, God can care for you And Jesus was pointing that out. The value of life and the body goes well beyond food and clothing. God gave us our lives. He gave us life, our breath, our bodies. Don't you think then that he will also give us what we need to sustain them? He's a good, loving Father. He'll provide those things for us. So if the birds don't worry about it, why should we? Why should we be concerned about that? We are valuable to our Father. On a side note, something interesting about this verse that we should make note of. Is that this refutes the animal rights and the unfortunate, the tragic, horrific uh abortion movement In our society today. Because Jesus makes it clear that we as human beings are more valuable than the animal kingdom. And yes, the animal kingdom is valuable, and we were put here to guard over that and to take care of that, certainly. But in our culture today where animal rights and values are lifted even beyond the importance of people I remember being in a secular work environment where you would hear news stories about babies being aborted and things and co-workers that unsaved most likely. That didn't even bat an eyebrow, weren't concerned about it. Then you'd hear a new story about a dog that had been mistreated. And don't misunderstand me, it's wrong to mistreat animals But they would get so worried and so worked up and so angry about that. And I'm like, wow, what the balance here is incredible Jesus says clearly that we are more valuable than the animal kingdom to him. And that ought to be encouraging to us. But also as well that he values life. And so it is important to take a stand. against abortion and to make sure that people know, the Village Chapel Baptist Church and believers, that we do not in any way sanction the taking of abortion Of life. And we value life just as God values life. Verse 27. Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? I don't know if you've thought about this, but this is an interesting statement, isn't it? Taking thought, adding one qubit. Now we don't know for sure what one qubit is in today's measurements, but worrying about being taller. How many of you over the past week have been really worried and concerned that you're too short? All right. We're we're a very open community here at Village Chaplain. I'm glad for that. So we do have some. But not all of you raised your hands. Some of you, that may be a burden. I remember uh growing up as the oldest of four brothers, and right about till eighth grade, I was the tallest guy in the room And then all of my brothers eventually, first Scott and Wade and Eric, they started getting taller than me and I ended up being the oldest in high school, being the shortest of my brothers, and it was a real social concern to me. because people would tend to bring that up in an ugly way. You know? And that really bothered me. Now I could understand being worried, Lord, just give me a couple more inches before 12th grade. And he never did. But you know, 510's not that short. But when you're uh around guys that are all over six foot, you start to feel pretty short. Shorty in the room. Some of us may be worried about that, but overall, I don't think that most of us are up nights worrying about this. What is Jesus saying here? Well, here's another translation of this that I think is probably more accurate. It can also be translated, which of you by taking thought can add a single hour to his span of life? Now that's more practical, I think. Because we get so worried about the things of life and our own interest in what we can do to better our situation. And sometimes we come up with real spiritual um reasons for worry because we we have to get this we have to see this ministry done and all of these things and yet we don't have the ability to even add one more minute. of time to our lives. We're not even, we think, we tend to think, even though we don't admit it, when we're anxious, we're trying to figure out how we can get something done. And our focus is on ourselves, and we can't even add one little second or minute to our time span in life. That's all under God's control. God has a timetable for everyone in this room. And he's in charge of it, and we can't take away from it, and we can't add to it. And so Jesus is saying, all that worrying you're doing, you can't even add a minute. Under your lifespan. So why spend so much time worrying? Why spend so much time being anxious and meditating over these things? And then he has another beautiful illustration here. And what he's trying to point out is that our Father not only values our lives. But our Father can be trusted to provide for us. He provides for the birds. He can provide for us. We can't do anything in and of ourselves. Verse 28, Why take ye thought for raiment, clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wildflowers are pretty. They're fun to see in a field. They're beautiful. You know, even dandelions have a certain beauty to them. Not that impressive. Somebody told me you can make tea out of dandelions. I've never tried that and I hope I never will. Now if you can make coffee out of dandelions, that might be a difference. Story, but that's beside the point. But my my boys, we we had this beautiful field in Maryland and the wildflowers would come out in the spring and You just go outside and just breathe in that spring air and the boys would run around and get these little wildflowers and bring them together and they would give a little bouquet to Leslie and so excited and we would try to put them in water, but I You know, even at the end of the day they were already wilting. And by the next day they were like potpourri. You know, they were dried up and withered and um they they just they were pretty, but they were very fragile They didn't last for very long. Well, what's the point here? Um the point is that even with something that's so fragile and so um That that ha occurs so much uh within a field or whatever that God is interested enough in those flowers to give them beauty that even a rich person in all of their wealth couldn't match And he uses the example of Solomon. Solomon, through a lot of traditional Jewish material, was honored and well thought of because of the way that he dressed and the beautiful beautiful robes that he had. And the of course that was because of the wealth that he had. If you were wealthy, you were able to own a lot more garments and you were able to have brilliant colors because you were able to buy the dyes that would make those colors. And you could have quite a wardrobe that would be very impressive. There were others that didn't have enough money to barely have a coat uh for them or for their family and they would use that coat then not just for warmth, but they would use it for a blanket. Sometimes they would use it for a pillow. Sometimes they would use that same coat day after day as a bag to carry things in. And it was very important to them. And God is pointing out here that if he's willing to make those little tiny flowers that are so fragile, so beautiful, Even more beautiful than the things that Solomon would wear, that wealthy people would wear. God 's going to provide for all of us. And it's a good reminder of his care. Verse thirty If God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Now, I don't know what you all have prepared for Sunday dinner today. I'm guessing that most of you didn't think to go out and gather some grass yesterday and pull it. There's probably not a lot of grass to pull right now. And put that in a pot and put it in the oven. And hopefully later today you're not going to pull that out as the lawn grass casserole or whatever to feed to your family. What is Jesus talking about here? This grass that gets thrown into the oven. Well it's not for eating per I think we understand that. But it was used as a type of fool uh fuel that grass could easily be gathered and used as fuel to help heat an oven to be able to bake things. And again, Jesus' point is something that the people didn't even think about. They would go gather it, they would throw it in their ovens, and it was done, and it was useful, and that was it. God has concern even for the grass of the field that you as an audience as Jesus is talking to them you have no concern about. It's just something you use To start your fire. And God takes care of the grass as well. And so Jesus says: in all of these things, we tend to not trust God. And yet, if he's worried about these little inconsequential things that we don't even think about, don't you think that God's going to be careful about us too? Well, these are simple principles. But how often do we forget them in our worry and in our anxiousness? I used to think as a young man that I struggled with meditation. I was thinking about memory verses. And I knew it was right to do. And I knew memorizing verses was a good thing because you need the Holy Spirit can use those verses at a time where you're struggling to bring those up and have an answer for people And in your own struggles, but I would have told you I'm not very good at meditating. And I heard a presentation by Dr. Bert Jim Berg a number of years ago about the fact that actually all of us are very good at meditating. If any of us has ever worried or been anxious, we've been meditating on something a lot, going over and over, ruminating on it, chewing on it over and over again. We actually tend to be very good at meditating. Meditating, just many times on the wrong things. I know personally and candidly that this is one of my struggles, my own battle, with worry, anxiety. If you tend to be one of those that is up late at night and thinking, how am I going to, you know, about this thing the next day, how's this going to turn out? Or this is I just wish, Lord, can we just get through the night so I can get onto this event and do my part and make sure that everything goes okay? And what are we doing really? What what am I doing when I'm up at night worrying about something? I'm thinking in actuality, I can do something that's going to help my situation tomorrow. Why does God give us sleep, by the way? It's in one sense it's a faith act, realizing that you and your bodies need this sleep, and I'm going to take care of what happens tomorrow. But you just need to shut down and realize that there's nothing you can do to help the situation. You need your rest. Let me deal with it. I'll handle it. And if we're up late at night many times, now this doesn't mean the occasional late at night when you wake up you just can't get back to sleep. Sooner or later that happens to all of us. But insomnia and these different things, many times they're because we think that somehow we can fix the situation. Or meditating or worrying on these things that are bothering us are somehow going to make a different. And God has taken a long time, let me tell you, for God to um worked this in my life, but I'm just now as a senior pastor, and you know the responsibilities don't lessen, right? But I've been able and experienced better sleep and realizing, you know, this isn't going to help things. I need my sleep is an act of trust that God's going to take care of it all, and then I need rest. We all need this because we all struggle with anxiety. Some of us more than others. I understand that. Jesus summarizes this verse 31. Therefore take no thought, saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? Oh, by the way, he had just mentioned that these people he referred to this disciples as ye of little faith. He's not saying really, he's not describing as much the amount of faith that they have, because remember, he said that even the grain of a mustard seed of faith you can move a mountain. But he's saying the quality of their faith. Faith. Little f you have little faith means you're depending, you have your faith in the wrong things, and you have very little faith in the God that will take care of you and help you. And you need to have faith in him. And less faith in yourself. That's what that term means. So we must remain focused on the important things And he's going to mention that soon. We can depend upon our Heavenly Father. He's pointing these things out. Don't worry about all those categories, verse 31, because verse 32, all these things. Do the Gentiles seek? And again, another reminder, for your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all of these things. A gentle reminder to us that when we are anxious and worried, we're acting like those that don't know God. We're acting like those that don't have a relationship with Jesus. When I'm anxious and I'm worried in front of other people that haven't put their faith and trust in Jesus, what kind of testimony am I being to them? They might look at me and say, Well, you're just as worried and anxious and bothered as I am. What do you have that's I need that's any different from what I have? The Gentiles, by the way, spend their whole lives in worry and anxiety and stress and depression. And who wants to be a part of that? But we have access to Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father who loves us and is ready to take care of us. Not always in the way that we want him to, but in a way that he knows is best. And so we don't have to, we don't have to have the worldview that the Gentiles have because we know that our Father loves us. And Jesus reminds us that again, in case we had forgotten, your heavenly Father, He knows all of your needs. He knows better than you do what your needs are. So stop worrying. Stop being anxious. Well, okay. What am I supposed to do then? Well, Jesus tells us in verse 33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these other things that will be added unto you. We can be diligent in our service to Him. But Pastor Brock, I've got this going on, and I've got this going on. And I don't even know how I'm going to make ends meet. And how can I serve in the church? And how can I go about my service to God? Whoa, slow down. Jesus reminds us, God's going to take care of all that. So go and serve Him faithfully. Focus first on service in God's kingdom. Since as believers, we have the power to serve. Jesus empowers us, gives us the ability to be able to minister. to serve for his kingdom. Again, I've said this many times, but Jesus just doesn't call us out. He doesn't say here, seek ye first, just go out and serve God somehow with whatever ability and power that you have. But no, he sends us out in the power of Jesus Christ in his own power in the power of our Heavenly Father And then God says, and I'll take care of everything else. You serve, and I promise, I'll serve you. I'll work out all of these things. All of these things shall be added unto you. Well, what does that mean? Does that mean that this is an absolute promise of consistent comfort? That if I serve God, that He's just going to make life easy for me? Or I have heard this, unfortunately, from some pulpits. That if you are going through difficulties, that somehow you must not be serving God effectively, or there must be sin in your life, or you wouldn't have those problems. And that's certainly not biblical. Talk to Job about that, by the way. See if that works for him. Jesus is not saying here that if we serve God, that everything that we want, that we're going to be consistently comforted and all our needs met exactly when we want them to be met. What he's talking about is our needs will be met in God's timing. And we have to be patient. Sometimes we may be serving God and saying, but Lord, I have this need and it's not being met yet. And we need to go back to this passage and remind ourselves that in God's timing, those needs will be met. And he will give us the strength and the patience to continue on until he meets that need. That is a promise. All of these things shall be added unto you. Therefore, as he finishes up here, take no thought for tomorrow, for tomorrow shall take thought for the things of itself Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. And here he's referring to reliance upon God on a daily basis. Why add worry to the weight of your difficulties? Why worry about tomorrow when it's not even there yet? We have enough burdens. We have enough responsibility to do today. Why add worry and anxiety over the things in the future to that weight? And so many times we struggle with that because we're worried about things that are weeks out or days out. And Jesus says, you've got enough to do today. Let me, through my power, help you with the things that you have to do today. And I will give you on a daily basis what you need to make it through. God gives us daily what we need. Need. Not weekly, not monthly, but daily. And His grace, here's the wonderful thing. It's new every morning. That is a truth that is wonderful to behold. God will meet our needs. So don't spend all of your time being anxious and worried for what's going to happen. Trust God's grace. It's new every morning. We had a lady in our church in Maryland, her name was Jenna, she was a really energetic lady. She was trying to get something. They had some sort of attic in their garage. And she was um up on a ladder, which all by herself, she reached for something, and the ladder started to teeter a little bit, and she fell, and immediately she called out to her husband. And she knew that something very was very wrong. And come to find out her neck was broken and um a couple of her vertebrates were really messed up to the point where she was paralyzed. And she had a beautiful testimony in the midst as we went to visit her, even early on. She said, I know God's got this. I know that I'm okay. And then she would tell us as we went to visit her later on how she was being, she was testifying of God's ability and power in her life to the nurses around her. To the staff, she would talk about God and about her relationship with him, to everyone that had a part in helping her get better. And they would look at her and they say, Aren't you worried about your situation? How can you be so confident? Well, I'm confident in my God. I'm confident He's going to take care of me. She was an incredible testimony To those people around her. Eventually she was able to walk, but she was able to walk and be more mobile. And I remember the time where she actually made the effort. She wanted to give a testimony in front of the church, and she walked all the way up to the front. And then she gave a testimony, as only Jenna could give a testimony. We knew that she was testifying of God's grace in the midst of something that was very concerning to her. Obviously, it would be to any of us. And our testimony was, God took care of me through the whole thing. And that needs to be our testimony. When we're troubled with things, and we have things in our lives that are bothering us. Well, Pastor Brock, what about when it's something that I've done that's my fault? When I've sinned And I'm worried and I'm anxious that it's going to get out and the damage it's going to do. You know, God even has a cure for that. And he reminds us in 1 John, if anyone does sin, chapter 2, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. If you sinned and you're anxious about that, go to your advocate. Get it right. Repent. And Jesus has forgiveness for that too. I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. Even sin in our lives that we're struggling with and we're concerned about, Jesus says you don't have to worry about that either. Because I have the forgiveness you need for that. So, in the end, when we worry, what are we doing? We're trying to handle our concerns apart from God. And what does God say? See how much I love you? Look at the flowers in the field. Look at that ugly grass. Look at those birds over there that nobody else cares about. See how much I love you? Leave your worries with me and go out and serve me faithfully. And if you've sinned, Confess it to God. Leave the consequences in his hands. He will be gracious and merciful to us. So in the end, what Jesus is saying here and as we go to prayer, remember this. Live your life dependent upon Jesus' care instead of trying to work it out for yourself. Trust in the grace that God offers to help us as His prayer. children. Lord, thank you for your word. We all need this because we're all so prone to be anxious and fearful. And worrisome. And I pray that this will be a reminder for all of us that our focus is off. And it's not focused on the right thing, and that's you and your love and your care. Lord, my prayer for Village Chapel Baptist Church is that we can go out and serve you worry-free and anxiety free because we're ready, we want to faithfully serve you and we trust you to meet all of our needs in the meantime And then we can be an example to the Gentiles of faith and trust in the one who loves us and will care for us. Help us to have that kind of faith. Through the power of Jesus in our lives. And your grace, Lord, we need your grace to not be anxious. Thank you that it's there for the taking. Continue to think about this and take some time to ask God for forgiveness for the things you've been anxious for and worried about in your life. And ask him to help you to be faithful in the midst of the difficulties that you're facing