And so the title of the message tonight is God's Powerful Word Disturbs the World System. Even in the environment that we're in, I was reminded of this in a couple of news articles. Uh showing negativity toward Christianity. In the midst of a crisis and a health crisis, unfortunately, there have been some media outlets And some uh news reporters, some uh news anchors that have taken opportunity to be negative. Toward Christianity. It shouldn't surprise us. There was a recent article, I think this this last week posted, and the article went on to describe how, because in general, believers somehow deny science and are not interested in science uh science and that we are having a negative effect upon the president There was another interview, recent interview with our vice president. I'm thankful that Vice President Pence has a wonderful Christian testimony, a recent national news show host. In his interview, ended the interview by asking, seemed to ask anyway, Vice President Pence, if he prays to the Lord with a heart of repentance for having been responsible for dead Americans. mocking almost his Christian faith and it fathers us, but it shouldn't surprise us. God's word and the power of Christ disrupts everything that the world is about. And Christians who stand strong for their faith in God's Word, they're often going to be held in contempt by the world and the world order. And we're going to see that today. Paul is in the city of Ephesus, and remember it's an important commercial city. That, one of its structures is included in the seven wonders of the ancient world, the Temple of Artemis, also known as Diana. And it was the largest building in the Greek world. It was a world attraction. Somewhat like Disney World, although I'm not trying to necessarily equate Disney World with uh false temple worship, but in the way that people uh flocked to something like that, people would flock to this temple wanting to know what it was about and being um And being inspired in a wrong way by it. I'm actually going to bring up some pictures again here This is Paul's marks his third missionary journey from Jerusalem to Antioch, and then he is encouraging the churches here. That he had established in Galatia and on then to Ephesus, where again he has two almost three years of ministry labors. And Ephesus, we're talking about this temple of Diana. Give you a couple pictures here, one of the seven wonders of the ancient world This goddess, this false goddess, Artemis, Diana, she was considered a major pagan goddess, a daughter of Zeus and a sister of Apollo. She was also considered what was called a mother goddess, and that she was a nurturer and provider of fertility and reproductive power. She was the principal deity of Ephesus and she was popular throughout the Mediterranean world. This is a model of what that temple would have looked like in its fullness. And I'm just going to read to you just quickly. From the Zonderbin Illustrated Bible Backgrounds commentary, and it gives us a little bit more information about the importance of the Temple of Diana to the world at that time. The structure of the cult was intricately interwoven into the fabric of daily life and culture. The temple actually functioned as the banking and financial center for the province Large amounts of money were deposited and borrowed from the leaders. The Colt also owned substantial amounts of property in the area. And even one of the twelve calendar months was named after her, and there was an annual festival held in her honor The worshippers of Diana regarded her as supreme among all the gods and goddesses. They honored her first among thrones, and Listen to this, Savior, Lord, Queen of the World, and the Heavenly Goddess I could say a lot more about that, but I really want to focus on God's word tonight and not this false religion. But do you get the idea? Do you understand that to the world at this time, this false goddess Diana was a huge deal? She was a big deal. We'll get to more about her in just a minute. But we're going to see at the beginning, and we are back in Acts chapter 19. We're going to be starting at verse 21. that Paul is still purposed in his mission to bring God's word to be carried to the whole world And I'm going to bring the map back up here. And let's look then at verse 21. After these things were ended, Paul purposed in his spirit. When he had passed through Macedonia and Achai to go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome. So Paul is in Ephesus, and he doesn't have a map. Like what we have here. But he is purposing, he's saying, folks, he's saying, uh those that are with him, the the disciples that are with him, I desire to continue on into Macedonia, which is over here, where we'd find Philippi and Berea and Thessalonica, and he wants to go continuing to encourage the churches that he has had a part in st in uh starting. And then he says, after I do that, I want to go back to Jerusalem. And then here we hear for the first time, his ultimate goal is to go to Rome. And so Paul has spent two and a half years in Ephesus so far, and here in these verses, in this first verse, he kind of outlines and summarizes what is going to be the rest of the book of Acts. And he is literally going to do this. He's going to travel these places, go back to Jerusalem, and then find himself eventually in Rome, and we have the outline for the rest of the book. But Paul knows that he still has work to do in Ephesus. So, he has other men that he's discipled. And of course we know Timothy, but there's another man named Erastus. In verse 22, he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him. These are men that have discipled him, that he's worked very closely with, that are like sons to him. And he says, you guys go ahead and start the work of encouraging the churches that I can't do right now. Paul again realizes he's not able to accomplish all of his ministry goals by himself. He has to have help. And you know what? Ministry leaders, myself included, we should not be afraid to admit this. Paul couldn't do it all himself. The pastor can't do it all himself. Church leaders can't do all the ministry themselves. But together, working together, we can accomplish what God wants us to. And so Paul continues to stay in Ephesus for a little longer. And he is obviously having effective gospel ministry. Because as we saw before, the power of the gospel and the power of God's word is working. But this starts to become very disruptive to the way of the world. And we're going to see here, the message of God's word will be disruptive to the world. Let's continue on, verse 23. In the same time there arose no small stir about the way. Paul and his disciples are preaching God's word. People are getting saved, and there is a stir. Things are being stirred up in this large city in Ephesus. And people are finding out more about who these Christians are. And it's causing all kinds of trouble for the world system here. And especially for one named Demetrius, verse 24. For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, one that obviously works with silver, which makes silver shrines for a Diana. brought no small gain unto the craftsman. Here we have a man who has most of his livelihood is working with silver, but a lot of his business Is basically kind of a big souvenir shop for the temple of Diana, and he makes little models of the actual temple in silver for people to buy making silver relics of the Temple of Diana, and these people Would buy these relics and they would take them home, and then they would have this little temple of Diana that they could worship in their home, and obviously they were a real moneymaker A lot of people spent their money on these trinkets, and all of a sudden, Paul was having the effect. The positive effect, and people were starting to reject idol worship, and peep the Greeks were starting to reject worship of Diana, and it was to the point where it was having a detrimental effect on Demetrius' business and others like him. We always hear that phrase, follow the money. Well, that's certainly the case in this way. And Demetrius is upset, and so verse 25, he called together the other workmen of like occupation, other silversmiths, and said, Sirs, you know that by this craft we have our wealth. Moreover, ye see and hear that not alone at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, this guy Paul, this Paul, hath persuaded and turned away much people. saying that they be no gods which are made with hands. So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at naught. But also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worshipeth And when they heard these things, they were full of wrath and cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians. Here we have Demetrius now getting together with these other silversmiths, and he's angry, and he wants them to be angry because he's losing money He's basically talking about Paul and saying, can you believe what this guy is doing? You guys know that this is a major part of the way that we make our money. And he's affecting that. Paul is persuading people, and he's turning them away From the whole idea of idolatry. And Paul, of course, was doing that. He was showing people from God's word that they should be worshiping the one true God and all other gods, even the Goddess Diana. That was so persuasive amongst his people and in Asia that she needed to be rejected. Paul was doing this as we would expect And it's almost like Demetrius is saying, the nerve of this guy. He's persuading people that the very idols that we're making are not real. Can you believe that, guys? That they have no power Paul was influencing many Greeks to leave their idolatry behind and worship the one true God. Well, Demetrius here would have made a good politician even in today's standards. Because he moves past, although I'm quite certain that most of what concerned him was his own pocketbooks and him losing money. But he turns away from that, verse 27. Not only this our craft is in danger, but also the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed And all of Asia and the world worshipeth. Guys, more important than our revenue, Paul is causing people to lose faith in the great goddess Diana that our entire culture is based around. In fact, people may reject her greatness. This is having such influence that her greatness may well be destroyed. And by the way, if that's the case, then she's not really so great after all. But they don't want to admit that. And so there's great concern here. And see, silversmiths obviously have um skin in the game, as we would say, and they don't want to lose what they have Do you see how the gospel and God's word is many times at odds with the values of the world, financial, political , all of these things? When we proclaim God's word, we have to realize we are going against the values of the world. And what do we hear? Complaints about Christianity today in in financial matters and political matters. It's kind of like, shh, just don't say anything at all. Don't bother us. And when we do many times, there is disruption. And so these silversmiths literally go into the city. They start yelling. And they stir up the whole city. And we're going to see God's word here is opposed by the servants of the world. Look at verse 29. And the whole city was filled with confusion. These men get the whole city. And remember, this was a large city, a quarter of a million people, and they're all stirred up and angry. And they end up grabbing somehow two of Paul's disciples that we've not heard of until this point. It says, and having caught Gaius in. Astarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel, Paul had met them somewhere in Macedonia, had been discipling them. have been working with them and somehow in the midst of this riot these men are found or spotted somewhere in the city and they're grabbed taken up And they head toward, it says, they rush with one accord into the theater. Now, what is the theater? Well, let me show you some pictures of this. This is the theater in Ephesus. And uh let's just take a look here This was also an architectural marvel that still remains today. Obviously, this is a current picture of what it looks like there. Beautiful. Let me just read to you something from Daryl Box's commentary in the book of Acts about the theater at Ephesus. The theater at Ephesus eventually came to have a capacity of 24,000 people. And huge civic assemblies were held there three times a year. The theater is cut impressively into the western slope of a mountain, Mount Thion, facing west toward the harbor It's still beautifully preserved and you can see that here. Here's some more pictures. It reaches a height today of a hundred feet into the mountain and is the most impressive of the wonderful collection of remains at Ephesus. Here's another picture. At this location, all who want to know what is happening can see what is taking place. And so this riot, these people rioting, rush to this amphitheater, this theater, and grab these two poor disciples And can you imagine thousands of people being in this theater and you're there on the stage and they're angry at you? For preaching and proclaiming God's word. And Paul, of course, quickly finds out about this, verse 30. And he wants to do something about it, of course. And when Paul would have entered into the people, the disciples suffered him not. I could just imagine Paul saying, what did you say to him? Gaius and Aristarchus? Well, I've got to go. I've got to do something. No, don't hold me back. I've got to help them. These men are my disciples. They're my friends. They're going to get torn up out there And yet the disciples with him are trying to calm him down. And even there are some other friends that are trying to get him to calm down, verse 31, and certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends. sent unto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into the theater. Obviously there was such commotion. World word had gotten around quickly. These other men that's referred to in verse thirty one. are high-ranking officers in the Asia province. And these men and his own friends, his disciples, they all say, Paul, don't do it. You're just going to stir up even more trouble, it's just going to intensify the situation. Cooler heads prevail and Paul stays even though he'd rather not. Interesting as well to note that Paul had friends in all levels of society. Paul had friends, as we say, in high places as well. And these friends say, Paul, don't do it. You know, you believe in God, Paul. Let God take care of this. It's just gonna get worse. And I know as a side note, I was thinking about this. You know, even in the situation that we're in right now, there's emotionally an aspect where pastors want to do something and even um having to meet like this with many pastors and myself included, it kind of cuts against the grain. You want to meet together, and there's an emotional desire to want to be together. And yet I don't think this is too far of an application. We still need the benefit of others To help us reign in our emotions and see what would be best in the situation. Paul wanted to do something, wanted to help his friends, and there were others. that helped him in the emotion of the moment to say, no, Paul, that's not wise. And we find ourselves in this situation, meeting separately, and that may not even seem right to us. In our emotions, we want to be together. And yet we're still trying to ask God for wisdom and ask him to do what's wise. And so it seems, even in this, that there we are called to do some things that emotionally we may not want to do. But just seems to be wise in the furtherance of our ministry. And so we're meeting like this together, and we're in this situation and praying, Lord, help us to circumnavigate, to navigate every day to know how best to minister to people under these conditions. Just a side note there. Well, we have total chaos reigning, right? A very dangerous situation. Let's look at verse 32. Some therefore cried one thing. And one another and the assembly was confused, and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together, so they were all many of them were crying Great is Diana of the Ephesians, and maybe some others were crying for some other God, and there was some people even in the stadium there that were saying, Yeah, what he said, and then maybe turning to their friend and saying What what does that mean? Or i yeah, what what am I supposed to say? Everybody's confused and nobody really understands even with this chaos. Why they're there, and these poor believers, disciples, are right in the middle of all of this. It does seem in the midst of this chaos that there was a respectable Jewish elder named Alexander. And some of his friends or some of the officials pushed Alexander to talk to the people. He was not a believer, but he was a respected Jewish elder. Somehow the city knew of him, and some of his friends or some people thought, wow, we've got to stop this. Maybe Alexander can do something. So maybe I kind of picture them pushing him out there into the open and now Xander is looking around saying, well, thanks a lot. And so let's look at verse 33. They drew Xander out of the multitude, the Jews putting him forward, his own Jewish buddies, his friends push him out there and so Alexander tries to stop. Hey, let's stop everybody and he beckoned with the hand and he would have made a defense unto the people, but the problem was the people knew that he was a Jew They knew the Jewish people had no interest in worshiping the goddess Diana or worshiping multiple gods. And so the people said basically said, throw him out. We don't want to hear him. Verse 34. And when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice, about the space of two hours, cried out, Grave is Diana of the Ephesians. You can't stop us. You can't tear down our culture. You can't use God's word to uproot our way of life. We don't want to hear from you, Alexander. Well The disciples were in real trouble at that point, and even though we see here that God's word is opposed by the servants, the slaves of the world, Remember, God is more powerful than all of those that serve the world and that serve Satan. And even in a situation like this, God can use a reasonable person to protect from the rage of the world. God's servants. are protected from the anger and the rage of the world. And all of a sudden here in the midst of this mess, we have a town clerk. Now, when I say the word town clerk, you might think, well, I know a couple town clerks, and I don't really I mean they I'm glad for what they do, but I really don't understand how a town clerk could dissuade or break up a riot What's the big deal about this guy? Well, let's look at verse 35 here. And when the town clerk had appeased the people. For some reason, as the town clerk steps out, no one else could control this mob, but the town clerk can. How is that? I mean literally it seems this man steps out on the stage and the people on this large auditorium, outdoor auditorium here say, shh, oh, it's a town clerk. Everybody be quiet. Shh, shh. Why would they do that? Well, first of all, as you would expect, the town clerk is a keeper of records. He's a registrar And he would also, he was the main accountant for the temple funds. He was the guy that managed the funds for this huge temple that the whole world was coming to see. That made him important enough. But his position, he was also the highest civic official in the city. He was like a powerful city manager And also, among all the other things that he did, he was a liaison to the Roman authorities. This man was probably the most respected person in town. May it be close to like we would have a mayor today. And he was the main connection that Ephesus had to the Roman government. And when he stepped into a room, everybody stopped and listened And so in the midst of all this chaos, this town clerk, we don't even know his name, but he steps up and he gets the mob's attention. And so they quiet down, and he has something to tell them Let's read further. He said, Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how the city of Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana and of the things which fell down from Jupiter. Seeing then that these things cannot be spoken against, you ought to be quiet And to do nothing rashly or in a hurry or something that you'll regret later on. What's he pointing out here? He's saying, people, get a hold of yourselves. You're getting all worked up about this, and yet, and he is a heathen, he is a pagan, he is fully committed to the worship of Diana. And so he says, we all know how powerful Diana is. This situation, a guy that comes in and starts preaching a new set of truths, Can't outmatch the power of Diana. Why is that? Because remember the miracle that happened, the image which fell down from Jupiter. Well, what is that all about? Well, supposedly he's referring here to a meteor that came down in this particular area at some point that was supposedly sent by Zeus himself as a divine sign to listen and worship The goddess Diana. And however this um story, this narrative have started A lot of people were putting their faith. It's one of the reasons why they trusted so much in this false goddess is because of this accident this um situation that supposedly happened. He said remember so he's basically saying remember the meteor. Diana 's all-powerful So, you can't have some strangers come into town and mess all this up. So, why are you so upset? Why are you worked up over this? Calm down. Verse 37. For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers of churches nor yet blasphemers of your goddess. And he's pointing out again. And in the message that Paul was bringing, this man would have been familiar with this too, because it had gotten all over the city. And Paul is pointing them to God, but he's not necessarily. He's been careful to point them to God, but he hasn't mocked Or maybe drawn graffiti or whatever over their important temple shrines and all of these things. And this man saying they haven't done anything that um is a really big deal. They they're not bothering us. They're not stealing things from our temples. So calm down about what they're doing. And then he says, verse 38 if Demetrius and these other silversmiths, it is such a big deal to them. They have other options. Wherefore, if Demetrius and the craftsmen which are with him have a manner against any man, the law is open, and there are deputies. Let them impleed one another He says there's two legal options that exist for these men if they have trouble or a problem. They go to a legal court or they go to a legal assembly. And they have their case heard there. This is not the way that we handle things. This is not how we do things in Ephesus, people. And then his final argument here, which was the most powerful. Verse 39. If ye inquire anything concerning other matters, it shall be determined in lawful assembly. Oh, verse 40, I'm sorry, for we are in danger To be called in question for this day's uproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of this conquest. What is he saying here? I'll sum it all up He's saying Paul can't do harm to Diana because we all know wink wink the power of Diana We all know she's too powerful, but you all in this theater can get us into all kinds of trouble. And furthermore, we could get our privileges limited as a free Roman city because we don't have authority to have a riot, and the Roman authorities are going to hear this and they're going to shut us down So please leave Paul alone. Leave these men alone. Calm down. Go home. Did it work? Verse 41. And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly. And so God uses A pagan man who has a reasonable argument to calm people down and to save his servants God can use pagans with a reasonable sense of fairness even to accomplish his purposes. You know, again, another side note here But we may get all worked up in this circumstance that we're in now and see people that don't know the Lord and that actively, maybe even See them against Christians and fight against Christianity and see some leaders that way and say, this is really disturbing. What are we going to do? Well, God can take, can make even pagan people who have rejected Him to have a sense of reasonable fairness and give them a sense of worldly wisdom To know how to handle certain situations for the sake of security of his own people. So we need to pray for all of our government officials. Whether they turn to God or not, but God would at least help them to see a reasonable sense of fairness and wisdom in how to deal with the crisis that we face. Our leaders need prayer. Ultimately, though, we need to pray that they will trust in Christ. Because again, let's be clear. Those that were following the false religion of Diana were following a false religion that were sending them With on a road directly to eternal punishment and hell. They needed to turn to Jesus Christ, and many were, and it was disrupting everything. But whether people believed in the power of Diana or they turned to the power of God, the gospel is still working. God is still in control. And so after this uproar, one more verse here, the beginning of chapter 20, verse 1, after the uproar ceased, Paul called unto him the disciples and embraced them and departed for them to go again to Macedonia. And Paul maybe says to himself, guys, it's been a good time here, lots of good ministry, but after this riot, maybe a time to continue on and do other work in Macedonia. And he calls the disciples that he's had ministry with there and says, be faithful. I'm going to go on. I've got other things to do. Again, Paul couldn't do it all. But the disciples that he had had a direct connection with there in Ephesus could remain and continue on the work And next week we're going to see Paul returns to Ephesus and talks with these that have remained and gives them encouragement about staying true and faithful to God. God's power is still active and just as powerful today as in Paul's day. And so let us seek these opportunities, these times as opportunities To unleash the power of God's word to this world that just like Ephesus is under a spell of darkness, of satanic magic, of false worshiping, of false idols and things. But at the same time, let's be realistic and remember that this is going to cause a disturbance, that the power of God's word can't help but disturb the world And when that happens and we're faithfully serving Him, we need to trust God for our protection. Just like we saw this morning, God will protect us. So let's be faithful like Paul and his disciples No matter what ends up happening. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word and this reminder tonight of The fact that when we proclaim God's world word to this world, that we will meet with success, but we will also disturb many people. Help us to not be hindered or discouraged when people don't respond in the right way. Realizing that the gospel is a 180-degree different truth from what they have based their lives on and that people have to reject the truth that they have grown up in and based their life in in order to come to the saving knowledge of Jesus. We pray they would do that through your power, though, and not our own persuasion. And we pray you would keep us faithful when we face the results of people being disturbed and angered that we don't follow their way for success. Help us to remember that you protect your own and your disciples just as you protected them in this bizarre, crazy circumstance. And you will protect us. Help us to live life with wisdom. And even in this situation that we face, to be wise in how we live life and be a proper example, a testimony of Jesus Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.