Paul, after that riot situation, leaves Ephesus, and the Lord continues to, the Holy Spirit guides him to encouraging the churches that he had helped found through the power of God, throughout Macedonia and into the region of Achai, Greece. So he visited Philippi and came down to Corinth and some of these other churches along the way, Thessalonica. ministered there and then then made his way back um to Philippi and eventually came back around And decided that God was leading him to quickly return to Jerusalem to make it there in time for Pentecost. So we get to Acts chapter twenty and verse thirteen He's left Philippi , and he's continuing now to sail around the coast. Here, verse 13, and we went before the ship. Notice that it says we, because the writer here, remember, is Luke, Dr. Luke And obviously at this point in the third missionary journey, he is a faithful companion of Paul. And so he's recording this. And they sailed unto Aesos, and they're intending to take in Paul. For so he had appointed, minding himself to go afoot. So Paul is walking afoot, ministering to people on land, while he sent some of his companions by sea, kind of follow along with him. They take him back into the boat Um verse fourteen, when he met with us at Asus, we took him in and came to Mililin, and we sailed thence and came the next day over to Chios, and the next day we arrived at Samos and tarried at that Island with that really long name. And you see all these islands through here that he's stopping and ministering. And the next day we came to Miletus, which would have been right in this area. He wanted to see the people of Ephesus again, but he didn't have time. And it says verse 16, Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus because he would not spend the time in Asia. For he hasted if it were possible for him to be at Jerusalem in the day of Pentecost. So he's continuing on in his journey here. And he can't, doesn't have the time, again, to meet with these with the people there, but he wants to meet with the leadership, and specifically uh the elders So the elders literally travel almost a couple hours away to a seaport there at Milidas. And we see that in this group of leaders that Paul has established a solid, healthy ministry that has many capable leaders in and amongst its group. And now these leaders, as Paul gets ready to leave for Jerusalem, and we'll see more of what he says about that, these leaders in his absence will multiply his ministry effort. That Paul and others have begun. And Paul, again, in this whole discipling process, Paul didn't take all this ministry on to him himself, but he was busy building to the power of Jesus Christ. A large, solid, stable ministry there in Ephesus with many leaders. Now these leaders are referred to as elders And we should probably consider these as pastors of house churches. There wasn't just the first Baptist church in Ephesus like we think of today. But there would have been people meeting in house churches, not unlike what we have had to do recently on Wednesday nights at our house as we all meet together and pray. Have a Bible study that's very um first church-like, early Christian church, and that's what have been going on through Ephesus, and these men most likely would have been the pastors Around, again, Ephesus is not just a town, it's a city. And they all, as they're pastoring their house churches, they come and meet with past with uh Paul, this is the norm of the early Christian church model. Every so often you'll see something a little different as James, we talked about this morning, seems to be the pastor over all the churches and the lead pastor over all the churches, house churches in Jerusalem. Timothy seems to fulfill that role later on, as Paul writes to Timothy. But this is becoming more the norm, where you have leaders leading house churches together, strong established leaders, and they get together to meet with Paul as he gets ready to head out. And we're going to see here a very strong bond that Paul has strengthened and has made with these men And this is a very sad time for them, and yet a time of rejoicing, as Paul recalls the ministry that he's had And the ministry that he expects them to have as he moves on to the next stage of God's plan for his life. And that's going to include, he'll come around through the the coast here and sail to Jerusalem. And then of course eventually in Jerusalem throughout the rest of the book of Acts, this is account recounted. He's arrested in Jerusalem He's eventually imprisoned in Caesarea and eventually ends up in Rome, which is where he wanted to be, and has ministry there. And he'll eventually then write the letter that we're going to look at to the church in Ephesus, the letter to the Ephesians. One thing we're going to see throughout this, if Paul is going, well, one of many things, is that sometimes we can get satisfied with our current ministry service and think, you know, Doing pretty good. Feeling pretty satisfied with how God's using me. I'm busy and feel like I'm doing things for God. And Paul's going to come around and he's going to provide an example for us that reminds us: you know what? As good as we think things may be going, there's always further growth to experience. And Paul is going to encourage us, but also Motivate us in his ministry example. And Paul has an amazing ministry example that he's going to recount here to these men. We're going to see through all of this, again, the power of God's Word, and that God's Word deserves our full commitment. Let's have a word of prayer, and then we'll continue on in this passage tonight. Father, thank you. For this reminder of this effective ministry that you were able to accomplish through Paul. It wasn't through Paul's own efforts, but it was through what you were doing in his life. And I pray that we would be encouraged, but also exhorted, that even as with as much success as we may have had with ministry in the past and maturity that you've brought into our lives, We've still got growth and a ways to go. So help us to continue to be humble and continue to be submissive and ready to grow further In our ministry service, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Paul is now meeting with these men and From his perspective, this is probably the last time that he's going to see them. And Paul thus is going to recount in the first part of this passage, and we're going to look through the rest of the Chapter 20, and we're going to try to go through some of this kind of quickly. But he's going to recount to these men, in not a bragging way, but in a humble way, recounting The patience or the power of God working in his life that he was able to have effective ministry in Ephesus that was blameless. Paul can say, I have had a full ministry experience, and I am blameless because by God's grace I've done all the ministry that I can do there. That I can do among you all. And he's going to show us here, starting in verse 17, that he gave his all in full ministry service at Ephesus. Paul's going to point out. That his ministry there in Ephesus involved living and getting to know the people in Ephesus. That he served in humility, that he was humble, and that he was selfless. That he fully taught God's word, fully teaching the people without holding back Not holding back on certain truths that might have been awkward or might not have promoted his ministry as well as he might have liked, but he shared with them all of God's truth. And he did this in public, but also in private, in private dwellings with them, to all the people, Jews and Gentiles. He was no um respecter of persons, and his message was, as you would expect, the gospel. Repentance and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. And you know, really, it's that simple when it comes to the gospel. The book of Acts relays on a consistent basis a simple gospel presentation. Throughout the book of Acts, we hear these two things. Repentance and faith in Jesus. Repentance means turning from our sins Saying, Lord, I'm tired of my sin. I need to be saved from my sin. That's why Jesus died. And by your grace. I want to turn from that and live for you and not live for myself any longer. And also I'm putting my full dependent faith in Jesus and nothing else And trusting in the gospel message. And Paul's going to show us that's what he preached to the people So let's continue. And again, verse 17 describes his meeting with these elders. And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and he called the elders of the church. And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know In other words, you have seen this acted out. You are firsthand Testifiers. You have firsthand testimony of my ministry from the first day that I came into Asia. And we have seen that and looked at that recently. After what manner I have been with you at all seasons, serving the Lord with all humility of mind, and with many tears and temptations which befell me by the lying await of the Jews, how I have kept back nothing. That was profitable unto you. Paul says, I gave my all for you and for this ministry. But I have showed you and have taught you publicly and also privately from house to house there. Testifying both to Jews and also to Greeks. Repentance towards God. Here's the gospel. Repentance towards God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul gave his all. He's making it clear there. And these men know that. But something that we want to make note of in there as well. Please don't think. You may give your all, and you may be giving your best, and you may think Well, I'm serving God well, and so he'll honor that, and I won't have to go through any difficulties. Paul points out, I gave my all for the Lord in ministry, and There's still difficulties involved and challenges as well, even as we talked about this morning. Don't forget, in the excitement and the thrill of being used by God, keep it realistic. Remember what Paul said. He also had many tears. And there were many temptations. And there was those enemies in amongst the Jews that would not acquiesce to the gospel. And that gave him much trouble. And we remember this from the account of his interactions with the Jews at Ephesus and also that riot that took place. Paul went through his difficulties in his ministry in Ephesus and he didn't let it deter him. He gave his all And so Paul says, with that in mind, I am blameless. I have preached God's full truth. And we're going to see here in verse 22 that Paul, in the midst of his ministry, is fully submitted to the Holy Spirit's leading in his life And no matter the challenges that Paul is going to face, he says, whatever they may be, I follow where the Spirit leads. And I go. The Spirit says, go, and I go. And elders in Ephesus, as much wonderful ministry as we've had together, the Holy Spirit says, it's time to go. And so I go to Jerusalem. And maybe possibly we'll never see each other in this life again Verse 22, and now behold I go bound in the Spirit. That means that he is chained to the will of the Holy Spirit. An incredible picture here of his submission to the Spirit's leading. not knowing the things that shall befall me there, save that the Holy Spirit witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. Paul says, I don't know what's going to happen, but I will tell you this, that the Holy Spirit has been kind of giving me nudges and giving me Reminders that more trials and more difficulties are going to come. That imprisonment and chains and bonds are a part of my future And as Paul continued on in his journey, he would have other people, godly people, warn him of this, and he would say the same thing to them that he said here next in the next verse. Did those things concern him? Is he worried? Number 24, verse 24: But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself. So that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. Paul saying I am fully committed to finishing my own spiritual race. The Holy Spirit has a specific plan for me And he's going to tell them the specific plan the Holy Spirit has for them in just a minute. But I'm going to continue on in my gospel ministry submitted to the Spirit And as I'm reading this, I'm reminded again of the themes we talked about this morning. Remember, talking about trials and the joy in the midst of trials and how we can trust God. Because we know that he is in control of all these things. Look back at verse 24 again. The idea of nothing moving me. Remember we talked about this morning about the Lord, the Holy Spirit working steadfastness in us, patience in us? The Holy Spirit is working that in Paul's life. No matter what he faces, he will not be detoured. Here's courage, here's boldness that is not humanly possible. It only comes by the grace of God to people. And Paul, by God's grace, says, whatever I face doesn't move me. We're moving on. I don't even, if it's my own life that I lose, I'm not going to count my life so dear that I'll forsake The plan that God has for my life. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to stray from the course of the race that God has for me. I'm not going to go down the wrong path. I'm going to finish. And here we have that theme of joy Because when we continue, when God works endurance and steadfastness in our lives, and we see his power through our trials and troubles, there is joy. And Paul says, yeah The race is hard, but there's joy in continuing on, and that's what I'm gonna do. And the ministry, there's joy in the ministry The ministry that I have received, this is not something that I have sought in my own strength. This is something that Jesus Christ has given to me. And again, the simplicity of that ministry, what is it? To testify the gospel of the grace of God. Paul knows that only by God's grace is the gospel effective That God offers salvation through Jesus only by his grace, by his love for us. It's undeserved. Paul didn't deserve to be saved. Paul didn't deserve these opportunities for ministry. He was a persecutor of Christians. He was a murderer. He was a blasphemer of God. And yet Paul says, by God's grace, wonderful grace, I am able to proclaim the gospel, and I'm thankful for that. He's fully committed. And so now he says, um Verse twenty-five, and now behold, I know that ye all. Among whom I have gone preaching, the kingdom of God shall see my face no more. We may not see each other again. Most likely we won't. And then he says, Whereof I take you the record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men, for I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Paul is blameless here. He's innocent. And what is he saying here? Paul is saying that I am blameless in my accountability to God with my ministry in regards to the church as Ephesus. How can he say that so boldly? Because all leaders and all pastors have regrets for the most part and do things that we look back and say, oh, I wish I would have done that differently Or we have regrets in saying, I wish I would have done this more fully. I wish I would have taken better opportunity to preach this or to do this And here's where Paul convicts us all. Paul can say, by God's grace, I have done the full course of ministry that he has wanted me to carry out. And I am blameless. I am pure before you. I have fully delivered God's word to you. He has kind of points to the idea in the Old Testament in the book of Ezekiel. There was a description of a watchman Whose responsibility, God said, was to warn the people and to tell the people God's word. And then what the people did with it was the people's responsibility But the watchman's responsibility was to let them know what God said and let them know the danger that's coming. Paul has been that watchman And fulfilled that definition. He has relayed God's word to these people and to these elders about the gospel. And therefore, he in one sense can say, I wash my hands of any culpability In your eternal state. Now again, the decision to trust Christ is up to the individual And whether that person makes that choice is there's no blame involved for those that, uh for anyone else in their life but themselves. But there is a responsibility for other believers and certainly leaders that they have proclaimed the whole counsel of God and the gospel of God. And Paul says, if there were any culpability, I am clean of it, because I have done my all. What a wonderful testimony that would be to have. And Paul has that testimony. Paul says, now that's my testimony. Here's my expectations of you ministry leaders and its faithfulness. Paul's expectation of these ministry leaders is faithfulness and we'll see that throughout the rest of this passage. And he's going to call them to the fact that they must follow his example of a good shepherd. Paul has been an example to these men in many, many ways as he's discipled them and led them to the point where they are now. Men that probably followed after the black m magic and and the um activities and and the worship of Diana before. And now they have trusted in the grace and the gospel of Jesus Christ and they've been transformed and are now at a point where they're leading. This ministry as Paul gets ready to go. So Paul says, as I have done this well, and especially this aspect of being a good shepherd You need to do this as well. These elders, as described in verse 28, are overseers. They're described as shepherds of the house churches across Ephesus. And that is what a pastor is. He's an overseer. He is about directing the business and the ministry of the church, and he's also a shepherd. Following in the example of the great shepherd that we just sang about a few minutes ago. And guiding people and protecting people. Protecting people from what? From wolves. See that just in a minute. Let's look at verse 28. Take heed therefore unto yourselves. And to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost or the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to feed or to shepherd the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. One of the most important pictures tonight that we need to be reminded of as leadership is that the church that I lead The church that we as uh the rest of our leaders at Village Chapel Baptist Church, that it's not our church, it's not our ministry, but God has given us the incredible responsibility Of leading and shepherding his church. It's his church. How can he say that? Because it was bought with the precious, precious blood of Jesus Christ. Don't ever forget, even recently, where we've had another reminder as we celebrated Easter and the resurrection, and before that, the sacrifice of Jesus. what all it cost God so that he could redeem his church and begin the church. And it was the life of his son And his son tortured and beaten in that precious blood of Jesus shed on that horrible, dark, awful cross. And as your pastor, I am again reminded of fact. This isn't my church, and I rejoice in that. I don't want the responsibility of that ultimately. This is Jesus' church. And that still leaves me of the responsibility through his power to do it well, but ultimately it's not a vehicle for me to promote myself What an awful thing to take this position and try to do. To be selfish. But to lead and shepherd. Looking toward Jesus as sacrificing as he was. We pray, Lord, help us to be selfless in this process as well. Paul says we need to be good shepherds. One aspect of that then is guarding the folks, the people, against wolves. And we're going to see here, Paul's pointing out, these men can't depend on Paul's leadership any longer. He has led them, he's discipled them, and now they are responsible to guard against Wolves, verse 29, for I know this that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. And also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. Who are these wolves? These are men that would preach a false gospel. that would in their pride and arrogance, having fully rejected the gospel of Jesus, would then distort the true gospel. And try to pull people away from the church that Jesus redeemed with his own blood. Can there be any greater atrocity committed? than to try to rob Jesus of people from his church. And that is why the shepherd's responsibility in this regard is so key We must guard against that, always on the lookout. And as Paul did, preach the whole council of God. One of my main goals to you as your pastor is not to promote myself and try to even use the preaching of God's word to make myself look good or to make to exalt myself in any way, but it's just Lord Help me to help my people to understand your word well so that they're not led away by false teachers, so that they're protected in the truth. Of your word. Lord help me to do that. Paul did that. Paul had prepared them To now to step up and to keep the flock free of false teachers that would literally try to steal people away for their own benefit. Paul then reminds them. He says, therefore, verse 31, watch and remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn. everyone night and day with tears. And this is another such an important point. Paul's gospel ministry literally moved him to tears, and if anything kept him up at night, I say this kind of tongue-in-cheek, because we know that God gives us strength for our anxiety. Not worrying at night, but if anything were to worry Paul at night and keep him up, it would be, I hope I've been an accurate proclaimer of the gospel and that I'm protecting the flock from the gospel. or or are for the gospel and from the wolves. You know, we can all, I can in my leadership position, and you all, as the Lord's called you to serve at Village Chapel Baptist Church, We have a lot of different things that move us within the church. We have each of us, God has given us talents and passions and concerns with different aspects of ministry within the church. Things that are important to each of us. And there may be some things that God has called me to as the leader that aren't as important to you It shouldn't be, but there are other things that are important to you. And you would say, I want to make sure that whatever village chapel has in its ministry, that it has this as well, that it has this emphasis and this emphasis. But regardless of all of that, my point is that whatever motivates you in church ministry and whatever passions you have, we all have to come together And submit ourselves to the ultimate responsibility in ministry that Paul had. Above what I'm trying to say is what above everything else that moves us in doing ministry. The most important thing ought to be promoting the power and truth of the gospel. That ought to be across the board the number one thing on all of our hearts. Don't let your personal ministry passions trump the defense of the gospel. That is the highest importance. And Paul says that here. Above all else, it is the gospel. Lord, let that be our heartbeat as well. And then he's going to finally, as we close here, point out they must pursue a spiritual inheritance. Paul knows that he's going to be leaving them in good hands. He wants to remain with them But he knows they're in good hands because they're in God's hands. Verse 32. And now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up. And to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. Here he's saying, God's grace will keep them, his word will strengthen them And his word and in their ministry service, as he empowers them through his word, he will reward them with an invaluable spiritual inheritance. As they continue in faithfulness and spiritual maturity. Paul did not in any way want to exploit people for his own selfish ambitions or for money or anything like that. He went to great lengths to keep his reputation free from this charge. And he's saying as well, you as the elders, you make sure you're not a respecter of persons. Verse 33 I have covered in no man's silver or gold or apparel. Paul would say anathema to being motivated for our financial gains. And I, as your pastor, would wholeheartedly agree with that And he says, verse 34, Ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities and to them that were with me. I have done many things on my own, and in my own finances, and my own means, so that I would never be accused. Of having ulterior motives. And I have showed you all things, how that so laboring you ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give Than to receive. And he's saying here, you men, be ready To minister to all of the people, the weak and the needy, not just the wealthy and those that have their needs met, but all people And we see here as well the familiarity that Paul has with the earthly ministry of Jesus in quoting one of his sayings, it is more blessed to give than receive. Paul says, you find your blessing in continuing to serve and minister, and don't worry about the financial things. Let God take care of that. Do we trust God as we serve Him, that He will in due time have a valuable spiritual inheritance for each of us? Are we serving without getting ourselves in the way and our personalities in the way, serving for him and humbling ourselves before him? Lord , I'm going to serve you faithfully, and I'm going to let you take care of the outcome. And of the reward. God is so much a so much greater rewarder than what we can ever imagine. And we have an eternal inheritance as we serve Him faithfully here. So serve the needy and weak even this week. Finally this beautiful picture here that proves Paul's effective ministry. Verse 36. And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all. And they all wept sore. This is a picture of men literally painfully weeping, because they're going to miss this man of God. And they fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake that they should see his face no more, and they accompanied him unto the ship. Now Paul had thought this was the last time he'd see these folks From church tradition, there's probably a good possibility that he was released eventually from his Roman prison and that he was able to travel and see them again. We don't know for sure. But here we have the results of Paul's ministry, his personal, time-sacrificing ministry And when we minister in that way, when we take time with people, when we sacrifice ourselves, and people know that we're not in it for ourselves, but we love them. Then we will also experience this kind of tearful, beautiful parting that Paul experiences here when God calls us on. And I'm not saying that anyone is irreplaceable, but a loving, faithful servant who is involved in this caring, one-on-one, gospel-proclaiming ministry. When they leave that church, that ministry will undergo a painful parting. It's a natural part because you're so close and the Spirit has developed such a close relationship When you show people how much you care for them, they will return the favor and let you know how much God has used you in their lives. But above all, as we finish up here, don't miss this. Paul is saying Jesus deserves our all. For his redemption and his blood for us. He deserves our every effort. And here's the thing, Paul can talk about his faithfulness because it was all a result of God's grace, not his own effort And how can we give our all for Jesus? Jesus gives us the grace and strength that we need to accomplish fully committed ministry. He will give us that grace and power as he gave Paul. And may we seek that this week and throughout this year in our community. God give us good, effective witness of your gospel, of your word. Father, thank you for this beautiful picture of Paul's sacrificial ministry. And help us. Lord, we see this and we see what Paul, what you accomplished through him, and it convicts us and it reminds us, well, we still have we still have a ways to go in our own ministry. Help us to grow. Help us to grow in our love and commitment to serving you and to your strength. Have this kind of effective ministry and to be committed to defending the gospel above all else. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.