Um there's so much here, and I continue to look through this, and the Lord continue to continues to impress Really, this passage on my heart that I just want to make sure we take the time. Again, I've used this uh illustration before, but I feel like, especially in this sense, we're looking at a gorgeous, beautiful jewel. in so many different facets. And that I just think it's important to take sure that we understand And Paul even says in the midst of this that he wants us to know the love of Christ, which surpasses all knowledge. So we're in this prayer that um we're we're hoping and praying. Lord, help us understand, at the same time under realizing that we're never fully gonna understand this. Okay? So with that in mind, I think we even need to take things a little more slowly And we're going to look at just another specific facet of this in verses 18 and 19, and we're going to finish this up next week talking about the love of Christ. and um all that God can do through us. And I also feel legitimate in that. I many of you I've mentioned before that I've benefited greatly from uh Dr. Mark Minnick's expositions of these passages. And he took four or five messages or weeks to go through this one passage. So I think we can extend this out to three sermons without it being too big of a deal, right? So we're going to do that tonight. Well, let's look and then back at our passage here and go back through where we've been. The title of this will be Know the Love That Is Beyond Knowing, Part 2 Paul finally gets to his second prayer here after his digression in chapter 3, and he says in verse 14, For this reason or the or this cause, this reason. This is the reason I'm going to pray what I'm going to pray. And the reason is he's just described the living temple that is the church. And that is important to remember as we continue on in this passage. He says, I bow my knees, I humble myself before the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Father is in the forefront of this whole epistle, this whole letter. God in his plan is working things that he will accomplish. Remember when you doubt, and remember when you look and even and what's going on in our culture today, that God will accomplish what He's going to accomplish in the most arrogant, most out-of-control, riotous situation will not keep God From carrying out his plan. And so we bow to his plan. We humble ourselves of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. Again, this idea that God has the authority and the sovereignty to name the angels in heaven, the different divisions of angels, to name the tribes of Israel. and to name all of the entities of his creation. So if God has that authority, we can trust in that authority And then he says specifically what he's praying for, that he would grant you, that God would give you. What has God had to give us? Well, he has the riches of his glory. Right? The brilliance. These things we've already talked about and looked at in Ephesians. And out of all of those riches, Paul says That God would give us something specific, and that is to be certain. This word strengthened. I didn't get to this this morning. We're going to continue to see these words throughout this passage. And it's constantly in one form or another the word dunamis. Now, I'm sure you have probably heard that described before and maybe you've heard along the lines of well to dynamite for the word power because they're kind of synonymous And uh that is where we get the word dynamite from that Greek word. But we need to understand, and and just in case you've been right, dynamite actually wasn't invented until 1864 by a Swedish Nobel. Does that sound familiar? Because he he's also not only the inventing cap for um dynamite, but he also funded a contrast here. I was reading that story, and it seems like he felt so guilty about this destructive power that he created, he came up with this a noble idea of this peace prize. Anyway, that didn't happen until much later on. We get dynamite from the Greek word dunymus. But Paul isn't saying specifically that we have the power. Or of dynamite. And that's what that's describing. We have the power of God to strengthen us with might. His power, dumis power, out through his spirit in our inner man. And don't we need a continuing strengthening What are you struggling with in your life? What sins continue to be a problem for you? Is something as simple but still be very destructive as anger Is it lust? Is it pride? Um is it just struggles that you have with family? Um With friends, with taking a stand for Christ and being bold to declare his name. All of these stem back to a problem or a weakness when we fall prey to these things. of the inner man. And we could go on and on. As much time as we spend on the outward man, we need even more time on the inward man. And that only comes By asking the Spirit to do his work in our lives. Paul is clear on that. And then he continues on after that. That Verse 17, that Christ may dwell in your hearts. That whole idea of Christ, not just when soon as when we put our faith and trust in Jesus, yes, he resides, he dwells in us. But this is describing that he will be able to dwell more fully, that he'll be more at home in our lives. What in our lives makes Jesus, makes the Holy Spirit uncomfortable? We need to get rid of those things so that he can more fully dwell. And then this part here that we didn't get to this morning, but that's through faith. It's all through faith. Well, again, an introduction here. How do we have more faith for Jesus to dwell more fully in us? How do we get that kind of faith? To believe that Jesus can do that. Well , ask for it. That's the purpose of Paul's prayer here. is to ask, is to pray, Lord, Jesus, dwell in my heart more fully. Help me to be more submitted. Help me to have more victory in my life as you feel more at home in me. That is the type of thing that ought to be a part of our prayers on a regular basis, and so often it's not. And then as we pray that, as Jesus dwells more fully in us, then it's described When we have that, then we're more rooted and grounded in love. And that love, those pictures then again of that strong love for Christ that keeps us grounded, that keeps us stable. Illustration I think of with our our dog Ellie when we first got Um we had a number of things that came with the dog and we had this beautiful um lawn and outdoor area at the parsonage where we're at in Maryland. And uh there were times where we wanted just to uh let her outdoors and enjoy the outdoors, but she had this A perennial problem. She's um she's a Sheltie, but a Sheltie is also a sheepdog. So we didn't have any sheep. So what she would do instead is um when cars or when trucks would drive up our driveway. Cars would drive up our driveway, she would literally go bam, running right towards it, no fear, and would try to go after the tires. Well, that's not gonna be very helpful to keep So we had this lead and this chain that we attached her to and one part one part attached to her collar and the other part you would screw into the ground. You've seen this before. And if you found a particularly rich area, you know, it's harder to do here in New Hampshire I've found because we're the grand state. And every time I try to turn that thing, I hit another rock. But if if we ground it firmly in that rich soil, then she was safe because she could only go so far. There were a couple of times where I realized I didn't get that grounded as well as I needed to And we came we we looked out and her after a couple minutes, I think one time we came home and she had gotten loose, and thankfully that she was okay, but she was dragging that thing around with her everywhere she went. um Lord protected her, I guess. But that picture is what our lives need to be as far as that keeps us stake just like that lead for the dog you no matter where that dog would go or no matter what she would try to do that stake was rooted growth and it wasn't going anywhere In the unstable situations around us, we're so rooted in Jesus' love that it keeps us stable We're grounded. We talked this morning about our love for Jesus, our love for him that ought to continue to grow, our love for him that would allow us to surrender things in our life. Jesus offers a continually deeper experience of his love to us that we also need to be submitted to. And if you're having trouble in your Christian life and all over the place and things are chaotic and you're being led by your emotions and you're not firmly secure, study And remember the love of Jesus that he has for you. And the more we remember and the more we meditate on Jesus' love, it will ground us, it will root us when we stay more. We need that. So as we pray that Christ may dwell in our hearts, as that happens, we become more and more grounded. These are all things that we have to pray for, that we have to ask for. Have you asked in the past week? Have you asked even today that God would help you grow and be more rooted in your relationship with Jesus and know his love in a more deeper way? We're going to be also talking, looking further here in just a minute about the living temple that God is creating. And it's kind of a hard thing to understand. It's almost like as I'm describing to you, we are the living temple of the church. the dwelling place of God. It's like, what am I supposed to stay about say about that? Am I supposed to encourage you just to be better stones or, you know, whatever? That doesn't really resonate with us. What do we do with that? One thing that we need to understand is that love that we're talking about through Christ binds us as the temple of the living. of the living God. What binds us as the stones and keeps us together in security and firmness? It's the love of Christ that keeps us as a church together. And unified. And folks, if you're not deep in your relationship, in your love with Christ, you're not going to be a benefit to the church in the way that you need to be. Because all of us need to be rooted and grounded in this life, in this love of Christ, to be able to be firm as a church and go forward and serve Him better. So how can we be better stones, so to speak? Be rooted, be firm in the love of Christ. But we're also gonna see tonight that God spiritually is love. And let's just continue introduction. Let's read verse 18, dear. Correctly dwell in your hearts through faith that ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able or have strength to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and depth and height And let's just be quickly, Lord, help us to understand, as we just look at this briefly tonight, what you mean by these measurements. Of these things that without your help we can't understand at all. Help us to be firm. So look at verse 18. Now this is really interesting because I think we miss this a lot of times. Paul is continuing to pray. He's prayed that Christ will dwell in our hearts by faith, right? That we're rooted and grounded in love. Now he's praying something else that will have strength to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height. And there are many commentators and many people who just automatically say, well, he's Talking there about knowing the love of Christ in a deeper way. But actually, that really can't be the case. Because then he adds to that in verse 19, and to know the love of Christ. That's another prayer request that comes after this prayer request in verse 18. What's interesting here Is Paul doesn't really tell us here in so many words what he's praying for as far as that we know more of the breadth and length and depth and height of what Paul? It's not there. This makes this challenging, and this is where I want to focus the rest of the time tonight. What is Paul doing here? What is he asking for? What are we supposed to comprehend? That idea of comprehend has the idea of a deeper knowledge and understanding To anchor our comprehension and our understanding solidly in something. So this is something that Paul's saying we need to comprehend in a deeper way. But then what is it? Well, uh, when you read this and and you kind of you realize it's kind of left up, it seems to us anyway, kind of hanging in the air. It's not really Over church history, there have been a lot, a lot of ideas and suggestions as to what this would be. I'll just throw some out here. And maybe Paul's talking about the New Jerusalem. Well, there's only one problem with some of these, and that is that there's really in the context, there's it's not there at all. It's just people trying to be creative and you know they want to understand this. Here's another early church creative suggestion. The four arms of the cross, the breadth, the length, the depth, and the height is describing the cross of Christ. That may that's very creative and a beautiful picture, but that's not really what Paul's referring to here. How about the mystery of God's plan? Paul's already talked about that, but again, in context here, we have no suggestion that it refers back to the mystery of God's plan. And then some more, some better possibilities are some commentators today say, well, it's talking about God's wisdom. And God certainly, and Paul certainly wants people to have the wisdom of God. But in context, he's really not talking about the wisdom. He's not talked about God's wisdom in that way. I don't think that's it. Some people just say, well, somehow it's still tied to nineteen and it's talking about God's love. And that's a possibility But I don't think that gets to the heart of this because again, he then goes to verse 19 and he's saying, and I'm also praying for the love of Christ. So it has to be something else. Another commentator that I read, I think this is close, says God's power. And many times in this letter, God's power is linked with Christ's love. And I think that could be a possibility that Paul's praying that we would be able to have a full comprehension with all the saints, all of us. In the church of the power of God. Because remember those descriptions of the power of God that he gave. And they uh taught there they they go beyond our our our uh world and earth and they go to the heights or the lengths of the universe and saying that God has power over all of this in an amazing way, reminding us of the incredible, all-encompassing power that the Father has. That's a possibility. But I think there's one more by again a mentor of mine, a seminary professor, and uh uh pastor in Greenville, uh Dr. Mark Mennik. And I think this would probably be close. But you know what? We have a few minutes here. Let me just throw it out to you. It's a Sunday night. We can do this a little bit more After giving all that build-up to the Tom I think it's more tied to power. We're back to power and more fully. Comprehend it more fully. And I think that's Well after the word twenty six uh twenty -four and nineteen are possible. There's a lot of commentators that would would agree with you on that, so you're in good company. Um grammatically speaking though, it just seems like I we can't get past that in verse 19 he moves on to something else that he's praying for. But you're in good company with that. Anyone else? Yeah, and that's a good reminder, what Paul said in Romans, and maybe he's referring back to that. Well, let me throw this out. Is there anything, any place in Ephesians where we've talked about something that could be measured? The breadth, the length, the depth, the height? Is there anything in Ephesians? It's getting late here. I don't want to keep us too much longer. Is there a building in Ephesians? How about the new temple? Let's go. I'm just gonna go with me quickly back to Ephesians chapter 1, verses 15. Well, you know, we with our time, let's just go to Ephesians chapter 2, verses 18 through 22. Both of these passages describe the new temple And I think after studying this more closely, that Paul is praying for his people to Understand the ramifications of the fact that the church is the new temple, the breadth, the length, the depth, the height. And that's a hard thing to comprehend, to get into our minds. What is going on here? What is God doing? Let's look again real quickly, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 18. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens. We that were afar off the Gentiles, but now we're fellow citizens of the saints. and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you all serve the magnificence and the awesomeness of this description, of this temple Sometimes we can know these truths about it, but not really understand. And we just kind of go by and say, okay, yeah, the church is the new temple of God. And I don't really get that, but I know God's word says that it is. And we can just get used to this. And Paul's saying, no, we need to ask God to help us to understand what that means. And again, that comprehension. He's calling, he says here again, to comprehend, to have the strength to comprehend. The ability to be able to do certain things and to what to do to anchor solidly our understanding about what it means for the new temple. And here's the point. If we understand the magnificence of the fact that we are the new temple, the dwelling place of God And , we get the even uh just a small glimpse and understanding of what that means. Do you know that we would all give more glory to God? The more we understand, as hard as it is to understand the purpose and the magnificence and the splendor of the fact that the church is the temple of God , Then we would call we would worship him even more fervently and amazed at what he's doing. The more captivated by God's work in this respect of the church, the more we realize that we are a um masterpiece that is um displayed to the world of the goodness of God and what he's doing in the church. And when we're captivated by what God's work and what he's doing in the church. Guess what? The more then we set lesser things aside, and we prepare ourselves then to live out the mission of the church. And that's what Paul's going to give us in the last three chapters. Four through chapters one through three is the theology and what God is doing, and then chapters four through six is how we're supposed to live that out practically. So guess what? The more we understand this concept of the temple that God is building as we are members of that temple, the more we're motivated then to obey him in chapters 4 through 6. So as we finish up tonight, here's a simple question as we reflect on this Are we, as Village Chapel Baptist Church, walking worthy of our vocation? Whether we like it or not, we're displaying his magnificence, his brilliance, his holiness. He is dwelling here within us. And we are brought together, and we are stones, and the foundation has been laid, and the love of Christ is what keeps us together, and all of that can function in a glorious fashion. But we have to pray and ask God, Lord, help us give us understanding is something that's almost too hard for us to comprehend. Like we talked about this morning, the small child that just can't get everything that the adults are talking about. We need the Spirit's understanding to truly comprehend what it means that we are the living temple rooted and grounded in the love of Christ. Folks, as I've continued to study this, I've been motivated in my own life, even this next week, to pray through this and to think through this. And to call, ask for the Spirit to give me more understanding of what he's talking about here. We all need this. We're going to talk about next Sunday morning, about the love of Christ. And here's a really neat thing. He says, I'm praying that we'll understand more of the love of Christ, but in the end the love of Christ surpasses any understanding that we'll be able to have. So isn't this wonderful that even as we pray for this, that there is a level, only a certain level we'll be able to get to, and then in the end we have to say, God, you get the rest, you understand the rest, and I submit myself to that. And so we might say then, well, it's just hard. These concepts are still too difficult for me to understand. And that's when, and we'll get to this more next week, but again, this wonderful verse. In verse 19 or verse 20. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly more abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be the glory in the church by Christ Jesus, throughout all generations or ages, forever and ever, world without end. We can comprehend these truths because the power of God works in us and he can do beyond what we would ever imagine understand the incredible nature and what you're doing and be submitted to that and then let it work out practically in my life so that the world sees a church and a believer that is obedient to you and that is reflecting your love and your holiness. And that's a big order, God, but your power, your power can do all things and can do things in me that I can't even imagine. Can God do that for Bill 's Chapel Baptist Church, who is his living temple? Yes, he can. Father, thank you for your word. Help us to continue, word, even this week, to meditate on these Truths as incredible and awesome and wonderful they are, they're still difficult. And yet we relationship with Jesus Christ That we may be all that we need to be is the church, and that we would not be a weak display But a full, powerful display because we're depending upon your power and not trying to go it alone and do it ourselves. Help us to be unified, working together in the love of Christ that binds us as your temple, your dwelling place. Or we don't have to go to the tabernacle or to the Old Testament temple because you're here to help us to reflect your presence. For it is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.