Folks, before we trusted Christ, before the light of salvation came in, we had no ability to know him or worship him at all. We did not know the love of Christ within. We had no desire for the things of God, and yet through the gospel of Jesus Christ, he opened our eyes. and showed us endless hope and peace. Folks, that is something that we ought to revel in praising God for. Are you today excited about what Jesus Christ, the fact that he's opened your eyes, that you can understand gospel truths? We ought to be ready to praise and rejoice in that. And we need his help today as we look into his word, as we continue with this series on worship that we've been going through. I'm going to ask you to turn to the book of Exodus this morning. And ask, and even as we begin, pray that God will give us eyes to understand the truth of His Word. We need the Spirit's power, and this is such an important All of God's word is important, and this is no different as well. I will just prepare you the next couple weeks. As we talk about worship, it'll be a little bit more, may seem more on the negative side about wrong worship and ways that God does not want us to worship and how serious He is about that. But these aspects are important, and we must know God's expectations for worship. And today we're going to see in Exodus 32 God's response to wrong worship. And really, we're still in the beginning of this series, but I hope that you've been able to see through our focus on God's Word, worship is the primary emphasis of Scripture. And it's one of God's central commands to his people. And so something that is that vital, we as God's people need to understand. And meditate on about the purpose and the need to worship. And our primary purpose in worship then, as we'll see today, should be to obey God and to please Him. And not ourselves. Again, as we leave the service today, my prayer would be that you're asking yourselves and talking with your family, how was God honored in this service today? Because worship declares by whatever means that God gives us that the Lord is full of glory. And it's so very important, as we're going to see today, God does deal severely. He will deal with us when we don't worship him in the right way that he's prescribed. Now this chapter and this narrative this morning, this passage, is one that I think we have all heard and are very familiar with, but I think sometimes as God's people we still miss the point. This is the topic, this is the narrative of God's people, the newly formed nation of Israel and how Moses went up the mountain. And they cajoled, they really uh forced Aaron to make the golden calf. We all know this story. And I think many times as we hear this, we think, yeah, that was a really strange, weird, disobedient thing to do. We as God's people would never make it idle. Make it in the form of a cow and try to worship him in that way. Everybody knows that you shouldn't do that. But for some reason God's people back then got it wrong. Boy, they were disobedient. I'm glad we're not that way today Well, as we're going to see, folks, and actually making that golden calf made a lot of sense to God's people at that point because of what they'd been through recently. And what we're going to see today is that there are many things that make sense to God's people today. That we say, well, that ought to be a part of worship because that's what I'm comfortable with and that's what I'm used to. And yet we may still be disobeying God's commands for worship and not even realizing it. Just as the people, the children of Israel, God had to deal with them. He also wants to work in us and help give us the right understanding of what correct worship is Let's um let's just read from Exodus thirty two And verse 11 through 14 before we go to prayer. A reminder of God's mercy. Exodus 32, verses 11 through 14. A reminder of God's mercy. As even we deal with the subject of wrong worship. Moses implored the Lord his God and said, O Lord, why does your wrath burn hot against your people, whom you brought out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand? Why should the Egyptians say, with evil mischief or intent did he bring them out to kill them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from your burning anger and relent from this disaster against your people. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own self, and said to them, I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have promised I will give to your offspring, and they shall inherit it forever. And the Lord, I like this word better than the word repented, but he relented. He did not take us the option of the disaster that he had spoken of bringing on his people. Father, thank you for the privilege of looking into your word again this morning. Give us understanding, as we just say, you are the great God. And through your Son, you have enabled us to understand all things. Give us that understanding this morning that we may truly reflect on the wrong worship that your people gave in this instance in the Old Testament. But also be willing to reflect on wrong worship that we demand and that we must relinquish to you and submit to you then. With a spirit of gratefulness. Help us to be willing to do that, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You've probably seen, and unfortunately, still in the news, many times this comes up. where there are instances of sports fans in different games, um you know, national uh teams, whether it's baseball, football, or whatever Um and we've seen over the past few years that somebody's favorite team might have won and hometown team in a very tight uh game that was very exciting and it gets people stirred up And then unfortunately, sometimes it makes the news where the whole city gets stirred up and there's even been some rioting involved with and I never understood why people tend to do that when their team wins. Not that it's wrong when they lose either But we've seen that in the news, or their team loses and they're frustrated by something, and so let's just go riot and show our anger and and our frustration. Emotion running high I was at uh somebody invited me to a college football game one time that was very close, and it was one of those games that was important for the final championships. And the one team that we were rooting for won the game, but people poured over the boundaries and the guardrails and things. A lot of young people especially poured right past the security guards and everything onto the field. It was like, wow, these guys are really excited. And then they went over to one of the goal posts and they started climbing the goal posts, and you maybe have seen this done before too, where they were able to actually there were so many people to bend that thing and break it off and they carried it out. Well people get a little crazy or a little over um But I was actually in a situation, and not many of you maybe know this as much, but uh because I went for seminary in uh South Carolina, but in my undergrad was in uh Christian College in Florida And there was a particularly exciting basketball game that was going on one evening. It was the weekend, I think it was a Friday night And our team pulled it off, but it was one of those last-minute, you know, throw of the ball and it goes into the hoop and everybody, whoa , they went crazy and they were so excited. And that excitement just continued to grow and grow and so it kind of poured out from the uh uh the gymnasium there and a number of us stood outside the um locker room where our team was to congratulate them afterwards, but that enthusiasm continued to grow to where there was almost like not just a crowd, but a mob. And they actually, as the players came through, the number of the young people picked them up and started carrying them down the hall. And we watched as they were doing this, and they even uh picked up the chaplain, which happened to be the campus pastor, and started carrying him along, and they started going through the doors and the outside, like, you know, I'm not so sure their heads are going to clear those doors, Michael. Oh, they did. Well that's good. But they were so excited that they were so close in their enthusiasm to actually hurting people Then also they poured out into the main campus, and it was just a throng of excited, enthusiastic young people who were glad that their team had won But it got so chaotic that at some point it was a concern that things were going to be broken and there was going to be uh damage to the property. And so security teams had to eventually come and walk down the main road with some of the administration and they kind of quelled it and calmed it down. There was a lot of enthusiasm that wasn't wrong in and of itself. We were glad that our team won. But it got out of control. And they handled in a way that became wrong because it became a threat to people's lives and to the very property that God had given them to use. Well we're going to see that many times people in their enthusiasm, folks, many times in worshiping God. That we can get so carried away that sometimes we can steer into ways that God doesn't want us to worship. And that we always need to be submitted to Him in this. And Exodus 32 is a certain example of that. God's response to wrong worship. And let's look at the first part of this chapter as we see that wrong worship is direct disobedience against God. And really it shows discontent with God's way. Now, the people of Israel in this golden cap incident, let's be clear. Even though they misunderstood what worship was all about, they really had no excuse because God had made it clear. Just real quickly, turn back to Exodus chapter 20. And you know the Ten Commandments, you could probably recite these. But God had made it clear to his people that there were certain standards and certain expectations that he had for worship that they had to follow. He had given them his law. Exodus 20, verses 3 through 6. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above. Or that is in the earth the need, or is that in the water under the earth? Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. God is pointing out here that he will deal with sin, but he's a merciful God as well, but he has expectations for worship. These first two commandments, don't serve or worship any other gods. But the second commandment, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, it all sounds like the first, and sometimes people misunderstand this under even on these ten commandments that everybody knows so well Number two, that second commandment isn't a repeat. Don't have other gods before me. Oh yeah, and then commandment number two , don't have other gods and make images of them. There's no reason for God to repeat himself within the first two commandments. He's made it clear in the first one. The second commandment is distinct. And this, and we need to understand this, is that God doesn't want his people to worship him in the wrong way. The first one is, don't worship any other gods but me. The second is don't worship me with other images or graven images or things that you think represent me, but you worship me in the way that I want to be worshipped. And that was really the sin then of what God's people and how they disobeyed him when we get back to Exodus 32 He'd also made it clear that they must not bow down to other gods and serve them in Exodus 23, but you'll serve the Lord your God, and he will bless you. So God had made it clear. But the people's expectations in their past experience clouded that understanding for them, and they disobeyed God. So let's go back to chapter 32, verse 1. God again and made his expectations clear Worship him alone, rather than multiple gods. Worship him, but don't add physical idols or images to his worship. And we get to chapter 32, verse 1. When the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people gathered themselves together, or really against Moses Aaron. And said to him, make us gods who shall go before us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. And then so Aaron said to them, Take off your rings of gold, and we'll get back into that in just a minute. See, it was a great exercise of faith for God's people as Moses, their leader, who was a representation, who was the mediator for them, between them and God, disappeared into the mountain, and then he didn't return. It was actually a great exercise of faith for them to be patient and wait on Moses. And they really, as we see in these first few verses, they failed that exercise and that test. They didn't have a visible representation or a mediator like they did with Moses. All of a sudden he was gone. And now they had to trust God, who they couldn't see And so they go to Aaron and say, look, Moses has disappeared. He's our representative of God. So we want to make another representative of God. Until Moses returns, if he'll ever return at all. And they failed that test of faith. We many times going through our daily lives, it's hard to put our faith and trust with someone we can't see, isn't it, folks? And yet we have to trust in God's word and depend upon his word. That yes, that God is there that Jesus Christ is our Savior and we can depend upon him, but we understand the difficulty when we can't see him to put our faith on a daily basis And that experience, that daily experience, it's hard with someone that we can't see. And that is part of the faith of prayer and worship, is that we trust God. He's there. And we'll worship him and honor him, and we'll read his word and obey his word until one day when we have that glorious face-to -face representation and meeting with him again with Jesus Christ. It is a walk of faith and it was a walk of faith for God's people at this time too. And they failed Because they wanted something to represent God in the midst of while Moses was away from them. Well, so they picked the idea of this calf. A golden cap. Look at verse 2. So Aaron said to them, Take off the rings of gold that are in your ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me. And so all the people took off all the rings of gold that were in their ears and brought them to Aaron. And he received the gold from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool and made a golden calf. Just as a side note, sometimes we really get on to Aaron for why why didn't he stand up against those people? Why wasn't he stronger? Come on, he had the authority. Well remember, folks, we're talking about thousands of people. I mean, this is a great multitude against one guy Now Aaron should have stood firm, but if you've ever had almost a million people come to you and say you're going to do this, you'd probably be tempted to capitulate too. And unfortunately, Aaron did that, and they made it why would they make a golden calf out of all the things that they could do to represent the one true God? Moses isn't here. So this is our representation. Aaron, make a golden calf. Well, we would never do that today. Well, what they were doing was they were making a representation of God that they were familiar with. Remember, sometimes we forget this. What have they been doing as a people for hundreds of years recently before this They had been worshiping the idols and the gods of the Egyptian people. And folks, the Egyptians had a god and an idol for everything. They worshiped everything. In fact, some people miss this about the plagues. The plagues was God's reputation of each of their gods. You worship the God of the Nile. Okay, here's what the God of heaven is going to do to the Nile. Okay, that God's worthless. You worship the God of frogs. What a strange thing to have a God over. But they did. Okay, here's what God does. God's actually in control of the frogs, not your God of frogs. God 's in charge of the God of the flies. And all these different gods that Egypt worshiped, the Egyptians worshiped, one by one, God toppled each of those in the plagues. And it was a visible representation to his people, don't worship false gods. And yet when he was gone, what were they used to? What was their pattern? We worship a calf. A calf was also a cow, this was a symbol of power, and the Egyptians worshiped that as a god as well, as cattle. And the Israelites were familiar with that. And so certainly they thought to themselves, well, we'll make this image of power, but we're worshiping our God with it, so it's okay. He'll be pleased with this. Why wouldn't he be? And so Aaron made this and they're worshiping this together. And then he says at the end of verse 4, these are the gods, O Israel, that brought you up out of the land of Egypt. The God that brought them out of the land of Egypt represented in a wrong man. Wait, God is so much more infinitely powerful than a golden calf, right? We know this But his people and their foolishness and their lack of understanding devoted this fit to worship. And when Aaron verse six, and when they rose up early the next day and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings And the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Again, um Aaron gives in, and the people worship God in a way that is fully directly against his commands. But it's what they're used to. If I can put it this way, it's what they like. It's what their preferences is Well, it shows discontent with God's way because they knew God's way and yet they went their own way. But it certainly also, as we see here, it rebels against God's way. And so there is a disobedience and lack of reverence in this worship that the people are now participating in. This idea of rising up to play has the idea of an atmosphere of a party, kind of like an uncontrolled party, a dance party, mosh pit, whatever type of thing comes to mind to you that's chaotic and out of control And people are reveling in um you know immorality and whatever. It's that type of situation. It's like this huge immoral wild party It's not a serious worship of God at all, but it's what they liked. People are singing and dancing in a wild, uncontrolled, irreverent manner that is not reflective or honoring. Folks, our worship ought to be, we ought to be taking time to reflect on who God is and honoring Him, not just a mad frenzy of chaos. I have heard in the past Christian singers kind of describe uh what heaven's gonna be like. And that heaven we get up there that it's probably there we're hoping it's gonna be one big dance party, chaotic, describing it almost like I said a minute ago, a mosh pit, uh, a crazy out of control uh type of party and celebration. And Folks, God's word makes it clear that that's totally off base. Now, worship of God in heaven is going to be wonderful. It's going to be glorious. We're not going to feel gypped at all. We're going to enjoy every aspect of it. It's going to be marvelous. And you know, they're very well. There was dancing in the Old Testament with God's people. That certainly could be a part of it, but it won't be chaotic and wild and crazy, but it'll be orderly. It'll be reflective of the truths of who God is, and it will represent him well. We can understand when something gets out of control and look at that and say, well, that doesn't really represent God well. But I think sometimes even in our conservative churches, that we get caught up in things that we want or things that we expect, and rather than submit them before what God wants, we just say, well, I like it and I want it, so, and I'm used to it, so it's okay. Now it may very well be okay. It may very well be honoring to God and what you want to do But what we have to get away from in whatever church that we're worshiping God in is it makes sense to me, it's what I like, and therefore we're going to go ahead and do it. No, that's not the ultimate Expectation and principle that God wants us to operate by But he wants us to make sure that we've reflected, does this really honor him? Is this really obedient to him as we're worshiping him together? The Israelites could have done that They had the Ten Commandments close by. They just had them read to them. It was very easy to go back and see what God expected. But they didn't. They put aside, either they directly rebelled or they forgot and they didn't go to God and seek his will in this matter, and they just did what was right in their eyes In an effort to please themselves but yet placate God. And folks, when it comes to worship, what we have to remember is God is not pleased with a mix of personal styles. But he desires purity and obedience in worship. Now, don't get me wrong, that still allows for a lot of variety. It really does. But we just have to ask God first. God, are you pleased with the way that we're worshiping you at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church? Because wrong worship Will bring a strong response from God. And He will discipline disobedient people. Look at verses 7 through 9. The Lord said to Moses, Go down for your people. whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I have commanded them. I have to just stop here, just so we don't get a wrong view of what's going on with God here. How many times have you in your relationship with your spouse when one of the kids does something that's good, you hear this as a joke, right? The spouse says, well, that's my child, I'm so proud of them, or whatever. And then the child does something that's wrong or egregious and says, and that same spouse will say, When are you going to deal with your child? And what they're doing. Putting the blame. Hey, that has nothing to do with me. It's all about you. Well, if we're not careful, we can look at this and say, God. uh saying something like Moses I called you to this but now they're messing up and disobeying so it's all your responsibility. Those your people that you're supposed to be leading. You're not fulfilling your responsibilities And it sounds like to the rest of this that God is just angry. And we tend to put our view of what we're like in with what God is saying here And that God has just had it. He's done. And let's continue to read here. That's not the right response. That's not the right interpretation, but let's continue to read here. They have made themselves a golden calf and have worshipped it and sacrificed to it and said, These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Verse nine, and the Lord said to Moses, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people. Now therefore, let me alone, that my wrath may burn hot against them, and I may consume them. in order that I may make a great nation of you. Kind of sounds like God's saying, let me add him, Moses. If you don't hold me back, you don't hold me back, I'm just going to let them have it. Just let me at them. Well, that can't be what God's doing here because that's our that's our sinful emotional wrong response. We can understand when we get mad at somebody, we can tell talk to some people and say boy, if I could, I'd just do this and I'd get them back and all of this. Well that's a sinful response that we struggle with. That certainly is not what's going on with God here We have too many verses that talk about God and his long suffering and how he's in control of all things and nothing surprises him. So we can't then now paint God in a picture here where he's surprised about the disobedience of his people, and he in anger is about ready to get them back and blaming Moses. No That doesn't fit the picture of the God that we have. Well, what is going on here then? He is showing that he must have a strong response toward people that disobey him. And he's pointing out to Moses that when people worship him and directly disobey him in this way, they must expect a strong response from him But he's also, as he's saying these things, he's also expecting a response from Moses. Folks, really what's going on here, this is a test for Moses. God knows what he's going to do. God is sovereign. God's in control. But this is an opportunity for Moses to see how God is working in his life and to test Moses' commitment to his promised way. God's way for Israel. If Moses says, yeah, that's right, God, I'm tired of them too. Let them have it. Make me the new Abraham. Haha, that'd be great. Well, that doesn't show much growth on Moses' part at all, does it? But thankfully, and God knew this. God knew what Moses ' response would be. God knew that that as he had worked through Moses' life, that Moses knew and understood That obeying God and worship is of utmost importance. But Moses also knew that God is a God of grace and mercy. I just said something there that may still surprise you. Let me ask it this way. What is the most important thing that believers can do for God that He expects from them? Is it missions? Is it gospel witness? Is it evangelism? Well, all of those are important. And Jesus gave his great commission, commissioning us to do those things. So yes, those are important, but do we realize that one day all that's going to end? Are we going to be evangelizing in heaven with God? Are we going to be sharing the gospel for all eternity? Well, we're not going to be sharing this, seeing people come to know him at least. But what is the one thing we will be doing for all eternity? Worship. Worship is the top priority for God's people. It is the number one thing. That's why it's first on the list of commandments as well. God has takes worship, his worship very seriously, and he has expectations. But Moses here, and I'm thankful for this, aren't we? That he passed the test. He knows that God is also a merciful God. And here is Moses' greatest concern. Unlike the people, what were the people's greatest concerns? What we like, what we prefer. But Moses ' concern is, God, your name. What is going to happen to your name? And your reputation, if you in anger lash out at these people, your name will be marred. It won't be a good reflection on you. Moses, in direct contrast to the people, is all concerned about God and his glory and his honor. Look at verse 11. Moses implored the Lord his God and said, O Lord, why does your wrath burn hot against your people whom you have brought out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand? Why should the Egyptians say, with evil intent or mischief did he bring them out, to kill them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from your burning anger and relent from this disaster against your people. Remember Abraham, Isaac, Israel, your servants, who you made an oath, you swore, you made a covenant with I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven. Moses says, God, remember your covenant. If you destroy these people, that's exactly what their enemies are expecting. It seems as if the Egyptians had a common expectation that once the Israelites left their land and went out in the wilderness, they were done for. Like the Egyptians were just standing back and saying, it's only a matter of time before these people die and and are enveloped and are wiped out in the wilderness. And Moses says, that's not a good reputation of your people, God, but you have said that your strong hand will deliver them. Where's your mercy? Where's your grace? Well, it's there. It's just we're seeing the work that God has done in Moses ' life as he's honoring God and yet seeking mercy And grace for God's people. Moses has the right response in worship that we should have. He says, you've made promises to your people, Lord. You can't go back on them. And it's not as if God says, Oh, Moses, you're right. I'm glad we had this conversation. I almost forgot about that covenant and those promises. But since you reminded me about those things, all right. I repent. And when we hear the word repent that are in some versions, it almost makes us think God says, I was wrong. I won't do that after all. Well, I hope you have a problem with that. Because God says in other passages that he never has need of repenting. And saying that he has done wrong. So that can't be what he's doing here. Some translations have the word relent. Really, that word means in verse 14, because God heard Moses. And he received the response from Moses that was the right one, not the response of preference from his people down below. But the preference of concern for his glory and name and mercy, that was the right response. And so he relented from the disaster that he had spoken of bringing on his people. In other words, God had an option to do that And he did not carry out that option. That's really the best way to look at this. Not, you're right, Moses, I was wrong, but Moses, here's an opportunity for you to show your growth in me. You've shown that. And so that option that I just presented, I'm not going to do that option. And really in his sovereign plan, God was never going to do that. But he wanted an opportunity for Moses to testify of his greatness and his sovereignty. And so here we see, folks, that even as strongly as I describe God's response to wrong worship, there's mercy and grace when we repent and turn to Him. Even today, you know, as much as we've tried today to worship God in the right way, I guarantee you we've done something that's not appropriate, or something that wasn't best. Should I, as a pastor, go out of here and look out for lightning and Lord, I'm so sorry, please don't hurt me. No, because I know God has mercy and grace when we get it wrong That's something that we ought to reflect on with each other. I think we tend to get irritated with each other. I can't believe so-and-so would want that in the service or you know so-and-so is doing this and I want this and we get irritated with each other. And the very things that we want to see in the worship service become idols, and we forget about the mercy of God towards others. How about a response like this? You know, I know some people want this, but let's just examine and see if God really wants this in our service. Or so-and-so pastor picked this and this song and I don't like it and I don't know it, but you know, God sovereignly had this song included, and so there's a purpose for it. So let's reflect on the truths. of that song. And let's have grace toward each other and mercy as God shows towards us. Yes, folks, worship is a really big deal to God. Did you get that today in the story? When we don't follow his rules and principles for right worship, we literally, as God is pointing out to his people, we we face destruction and punishment on ourselves But God has grace and mercy to forgive. And so when we turn from our own ideas of worship and plead for his mercy and help, he'll give that to us. Here's a real practical application for our church today. Just don't come to the worship saying worship service saying, I wanna want what I want And if I don't get what I want in the worship service, my preference, then I'm done. I refuse to worship God and just really ruin the whole atmosphere of worship. But let's come saying, Lord, this is what we'd like to do. This is what has been offered to us. And we're going to reflect and make sure that this obeys you. But most importantly, we want to make sure through this Not what we want, but what you want. And Lord, we're imperfect. We're not going to get it right in every way. But we know your grace and mercy is there for us when we don't obey you in this way. So forgive us and help us to do better in the future. Folks, that attitude still has a lot of room for a lot of different things that are involved in worship. Worship can have a lot of variety. And it can involve a lot of different things. God is a God of creativity and variety. We just have to make sure we're submitted to Him in all that we do. Let's do that. Father. We know, as we see from your word, that worship is a big deal to you. And when we just only bring our preferences and what we're comfortable or what we're used to into the mix, then we're missing an important heart. Help us as we continue to worship you as Upper Crossroads Baptist Church that everything that we desire to do is submitted before you. And that we have gotten your approval and your blessing. We want, or we know we're not going to do this perfectly. One day we will when we get to heaven, and we look forward to that perfect worship. And we really have a very small idea what that's going to be. It's going to be marvelous. It's going to be beyond our comprehension. It's going to involve shouting and movement and all of these things. But until we get to that perfect worship, just help us to be patient with each other. And graceful and merciful to each other as you are merciful to us when we get it wrong. And Lord, just help us to continue to seek to do a better job of worshiping you as best we can. Submitted to your principles. This we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.