We finish it today with some further thoughts about things that make us anxious. From Matthew 6, starting at verse 25. Really, one of the greatest things we struggle with, folks, is our worry list. There's so many things that are on that. We worry about family, we worry about our finances. About the ministry, about our friends, about health, sickness, reputation We worry, can God love me when I have committed wrong? And many, many more. We're very good worriers. And so this passage is for all of us of us this morning and many of you came to me last week and mentioned how much this was helpful and we we only got a third of the way through it. So I'm looking forward to the Rest of this as we continue to look, as Jesus reminds us that even in the midst of sorrow and suffering that we must go through in this life, that there are greater blessings. Blessings. That He holds us fast and takes care of our needs in His time. And so it frees us to serve Serve him more fully and more fervently, leaving the cares and anxieties, the worry behind So verse 25, Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, and what you will drink, nor about your body, and what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? You remember last week we said actually that Greek word for anxious hez idea of working hard at something. I think that resonated with a lot of us because a lot of us are really good warriors and we work hard at our worry. We do worry well. Except that Jesus says that that's that's not shouldn't be it shouldn't be characteristic of someone that That's on their way to heaven, that's on their way to being a kingdom citizen, that has their heavenly father to take care of them, and their Savior to uphold them. Spirit to give them growth and maturity. That shouldn't be our mark that we worry well. And don't miss That last part of that verse, by the way, is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? The very things that we get most concerned and worried about, Jesus says, there's more importance Things than those things. And that is the value of life in the body go far beyond food and clothing. There's eternal values to be concerned. About. But at the same time, I think Jesus is saying here, those things that are of utmost importance. Our lives, our spirit Spirit, our bodies. If God gave us those, if you're here this morning with a spirit and a body, and as I'm looking around, I believe everyone is, then if God gave us those When we really evaluate our worry, we see how valueless and unworthy it is, and yet it's one of the things we deal with the most, isn't it? We're all good at meditation. Sometimes we don't we think when it comes to scripture or other things. I'm not a very i we might say I'm not very good at memorizing. I'm not very Very good at meditating. Well, our worries prove us wrong. We're actually very good at at meditating. We w meditate on the wrong things. How are we going to get through the Month on our budget? What's gonna happen to my relative? What's gonna happen in this scenario? We're very good actually at being meditators on something, it's just some many times the wrong thing. And so Jesus gives us these beautiful pictures that are very understandable, are very practical. You look outside your window on a given day, and you can see these illustrations, and they're reminders to us of God's love and care. So that's verse twenty-six. Look at the birds of the air. They neither snow so I said snow. I guess that was you know in my mind, right? They sow, they neither sow, nor reap, nor gather into bar. And yet, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of much more value than they? Oh, there's so much here. Fortunately, well, for some of you that don't like cats, I have a cat story, and it's not a very good cat story. But our cat Tookie is a very good hunter. And we're very happy when he hunts the right things. If he brings home if he if he leaves a mouse on our doorstep, well that's not so exciting, but it is exciting that the mouse is Is gone, is dead. Um or rodents or those sorts of things, maybe an occasional squirrel if he's really lucky. Um he's good at those things and and we're thankful for that. But unfortunately Every so often, go outside walking around, and we'll see a songbird that is no longer breathing and realize that most likely it was Tookie. that uh took his final breath from that bird. And, you know, when I see that, especially I look at the beauty, uh, if it's a beautiful song bird, especially Especially, and I don't know about you, but I grieve over that when I see that. Oh, that's such a waste. It's such a loss. And folks, if we We grieve over the loss of these birds of the air that come and sit in our bushes and our trees and make these beautiful warbling sounds, and we enjoy them and we grieve their loss. Don't you think that our Heavenly Father has even much more concern? And has even much more More care for these than we do as their creator? He does. We have an emotional feeling towards these And so, if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you're not sure if you' If in this beautiful picture as Jesus says if he has emotional mo Moving and outpouring towards these birds that he would keep care of them and take care of them. Don't you think that the pinnacle of his creation that is mankind? Kind that God would feel the same way toward you? It's so simple. And yet we struggle, don't we? God says, I give them everything that they need in order to live. And when their time of life is over, I'm involved in that as well. And he Jesus says, These are beautiful things, but you are of more value than even the creatures that God has created. Now that statement goes against culture Today too, doesn't it? And here is actually, as a side note, but here is another proof that even though folks this culture Values animals and the creation more than God's highest point of creation, that is mankind. And we even have legislation in this country. And around the world that really seems to assume and glorify the creature elements more than humankind that God created, Jesus makes it clean. Here that human beings are of more value than the rest of creation. So, whatever animal you're looking out at, uh there and and and and admiring the beauty of that animal, remember folks, God cares for you even more. And Jesus makes that clear in this statement. You are of more value. You are valued by your heavenly Father. And Satan tries to make us doubt that all the time, doesn't he? How could God love me? Look at my sin. How could God love me? I'm so weak, and I don't have many talents, and I'm not very important, and I'm kind of a nobody. And yet, our Heavenly Father sent his Son to die for us, folks, that means that your life is of great value to him. And so even this morning, you can have faith relationship with Jesus Jesus by turning to him in faith. Because he died for your sin, you can have your sin cleansed. And as we see at the end of this, it says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness we can have the righteousness of Christ and be approved by our Heavenly Father through what Jesus has done. And we can know that we are very valuable to him because he's provided us eternal salvation. He wants us to be with him forever. So put away those doubts that you are of little value and look outside your window. The next time you are Tempted to think I'm of little value. Nobody knows. I'm a nobody. I'm meaningless. Look outside your window and do a little bird watching for a while. And remember, if God is taking care of those little birds, He's got you covered too. It's a wonderful reminder. We are of more value. We are valuable to our Father. Those birds instinctively trust the Creator. Why don't we? We need to. But that's not the end of the examples. And which one of you verse Verse 27. Which one of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? Now I know there are some translations that say this: a single cubit to his stature That is a translation issue. I do uh agree. I think it's better, it's more precise to go with the ESV, a single hour to his span of life. Um in the Greek, I think it's It's better translated that way, but it's also very practical, right? Um I if I were to ask for a show of hands, I'd be interested. It might be interesting to say how many of you this week were working Worried that you might grow a little taller this week. Um we might be worried about growing widthwise. But now we do have some young teenage boys that might have that thought maybe this past week. We'll give them that. But most of us, I'm guessing, out of all the worries that we had, trying to grow tall Taller was not one of those. And so, or shorter, right? I heard that, Bob. Um, but aren't all of us consumed With desiring to add more time to our life. If we could even add an hour or two hours or days, really isn't that a lot? of what worry is all about, worried that something might happen to us and shorten our days. And Jesus says, all that worry, all that energy you put into worry Has no value, it can't add a single hour, it can't I could add it can't add a single minute or second to the ordained time that God has given each of us. So why spend so much work and effort worrying about that? We're powerless to handle that. Do anything about that. It's in the control of our Heavenly Father. So Jesus says, don't worry about that either. And then the other things in life. 28. Why are you anxious? And why are you Are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon in all of his glory was not arrayed like one of these These are referring to wild flowers really in a field. And as Jesus is teaching, these folks could look at the fields around them, see the probably the beautiful Sea of Galilee, and they see These beautiful little flowers of all different colors, and Jesus is using this. Probably the birds are there too, as simple examples of the Lord's care. Now remember, at this time clothing was of a great concern because only the wealthy had um had access to multiple outfits. Now in culture today where we can go to Kohl 's or any other of your favorite clothing places and find sales and get things you know almost entirely free at times um if you've saved Up your coal points or whatever. And we we can get basically what we want. This is kind of lost on us, but these folks were constantly concerned about having enough Clothing to keep them warm and to keep them protected from the elements. And so Jesus points to these little beautiful flowers That grow up one minute and die the next. And it's another aspect of this that was interesting at this time, the wealthy would Wear bright colors made with expensive dyes. And that's why Solomon is mentioned here. Solomon and all his glory. I mean Solomon and all of his wealth, he was able to buy brightly Colored clothes. That's why Joseph's coat was such an offense, right, to his brothers, because it was a sign of someone that had sustenance. And um Jacob gave that to Joseph. And God Jesus points out here, you marvel at the beautiful clothes of the wealthiest among And now look at these beautiful little wildflowers and the colors that they have. Aren't they even more magnificent and amazing, the colors? Even the richest among you can afford? And God gives these little flowers. And if He provides for them so that they can grow Jesus' point is, don't you think he'll provide for you as well? We're looking forward to spring soon, and I always look forward to the cherry blossoms that come up here on Crystal Lane and around around the road here. I just I just love that time of year. Um and you know, all the flowers that pop up, even the dandelions for a certain point. are like, oh you know, that's beautiful, that's great. And then we just mow 'em right down. Um but um you know when the boys were little they would take these little flowers that were so Delicate, they would pick them dandelions and a bunch of mixture of things, as many of your kids did, and they would take them, bring them to mom, and they would stick them in her face and say, Here you go, mom. And you know, after that try to put 'em in a vase or something to make 'em look good for the kids. But even the rest of that day, they were already dying. By the next day they were wilted and they'd lost their Glory. They'd lost their luster. They're not very permanent. And so, folks, God is saying, Jesus is saying, that if God would put so much much effort into these beautiful little flowers that literally you pick them and they're gone like that. Don't you think he's going to take time and care and and mankind Who has eternal value? All of us will live somewhere for eternity, whether it's an eternal punishment in hell or eternal glory with the Savior. Don't you think I think your heavenly father would take much more care for something that's eternal. And then verse 30 but if God so Clothes the grass of the field which today is alive and to morrow is thrown in the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Like a ki type of dish that they had back then, grass souffle or something. Uh that may you may read that and think, Well, they eat grass? That's really kind of strange. No, but they Did use grass as fuel for their ovens. And so when Jesus uses this illustration, he's just using really an illustration of fuel for the fire. Grass, you know, it was beautiful for a while, but then it was picked and used uh for their fire for their fires and and for cooking and things. And so it really was a picture of frailty of something that was not lasting. And again, Jesus' point is if God was going to take grass and allow beautiful little flowers to spring up in that grass that you use for fuel for your cooking And he adorns this these gr the grass and the lawn and the fields with these beautiful flowers. If he takes that much care and consideration for a field of grass, don't you think he He has care and concern for you? A marvelously simple illustration, wouldn't you say? But so important. And then he says something we can all relate to. And a reminder, and this would have had a huge impact for these people. He says, Oh, you. Now what does that mean? You of little faith? Because again, in our brokenness, what do we do? We hear we We read that and we say then then we start to worry about how much faith we have to have. What is Jesus saying here? Okay, little faith, but he didn't give us a percentage. So is it 20%? Is it 30%? I think I'm one of a little faith and I think he's displeased with me. What do I do? We start worrying about even that. Well that wasn't Jesus' point in this either. It's not a percentage, folks. This is much better thought of, not the amount of faith that Jesus is saying, you know, I'm very Displeased with you if you have this amount of faith, so you need this much. But it really is the type of faith. It's faith that is dependent upon him. And Jesus says, so very little of the time you're depending on me, and that's why you're so worried and anxious. You aren't depending upon the right person. You're depending upon circumstances and money and politicians. How crazy is that? And kings and rulers and cleans Clothing. You're of little faith because you're depending on all kinds of other things but me. Jesus says, depend upon me. And see what my Father will do for you in his time. Our dependence should be fully on God. And if we're candid on a daily basis, very often we have very little dependence on God. Is that not true? Don't we tend to wake up Up every morning and go about our day, and we can get the the pastor included by the way, we can get halfway through our morning or halfway through our day and realize I haven't prayed. I I haven't sought God's help for the struggles that I have today. I just automatically kicked into self-dependent mode. And it's no wonder That I'm struggling today. I'm not depending on the right person. Lord Jesus, help me to depend upon you. Let these reminders from the birds And the wildflowers and the grass in my lawn to remind me, you care for these, you'll care for me too Jesus calls us to have much faith in Him. And so therefore, when we have the right attitude, the right focus is Excuse me, we believe that God can take care of our needs, that He values our lives, and that our Father can be trusted to provide for us, then we We can turn our attention to kingdom work while depending upon him for the rest. Look at verse thirty one. Therefore do not be anxious, don't work at worrying saying what Shall we eat, and what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly father knows that you have need of them all. He says, don't be consumed with your cares of the world and your concerns for your own needs. And there's a plethora. This is just a starting point. We all know this is a start of a worry list that we can expand frequently, and we do. And Jesus says, don't be consumed with all these worries and questions. About how you're gonna have your needs provided through the day. He says, That's what people that don't have God do. That's what people that don't have a loving Savior They're only concerned for the things in this life, and they have no consideration that they are going to spend each Eternity somewhere, and that they have much greater worries, and that is eternal worries about where their eternal destination is than anything in this world. People that don't know God. That's how they act, that's how they respond. Jesus says, You're supposed to be a kingdom citizen. You're one of my followers. You can do better. Because my heavenly Father loves you. The Gentiles seek after all of these things. They reject God, and they're on a desperate search to Sustain and protect themselves in this life. They don't want to think about the the the um what's gonna happen after they die. And again, Gentiles is We're not talking ethnic Jews versus Gentiles here, but Gentiles in this context are those that have rejected God. They don't want to think about eternal things. But Jesus says, you have chosen to follow me. You are focused. You believe that you have eternal life. So don't sweat all the things that you're concerned about in this life. Worry does not help. It's valueless. And as we said last week, I believe that worry is a spiritual self-affliction. We look at at people that afflict themselves physically and they need to get um counseling and and therapy for these things because it's just We know that there's something wrong with somebody that would do that to themselves, right? And yet spiritually, we afflict ourselves with worry all the time. It's just as strange. Just as unnecessary. Well, what do we do then? Pastor Brock, if I give up all my worrying and fretting, I'm gonna have a lot of extra time on my hands. What do we do with all that time? Well, look at verse 33. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. Jesus says, let's turn this thing upside down. What you should be spending a majority of your time doing is service, focus on serving God effectively. Focus on being a testimony of the kingdom of God and pointing people to Jesus and their entryway, the door by which they can become Kingdom citizens and serve diligently and sincerely and authentically your Savior. Follow your Savior. Jesus has said Follow me, seek first my ways, the kingdom of God. Focus first on service in God's kingdom Since as believers we have the power to serve because of what is Jesus has done for us. And that's what he says, his righteousness. Jesus calls his followers to seek And by the way, that involves not allowing worry. Live in a way that's righteous and that is right. What's amazing here is that what Jesus is actually pointing to ultimately is a righteousness that He will have to provide that we can't obtain in and of ourselves. We Can't seek the kingdom and we can't obtain God's righteousness with our own efforts, folks. If you're trying to Please God and trying to seek righteousness by your own efforts. Well, you have a lot to be worried about. Worried and and to be f and to fret about if you are content or if you are having faith in your own ability to please God, because you'll never obtain that. He's God. But what Jesus is ultimately focusing on is that you follow Him, we follow Him, Jesus our Savior, and He will provide the right Righteousness. Jesus was able to fully obey God's law that He had given, that the rest of mankind had no ability to obey. And because of that, he earned the righteousness, the satisfaction of God that all that Jesus did was right. And when he died, he took all of our And when God raised him from the dead, it showed his conquering over sin and death and hell and the fact that he can now he is legit To provide new life for us. And so when we put our faith and trust in Jesus and forsake our own righteousness, we receive the righteousness of the Savior And so Jesus really is saying here, follow me, seek my things, and you will receive the righteousness of God through me. And God will take care of all the other things. Stop worrying. Commit yourself to better serving. Seek God's kingdom. And then he says all of these things. What does that mean? Does that mean, okay, well, if I by the power of God Of Christ, I I have faith relationship with Jesus Christ, I'm serving Him, I'm committed to Him, that means God's going to give me everything I want, right? All these other things will be Why? That's the secret. I didn't know. I come to church and I serve God and He gives me everything that I want. There it is. Oh, I hope you know I'm joking. So don't go out of the service today and and repeat that to each other, okay? That's not what Jesus is saying here, but what he is saying is That God will meet your every need in God's timing. Not your own. Folks, the reality is that God God will keep us breathing and living as long as He needs us. And then in His timing, His timing, not our own, for those that have trusted Christ, he will take us to be with him, and we will experience a life for all eternity that's far, far better than anything we get down here. When we get to heaven one day, when we we get to experience the eternal kingdom of heaven that is ruled by a perfect, righteous Savior. We're gonna look back if we can even rem remember and say, I can't believe I wasted all that time worrying about trying to stay and live my life in In that inferior world, when I have eternity in this incredible place where I'm with Jesus, where I'm with my Father forever. Can't believe I spent all that time worrying. We have opportunity now to change that even today as we finish up. Jesus Says, you serve me faithfully. You be diligent in your service to me, and I'll take care of all the other things. And so verse 34, therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Now that sounds really cynical. It almost sounds like Jesus is saying, stop worrying About tomorrow, you got enough problems in this day. But is that really what he's saying? I'd like to pose another definition For that word trouble. This might be more helpful. Let's call that word for trouble opportunities for trust. Sufficient for the day is our troubles, our opportunities to trust our Heavenly Father. You're gonna have plenty of Of opportunities, even today, folks, to depend upon Jesus. Don't worry about tomorrow. You focus on depending on him today And getting you through today. You will have, and I hope this doesn't discourage you, but even throughout the rest of this 24-hour day, you will have multiple Multiple opportunities to realize that you in and of yourself are in able, insufficient to handle your day, and you need to trust Jesus. He will give you multiple opportunities To trust him today. So don't worry about tomorrow. Because when and if and when tomorrow comes, you'll have many more opportunities to trust Jesus. So depend upon him. Don't worry. Reliance Upon God on a daily basis. We know we're going to face struggles throughout our day, folks. Why add the weight of worry? On top of all that. Why do that to ourselves? Rather, every morning say God's grace Is new for me today. He's gonna help me through. So, Lord, let's go. And let's serve effective. Help me to serve effectively. I don't know. if if Jenna Hall remembers this. But I remember many years ago after, and some of many of you that know Jenna know of the accident with the ladder that happened many years ago. Um and I remember the first time that she was actually able to get up to the stage and up to the pulpit to give her testimony. And Jenna, I don't know if you know if you You remember this, but it did stick with me. It was something along the lines of I've had a lot of trials and a lot of struggles, but one thing that God has taught me is that His grace is new every morning. So my worries really are of no help. And God has been teaching me how not to Worry but to trust. That was a beautiful testimony. It was a testimony that we all need to have. Let me just throw one more thing here, real quick, because I think this is important. I know our time's getting away, but this is important. We've covered a lot of issues about why we fear and we're anxious. But folks, what do you do when you're anxious about your sin? What do you What do you do when you're worried about the fact that, uh-oh, this time I've gone too far? God can't forgive. God's not interested in caring for me. I'm a wreck. I'm a sinner. Well, folks, that means as well that we must trust God's grace when we falter, when we do wrong. Do you trust God's grace even when you are involved in great sin. We saw this morning in Sunday school that David did that after incredible sin, fornication, and murder, that David came Back and said, I will commit and uh to following after the Lord and commit to walking in his ways, because God restored him. Chapter 2 It says I am writing to you little children because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. Advocate with the Father, Jesus the Christ the righteous. So for all of you here today that have a faith relationship with Jesus and are struggling with guilt over sin, folks, give it Over to the Savior. Give it over to our advocate because your sins are forgiven. It's stated in God's Word. You don't have to live under the weight of the guilt. Worry about it any longer. Give it over. Repent. Jesus will give. He's already provided the forgiveness. He will re-establish your relationship with Him and draw you close and you can have that sweetness of relationship. And take that sin issue right out of that. And you won't have to worry about it anymore. But then there are some Some that say, Pastor Brock, my sin is too great. I'm too much of a wretch. If you only knew what I'd done, you'd agree with me that God can't forgive me. Well, I want to, as we close this morning, give you an example. This has always helped me. There was a wicked king Ahaz. Not Ahab, but this king Ahaz. Ahaz was even worse than Ahab in Second Kings sixteen, it says he did not do right according to the eyes of the Lord his God, as his father David had done, but He walked in the ways of the kings of Israel. And it says, This is how despicable this king was, that he even burned his son as an offering according to the despicable practices of the nation whom the Lord drove out before the people of Israel, and he sacrificed and made offerings on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree. This man was so wicked he Even offered up his own children in sacrifice to false gods. Wouldn't you say that's pretty bad? And yet you go to Isaiah, and we find in Isaiah 7 That I that the Lord brings a word to Isaiah and inexplicably, marvelously, he says this ask a sign of the Lord your God, let it be as Deep as Sheol or as high as the heaven. Hey um Ahaz didn't pass the test. He basically tried to be self-righteous. And he He shunned God's offer here to give him a blessing. One of the most wicked, despictable, despicable kings in Israel's history, and God comes in Isaiah 7 and offers to bless him and he says you name the blessing. What? And so God basically says, okay, you shunned my blessing. I'm going to give a blessing. To the whole world, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. God says, The blessing you shunned, I will Will now give to the whole world, and it will be the Messiah, and he will provide salvation, the very salvation that you Ahaz need. Folks, do you not think that if God God is going to offer grace to a man who would burn his own son in the fire, that he has grace for children who have strayed from him. There's no need to worry. Repent. Turn back to a loving Heavenly Father who's ready to hear from you. Who's already forgiven your sin and just wants that closeness of relationship? He will give it to you. Don't be held captive by guilt. And worry and traumatize yourself over past sins. Your Heavenly Father cares for you. Believe that Serve him faithfully. Leave the old things behind. And if there is someone here who's not trusted Jesus as their personal Savior, Your folks today, let it be the day that you come talk to me. Come talk to others, and we will share with you how you can know Jesus, how you can trust in him and have salvation and not have to worry about this life anymore because you know that whatever happens in this life you have eternity with God forever and you don't Don't face eternal judgment any longer. You can have that assurance and that confidence. And not have to worry about that anymore. Folks, when we worry, we're trying to handle our concerns apart from God. And what our Father says is, see how much I love you. Leave your worries with me and go out and serve me faithfully. He will be merciful. So live your life dependent on His care for you Instead of trying to work it all out for yourself, leave your care behind. Trust your Savior to serve. Father , We have two choices today as we finish up this message on tr on on worry and fretting We are all really good warriors, but Lord, today I pray that we are convicted by our lack of dependence upon you. But there's no need for it. That you you, through pictures of your creation, through birds and through flowers and through grass, you show us your love for us. Your care and Lord, a reminder that even if the worst case scenario happens and one of us were to die today, that we have a beautiful Eternity to enjoy forever for those that love you and that have a relationship with Jesus Christ. So, Father, help us to put our worry and fretting aside and serve you more committedly and faithfully.