They're already jumping in and being involved, and that just thrills my heart. And uh they're able to teach our kids this morning. Um let's turn back to the Sermon on the Mount. We're in Matthew chapter six. And I think that this message is so needed. It always is that the Lord is kind of moving me to take both this week and next week to focus on this particular issue Because it is so important. Because we do struggle with this so much. You remember back at the beginning of our focus on the Sermon on the Mount? Again, this is a full transcript, you might say, of Jesus' message to his disciples. And at this time his disciples numbered quite a few, and they gathered together and probably other crowds. And there was probably some religious leaders there as well. Near the Sea of Galilee, on a mountain near Galilee, probably more like a big hill. And Jesus is teaching. All of these things, but do you remember we started out with the beatitudes? The God bless you, so to speak. And it talked about in the midst of difficulty and The suffering of this life and the difficulties that we face, we are greatly blessed. And Jesus has continued to talk about the expectations that he has for kingdom citizens. Remember again, these folks are wanting to know Jesus In his unique way is already claiming to be Messiah, the fulfillment of Isaiah. And these folks are listening, these followers want to know more about the kingdom. They've been waiting Waiting for God to send the one that would usher in the kingdom. for They're tired of being under the political um shoe, foot of Rome, and so many other Enemy nations. And they want God's Son to return, the Messiah, and deliver them. And so they're waiting for the kingdom. And Jesus Is saying in order to be kingdom citizens, this is what you have to have. And we've seen throughout the first part the most important aspect of this is that they need a A righteousness that is greater than the best living people among them, the most religious. The best rule followers in their society, the religious leaders, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Scribes, and many others. Jesus says, you have to go beyond even their righteousness because you also have to have a righteousness. Of the heart. It's not good enough for you just to try to do some good deeds and follow after God's law. No, you have a sin problem that needs to be cleansed. By the one that God will send. And he is standing before them on this hill, presenting himself as the answer to their sin problem. The point is that there was nobody listening on that hill that day that could have the righteousness, that could meet the righteous standards of their righteousness. Righteous God, righteous Yahweh. There was none of the folks there that could meet that standard and provide salvation for themselves. None of them could have a righteousness that was that deep and that all-encompassing, Jesus is pointing to himself, saying, Follow me. I'm going to provide this righteousness so that you can be kingdom citizens. So are you Committed to following me? Are you committed to making me your treasure? That's what we got into the last couple weeks. Are you willing to uh forgive others? No matter What the deep hurt that they've done to you? Are you willing even to show love to your enemies, the people that you have despised in the past? Are you willing to show love to them Are you willing to give sacrificially? Are you willing to seek my Heavenly Father in prayer and pray for the things that are important to him? Him and your own needs. Are you willing to serve me as your master? And not all the other things of the world. See, there were some ex Expectations for kingdom citizens, but now Jesus gets back to the blessings. He says, it is a hard thing living in this world today. But I will carry you through, and I will help you. And that's what he's going to talk about then as we get to Matthew 6 and verse 25. So as I was preparing for this, I thought a good way to start out the message this morning was to talk about a little discussion about lists. We all have them. Grocery lists, list of things to do for today and this week and this month. And some of you are such planners, you have your list of things to do. do maybe for the whole year. Well that's not a bad thing. We do that in the church calendar and and make plans ahead of time. We even have an our society a thing that's called a bucket list where you make a list of the things that you want to do before you die. Have you ever heard of a bucket list before? Maybe some of you have those lists. Have a list Of things that we'd like to do with our families. There's all kinds of lists that we live by. But there's one list that we all have. That really Jesus is going to point out today should not be a part that we need to cut up, that we need to burn, that we need to get rid of. And that's our list of worries. Oh, we all have them. The pastor included. As I would even ask this morning, just take a brief moment and think through some of the things that you're concerned and worry about. I bet you you could do that in a few seconds. And I bet you you could make quite a long list of things that you're worried And concerned, things that make you anxious. There are plans and things that we want to have happen. We family members make us anxious. Anxious illness and health, and trying to get a schedule in our job and expectations of employers. We've talked today about war In foreign countries. That's making a lot of people fearful and anxious. And what is the cure that we've mentioned this morning? That is to point them to the Savior that will take care of their greatest needs, their sin needs, but he'll also take care of everything else. And he reminds us that his heavenly Father, Jesus, his heavenly father, God the Father, will take care of our needs so that we can focus on better following and committing ourselves as disciples. disciples to Jesus Christ. What's it what what's on our list many times? Families, financial concerns, ministry concerns? Friends, who likes us and maybe who doesn't, who may hate us. We worry about our reputation. We worry about getting sick. We worry. We have guilt over our sin in the past. And we worry that God can't use us. And Jesus speaks to all of your worries this morning and many more that I don't even have time to go through. He speaks to us today. And he tells us that there is a cure for worry and anxiety. And Jesus doesn't point us to medication and all kinds of different things here. But he says, our heavenly Father, God's care, is the cure for our anxiety. Not that some of those things don't have their place, but folks, ultimately we need to trust in God. And give our cares over to him. And Jesus has just finished saying, if you'll remember, that no one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to So serve me. Serve Jesus with your whole heart. Let him be your treasure. But what is one of the questions that naturally comes when a disciple or a follower of Jesus is confronted with that reality again? One of the things that we in our brokenness, selfishness, and humanness tend to think is, but then if I focus on the things of Jesus , If I focus on the things of God, who's going to take care of my needs? Who's going to take care of me? And Jesus gives us the answer Here, and it's so beautiful, folks, that while we serve Him, He serves us. The God of the universe became flesh, became man. Died for our sins, was risen again, and Jesus says, You serve me faithfully, and I will make sure that you are taken care of. And it's something that you can be confident in. And count on. And so, folks, this morning, we must believe, first of all, as Jesus gives us the truth of the cure for anxiety is God's care. We have to Believe what he says, that God will take care of our needs. And the most basic, something you would think this wouldn't be hard, but we all know that it is that yes, God will God values, God our Heavenly Father values each and every one of us. You are important to him. He values you. He knows all of your troubles and all of your needs. And one of the most important things about curing anxiety and worry is just to take God at His Word to As Jesus our Savior gives these words, do you believe that God will take care of you? We have to trust. So Jesus starts out, verse 25. Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, and what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on, is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing. And then he gives some examples. But I want to go back to that phrase Jesus is saying, I tell you, this is, remember, this is the word of God expressed in the flesh. And he is saying, I tell you a truth. You need to listen to this. This is true. Listen. What I'm about to say. Do not be anxious about your life. So what is this, what Jesus is saying here, folks? This is a command. This is a command that he has given us in saying, it is wrong to worry and be angry. Now, even as I say that, and folks, I will I will be uh candid as I try to be here, I have struggled with worry and with anxiety. You know, uh especially in the past, I believe God's given me some victory over that, much victory based on this passage and others. But even as I say, God has tells us not Not to worry, that we're disobeying him when we're anxious and worried. Sometimes that for the really good worriers, maybe that's all of us. That doesn't always help. You might say, well, thanks a lot, Pastor Brock, because now I'm worried that I'm sinning when I worry. That'll keep me up at night, too. No, folks, don't you don't remember that when Jesus gives us a command, he gives us the ability to follow through and be obedient. So he's not asking us to do whatever he's going to ask us to do in our own strength here. That is not to be anxious or worried, but in our own strength, but it's through his power and his And um Jesus is going to in the next few uh phrases here give us examples of the basic needs of life. But really this passage here reflects on all of our worries. Whatever you're worried about this morning, even beyond me Meeting your own needs. Whatever causes you concern. Jesus is addressing that in this passage this morning. Do you realize that word anxious is a very interesting now It does mean worry and anxiety, okay, being anxious, but it also in the Greek has the idea of striving hard, of working diligently. Diligently. Now, do you see a connection between worry and striving and working hard? What is the picture here Well, actually, when we think, if we're honest, we can really intimately understand what the meaning is here. Is folks, we are very good much of the time. We work very hard at worrying and being anxious. Do we not? We spend a lot of time. We strive to do it well. It unfortunately is many times a normal part of our routine and we work at it. We don't want to boast about it, but many of us could say if there's one thing thing I do well, it's worry. In a sick way, that might make a good plaque. But I hope none of you would buy that. Because it's true. And Jesus is saying here, stop working so hard about being worried and being anxious about your life. And then he gives specific Examples. Of course, this goes beyond this, but he says, what you will eat, what you will drink, how what clothing you're going to have for your body, how will you be protected from the weather? And he is pointing out basic concerns of the life uh that that the followers of Jesus would have had We're really hard to understand the situation that people were back then in our modern culture today. Uh Donna was telling us this morning about how in the U Ukraine um and even having candy at all is um you know a perk. It's not something that these people would have had back then. But she when they were growing up, they would have basically Basically one or two types of candy and one as they would go through the store and that was amazing to them. And then they got to the United States and there was like shelves of candy. It's like mind-blowing. We have so much here in this country that we kind of lose the context, but Jesus is really written talking to people who don't know many times. Where the next meal is gonna come from. They don't know how they're gonna provide food for their families. They don't know always if you have a drought or your water gets Contaminated, then you have a great temptation to worry about where you're going to get good healthy drinking water. This was normal. And many times uh they were so And the robes that they had, you took you hear so much in the New Testament or in Ba in the Bible descriptions of the the emphasis And so there was a constant worry. They didn't have a coals that they could go to and shop the aisles and go to different Racks. That would have just blown their minds to even know that we have those abilities today. They had next to nothing, and it worried them. And here Jesus is telling these folks who suffered so much. He says, Stop being anxious about these things. And then he points out at the end End of verse twenty-five that there is more to life than your worries and wants and needs. Is not life more than food? And the body He gives us these examples that we'll go into next week. But he gives the examples of the birds of the air and how the heavenly father takes Care of them. And the lilies of the field, and even the grass. And Jesus says there are more important things for you to be concerned about. And he says, if God can take care of grass, don't you think he can take care of you? And we need that message today. We may we we don't have the cares and concerns that people have. You probably aren't going uh away from here today wondering where your next next meal is gonna come from. And yet, folks In some ways, in this society, we may worry and be more anxious than the people of that time over so many things. And so in verse thirty, even as we finish this morning, Jesus' point is that God, our Heavenly Father, values us. Look at verse thirty. But if God so clothes the grass of the field Which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven. Will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? The more we understand How much our Heavenly Father loves us, folks, the less worry and the less anxiety we'll experience. Because truly If the God of the universe, our Heavenly Father, was willing to offer up his only Son on a cross and go through a torturous death Death and shed his blood for our sins. Isn't it true that a God that would do that would certainly take care of the rest of our needs. I think you know we hear stories and We heard this morning about these children that sometimes take their own lives in foreign countries, and we have uh we've had the past couple years an epidemic of teens taking their lives, and we know Of young people, people of all ages, that self-inflict, that hurt themselves, cut themselves, whatever. And we look at that and we Say, how could people do that? How could people harm themselves in that way? And I had this thought as I was studying this evening today. Again, let's be candid, folks. Aren't we really kind of doing that when we worry? Aren't we inflicting self-harm? What good can worry do? What help can you worry about And worrying and being anxious all day, it can't do anything. It's of no value. And yet we inflict ourselves with it constantly. The answer is to first of all have a faith relationship with Jesus Christ. Are you here this morning and do you know Jesus? As your personal Savior? Have you trusted in his sacrifice and his cleansing of sins? Are you confident that you have a home in heaven and that he has reconciled your relationship with God, the Heavenly Father? So that you're no longer facing eternity in hell, but you're facing a glorious future with God forever. Are you confident in that? All you have to do, even this Morning is reach out in faith and trust Jesus in what He has done, and you can have that confidence. And your heaven you can refer to God as your heavenly Father. He'll be you'll be one of His children, and you can be confident that he will take care of your needs, and he will alleviate the need to worry and be anxious. And that's what the message really of what Jesus is saying here this morning. Verse 32, as we finish up. See these. These are things that those that don't know God seek after. They worry. But those of you that know Jesus, that are the children of God, that are kingdoms of the heavenly That are, I'm sorry, citizens of the heavenly kingdom, the Heavenly Father knows that you need them all. Now we don't always get what we want Want. That's the difference. But we will get what we need. But we need to go to our Heavenly Father and ask him And leave our worry and anxiety with him. Are you worried this morning? Are you anxious? Are you nervous about things? Folks, that is self-inflicted spiritual wounding. Is it helping you? Is it providing you any peace and comfort? The answer is no, I can't. But God, your heavenly Father, knows your needs, so go to Him. Release the anxiety and the pain Pain and the worry to him, and trust him that in his timing he will meet your needs. In the meantime, commit to serving him more faithfully. Lord, I trust that you will provide for me and my needs now that frees me up and gives me ability. Power and contentment to serve you more committedly and effectively. I give up my worry, I give up my anxiety, and now I'm free to serve you In a more committed and faithful way. That's what Jesus offers, folks. Will you take Him up on that offer? Father It's a need that all of us have. There's not a one of us here who isn't worried this morning about one thing or another. And we're so Thankful for the reminder of Jesus that this is sin. That we don't have to fall prey to our worry list that so many of us Struggle with really that all of us do. And Lord, I pray this morning that you would set these people free from the prison of Worry and anxiety, that they would be able to burn and throw on the shredder their worry list, and then that you would help us to Recognize that you will provide all that we need in your timing, and that we just must have faith and continue to serve you effectively and see how you will meet our needs. Needs. Lord, let that truth dig deep within us, plant it firmly in our hearts, and let us be a people of Confident expectation that serves you better and more committedly because we know you're going to take care of us. You've promised, and we trust you. And Father, if there is someone here who has not yet put their faith and trust in Jesus, may today be the day that they do that and experience the overwhelming Peace that Jesus brings. Lead us along, Lord, and give us strength. Folks, as I've just prayed, you have two choices As Leslie plays, give your sin of worry and anxiety over to the Lord. Trust in him, and commit to sin. Serving him more faithfully