We may not have much from a worldly standpoint, but we are so rich and we have so much. All we need in our relationship with Jesus Christ. So we're thankful for that. Turn to Ephesians chapter 2 as we get back into The book of Ephesians. I do want to mention one thing, if you uh another prayer request. Ed Troyer let me know this morning that his uh brother Wes Troyer passed away unexpectedly. This weekend after a surprise attack or bout of COVID. So be in prayer for him and the family. as they they work through this. Let's grieve with those who grieve in the midst of these things. Well we're talking about children today, God's children. and their dwelling place. Again, I'm thankful for George Jones last week and his coming and letting us know what God is doing in the lives of people there at the And just to hear of those that are trusting Christ and turning from their sinful ways. To the work of the Savior is just marvelous. And I want us to continue to marvel over the power of God's work in our lives and the power of Jesus Christ. And the cleansing power from sin and the work of the Holy Spirit. Because we were slaves to sin. Strangers to God. And Paul in chapter 2 continues to remind us of where we came from and how thankful and grateful that we need to be to Jesus Christ. For where we're at now, and as we find out today, we are considered the dwelling place of God. Remarkable! Amazing that we could even say those things. In the Old Testament, God's people, if they heard what I just said, would say that I was committing blasphemy. And yet the reality of the New Testament and the work of Christ is that we have God dwelling within us and we have access to our Heavenly Father. And his help anytime we need it. And as you know, we need it all the time. Speaking of access, I was reminded I've given many of you my testimony before. After my undergrad years at a Christian college, I was involved in a graphics design career. Lord led me to a small uh Baptist church. Where I just was able to minister and serve and give pour my heart into, and at some point the Lord turned my heart from that secular calling to that calling calling a full-time Christian ministry. And so I ended up being a teacher at their Christian school at that little church, Calvary Baptist Church in Wintergarden, Florida. for a couple years, but also was the youth director and even helped clean the restrooms from time to time. So I was all in in that minute And one of the things that meant was that because I needed access to so many different things within uh the buildings, and there were numerous buildings, there was a schoolhouse, there was a gymnasium , And then there was the other building that the church used. I had a lot of keys. In fact, I had more of the biggest ring of keys at that time in my life that I have ever had in my whole life. In fact, they were so big that I had a friend that I think he didn't tell me this at the time while I was serving there. But what I would do is they were on a big ring, a lot of keys, and I didn't want to lose them because, you know, that many keys, you lose them, and you can't get access to them. And the whole point is that I needed access to my classroom and to the janitor's closet and to the youth room and constantly all the time. So many times I would hook that ring of keys on my belt And so uh many years later, I had a friend that came and told me, you know, he said, I didn't tell you this while you were serving, but you know, I just always got a kick out of you carrying those keys around and hook them on your belt. So basically what he was saying was those years while I was serving, he was laughing at me behind my back. And notice that my belt was always crooked. everywhere I walked. Because I had all of those keys, but they gave me access to everything that I needed. Well what Paul is going to point out here is that for the people Of God, those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And Jesus has done a powerful work in their lives and giving them new life. And bringing them from children of the world to become children of God is that we are given access to the Father, unlimited access And folks, we don't need a ring of keys to be able to access him. We can just go to him at any time. We're going to look at Ephesians two, seventeen through twenty-two. And remember , what Paul told us in chapter 1, and this is going to be an extension of that. Paul told us in chapter 1, verse 22, the Apostle Paul. God has put all things under his Jesus feet and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. And he elaborates further what that means as far as Jesus being our head. That he is the one that gets to tell us what to do. And we're going to understand further today the nature of the church and find out this glorious truth in the Old Testament. God dwelled in a tabernacle, right? In a temple. The amazing thing is, folks, today he dwells in the temple of Each of us. We are his temple. Remarkable. Again, these are things that God's people in the Old Testament couldn't have even comprehended. And yet this is certainly the case. And because of that, we have instant access to the Father. People put a lot of trust and faith in politicians still to this day, don't they? You think they'd learn. You think some of us would learn. But how do people many times gain access to their politician? Well, as we've found out over many years of revelation, um there's a lot of donating and and expectation of certain access, whether it's legal or not. Many people donate to politicians to get special access. Many go visit or try to call their senator and try to get a voice to hear them. Sometimes they're successful. Those that have the most money are usually the most successful at getting bending the ear of their politician. But folks, what I'm telling you this morning Is you don't have to manipulate God or bend his ear or offer him money to talk with you. You have access to your Heavenly Father. The moment you You seek him and ask for his help. That is glorious. And it's because God 's children are his habitation God 's children thus have access to the Father. Now, this is a continuation of the passage that we were in a couple weeks ago. in Ephesians 2. So I need to go back to verse 11 and read through that again because Paul is pointing out that for most of us in this room who are non-Jewish, we were Gentiles. And that at this time in biblical history, the Jewish people and the Gentiles, there was great enmity, there was hatred, there was strife. There was animosity between these ethnic groups. And yet What Jesus Christ did was to break down the wall of that animosity and make something entirely new with these two Two stubborn, rebellious groups of people. Verse eleven, chapter two of Ephesians. Wherefore remember that you being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by those which is by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands. And what Paul's basically saying there is, you really are Gentiles, you're not Jewish people. That at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, without God in the world Before Jesus came, the Gentiles had no claims upon God or a relationship with Him. in the technical sense. But he says, now in Christ Jesus, you who were sometimes far off were made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition or that enity between us. Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, the bitter hatred, hostility, even the laws of commandments contained in the ordinances, that means the law of God for to make in himself a new man, so making peace. And so remarkably, Paul says here that he took two hostile ethnic groups. that had no desire to come together. And Jesus' death in his sacrifice, in his resurrection. Brought renewing power to people from both groups who trusted in him for their salvation. And now they have become a new people, a new group. That will live in his presence for all eternity. Two groups filled with animosity, brought together, unified in love through the power of the Savior. Remarkable. So again, folks, as Christians, should we let any color of skin or ethnicity among us Keep us from the unity that were promised here as the new people of God. A new group that looks beyond color and beyond ethnicity. And says, Jesus died for you, Jesus died for me. We both have an inheritance. We'll both worship him for all eternity. Brother, sister, we're both equal. Let's go worship him in God's house together That is how it should be. Verse 16, and that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. That is a vivid verse because it says, how could God bring unity toward fighting groups, ethnic groups? He did it through the power of the cross And therefore, that hostility and that bitterness and that animosity, literally, it's a picture here of that animosity and bitterness was killed. It was ended The enmity is no longer God's people, regardless of their background, again an ethnic group, they can come together and worship God and be at peace together. Wonderful truth. And then, now in today's passage, as we continue, those two groups that have been made, as the scriptures say, one new man. Okay? They can come together because of what Jesus Christ accomplished for them. Verse 17. And he came and preached peace to you who were afar off. and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strange strangers and aliens. But you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. That means, folks, that as the church, we all belong together. We're all citizens of the same country, regardless of the differences between us Regardless of our background, we are all citizens together of the heavenly kingdom. We're not strangers and foreigners, and we shouldn't treat each other as strangers You're my brother. You're my sister. And God help me if there's enmity between me and hostility. God, break that down. Because I'm a part of the kingdom and I want to live in peace with my brothers and sisters. And Jesus, what Jesus accomplished on that cross and his death and resurrection. promises, gives guarantee that we don't have to live with walls and hostility between us any longer. Jesus broke those down. He came back to verse 17 and preached peace to you which were afar off and to them that were nigh. What does this mean? Again, he's talking about the fact that there is peace between these groups, the Jews and the Gentiles. What does it mean verse 17? When he came? When Jesus came, what is it referring to here? It seems best that what Paul is saying is that when Jesus came to speak to his followers through the Spirit and began the church, the entity of the church, as the Holy Spirit came upon the followers. of Jesus, the disciples of Jesus and the apostles then began to lead the church ministry that Jesus spoke through the power of the Spirit. And showed these groups and showed these people that they could have peace together and be unified together to worship God. From those which were afar off, that's the Gentiles. And to those that were near, that were nigh, that's the Jewish people. There's now no distinction as children of the heavenly kingdom. We all have the right. and the inheritance and the blessings of salvation. For through him, again verse 18, we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Both groups, the Gentiles, or I'm sorry, the Jews prided themselves on being the special people of God, on having close access, and they did through worship at the temple and all these things. But Jesus broke down the walls and ended that separation so that all of us now can have access to God and have access to the Father. Why is that? Because all of us who trust in Jesus Christ are given the gift of the Spirit Jews and Gentiles, we both become the dwelling place of God, remarkable, through the power of the Spirit, and therefore we can have access to our Heavenly Father. Father, at any time we choose or desire. You know, it's been a number of years. Since my family has darkened the door of a place, maybe you've you've been to these those of you that have had small children at some point, you know what I'm talking about. If I say the word Chuck E cheese Ha ha That's right. Lots of fun games. Um not so great pizza, but sorry if there's any Chuck E. Cheese uh fans in here. I just oof. But the point I'm trying to make is in that it in even bringing that up, is that I remember vividly our boys were so excited when they were young. Not so much anymore. Oh, they were so excited to go to Chuck E. Cheese because they could play all the games and you know the pizza to them was great and the drinks, and you would pay that price, and what would happen? They would give you a band end or a mark that would mark that you had access as you came in to the full offerings that Chuck E. Cheese himself gave to delighted children all over the building. And so we would go in, and another neat thing about that, having access to all of that, oh helpful thing, is that if a child got away from a parent, or somehow uh terribly, if they were taken By a stranger and tried to take out of the building, the alarm would go off because the mark or the wristband that they had would mark saying, you know, that they're not they're supposed to remain in the building. So all that was great safety procedures that really helped parents. But it gave us access to all the joys of Chuck E. Cheese. Even that piece. In a much more deeper way, folks, what I what Paul is saying here is that we don't need a wristband or a stamp. That the Holy Spirit inside of us can Gives us access to all the blessings of God and access to Him. Whenever we pray. And then not only that, I'll add this, Paul doesn't say this in this passage, but the Spirit also helps us to pray when we just don't know what to say. Now that's a deal worth having. And we can have it. Jesus has accomplished these things because of his body on the cross. And he has accomplished peace and access to the Father. So, what does that mean? That we're no longer foreigners within Israel Jews, Gentiles, fellow citizens together within a new community, the church, and a part of the family of God It's interesting, Paul has three descriptions in this passage for the church being a body. He describes them as one new man and basically a new ethnic group that is inclusive. Of everyone who has trusted Christ. One body. And now also as well, he says, we are the household of God, as we read in verse 19. nineteen. Now therefore you're no longer strangers or foreigners. You're no longer illegal aliens You are welcomed. You are fellow citizens. You have full rights of the saints. And you are a part of the family of God. Whenever I say that, it's just the old Gaither song, I'm so glad I'm a part of the family. Of God just comes in my mind. It's a truth. Are you glad of that today? That we are a part of God's family, and as our Father, He is always ready to hear from us. That alone, folks, as we go from here, I ought to encourage you. No matter what you're facing, change of job, change in finances. The suffering of losing a loved one, illness in the family. We have access to our Heavenly Father, who's the only one. Who can help and do something about it? Have you taken advantage of that access this week? Even today? Throughout this summer, have you been suffering because you've not been going And asking God for help. Folks, you have unlimited access to our loving, patient Heavenly Father. Take advantage of that even today. We have access to the Father, praise God, but we are also amazingly described as the living temple of God. Look at verse 20. And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together. You also are builded together. Are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit Now let's talk about that a little bit. How can God's children be referred to as the very dwelling place of God, as his temple? First of all, interestingly, we're described as the very building material of this temple. You are the bricks and mortar, so to speak, of the temple but in a living spiritual way. And so when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ the Messiah, We actually become part of a one-of-a-kind, dynamic temple that houses the Spirit of God And that will be continued to build, be continually built until Jesus comes. That building started, as he said there, with the apostles and the prophets, and that would refer to the New Testament prophets. And remember that Jesus told Peter that he would be the rock. And on that Peter he would build his church. That didn't mean that Peter was some sort of pope or somehow took the place of Christ. It's not at all what it meant, but he was saying that Peter and the apostles would be against the founding stone, the cornerstone, Jesus Christ, and they would be very instrumental for the rest of the foundation of the The church would be built upon. But Jesus wasn't saying that Peter would take the place as the cornerstone, and Paul makes that clear here that the apostles and prophets, they uh The temple, this temple, living temple was built on the foundation, the beginning of their ministry, but oh, Jesus Christ himself is that cornerstone. And Jesus Christ then, what that means is he is the most significant stone in the whole building. Something happens to that particular stone, the rest of the building falls. It bears the weight for the whole building. All the way back in Isaiah 28, 16, we had a description and a prophecy of this cornerstone. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am the one who is laid as a foundation in Zion, a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, of a sure foundation. And whoever believes will not be in haste. And Jesus is that tested cornerstone that the church would be built on, and he would use the apostles and the prophets at that time to help build the church. but it was all the work of Jesus Christ. I looked up when I was studying for this a while back information about how important a corner stone is to a building because not all of us are architects. I understand that and some of us don't understand all of the significance. of a of a cornerstone. So I went to the site of a registered architect. And he said this, the cornerstone's three distinct characteristics distinguish it from the other stones used in construction. the building orientation, the history, and the celebration. First of all, the cornerstone was the first stone set during the building process. Careful measurements were taken to ensure that the cornerstone was square, to ensure the proper alignment of the remainder of the building. In the past, buildings were designed and built in relation to certain astronomical points of the compass. In fact, ancient cultures believed that the position of heavenly bodies regulated life, fortune, and success. Interesting. Therefore, cornerstones were commonly placed facing the northeast. Actually, northeast, right? Something like that. like that. And it was thought that this location would bring harmony and prosperity to the building and its owners. The ancient civilizations often performed a ceremonial ritual when the cornerstone was placed. The architects, builders, owners, dignitaries, or religious leaders would place a sacrifice such as wine, grain, water, or even a blood offering atop a cornerstone. And dedicate it to their gods. In other cultures, relics and artifacts of the community's patron saint were placed inside the cornerstone. They believed the saint would bless the church and its members. In the early 19th and 20th centuries, cornerstones were hollowed out and placed in a prominent location. on the front of a building. And these stones often had an inscription, the name of the owner, the building, the year of the structure, and then the cornerstone was hollowed out, and important documents were placed within a metal box and put in the that cornerstone to emphasize its significance. Well, I think we've probably seen some of those cornerstones before in our Are aware of that, the significance that even today we place in those. Folks, the most significant cornerstone that's ever existed is Jesus Christ. For the church. And he is perfectly laid so that the followers, his followers, could then be laid beside him and the building would be secure. This was an example of the temple structure. When people heard this that Paul had written to them, they would probably even think of the temple structure. structure. It's interesting. Um there was recently some architectural and archaeological digging where five enormous building stones were found as a part of the ancient Jerusalem. temple structure. The largest is 55 feet long, 11 feet high, and 14 feet wide, and weighed 570 tons. Folks, those are some big stones. And they were very instrumental. And what Paul tells us here is that Jesus is instrumental. He is the beginning and focal point of the living temple called the church. with the apostles and all of us as he continues to use us in this building process as well. In fact, in 1 Peter 2, 6, Peter says, it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. 1 Corinthians 3. 11 says, For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ as the cornerstone means that he is the builder of the church and he gets to call the shots and tell us what to do and he builds this and we are a living temple. We are the building material of this temple for God. That just, folks, ought to blow our minds that God would use us in that way to be his very temple. Let's continue look at verse 20 there, or 21. In whom all the building fitly framed together. Perfectly put together, groweth into a holy temple in the Lord. That the church is a living temple for God to reside in. And when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we are used and incorporated as that building material for that living, growing building And you know what that also means, folks, as God's building, that we need to be fitted together in unity. That's why unity is so important. We are a part of the temple of the living God We ought to fit together in unity and in um in Solidarity of purpose, that's the word I was trying to think of The church must be a picture of unity from diverse backgrounds in the midst of the divisiveness of our society today. Our society, would you not agree, uses so many things to divide us. Whether it's color or race or political affiliation or whatever, our society tries to divide everyone up into groups and then get those groups fighting against each other. Well, folks, we should expect that from the world. But the world should be able to look as a church as the exact contrast and opposite of all that fighting and division. No, here is a unified structure where the living God dwells. It's amazing. We want to be fitted stones. We want, each of us should say, Lord, please display in me your handiwork, your craftsmanship. Don't let your testimony of your living church be marred by my poor testimony, but help me to be an example. Work in me. Your craftsmanship, make me more like Jesus Christ, that I might be reliable building material, Lord. God designs and puts his church together carefully. It's all his work. All of our boys have enjoyed Legos, as I'm sure many of your kids have. have and grandkids. But I have some boys in particular really I I don't know if you if you could say you're gifted in building Legos, but I think some kids are. Some adults are too. Hudson really enjoys playing Legos and he comes shows me all these things that he's built on tanks and ships and it really is remarkable. But I remember one time Luke coming to me with this Lego box, and it was just a box, and it had, I think, a couple things sticking out the side or whatever, but you know, he was so proud of this box. And he's like, Dad, look what I just did. I'm like, oh son, you know, I'm trying to work up enthusiasm as a Good dad. That's great. It's a it's a box. That's it's a nice box. Lots of colors. That's great. He's like, no, Dad, look what I can do. And he put Pushed a button right in the middle. I mean you never know because they're all fitted together, right? But he pushes this button and this secret compartment comes out. And he had some money in it. And he had built these things all through the box. And I'm like, man, when I had Legos as a child, I would have never thought, I had no idea I could build secret compartments and put put little buttons in there and everything. That's amazing. So I had a lot more appreciation for that thing that he had spent so much time on. But he had fitted it together to give himself access to what he needed. Again, folks, in a much greater sense, God fits us together as His, can I say it this way, as his Lego pieces? And gives us access to him. And so we are a holy temple of the Lord, signifying the cleansing work of Jesus and the gift of his righteousness. Righteousness. How are you doing today in holy living and being an example of a purified temple? It's a good question for all of us. We are the temple. Finally, verse 22, we are the church. And we are God's dwelling place. A home for God. Strange. In him you were also being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Again, in the Old Testament, what was a dwelling place for God? The tabernacle, and they carried that tent around and they put it up, and eventually they got to the promised land and they built that temple, and King Solomon man And he built a grand old temple. It was gorgeous. It was beautiful. And the presence of God resided in the Holy of Holies over the Ark of the Covenant. And then eventually, as you know, the history of the Jew of Israel, they rebelled against God. God removed his presence from that temple. It's talked about in the book of Ezekiel. He sent his people into exile for many years, but when they came back, they built the best temple that they could, and it said that God's presence returned. And that was so encouraging to them. But folks, again, we don't have to go out and build a tent or a temple. We didn't build, the sanctuary wasn't built so that God's presence was built somehow be in this building in a way that it was in the Old Testament. No, his presence is with us, not because we've built a beautiful building and renovated it, but because we are the building. All of us are the people of God. So whether this sanctuary falls apart or whatever happens to it. The church, upper crossroads, is still here. Because we are the living dwelling. We are the people of God and we are his habitation. He's within us. And here's a wonderful truth. You think about the dwelling place of God because of the work of the Spirit. Folks, God will never leave us again. In the Old Testament, his glory and his presence departed from his people for a while. But for the living temple, with all of us as believers who have who have the presence of God, the Holy Spirit within us, He will be with us for all eternity. We will He will never leave us. And so we have a new group in the end here described in relation to God's kingdom as a family. As a temple, a unified structure where the love and unity that God shows to us ought to be shown throughout all his children for all eternity. Eternity. Do you understand, folks, what a powerful reflection we're supposed to be of the presence of God? And you may look at yourself this morning and say, Lord, I've not been doing a very good job of being a good brick or good building material. I've been pretty ornary lately. I've been pretty rebellious. And yet, folks, all we need to do is rely on the Spirit's work and the Holy Spirit that is within us. Submit to his work. Submit to his cleansing power in our lives. We are the habitation of the Holy God who created the universe and who created this church And we can be holy representations of that if we will just relinquish our own way and be submissive every day to the Spirit's work in our lives. Doesn't the world out there need a representation of a loving family, the loving family of God? Let's ask God as we close today to help us to be a better example of His dwelling place and of His family so that we can reach a lost world. Who desperately needs the work of Christ. Let's pray. Father, this beautiful reminder that just really Causes us to marvel that you would find your habitation. In us, broken, sinful people who don't feel very often like holy, cleansed tabernacles or temples. And yet Jesus Christ did the work that we could not and sacrificed himself for our sins so that we could literally be your dweller. Oh, glorious thought. Help us to better reflect your glory as we submit to the work of the Spirit within us. Lord, I'm sure in every person here there is things that you want to do in their lives. There's hostilities that you want to break down. There's sin habits that you want to change. Help us to be willing to submit to that change today, so that we can be a better representation of your holy habitation. and a better representation of your family. And Lord, if there is still someone here today who does not know Jesus and is not a part of the family of God, may today they come and um trust, place their faith in Jesus. Come talk to me or some of our leaders that they would know, they would accept Christ, accept Him as their cornerstone And they too can be your dwelling place. Give them that understanding, their desire to seek Jesus.