The thrust of this message is a question what kingdom are you living for? What team are you playing for? Whose side are you on? And as Jesus preaches through the Sermon on the Mount, he is pointing out that people that are a part of God's kingdom will have the proper conduct conf befitting the character of God's people. This is the expectations. But in the midst of that, we come To one of the key, I believe the key passage of the whole Sermon on the Mount. Because even as we've read through the Beatitudes, blessed are the poor in spirit, and those Those who mourn and those who are meek, those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, those that are merciful, pure in heart, peacemakers, and those that are persecuted, Jesus actually calls them to be And we saw as well to be the salt of the earth, to be the purifying savor, not savior. One savor, savior. But to be a marvelous effect upon our world as salt, and to point people Towards Christ as lighthouses in the darkness. And we may hear these things, and if we're honest, we say, but I don't do very well at that. Pastor Brock, I will admit I'm not as meek many times as I should be. There are times, many times, where I feel like I'm persecuted, and I have a hard time being glad about that. And if you're experiencing that, which I would expect is everyone in this room, including the pastor, then you're not alone, obviously. But if we're supposed to keep these principles. Principles, in order to be a part of the kingdom of God, we're feeling like, wow, we I'm not so sure then if my citizenship can be in heaven. And the point is that folks We can't be the kingdom citizens that we need to be. We can't do all of these things in and of our own strength. We need someone One who can help us to do that, and that is why these verses 17 through 20, especially verse 20, makes it clear what the key to the kingdom is. In this key passage of the Sermon on the Mount. We don't have what it takes in and on ourselves, folks, to be a part of God's team. Um there are uh families and parents all over this country today, well literally all over this world, that have their teenagers or young people. And well, even middle school aides and younger involved in soccer. And we have one of our young men that are in our family that are involved in soccer. And he enjoys that. Um But even up in New Hampshire I could tell that as I was watching the parents and watching their kids play soccer, um, that there was kind of an expectation that this that their child would be the one that would be able to be a part of some professional team somewhere and really be Able to make a mark in the soccer world. And you could tell their disappointment and frustration. Uh, many times, even as we would I would watch these um practice games And things up in New Hampshire. You could tell the parents that really had high expectations and were hoping their kid would make the cut and make the team um for the professional teams. And the the fact was, the reality is that most of those kids all over the country and on those teams have really honestly no chance. of being on a professional team because it takes a a certain ability and a certain unique ability and talent to be able to play. Soccer in that arena. Most of us here know that we're not going to be professional soccer players. Some of you don't even care to be. But when it comes to God's kingdom, we also have to admit that in and of ourselves we don't have what it takes. We just don't. We can't follow these rules and principles that God has given to us. And that's why this is so important today. Jesus, first of all, as we come to this passage, he says, I don't think that I've come to abolish the law and the prophets. I've not come to abolish it. Them to but fulfill them. And Jesus wants the people to understand, even as he's teaching them, as he's beginning his ministry, that Jesus wants us to understand that just Just because he's come doesn't mean he's doing away with the Old Testament or with the law. He, of all people, Jesus, as you would expect, would recognize the need For the Old Testament. And he says that here. I've not come to abolish the law and the prophets. It's interesting, so many times when we come to the New Testament, we think that, oh, uh, the New Testament is negative about the Old Testament. Old Testament and has nothing to do with it. That's in the past, but Jesus is reminding us the Old Testament is important. All of God's word is important and necessary. And Jesus did not come to just wipe away or to erase God's word in the Old Testament. But what he is doing as he's teaching and as he's living his life is he's bringing a deepening Understanding of the law that must be understood by kingdom citizens. And Jesus doesn't want any misunderstanding. He wants people who have been under, and this would be the Jewish people. People, first and foremost, that have been under God's law for over a thousand years. I remember my um Hebrew history. And God gave them this law all the way back in Moses in the Old Testament and said, Here, this is my law, you must keep it to be my children. Jesus is now saying That you need to have a deeper understanding that God's law must be kept, but But at the same time, it involves a level of righteousness that you don't have. The Old Testament law is actually more important than God's people, even at this time. Understood. And it had been misrepresented by the scribes and by the religious leaders. They had tried to highlight the Old Testament and the Old Testament. And Jesus had come to bring the right emphasis back to God 's word in the Old Testament and specifically The Old Testament law, a deeper and more correct understanding. And that is, the Old Testament can't just be ignored and thrust aside. But it must be fulfilled. Every aspect of the Old Testament must and would be fulfilled because they were promises and expectations that God gave. To this world and to his people. That really was the mission of Jesus in essence. Was to fulfill all of the Old Testament. And so we're going to see God's law in the kingdom. Because one thing that citizen kingdom citizens need to understand is that they must be able to somehow fully fulfill God's law in order order to um Meet the requirements to be a part of the kingdom. But nobody can do that. That's the problem. As I talked about the significance of the Old Testament, I remember one time Being at a camp conference, and it was it was a wonderful camp conference I'd been to many times, and always new um topics and and and speakers that touched my heart. But it also was a place that served uh decent coffee, which was also helpful in any conference. And so I was as you would expect, I was in the lounge um drinking my coffee and uh Uh, I think it was four young men came in, three with an older person, and they were having an interesting conversation about whether certain aspects of the law should be followed. On a couple of moral issues. I won't even get into that now. Um, and the one guy was obviously the one guy that was on the one side debating, and the other two three were against him or trying to prove their point. And so he pointed out, well doesn't the old or doesn't it say in the Bible that this should not be done? And it was interesting, one of those young men uh answered like this. He said, Ah, but that's the Old Testament. And as I listened to Them, that continued to stick with me. Because it was almost like this young man was saying, but that's the Old Testament. That's really not something we need to be concerned about anymore. All we need to do is it's almost like you read the New Testament, you're good. Now I think we would all um innately have a problem, hopefully, with thinking that we just the old testament has no function or validity or value. Value is a good word. But the old testament doesn't well we wouldn't say that the old Testament doesn't have value, but we might be hard-pressed sometimes to figure out what that value is many times. And yet, Jesus is saying here that all of God's word is valuable and that he had come to fulfill that Old Testament. God's law then required fulfillment that Jesus had come to take care of. Jesus fulfilled the law's predictions of the Messiah. So let's just in a moment here do a sweeping summation. Of the Old Testament in a couple minutes. Wow. Well, let's just think through this. You have the account of the fall in Genesis, you have promises. That were made to God's people , even the sons of Jacob and the tribes, the twelve tribes of Israel. You had the promise that was made to David David, that his kingdom would be eternal, and that he would be a significant figure for all eternity, as one would reign on his throne for all eternity. You even in the book of Proverbs, you have this personification of wisdom, that wisdom would come and teach mankind how to live, and Jesus Well, it pointed to one that would come and bring God's wisdom. And then you had in the prophets the promise of Messiah. that would come. So all the Old Testament, that and and you know, much more, the Psalms point toward one that would come. All the Old Old Testament really you could say Testament points to one that would come and fulfill all of the prophecies and all of the expectations on how to live in a way that no person could ever accomplish on this world. Throughout history, King David couldn't fully accomplish Perfection, meeting the requirements of God's law. Solomon sure couldn't. Moses was kept out of the promised land. The prophets got frustrated with God. There wasn't one person that could fulfill God's word, his law, until Jesus came. And Jesus now is saying that. He will give the validity and interpretation of the law. He will fulfill the law, and he will help us to understand in a deeper way God's expectations. About his law. Jesus would fulfill those things. And so again, back to chapter 5, verse 17. Do not Well, I've not come to abolish them, but I have come to fulfill them Now, what did Jesus mean here? Well, there's so much that I could say about how Jesus did this, but if you'll just turn with me briefly to the book of Hebrews. The book of Hebrews. And this will say all that I need to this morning. If we have time, we might get to Romans 10 as well. Romans, uh Sorry, Hebrews chapter 8. Hebrews chapter 8. So what about all in in the Old Testament? What about the laws about About all the sacrifices and the ceremony and all of the purity issues that um the priests and the people Had to purify themselves, the ceremonial expectations of the law. How can we fulfill all of those today? Well, folks, the point is we don't have to because we had one that came that fulfilled them all for us, and therefore there's no more need to anymore. And so Hebrews 8, look at verses 3 through 7, explain how Jesus fulfilled the sacrificial expectations and sacrifices. Look at verse three. For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices. Whereof is it of necessity that this man Have someone also to offer. Um it continues to talk about verse 5, who serve the example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admired. Of God when he was about to make the tabernacle, see that thou make all things according to the pattern shown to thee in the mount. All of the old testament expectations of Sacrifice and slaughter and purification were, as the author of Hebrew says here, they were for an example. To point us to something. Just because somebody brought their goat or their lamb and it was slaughtered and the blood was sprinkled everywhere. That didn't actually take care of the problem of man's sin, folks. It was only a picture of the need for someone to come And through his shed blood provide redemption and salvation. Through sin. And now says verse six, but he hath ordained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is a mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second. And as saying that first covenant, you could kind of say the Old Testament. Needed the fulfillment of who's it talking about here? Jesus Christ. And so the Testament then is the description of the fulfillment of this. How did Jesus then fulfill all of the pictures that the Old Testament gave Use the example and the shadows of these heavenly things. Go to chapter 9 in Hebrews, verses 11 through 14. Hebrews 9, starting at verse 11. But Christ being come a high priest of good Here's key, for if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctify it to the purify purifying of the felt flesh. And again, it's just saying that it was a picture, that it wasn't actual, it wasn't actually able to do that But if it was a legitimate picture, then how much so so, verse fourteen, shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God? Lamb of glory this morning, the perfect spotless Lamb of God that offered himself up so that we could have freedom We could be purged from dead works to serve the living God. And that was once and for all, folks. Accomplished that and fulfilled the Old Testament sacrificial system in its full expectation And that's why today, aren't you glad that you didn't have to um somehow get the family goat or the family lamb into the van or the car As you were heading over here to worship, and God doesn't have that expectation that we have an altar here where things are slaughtered. Praise God. We don't have to go through any of that that anymore because Jesus did exactly what he was saying here on the Sermon on the Mount. He came to fulfill the expectations of those bloody sacrifices and the prophecies of the prophets in the old testament that he would come and accomplish what was necessary for us to have righteousness and to become kings. Kingdom citizens. You see, none of us in and of ourselves have enough ability or a knowledge or talent to be able to be kingdom citizens. Of God's kingdom on our own. It's not possible. We need Jesus. All of us. We needed Jesus. Him to be the one to come and fulfill all of these things. But he also fulfilled the moral commandments. He was perfectly obedient. To his father in every way on this earth. Turn to Romans 10, verses 3 and 4. He not only fulfilled the law of sacrificial system And expectation, but he also fulfilled the law's demands, moral demands, by his perfect obedience. And again, folks, if I can remind you, no matter what you Your favorite Old Testament Bible hero is none of those folks were able to perfectly obey God's law that He gave to them. Moses tried Right? Joshua did a pretty good job, but he had his problems as well. David certainly a man after God's own heart, but he had a terrible, terribly hard. fall. Just go on and on and on. We look we looked at Jonah's life recently. He still he definitely had his issues. There was not one servant of God that could fulfill the moral requirements of God's law because one transgression Transgression against the law means that you had broken the law in every respect, and you were cursed by the law with eternal punishment, separation from God for all All eternity. But praise God, He sent His Son Jesus Christ to fulfill the righteousness of the law. Again So he's talking about the Jewish people and maybe be uh more uh specifically the leaders, but the Jewish people as a whole that were still thinking they could meet God's righteous standard By somehow obeying the law good enough to please God and establish their own righteousness. But Paul says here, that's not possible because there's only Only one person that did that, and they rejected him. Verse 4 For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. And so everyone, even today, Paul's audience, and today as well, if you want to be a kingdom citizen, if you want to be considered righteous by God, It cannot come of your own works and your own effort. You will fail. But if you trust and depend upon Jesus, Who perfectly obeyed God in every respect and earned that righteousness, then for all those who will give up their own ways and their own efforts and their own Righteousness and cling to Christ in faith. He will provide all the righteousness that you and I need to be kingdom citizens for all eternity. Eternity. It's through Jesus Christ. That is a wonderful picture. And that gives us the background then for verse 20. But now Jesus throws in at the same time He wants us to understand the important aspects of God's Word and the value of God's Word. Look at verse 18 and 19. He says, For I say to you, truly I say to you. Until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law, until all is accomplished. Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least Least in the kingdom of heaven, and whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. See, Jesus is pointing out our tendency to To devalue and make insignificant portions of God's word like the Old Testament. And Jesus has already said it's so important that I had to come and I will have to die. And he did Did die in order to fulfill the Old Testament. So he's pointing out here that it's important that it ought to, we ought, all of God's word ought to have value to us. Us. So what does he mean when he says, not an iota or dot will pass from the law? Well, what is an iota anyway? The King James says The jot in the tittle. Some other versions say iota. Iota was the smallest letter of the Greek alphabet, and the dot was a tiny mark, a punctuation. Mark that marked certain Hebrew letters. Now that's pretty all-encompassing, is it not? Jesus is saying God's word. And again, let's be clear: at this point, when Jesus is talking about God's word, what is he talking about? Well, the New Testament hasn't been written yet. Jesus is emphasizing the importance here of the Old Testament. And he's saying from the very smallest letter to the the smallest punctuation point it will or heaven and earth will pass away but and I but the These marks will pass from the law until all is accomplished. Not one of these will pass from the law until all is accomplished. Now there's been a misunderstanding of this passage of something that is truth, but it has been twisted into something that is not. And can become almost heresy. People have gone to this passage, well-meaning folks, I might say, and said, well, if it's one letter, the smallest letter, and the smallest smallest uh punctuation mark, then what Jesus must be saying here is that there must be a particular translation of the word of God that we have today that has not passed away. Because it says not one letter and not one punctuation mark will pass away until the kingdom of heaven comes, until Jesus returns. And folks, I don't believe after studying this for many, many years, that that's what Jesus is saying at all. That's a misunderstanding. Because the obvious thing then is, and you know this, this is why the issue becomes so conc Conflicted and controversial. Okay, so which translation is it that fully maintains all the way to the jot and the tittle? The iota and the dot, the letter and the mark, which version is it? And there's a lot of controversy many times over which version is the best version because God God said that not one letter or punctuation mark would pass away. But in context, I don't believe that's what he's saying. I'll get to what he's saying in a minute. But let me explain. Explain that. What do we do with all these translations if Jesus is not saying in this verse that there will be one particular translation That will not have any errors until I return. Another problem is he didn't tell us which translation. That's a problem Well folks to be clear that I think there is a Principle here that Jesus, as God's word, was being breathed along by the writers and the Holy Spirit carried them. You had what are referred to as the And that is the initial, the original documents that the writers of God, the writers of God's Word, wrote. And those are inerrant. There is no No mistakes in those original documents. It is a miracle that God accomplished this. But when those books were initially being written, it is true that from the letter to the punctuation Point, there was no errors. But the problem, as you would expect through time, is that when people copy things, they tend to add little errors here and there. If you've ever tried copy a chapter of God's Word on a piece of paper, you will go back and compare the two and see, well, there's some errors in my copying. And so some people tend to say, well, the people that copy Copied scripture for the translations and different things over the years. They were really, really good at copying. But there's not a one of us that can make a perfect copy ever. So, what do we do? We recognize that yes, when it comes to translations , That the original documents were without error. That word inerrant means without error. But yet, even with the copy And the translations that we have today, God has uh has um brought about his word so that we can still be confident, even though there are subtle and small like uh punctuation issues and different things. Um none of those copious errors in any of the translations affect the message. The message is still there. We can be confident today in the many translations that we have, that we still have the Word of God, the full Word of God. I can say to you as a pastor this morning, That I am fully confident that we have God's word in a multiplicity of translations. Now there are some translations. That I think are more accurate, that um have not sacrificed accuracy for readability. That's something that's always being balanced and measured as people make Come up with new translations. There's the measure of is it readable? Does the culture understand it? Versus, is it accurate? And I believe the ESV, and of course, certainly the King James Version, the NASB, and there's some others that I believe have a commitment to accuracy. And so I'm confident that when I read God's Word, it's God's Word. So let's put that issue off the table because I don't think that's what Jesus is saying. That there's one particular translation today that did not pass away. Well, what is he saying? This is not a reference in, folks, to the preservation of Scripture, but really the authority of Scripture. What Jesus is saying here is that Scripture is fully authoritative, the Old Testament, and by Implication also the New Testament that it is fully authoritative throughout time until Jesus returns. And that the Old Testament will be entirely fulfilled when Jesus Christ returns. But that we need to value God's word. Well, what does that mean then? Does that Does that mean then if all of God's word included in the Old Testament is authoritative, that we have to obey all of the laws of God's of God's law in the Old Testament? Well, no, remember we already pointed out, I pointed out, that Jesus fulfilled all those ceremonial, all those sacrificial um laws so that we didn't have to. We couldn't have we couldn't have anyway But the moral expectations and the commandments that got that God gave is still in vogue, is still in Authority over us today. We couldn't accomplish the sacrifice that only Christ could, and so we trust in Him, and He fulfilled that part of the law. But we can't Can't obey and even follow the Ten Commandments, folks, without a reliance on Jesus Christ as well. You see, all the Old Testament is still authoritative for our lives today, but Jesus Took care of the sacrificial and ceremonial, and he enables us to obey the Ten Commandments in the moral code. So, in answer to that young man's question, All the way back at that story at the beginning, the answer is: yeah, it is Old Testament. Do you value the Old Testament? Because God's people should should value all of God's Word. All of its important. And that's what, if I can sum it up, because we're getting well, I just want to go back over over that verse again. That's how I could sum up. Look at verse uh nineteen again. Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. If I can sum that up, folks, I think what Jesus is saying here is that God God's people and as your pastor, that I ought to preach that we ought to value all of God's Word, that we should not belittle any But that it's all important for us to understand on the ceremonial and the sacrificial parts that we're no longer uh required to follow Follow the purity laws and things like that, all of those still point to a God who is pure. All of those still point to one that needed to come to fulfill those, and their Is value in all of God's Word. And as your pastor this morning, then let me be clear: we must value every aspect of God's Word. There should not be any sense of well Well, that's Old Testament, so it's kind of insignificant and not really applicable for today. No, the principles and the expectations of God are Valuable for us. The entire Old Testament is still valid, but it's through Jesus Christ. And Jesus in a deeper sense than Demands an inward and outward commitment that will be rewarded accordingly. One of my authors that I've I've read and gained much value Value from D. A. Carson said this. Jesus establishes what continuity the Old Testament has, the true direction to which it points, and the way that it is To be obeyed. It is obeyed through our reliance on Jesus Christ. We finally get to verse 20. And this is why I said this is the key, I think, to the passage and to the whole sermon. So pay attention just for a few more minutes. God's law requires fulfillment. Jesus fulfilled. God's law is always authoritative. Jesus fulfilled and obeyed all of God's commands. But finally, God's law requires true righteousness. Look at verse 20. For I tell you Unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Now that was an amazing statement. Because what Jesus is saying here is, in order to be a kingdom citizen, this is what everybody was waiting for Jesus to describe. Jesus is talking about the kingdom citizen, He's gonna tell us how to be a part of the kingdom, how to be kingdom citizens. Everybody listen. And Jesus says, You must be better, you must be more moral and more righteous. Than the most moral and righteous people in your society, the Pharisees and the Scribes and the Sadducees, and their jaws would have dropped. How can we do that? I mean, these were guys, remember, these Pharisees had all these ex Extra rules added on to God's law and God's word to consider themselves righteous. They came up with rules to help people keep the rules. Measure certain herbs, tithing the herbs. And actually, they were straining it gnats. In doing that. They would calculate distances they walk to make sure that they didn't and they set up certain rules. If you walk this distance, then you are violating the Sabbath law. But if you only walk This distance, like us, then you're okay. And they could follow their rules, at least publicly, it seemed like they could. And so these people, as they hear Jesus say, We need a righteousness that's greater than that, they would have thought there's no way. I could not I can't follow the rules as good as these Guys can? And Jesus would have said, That's the point. You can't And these guys that are making up all the rules and following them in front of you, actually, they can't either All of you have to have a righteousness that exceeds even the best rule keeper Pharisee among you. You need a righteousness Righteousness that exceeds even that person, or you will never see the kingdom of heaven. What does Jesus Jesus trying to say then? There's no hope? I think you know what he's saying. Jesus has already called these people to be followers. He's talking here about obedience and deed and attitude, and he is calling them to a deeper, all-encompassing righteousness that none of them can attain, and that none of us can attain today. And so Jesus is in this, he is pointing to himself. He's saying, Yeah, you can't be that righteous, so follow me. Watch what I do. See what I do. And today he says, see the righteousness. That I obtained by perfectly fulfilling the expectations of my Father in God's word in every respect. And come to me for your righteousness. One more passage here and we're done. Romans 3, 21 through 26. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested because there's no way that we can get God's righteousness by following It's not possible. So now there's an avenue beyond the law. And that was witnessed by the law and the prophets. They told of this Even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe. For there is no difference, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You all could recite. This with me. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. And that word justification means that Jesus gives us His righteousness in exchange for our sin when we trust him. Jesus fulfilled all of God's word in the old test. He was the one-time sacrifice for our sin. He obtained the righteousness of God, and in his grace and love now he calls to us. And says you can be kingdom citizens by renouncing your own efforts in your own way, because you can't be righteous enough to be with me forever. But you can't Trust, you can believe that I already did the work. And you can obtain my righteousness because I took all of your dirty, nasty sin on myself. The way is paved. The way to be a kingdom citizen is available. It's a gift. And we trust in Jesus and believe in In him, and we receive his righteousness. And Jesus is that perfect righteousness that exceeds any, the best people on this earth, the most righteous, the most the best rule for Follower. Jesus' righteousness exceeds them all. And he is what we need today to be a citizen of the eternal kingdom. If you haven't turned to Him today, folks, and forsaken your own righteousness, do it today. Just acknowledge. None of us here can be good enough to be with God forever, to be in heaven. But Jesus did. And he gives us that goodness and righteousness. Trust him today. Proclaim him today. Father, what a blessing these words are. As Jesus will continue With the Sermon on the Mount, but he gives us here the key. To be kingdom citizens is through a righteousness that only He can give So help us, Lord. I pray that the testimony of every person here is that they are depending on a righteousness that is not their own, but it is The Saviors, and they believe that He has given it to us in exchange for taking our sins and dealing with them in a permanent way So that we are forgiven, that we are cleansed, and that we have reconciliation with you, and we can be kingdom citizens and Be with you for all eternity. And that grace and love is what Jesus offers again today. Lord, if there is someone here who still has not accepted that grace And forsaken their own way to righteousness, let them do it today. And for those of us who had, let us be fueled to proclaim that Message in a more passionate way in the time that we have left. Folks, those are the two choices. Meditate on those two things while Leslie plays.