And I hope I think that message was clear, folks. We need God's word. We must have it. It is our spiritual food. It is our spiritual sustenance. It is one of the most crucial, the most crucial aspect in a lot of ways, element of the service. As God's word is proclaimed. And it is a part of our worship. By the way, our young people, you're headed to Children's Church. You can make your way back there, and we're glad that we can provide that for you. And I trust that your time in God's Word will go well as well. Well, as we're finishing up here today and perhaps next week in the series in worship that I think is so vital and is such an important thing for us to understand. The practical aspects of God's of our worship service, we've been examining each one. We've been examining our singing. Our prayer, our giving, our preparation before the service. And today we're going to be examining God's word in our worship. That is the preaching of God's word, the proclamation of God's word that is so crucial, crucial. And really, as far as even my pastoral and shepherding ministry. friends, is one of the most crucial important aspects for me. Pastors must proclaim and teach and exhort in God's Word And proclamation and reception of the truths of the Scripture are vital to corporate worship. It's not just the pastor and his preaching that's vital to the worship Folks, you have a responsibility as well to receive and to listen There's a great book I don't have with me this morning that I've read recently. It's called When You Hear the Word Exposition, you normally apply that or connect that with preaching and with teaching But the title of this small book is Expositional Listening , the responsibility of the congregation to listen and to affirm the truths that are being preached We're going to be looking at a number of passages this morning in regards to this. You can turn to 1 Timothy. Chapter 4 will also be in the Psalms and also in the book of Colossians today. I'm going to read from Psalm 95, and then we'll pray and start and begin the time of teaching and preaching. But our first passage will be 1 Timothy chapter 4. Psalm 95, verse 6 says, O come let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are the people of His pasture and the sheep of His hand So today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof, though they had seen my work. Lord, give us understanding from your word again today, and even as we've sung And we're about to see from your word, the great importance of your word being preached and being read in the worship service. Father, I pray that even as I continue in these truths, that you will help me to be accurate, to present your word, and not my own opinions or my own thoughts. or experiences, but you will help me to present it in the way that you mean it to be presented. That I will declare the truths just as you intended for them to be declared. That's an important responsibility, Lord. I take that and I pray you will help me with that But I also pray that you will help our folks, just as important, to listen and to respond today to the truths and every service to the truths of the word being presented. And that we might worship you well in this aspect of the service. In this we need Jesus' help, and so we ask for that in his name that we pray. Amen. One of the privileges that I had , I actually had the privilege of being, let's see, in Christian education all the way through. uh elementary school, high school, and even college. Undergrad, I was at a Christian college, and also obviously in seminary, I was at a Christian university as well And there was one week that it looked forward to that these two particular colleges that I was a part of was a main part of their spring agenda, and that was what they called a Bible conference. And what that meant was was that we had time off of our studies at these Bible conferences, at both of these institutions, and that they invited guest speakers in, and that we multiple times would go to the auditorium together and hear God's word being preached and it was a refreshing time. When I was younger in undergrad, I will admit to you that I looked forward to those speakers that I knew were going to tell some really good stories. Some speakers that I knew were going to be interesting were going to give some good illustrations and or sometimes you would ask, if you didn't know about a speaker, hey, is Is this guy good? Is he exciting? Is he entertaining? Yeah, yeah, you're gonna enjoy him. This other guy, well, you'll hear God's word. And so get ready and I would enjoy and I would love to hear those stories and they would motivate me and they would inspire me in my Christian walk. And there was nothing wrong with stories, by the way in illustrations. In fact, I'm giving you an illustration right now as I tell this story. But there is something that as I continue to grow in my Christian walk that as it the Lord made it clear, I want you to be in full-time vocational ministry brock, and I knew that I needed to go to seminary when I came to their Bible conferences At that institution, I came with a little more expectation, not that I didn't enjoy stories and illustrations and and funny humor and things like that. But at that point in my growth as a Christian, I wanted to hear more God's word preached and explained to me. and hear things that I needed to hear. And so although there there was the same mixture of those that kind of entertained and those that told God's word and explained it, I found myself being more drawn to those that were explaining God's word and telling me what God's word meant than maybe some that told a lot of stories. I think as we grow in our Christian walk, we can understand, folks, that regardless of how God's word is being presented, the most important thing is that it's Being presented with accuracy and that there is much of God's word in the message. And that's important. And God expects that. We're going to be looking at passages that emphasize this well. First of all, proclaiming God's word must be in our worship services. It must be proclaimed, and interestingly Go to 1 Timothy 4, verse 13. Well, sometimes we miss this in a familiar verse. But Paul actually says to Timothy, he's writing of his intention to visit Timothy and the church that he is pastoring and leading at that point. And so Paul is laying out Timothy's responsibilities as a pastor. And look what the first responsibility is when it comes to the worship service. 1 Timothy 4. 13, until I come, Timothy, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture. Well, let's just stop there. You realize what he's saying. That scripture must and should be read in the worship services That it is an important aspect of the service, and it must have a presence in our worship together. Now, I have had the opportunity to hear many people preach over my lifetime with all of that emphasis on Christian education. I'm thankful for that. I've heard a lot of messages, folks. And so I guess when you've heard a lot, you're also able to, in a careful way, critique. And again, also, let me be clear that I, my own messages are critiqued as well. I hear from time to time and get input from my spouse, so I need that as well. But I have noticed that every that every so often I will hear a message where somebody where someone is preaching And well-intended, and it may be a powerful message, but they will actually sometimes explain the passage and get to the end of the message and realize that God's word wasn't even read. The passage, they were directed to the passage The passage was explained, but not read. Well, as I read, as I see here from Paul's expectations to Timothy, This reading of the scripture must be a part of our worship together. And you'll see, maybe I go a little overboard on this, but I do Try to read the passages that we're working through multiple times because I do believe this is important. And God's word makes it clear that the word must be proclaimed. Now, we've been doing something that I don't think is that much of a change, but it's a little bit of a different procedure from what we've been doing, and that is we've been adding a little bit more scripture reading to our worship service together. And there is a specific reason I have for that. As well as from what we've seen, we've been adding singing as well And I think that God's word is clear is that singing is important, as you remember, because we're teaching and admonishing, we're counseling each other as we sing. And so I think there should be a lot of singing in the service. But what does Paul say to Timothy here? Devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture. And In my mind, well actually the actual Greek word there means direct your mind. Commit as a responsibility that the scripture will be read publicly. And so we've added some more scripture to make sure that we are being devoted to that. And I want to make sure that we are following the Spirit. of what God's word expects. So yes, God does expect that his word is actually read during the service and also during the preaching time, as we're doing right now. It should be read publicly in worship. It should be preached publicly in worship. And that's the second part of that verse then. To exhortation, to teaching. It must include the explanation and teaching of God's Word. Reading's good. We had a lot of reading already. We've had reading as we get into this now. But folks, I'm also, as your pastor, responsible to explain this to you as another avenue of your learning about God's Word. Now, let me be clear, I'm not supposed to be the only avenue If you're coming to church and the only way that you're getting fed God's word is from the pulpit one time, one service on a Sunday and the rest of the week you think you're good, well you're mistaken, folks. Any of us that would feel that way are mistaken because we need to be fed God's word every day. But this is certainly one aspect and a major responsibility of myself as your pastor is to make sure that I'm feeding and teaching and helping you to understand God's word so that you can practically live it out in your lives. That word exhortation, he says to exhortation of scripture. That means appealing to the audience, to people to follow Scripture's truth And I hope that you can even sense in my voice as I'm preaching an appeal. Folks, please follow God's word. Do what it says. That's exhortation. The teaching as well, explaining the meaning. All of this needs to be a part of the worship service. That was actually a part of the Jewish synagogue tradition before the church. in the Old Testament and even more so in the New Testament. If you remember, Jesus visiting the local synagogue, and what did he do? He read from Isaiah. He taught, he read God's word publicly. But there was also Jesus had much teaching involved as well. Well the early servant or the early church took that to heart. And from the evidence that we have from the early church, That the services were heavy on the teaching and exhorting of God's word in corporate worship, as you would expect. That's not a surprise. And in prayer. And so certainly today we can see from God's Word, that's the pastor's responsibility as well. I must teach, but I must also give you application. So I can't just leave it at, this is what God's Word says. But I also have to exhort you, this is how you live it out when you go out there and when you're away from here. So the practical application, I'll throw some out here. Make sure that you are depending upon God's word on a daily basis. Maybe some of you, maybe there are times where we all get a little scattered and we move away from the regular daily feeding of God's Word in our lives. Let me call you back to that. As we've just sung and as we just heard from God's word, we need it every day. We need to hear the voice of God, as we'll see next in Psalm 95. And so as a pastor, I want to encourage you to follow God's word, to be in it every day, to be seeking through the submission to the Spirit, Lord, how can I apply the truths of your word in my life every day? That is my exhortation to you from this verse. But there's more. We need God's word must be proclaimed, read publicly, preached publicly in worship. But that's not the only responsibility that we have. Because, folks, the other responsibility is that you're listening and that you're responding and that you're applying God's word to your lives. Go to Psalm 95 and you will see this important aspect. We need to respond to God's word. A part of worship is actually responding. is saying, yes, Lord, I will do that that is being taught and preached. Psalm 95, verses 6 through 9 We need to listen to it with ears that are comprehending, and we must respond to it. First of all, verse 6, we'll talk about the listening. Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are the people of His pasture and the sheep of His hand. He is our maker. He is our shepherd. We are his. If I can put it this way, I think you'll understand. He gets to tell us, folks, what to do. And he gets, he has the authority to lead us. That's his right, because we're his. So, because that's true, We see here today if you hear his voice and the psalmist is expectation is that all of God's people It's not as much of a question. Are you going to hear his voice today? I hope so. But it's more of an expectation. If you hear his voice, and I know that you will, because you're God's people, so be listening. He expects us to hear it. It's interesting the very posture that the psalmist gives us here about worshiping and bowing down and kneeling before the Lord our Maker as they hear his voice. How do we hear God's voice today, folks? Do I expect that at some point in the service I'm going to be quiet? I'm going to be led to be quiet, and there's going to be an ethereal voice from heaven commanding that says, speaks to us directly? Well, no, we're not in that time period. In this time period, God's word, they would hear his voice, the leadership sometimes would hear his voice, the priests, the worship leaders would hear his voice, but they also had God's word as well. And so they must not ignore his voice and his communication. In other words, folks, today we have God's word in its entirety. How do I hear God's voice? I listen to his word on a daily basis, and I listen to it being preached in our worship service on when we get together to worship. And that is Then I will hear his voice. So that very posture here, bowing and kneeling, are certainly appropriate before God. Another interesting thing that sometimes we forget, who is this worship service primarily for? Now God has called us, Jesus Christ has called us for the Great Commission. We're supposed to give the gospel, and we're going to see here in the passage in Colossians that Jesus should be a focus of every message. At least almost every message, if not every message that is preached. But even the Great Commission in the gospel, is is for us to be reminded of to proclaim that. Sometimes though we think then, well then this service is primarily for unbelievers to call them in so they can hear the gospel and get saved. But what this passage reminds us is that worship is utmost, is primarily for God's people, to honor him. So folks, this service is actually primarily for us, to make sure that we're honoring him and glorifying him and listening to his word It's for God's people. It's our responsibility to be doing that now. Outsiders can attend and they can observe, but who is the only people that can legitimately worship God in a worship service? It's God's people who have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Certainly Jesus should be proclaimed, but it's God's people getting together to take part and worship. And so we're encouraged to listen to his voice through the preaching of his word, through the presentation of his word. That word here at the end of verse 7, by the way, is a Hebrew word that can be pronounced Shema. And it means much more than just merely listening, but also that we're comprehending, that we're hearing, and we understand, and that we're submitting. Lord, I hear your word. I read your word daily. I hear your word being preached from the pulpit. I agree with the truths of God's word. I'm comprehending it and I'm submitting to it. All of that is the expectation in that word here. So when the psalmist says today if you hear his voice, he's saying today if you hear and understand and submit to the preaching. The presentation of God's word, it is going to change how you act for the rest of the time outside of these walls. Outside of the worship, you're going to act differently if you've truly been changed. by the word of God being presented. And his expectation is that we will. That we'll listen. We've all had times During a service where we're a little tired, we're not as prepared maybe as we should be, and we tend to maybe nod off or think about something else or think about the dinner that's being prepared or maybe even we're thinking now about the food that's down there and I probably shouldn't have even brought it up because I just made a temptation for you. Now I I'm not going to tell you what's down there because I'm well I do know but I won't distract you. It's gonna be good. But we can be distracted by so many things Sometimes we can be so tired we can even nod off during the service or not pay attention. And folks, listen, God's word 's clear. We're not worshiping him if we're not paying attention to the word being preached. We're erring when we're missing and we're distracted by the public presentation of God's Word. We must, in order to worship him well, we must comprehend, we must submit, we must be willing to obey. In other words, we must pay attention. To God's word. And we must understand the expectations from his word. So we have to listen carefully. It's important. And folks, I do my best and I pray, Lord, help me not to be boring. I don't want to be somebody that's up here boring you to death. That's not my goal I'm also, as I mentioned at the beginner, I'm not all I'm not supposed to be an entertainer though either. There's a balance to that Now I do use illustrations. I think stories and illustrations are important because they help the application of God's Word. But I will say this. If you go away from here, and the main thing that you remember is the story that Pastor told in the message, then I have failed. Because that's not what you're supposed to go away with. You're supposed to go away with God's word has been preached today, and I have been confronted, and I am ready to change. That's a success. We must listen to it and we must respond to it. This is no credit to me, and I don't tell this to brag on myself at all. I tell it as something that meant a lot to me, that humbles me. When we left our final service at Millis Chapel Baptist Church up in Ware, New Hampshire, one of our deacons got up and presented us something And then he started to tear up and he got choked up. But he said, the number one thing I'm thankful for that I can say is that through the Maudsley's ministry, we have heard God's word preached. And I told him afterwards, I said, that's the only thing that I want to hear. I don't care about this stuff. I'm so thankful for that. Because then what does that do? That doesn't put any of it on me. That means that basically You've been directed to God and you honor Him. Get me and my personality out of the way. Hear God's voice this morning from his word And respond to it. And that's the second part there. Look at verse 8. He says, you need to respond to the proclaiming, the presentation of God's word and worship, and don't harden your hearts Like God's people did in the Old Testament. Verse 8. Do not harden your hearts as at Meribah, or as on the day of Masa in the wilderness. Well your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof. Though they had seen my work, God does expect us to listen and to pay attention, folks. And if we go away from the presentation of his word and we're not changed by it, then we're no better than the rebellious people that are described his nation in these times and two specific times are mentioned here. We don't have time to go into this this morning. At Meribah in Exodus chapter 17, the day in Massah , Numbers 20, where at two different times in the wilderness, God's people did not respond appropriately to his words. They tested him in disobedience, in unbelief. And God said, they , because they ignored my powerful work in words, they received my powerful work in the form of correction. It's a strong statement. But God expects us to respond every time his word is presented and every time we hear it communicated. We've probably all of us have had the experience of talking to someone and you know, well, unless that person's a really good actor or faker. Sometimes as a pastor, I look back and I say, I hope I hope I didn't give that person the impression that I wasn't listening, because to be honest, I got distracted and was thinking of some other things. But we've all had the experience where we're talking to somebody and it's just they're listening, but you know you're looking at their eyes, you're saying, they're not really tracking with me here. That can happen a lot with adults and kids, right? Are you listening? Sometimes you know grab gently their hands, are you listening? Look at me. And they're looking, but it's just you can tell they're not getting it You can tell when you're talking to somebody and they're listening, but they're really a hundred miles away, right? And I pray as a pastor that that never becomes apparent. Or that never takes place as you're talking with me. But we we all have had that experience and that frustration before. But folks, we must not excuse it. Because especially when God is talking with us or when anyone is talking with us, the real test and proof that we care about them. Is that we're listening and comprehending what they're saying. So the real test and proof that we love God is that we're listening and comprehending And submitting to what he's saying. So what should our expectation be here from Psalm 95? is that we will respond to God's truth in our hearts after every presentation of God's word in a service. Every one. But what do we do sometimes? We hear a great message and we think, oh, I hope so-and-so was listening. Oh, they needed that. I've been praying that somebody would present that truth so that so and so would be listening and they would change and that totally misses the point. Pastor included, I've done that before as well. Now there 's a legitimate desire. for people to want other people to change and to be work and and to have change from God's Word. But folks, the first question after the service really ought to be, what do I need to change? Every time. None of us are perfect. We're all a bit of a mess. No matter what the pastor presents from God's Word, there are things that need to change. So what change needs to be made in my own life as a result of hearing God's word preached? And when you respond in that way, you are offering correct worship to God. That's what his word says. Well, one more aspect of this. Turn to Colossians chapter 1. A very, very important aspect, maybe the most important. Colossians one twenty-five through twenty-eight. There's a lot I could say about this passage. I've done a study and presentation of Colossians before Maybe the Lord will give me opportunity to do it again, but we're going to have to go through this rather quickly. And that is this final aspect of God's word and worship is that we must realize the focus of Jesus Christ in God's word as we worship. That is, no matter what is being preached, folks, I do believe that there can be a direction and a focus on Christ. That throughout God's word, God's word points to Jesus Christ and our need for Him. And that must be presented And so Colossians 1, verses 24 through 26. Gospel presentation, making a focus of Jesus Christ is central to the pastoral ministry. It's one of the main things that I should do as your pastor is point you to Christ. Run to Christ. Run to him. And Paul does that. Paul says, I have done that in my ministry and continue to do that. He first of all talks about the sufferings that he foregoes for the people. In verse 24, Colossians 1, he says, Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church. A lot we could say there, but Paul's just saying, I am suffering on your behalf as part of my ministry to you. And then verse 25 he says, of which I became a minister, what is he ministering? What is his primary obligation? According to the stewardship from God, the responsibility that God gave me to do with people That was given to me for you. What was that? To make the word of God fully known. The mystery hidden for ages and generations and now revealed to his saints. He is referring there to the gospel, as we will continue to see. Paul is saying, my primary responsibility in my ministry is to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. To make known that mystery that all throughout the saints of the Old Testament didn't fully understand. They looked toward Jesus Christ, but there was a lot they didn't understand. And Paul says, but now you folks are so blessed Not in my own pre preaching that hey Paul's here and we get to hear from him because we're so blessed, but no, I get to point you to Christ and you have more understanding available to you now of Christ and his work than the people of God ever had before Jesus came. It was a mystery to them. But now I get to fully reveal the saving gospel of Jesus Christ. And that is the heart of what I do. And he's saying here, the church is blessed to have this glorious truth revealed to them. of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the Spirit to help them understand in their hearts and that it must be a part. It must be a part of Paul's ministry. It needed to be It must be a part of my ministry as your pastor to point you to Christ, really, in some ways, every time the scripture is presented. Why is that so necessary? In order for people to have a relationship with Christ and to have spiritual victory, they need to hear of Jesus Christ. That's his second part here, verses 27 to 28. To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this ministry. The greatest riches that a Christian can have are not his money or his wealth or his bank account or his savings account or his IRA or her IRA or any of those things, folks Our greatest riches are in our relationship with Jesus Christ. It is in him that we are rich. And it is the pastor's responsibility to remind you of that on a regular basis. And so in a glowing description here, Paul describes the truth of the gospel that Jesus can dwell in a personal relationship. with Jews and Gentiles and provide them hope of experiencing the eternal glory of life. with Christ. That is what he says there, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we might present everyone mature in Christ. And so, in one form or fashion, folks, I believe it is my responsibility to regularly remind you you are rich in Christ if you have a relationship with him. And if you don't. You can trust in the work of Jesus Christ in his death and resurrection, and we can have the hope of glory. That is eternal life with God for all eternity. We don't have to fear. and feel guilty over our sin and fear eternal punishment and God's wrath because Jesus took God's wrath on himself and gives us his righteousness so that we can be right before God and we can enjoy him in his presence forever. Now that's something that's worthy of reminding of you about every week, is it not? We need to be reminded of that glorious truth. And it is the pastor's responsibility to remind ourselves of that. We are gloriously rich if we have a relationship with Jesus Christ. One more story here because this reminds me of something. A very actually intimidating class in seminary where uh it was called, I believe it was hermeneutics. Hermeneutics, and basically it's the study of preaching. And it was a class where basically the whole class had to preach. They were scheduled times where each person would get up, and the teacher was the dean, the head guy of the seminary, which made it even more intimidating. And we had to preach in front of this man that had spent decades preaching in front of hundreds of thousands of people. And we preached and then everyone would critique, including the dean, and give us suggestions. for how we could do better. That was very intimidating, by the way. And it wasn't one of my, it wasn't one of my most enjoyable classes. Well, I'm sure and I know that I had a lot of critiquing myself, which thankfully I don't remember much of. But if you come afterwards and you ask me, I might be able to remember some of that. So I had the experience, but there was one guy in particular that said something very interesting that always stuck with me. He was impressed about this need to gloriously present our relationship with Christ. But he used an illustration talking about visiting a expensive steak restaurant. And he was very passionate and motivated to do this. And he talked about how he had in He had been to one of the most expensive steak restaurants in his life by the gift of a friend, and he went and he ordered this beautiful steak. And it was brought out and it just looked, now I'm really making you hungry, aren't I? And it glistened and it was just it was thick and rich and he couldn't wait to taste that steak and he said My desire and passion for that state is just like the desire you should have for Jesus Christ. And I thought, well, okay, I get it. But I don't know that comparing Jesus Christ with a really good stake is maybe the best way to do that. But his point was In his own way, he was trying to point out that we need to have a love and a passion to hear Jesus Christ and to understand the riches that we have in him. Well, that maybe wasn't the best way to proclaim it, folks, but it is our responsibility to understand and proclaim it and to receive that in When the Word of God is proclaimed to us. Let me finish here. As he says here, in two ways Jesus must be proclaimed. warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom. He's basically saying here, warn the saints, admonish the saints. and provide continued teaching of this truth from the wisdom that is found in Jesus Christ. Admonish, teach, help them to grow so that they may better reflect who Jesus is, his character. When you hear a pastor say that the Christian's responsibility is to look more like Jesus, we don't mean that everybody needs to grow a beard and grow long hair like some of the pictures that we see. That's not at all what we're saying. We're saying that you need to reflect his character and who he is. And that's one of another one of the pastor's primary responsibilities that as he's presenting, as I'm presenting God's word, that I'm appealing to you to take it on and submit and to become more like Jesus Christ. So do you get the point that it's my responsibility, it's a pastor's responsibility to proclaim God's word? With a specific aspect of focus on Jesus Christ. Really, folks, my goal is that every time I come up here in one form or fashion, that Jesus. is presented and the gospel is presented in almost every message that I preach, and I hope that that I am successful in that. But God's word, as we finish here, is primary in the worship service and must be so. And really, what is the true joy that we experience in our Christian lives? It's from true worship of God. But also as we strive to honor him in listening to his word being preached, but really in all aspects. We receive joy, folks, as we kind of wrap up this whole series on worship. When our singing, our giving, our prayer, or our listening to the preaching all have the focus of honoring God and striving to honor Him. to meet his expectations through the grace of Jesus Christ and through a relationship with him That we submit and we do this well in all these aspects, and then we are providing proper worship to our Lord Jesus Christ. When we are following him in this way in all aspects of the surface. Now, that's a tall order. That's a great expectation. For us to honor Christ in every aspect of our service, whether it's the prayer, giving, singing, or listening to the preaching, or the preacher, how do we do it? We ask for the help of Jesus Christ. We ask for our Savior to help us and enable us to focus on His Word and worshiping Him well. And folks, that means you need to have a relationship with Jesus Christ. So my focus on the gospel today as we finish up here is: do you know him? Do you love to sing about him? Do you love to talk to him? Do you love to give to him? Do you love to hear God's word being preached? Do you have a real relationship through faith with our Savior Jesus Christ? You can. You can come talk to me. You can talk to one of our leaders. We would love to show you how you can have a relationship with Him. Even during the time and just a minute as the piano is being played, you can come and talk to me and make sure that you have a relationship with Him But folks, for the rest of us, Jesus can enable us to worship him well in all these areas when we ask him to do so. We just need to ask. We just need to rely on his grace. And he will enable us to worship him in the right way. Father, thank you For these good reminders of our need of focus on you in worship and specifically today from your word, that we listen, that we hear, that we comprehend. And that we submit in obedience to these things. Lord, thank you that you gave us your Son to die for us. That we could, through faith in him, we could worship you in a way that we could never do on our own. Lord, if there is anyone here today who doesn't know Christ, may they come and receive him as Savior and be able then to worship with us in a glorious way. And for those of us that do know him well, may we continue to worship him. Thank you for this church for 96 years that has pointed us to worship of you and worship of Christ. May we continue to do that through our hundredth year and beyond, if Jesus would tarry. May we be that bright light of worship and focus on Christ in this community that you have called us to be. And through this now, I want to give us some time, folks, to think on these truths and to reflect as we win plays. If you need to come and talk to me, you can come now or come at the end of the service. But take a few minutes here and reflect on the truths of God's word that we've heard this morning.