Children are leaving for their time. Now remember next week, and probably throughout the week of June. Unless things change, we'll have our children up here. Brother Dave Wetzo, he'll keep them entertained. He's got some good material. Look forward to that Well, as we finish our introduction, before we start the book of Ephesians, I need you to turn back to Acts chapter 20, the book of Acts, and now Acts chapter 20. Verses thirteen through thirty eight And we have taken time appropriate time to remember all of those that have sacrificed a good portion of their lives and have gone on to glory Um to serve our country. In this passage we're going to look at this morning, we're going to be reminded that it's our duty as Christian soldiers to continu There's a lot of duties that soldiers face when they sign up for military duty. was recently privileged to take a tour of the Coast Guard Yard with Tim. And he took, Tim Howard took us Around and we got to see a lot of things, and it was a lot of reminders of all of the duties that he has. Many service all service members have these duties that are expected of them. Them. Well, folks, as Christian soldiers, we have duties expected of us. And the primary duty is to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and it's to be committed to his word. And Paul the Apostle, as you would expect, is a wonderful example of that in this passage. And we're going to be reminded this morning that God's word deserves our full commitment. Now, we're going to be actually going through verses thirteen through thirty-eight in chapter twenty. And you may look at that and say, Pastor Brock, uh, you know, we don't have a lot of time here, and there's food waiting for us. Us. And it is Memorial Day weekend. Well, I've got a way. We're gonna kind of go through this quickly and but but it it's important. Now Remember, this is an introduction to Ephesians. So I could spend probably multiple messages on this passage, and yet this is an introduction. So there's just some things I want to point out. this morning. And well, if we go a few minutes over, hey, there's no services tonight, right? Pastor's privilege. We should be fine. I will ask my uh staff back there if you guys will put the the map up on the screen one more time. Well, I don't know if this is the last time or not, but we See Paul's third or second missionary journey. He's an ephesus for a long period of time. Then uh further travels. That's important. It would it's a important introduction to a book uh written to the church in Ephesus, wouldn't you think? And we saw all the miracles and all the power of God working through Paul, but the most important thing Was the power of the Word of God working through the Apostle Paul? That is the most important takeaway because when he writes Ephesians, he is writing the Word of God. And we need to continue to remember that power. Well, Paul continued, we see in verse 13, he continued his missionary journeys. away from Ephesus, but he will eventually circle back around one more time and meet with some people, the leaders of the Church of Ephesus. Let's look at verse 13. And we went before to ship and sailed into Asaus. Now it says we, so at this point, Paul has not only Silas, probably Timothy. Timothy, but he has Dr. Luke, who's writing the book of Acts, in on this, Dr. Luke and many more. So Paul has a group, they're sailing on. You see. were there sailing around here uh on their missionary journey and they're intending to take in Paul, for so he had appointed, minding himself to go afoot. Paul spent some time on his own while his Um group was ministering in other places. And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in and came to Middalene. And we sailed thence and then came over the next day again. Chios, and the next day we arrived at Samos and tarried at Trogolium, and the next day we came to Miletus. For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus , Because, and that means to sail right by Ephesus, to go by it, rather than to go into Ephesus, because he would not spend the time in Asia. He wanted, he had spent lots of time in Asia And he was in a hurry, if it were possible for him, to be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost, which was important for all Jews, and it was time for Paul to spend some time back at the temple at the day of Pentecost. So he is moving to get back to Jerusalem in time. And that's the background then for what he's about to do and say to these Ephesian elders. And so he meets with them even though he doesn't have time to stop in Ephesus. He in his sailing, he sails close to the coast there. And guys, if you can pull up the next picture, I've got another picture there. This is an artist rendition. This is nobody taking a picture from from their iPhone or anything. But you notice they're meeting close to the water there. Paul, I don't know if Paul was really that old at this point. Looks old in that picture. But there he is representing his blessing and he's giving one last address to these elders and to the people of the church there. And these leaders, Paul has established a solid, healthy ministry that has many capable leaders, as illustrated here. And these leaders have gathered together with him. And now they will multiply the ministry that Paul and others have started as Paul now moves on to the next stage of God's plan for his life. As we see Sunday school, Paul is continuing to do the will of God, and that means that it's no longer an ephesus, but he needs to go back to Jerusalem. But Paul always leaves disciples wherever he has to go. He leaves disciples there to continue the work. And so these leaders travel probably a couple hours away. To meet up with Paul. And so Paul, as he's giving them really his last words to them in many respects, he's giving an example. That they have further growth to experience, and so does he, and they need to commit to God's word. And so that is where we're at when we come to verse 17. Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to read, I'm going to divide this passage up and read. Read the verses and then give some explanation to kind of help move us along. So this is Paul as he's meeting with this group of people, the leaders of the church of Ephesus. These are faithful people who have traveled a long way because they love Paul and they want to see him again. Now remember, these are the leaders that one day Paul is writing to as we get into the book of Ephesians. Verse 17. And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church. And when they were come to him, he said unto them. You know from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons, serving the Lord with all humility of mind. And with many tears and temptations, which befell me by the lying and weight of the Jews, and how I kept back nothing. I gave you all of me. That was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly from house to house, testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks. Repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Here he recounts His faithful ministry. Paul's saying here, my ministry to you was blameless. I gave you my all in service to Christ. Paul lived among these people. And he served them not in arrogance and pride as, hey, do you know who I am? I'm the great, I taught, I learned under the great teacher Gameliel. The Sanhedrin and actually the Pharisees, and you need to listen to me. No, Paul came in humility and selflessness. He gave of himself to these people and now he's leaving them to continue his work. He didn't hold back. He taught them the full counsel of God from his knowledge of the Old Testament and the knowledge and and the The teachings that Jesus Christ gave directly to Paul. He gave them all. In public, he spoke in public. In private, he was discipling people. Paul wasn't just one to get up behind the pulpit and preach a message and say, okay, you've got the whole council. See you later. No, he he entered it. into people's lives and he taught them God's word in a private way as well, discipling them. Not only to Jews, Jews were his first stop. His primary obligation, but when they rejected him, also Gentiles as well. And what was his message that he preached faithfully? He was faithful to the gospel. He was committed to the gospel. Repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And folks, today, as your pastor, the primary description that I want to be of my ministry is that he was faithful that I have been faithful to the gospel that you know when you leave these services of your need for Jesus Christ That everyone in this building today knows that they are sinners, that they are destined from eternal separ for eternal separation from God, because God can't have sin in his presence. He's a holy God. And yet he sent his son, Jesus Christ, to die on the cross for our sin, a terrible and awful death. And he shed his blood. And his blood in a miraculous and almost mystical way. Cleanses our sin, provides us redemption, ransom from the curse of sin. And he was raised from the dead. He conquered sin and death and hell and offers new life. You don't have to be destined for an eternal punishment in the lake of fire. You can put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and know for sure that with Jesus as your Savior. Your faith in him, you will live forever with him in God's glorious kingdom. You'll be reconciled with God. Jesus will transfer, will give you his righteousness And you can be freed from the curse of sin. What a wonderful, wonderful testimony. And that is what I want to be dedicating my life to. Well, Paul certainly did that. And he said, I have no regrets. I left nothing behind. You guys have heard the gospel. I've been faithful in that. That wasn't arrogance, it was the truth. Now in the midst of all that, also as we're reading, Paul's honest. He didn't say that because I was faithful, man, it was a cakewalk. Just every day was great. You people were just the most Wonderful. Now they were wonderful people. They were faithful. But Paul had some really hard times too. Remember uh the riot that we just talked about last week and the whole city being stirred up because of Paul's teaching? And Paul's associates being carried and maybe beaten in front of that whole huge Colosseum and Paul wanting to go rescue them and people saying, no, Paul, no, we don't You're just going to stir things up more. You better stay back. I mean, Paul had gone through some difficult things as well, but he had been faithful in the midst of hardships, and he had done well-performed ministry service. And when it's truth, folks, you should be able to testify of that. And that's what he's doing here. He gave his all in serving this church Ministry, but also not just the believers in Ephesus, but in the whole region. God used him in a powerful way. And so then in the next few verses, Paul says, Because I gave you my all, I gave you the word of God, I am blameless. I have done what God has called me to do. I'm blameless in my responsibility toward you. Look at verse 22. And now behold, I go bound in the Spirit unto Jerusalem. And that were those words mean that that Paul is fully submitted to the Holy Spirit. For those of you in Sunday school, we talked about this. Here is a man that is submitted to whatever The Holy Spirit wants him to do. He's bound. Whatever, wherever the Holy Spirit says to go, Paul goes. No questions. And so he says, because I am covenanted to do this, I am bound to do this with the Holy Spirit. I'm going to Jerusalem, and nobody's going to stop me. And he says, not knowing the things that shall befall me there, said, I don't know what's going to happen, but I know God's calling me to go back to Jerusalem. Save, he says, I don't know the future, but I do know this, that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city. And he continues here, and that really has the idea of the Holy Spirit testified. To me in every city, that imprisonment and afflictions await. But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself If only I may finish my course and of the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. The kingdom will see my face again. Therefore I testify to you that I am innocent of the blood of all, for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. And so here we have Paul's confidence that he has done all that God called him to do. Would you not say that we could call Paul a faithful soldier? He has been a faithful soldier to the people in Ephesus. But he submitted to the Holy Spirit's leading in his life. Notice again, he says, I don't know what's going to happen to me. He said, you know, the way things go in my life, there might be some tribulations. I'm sure I'm going to experience some trouble in the future, but none of that matters. Because I go where the Spirit sends me. And God will take care of me no matter the challenges, no matter the loss I'm going to face. Spirit dictates and I go. Again, that's a good soldier. That's what we all need to be. Onward, Christian soldiers. Paul was ready to do that. He was ready, even if it meant finishing up his own spiritual race more quickly than he had envisioned. He wanted to finish the race well as he continued giving people the word of God and the gospel. And he points out as well that he is blameless in his account. Accountability to God because Paul and every leader that leads the church is accountable to God. And Paul, again, not arrogantly here, but he says, I have done what I'm supposed to do. I have given you the gospel. I've taught you God's word. I am free from blame. I am fully accountable to God in this, and I am free from blame. I've delivered His Word. And really, this has the idea in the Old Testament, the prophets talked about being a watchman. And that was that a watchman would, in a in a particular city for the defense, would be Stand on the wall in a watchman's tower, and he would look out. And when he saw danger and what he saw, he would transfer vocally to the people in the city so that they could can be prepared. And Paul is kind of that picture here. He said, I have been the watchman. I have delivered to you everything that you need to know to have a relationship with Jesus. Christ. And then he washes his hands. He says, I'm not culpable. Again, those powerful striking words there at the end. In the King James he says, I am pure from the blood of all men. And he says, really, in the ESV, it says, innocent of the blood of all. And Paul is saying not in a physical war mentality, but he's saying spiritually, I am not responsible for where you end up. This is important. He says, I'm not responsible for where you end up eternally. You know you have the gospel, you trust in Jesus, and you will have life forevermore. Now, that's on you. As I leave you, I'm not responsible any further. I've done my job. What a wonderful way to leave any ministry is to have this testimony that Paul had. Folks, again, not to make it about me, but I will say this. My desire is above all else to be effective in ministry is to faithfully preach the Word of God. I am convinced, according to this passage and others, that my success as a pastor. My effectiveness in ministry is ultimately not the type of music that we have or the type of programs that we have or all the different things that we're able to accomplish or that I I'm able to accomplish the different administrative tasks, whatever, nice bulletins, a good website, all of this, that's not the measure of whether I have effective ministry. or not, the main measure, really the only measure, is have I faithfully preached God's word to you? That is the measure of an effective ministry, regardless of how many show up and how um Many we grow. That is the mark that Paul is saying here, and that is my dedication to you as well. By God's grace, I pray, but above all else, from this pulpit, you will hear the word of God. And the Holy Spirit will work and move. And then I'm accomplishing effective ministry as I share the Word of God and the gospel to you. So Paul says, this is what I've done. Now this is what I expect from you. Paul's expectation of his ministry leaders, that he is discipled and that he has led along. Many of these These folks probably came, probably most of them came to Christ through hearing the gospel through Paul's mouth, through his lips. And now he says, you continue to be faithful as I have been faithful. You follow my example. I've been a good shepherd. You follow that example. And that's why he uses the illustration of the flock. Look at verse 28. Take heed, therefore, unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit, has made you overseers. to feed the church of God, which he has purchased with his own blood. And then verse 29 I know not, or I know that after my departure Fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things. to draw away the disciples after them. Therefore you be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease, night or day, to admonish everyone with tears. And Paul says here, you pick up the slack now. It's your responsibility. My time is done. I've done what God brought me here to do. Now it's your turn, leaders of the Ephesus Church. These were most likely leaders in in these churches in the New Testament, most of the time, in large cities, it was leaders over house churches that was lead the people that would be able to meet together there, and all of the house churches all over the city would then be referred to as the church in Ephesus. There wasn't any church sanctuaries with nice steeples and Things like this. No, they met in each other's homes. And so these leaders, these elders, were most likely the leaders of these house churches all over Ephesus. And Paul says it's your turn. You are overseers. You are shepherds. I have been an example to you. And he might remind them that this isn't just because you're a leader doesn't mean that this is all about you. You shouldn't pat yourself on the back and be private. This is the Lord Jesus Christ. It's God's church. And so it's so important that you are faithful because Jesus bought the church with his precious blood. Boy, isn't that sobering? Paul reminds them, this isn't anything you guys came up with. This isn't anything I'm Of your own abilities or rank or whatever, Jesus or God chose you to be leaders. And you have the wonderful but sobering responsibility To lead the church that Jesus bought with his own blood. That's a responsibility, folks. We need to pray for our leaders I hope that you pray for me that God will give me ability to lead in the right way, because it is such a precious responsibility. But Paul again is saying, I'm not going to be with you any longer. You step it up, and you need to guard against the wolves. Paul had prepared them to step up themselves and to be aware of the false teachers in their midst. What are these wolves? They're not actual wolves. The wandering around Ephesus, but it is false teachers who are trying to twist the gospel and twit twist the word of God. And Paul says, I've taught you about these men. Don't be surprised by them, but you be careful. And make sure that you are faithful and watching out. Verse 29, for I know this. that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. You can count on it, men. Wolves will come And that's why you need to be committed to God's word as I have been committed to God's word, so that you'll see them. And you'll be able to protect the people from them. I know they're coming. That's my greatest concern. Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw disciples after them. He says, some in our churches, here in our house churches, as you go back. There'll be some, maybe some in leadership, that will try for their own reasons to draw people away from the truth of God's word. But man, you be committed. You continue to preach the way that I have done. Because verse 31, therefore watch and remember. Be careful. Look out for false doctrine. Remember what I've taught you that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone, night and day, with tears. And isn't this interesting? And important to note. What is the aspect of ministry that should move us the most folks that we should be the most concerned about. There's so many aspects of church ministry that we consider important. that we get distracted by. But Paul clears away all the distractions. Paul actually I think is saying, he says, I cease not to warn you everyone night and day with tears. Paul's saying, this is what kept me up at night. It seems Paul had some sleepless nights where he was in tears with things that worried him. There are lots of things that worry us and bother us. What worried the Apostle Paul? What did he focus on? Maybe worry is not the right word, but what was he passionate about? It was the power and truth of the gospel When's the last time any of us, including the pastor, woke up in the middle of the night concerned that people hear the gospel? I'm embarrassed to say it hasn't happened in my life. Anytime recently. And folks, yet that must be our major concern As it was with Paul, we must be concerned today, and as he's telling these leaders, look out for people that will try to pull people away from the gospel because the gospel is the main thing. The power and the truth of the gospel. must hear the word of God. They must put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. So that is what must move you men. That must move you to tears. When's the last time we cried over someone that we knew needed the gospel? When's the last time that we were moved by the need of this world, this terrible, this dark world that has rebelled against God? The need that they have to hear of Jesus Christ. Have any of us been moved recently to tears? It's a good question. Paul says, this is what moves me. This is what drives me. Whatever you important ministry passions that you think you have, in other words, whatever things are you think are most important to you and any church ministry, folks, let's remember they should never be as important to us as the gospel going forward and being proclaimed. If anything else in this ministry is more important to you than the proclamation of the gospel, and I will say as well, and worshiping God. That's primary as well. Worshiping the Lord, proclaiming the gospel, then we need to get our priorities straight. And Paul is saying here, have a focus on proclaiming the gospel. So when we come together, we worship and we proclaim God and we we honor Him in our thankfulness and greatness, and then we go from here, and our main purpose should be to be good witnesses of Jesus Christ. As it was with Paul. And Paul says all of this will be worthwhile. Paul isn't worried. You might think as Paul's leaving, he's saying, well, I just don't know if they can make it on their own. I'm just not sure if they can do this. But no, that's not his attitude at all. He's confident that he can leave them because he knows he's leaving them in good hands. And now, brethren, I command you to God, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. He's saying, God's grace will keep you. God's word will strengthen you. And God will reward you with an incredibly invaluable spiritual inheritance. You continue in faithfulness and spiritual maturity. And you have the Holy Spirit working among you. So I know that you're in good hands. You can do this because Christ works in you. So you continue to build up. You continue to preach the grace of his word. And in due time, you will be rewarded for your faithfulness. You run your race, Paul's saying I'll run mine, and we'll leave the rewards to God, but they will be great. You have an inheritance. What is that inheritance, by the way? Just briefly Well, it's eternal life with God. It's redemption. It's cleansing from sin. But folks, part of that inheritance is a really practical reality that we're all looking forward to, and that is a new body. We're rewarded with a body that'll never wear out, and parts that will never wear out. And a body that's not laden by sin any longer. There's so much to that word inheritance, but that's one aspect of this. And Paul says, you're going to get it all. God will reward you in the future. future, so you stay faithful now as I have been an example to you. And then he continues with this example. Verse thirty-three I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto you. to my necessities and to them that were with me. I have showed you all things, how so that laboring you ought to support the weak And to remember the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, how he said it is more blessed to give than to receive. Paul's saying here, I didn't exploit you in any way. I paid for my own way. I provided for uh my own needs so that I could um effectively preach the gospel to you. And I didn't play favorites. I preached it to all of you. And I especially ministered to the weak and needy. And he also in verse 35 shows his understanding of the ministry of Jesus Christ when he repeats the words. Of the Lord Jesus Christ, it is blessed to give and receive. And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all, and they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed. kissed him, sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that he should see his they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship Now, just as a side note, from what we can tell from church history, they probably did see Paul again after he was released from prison. But at this point, they understand, as far as their understanding is concerned, They're never going to see Paul again. And they're broken by that. Because Paul has given his all to them. He has not been selfish. He's been selfless, and that made some wonderful bonds with these people that are personal and strong. And folks, it is true that when we understand that concept, what Paul says from Jesus Christ Himself, it is more blessed to give than to receive. If you have labored and given committed service and ministry, and you have had people come to you and thank you, and you've seen children come to know Christ. Christ and maybe grow up and later on mention that it was you or it was one of us that led them to Christ. We know Of the blessing and the wonder of being used by God in that way. It's more wonderful than anything else we could take part in and have the Lord use our lives to do. It's to serve Him faithfully. When you show how much people that you care for people, they will return the favor. And these people show Paul how much they appreciated his ministry. All of this reminded me, as you know, we were here for many years, eleven years in youth Ministry. The Lord called me to be a senior pastor up in New Hampshire. And then three and a half years later, the Lord in his mystery and wonder called us for righteousness. Back here. I'll never forget that last service that we had in New Hampshire. There was a lot of tears. I remember that I did finish the series on Revelation that very day. I was happy about that. But they had some things to say to us, and the chairman of the deacon board got up, and I had never seen him cry before. His name is Rob. And as he called Leslie and I up, tears welled up in his eyes. And he said, again, folks, this isn't any arrogance on my part. I just want you to understand why this was so special and important. He said the one thing that I would always want to hear. He said, There's many things that I could say about the Maudsleys and their ministry. But he said Said, the number one thing is that we have heard the word of God taught here at this church. And he wept. And I knew my ministry was done. I had fulfilled what God had called us to do. Those were wonderful, sweet words that stood Still resonate to me today. At the end of my life, if that's all I hear. Now we don't even remember his name. He didn't have a lot of hair. But he pointed us to Jesus. He led us to the Savior. He taught us God's word That's all I need to look back and say that is a successful, profitable ministry. Do you have that kind of commitment to God's word? Above all the comments and the um compliments that you could receive? Is the one about you being a faithful steward and faithful teacher and faithful soldier of God's Word. Is that important to you I hope so. It should be the number one thing. Christian soldiers, onward, and be committed To God's word. Father, thank you for this reminder of where our commitment needs to be, as we have had the wonderful privilege of remembering the commitment of those that had Gave their lives for our nation and our country. We thank you as well for the reminder of the need for our commitment to the gospel and to you Lord, help us as we go from here and as we continue on in our Memorial Day celebrations, and even as we eat and as we go about our responsibilities this next Next week to desire to have more of a knowledge and commitment to live out the Word of God in our lives. So, folks, as I pray that, you take time this morning Have you trusted and have faith in the gospel? If not, come talk to me. You can learn how you can have Jesus as your Savior. If you are a follower, a good soldier of Jesus Christ, take time to commit your life back to the Word of God in a better and deeper way. Take some time, as Leslie plays.