And we submit to that. And so what wonderful memories and What wonderful joy we experience when we think in all that Christ has done. Our children are dismissed with a stampede of feet It's always good to I I always hope that's excitement to go down to children's church, not to escape from the adults. I'm going to ask you to turn to back to Acts chapter 19. And that may seem like a funny place to uh turn to when I have recently made it clear that we're doing a A study in the book of Ephesians , but there is so much background in Paul's ministry there at Ephesus. That I really feel like it has to be a part of the study. And so we're learning about how God used Paul and the people around Paul. to powerfully minister the gospel. And so that we might marvel as we begin the study in Ephesians, the book of Ephesians, On all that God has done through his servants, as then Paul rejoices and celebrates all that the people have in Christ. And so we've continued to see Paul ministering the gospel. And we've seen throughout the book of Acts, the last part of Acts. especially as he goes on these missionary journeys, that he's bringing people along with him. He's discipling, people are trusting Christ. He's discipling them. He's leaving them. For a witness, and really the ministry in Ephesus started with the disciple leads of Paul. God eventually drew Paul back to Ephesus. He was ministering there. I don't have the map up today, but you can find the map in the back of your Bibles, right? Or if somebody next to you has maps in their Bibles, I'm sure they would share them with you. With you. And you can see where Ephesus is in the region of Asia Minor. And so uh Paul, in the midst of presenting the Word of God, the Holy Spirit. is doing powerful things. Remember we saw that last week? There is a new group of people that have an understanding of what Christ has done for them and they trust Christ. And there is that introductory speaking in tongues that marks the newness of the beginning of the church. There is Paul again continuing to preach the gospel, and the Holy Spirit is using him to heal people even rather in a strange way with those sweat rags kind of gross but yet God is using them Um again as a reminder of that his power is working among his people. Again, before the scriptures are completed, these are things that God did to show his power in the church. But ultimately, that whole chapter that we looked at and that whole passage emphasized the power of God's word working amongst God's People, not as much all the miracles. And God's word was working powerfully. And it was a reminder today, folks, that we have all the completed Word of God in our very hands. God doesn't have to do all those strange and wonderful miracles that he did back then because the power of God's word is enough for us today. It's not that he couldn't. But God's word moves mountains and leads people to Christ. Well, when God's word works powerfully, the world reacts, doesn't it? And that's what we're going to see. And we're going to move quickly through quite a long narrative here. There's a lot of details, but I don't want to slow down the story by adding too much comment. What we're going to see is that as Paul continues To give the Word of God and the gospel to the people in Ephesus, that the world system and even Satan himself doesn't like that, doesn't appreciate that. the power of God's word and moves to act against it. God's word is powerful and mighty to save. But God's word , we must all acquiesce to this, it's also a disruptor of the order and the ways that the world runs things. The world has a certain way that it runs things and this temporary ruler called Satan, and it doesn't like to be disruptive. We see that throughout our world today. Still an antagonism toward Christians. When I preached this before, it was in New Hampshire, and we were in the midst of 2020 and all that COVID thing, and I remember it stuck out in my mind. There were a number of articles in leading newspapers. Papers and journals that were actually describing promoting hostility toward Christianity. And they these articles, not going into all the detail, but they were blaming the COVID spread and a lot of different things on Christianity and trying to turn people against using a terrible world epidemic. To turn people against Christianity. It was appalling. And yet we still see that hostility. Folks, it irritates us. It irritates us to see politicians and those that lead that claim relationship with Christ and to see them be attacked and be mocked. But we shouldn't be surprised for that, should we? Christians who stand strong in their faith and in God's word are going to be held in contempt by this world order. You can just count on it. It's going to happen. Because we're disrupting and we're making people feel uncomfortable. They don't want to know there's a God in heaven. And that whole thing about Jesus dying on the cross, the very thing we celebrate In sweet communion just a few minutes ago. The world doesn't want to have any part of. And so God's word disrupts this world system. And it does so in this megatropolis of Ephesus in Asia Minor. Remember that Ephesus was an important city that included what is still considered today one of the seven wonders of the ancient. Ancient world, the Temple of Artemis. That's also known as the Temple of the Goddess Diana. And it was the largest building in the Greek world. A worldwide attraction. Now I do have some pictures of that this morning, and so I'm going to ask our guys in the back to bring up the first picture. This is an artist rendition of what this incredible And if you could see closely the scale of the people, it is immensely extravagantly large. You could see why that would be impressive to the world system. Here are people that worship this goddess Diana Diana Artemis that was supposed to bring Bring uh fertility and reproductive strength and all of these things, also pr help produce crops, all of that sort of thing. They relied on this false god, obviously this goddess. Diana, and they worshipped her, and the world was impressed by what lengths they would go to build these structures. She was considered a mother goddess, a nurturer and provider of fertility and reproductive power. That was Diana. She was considered a daughter of Zeus and a sister of Apollo. Doesn't that sound impressive? But that was impressive to these people back then. If you were to journey to this area today, guys, bring up the next picture, you would see even the ruins today are still pretty impressive. And so this whole system with an ephasis of worshiping this false goddess and depending upon her And this incredible structure where pagan practices would take place was just the normal part of life in Ephesus. She was the principal deity of Ephesus, but she was also powerful, Diana was, throughout the Mediterranean world. To the world, the goddess that this temple was built after, she was a big deal. She was one that you needed to recognize. And the power of God's word through Paul and his helpers was turning all of that upside down. And the world didn't like it very much. God's powerful world word always disturbs our world system. And yet Paul was faithful in continuing to carry the word to the world. So look at Acts 19, verse 21. And we see Paul continuing to be faithful. After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the Spirit when he had passed through Macedonia. And Achai to go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome. So he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him, Timotheus and Erastus. But he himself stayed in Asia for a season. These verses could actually, they're a minute description of the rest of Paul's ministry. He would continue, he purposely in his spirit again that he was on his third missionary journey at this point, traveling in Ephesus, and he had he resided there in Ephesus for a while. And he said, I need to go back to Jerusalem, need to finish up my third missionary journey here, and then I'm going to Rome. Well, that's the rest of the book. Of Acts. He purposed to do that, and so he sent Timothy and Erastus, two faithful proclaimers of the gospel, who helped him in great ways. He sent them on to minister to other churches while he stayed there in Asia near Ephesus, near Ephesus for a little longer. But in the meantime, the power of the Word of God is doing amazing things. And it's making angry those that are a part of the world. world system. Again, the message of God's word disrupts the world system because God's word is at odds with the values of the world. Is that a surprise? Don't we see See that and sense that every day? So look at verse 23. And at the same time, while Paul's being faithful, there arose no small stir about that way. That means there was no minor controversy about the people of the way. That was a beautiful way to describe Christians at this point. And they were proclaiming God's word and they were disrupting every Everything that the people, the worldly people of Ephesus held dear, especially the businessmen. And as always, many times there's a modern adage that still applies even back then, and that is follow the money. And we follow the money and we see some guys that are losing some of their income, and they're not very happy about that. For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith. which made silver shrines for Diana brought no small gain unto the craftsmen, whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation. And said, Sirs, you know that by this craft we have our wealth. This is Demetrius, he is a silversmith, and if I can just put it bluntly here, he's losing business at his local souvenir shop. He is making silver relics of the temple of Artemis and Diana. The one that we just saw there. And they must have been pretty impressive because he was making a lot of money off of those souvenirs. And he was making. these replicas of this temple because he understood that as popular as it was to go to the temple, this man was a smart businessman, Demetrius, and he said, why not allow people to take the temple So I'll make these miniature models of the temple, and probably of Diana as well, which was a very lewd image indeed. false image. And he made these images and he was making a lot of money off of them. They were a real moneymaker for him and for his friends. And so he calls all these guys together and says, guys, um our super Souvenir shops are taking a hit here. You want to know why? There's a guy named Paul and followers that are following him. And would you believe that this guy would dare to preach and teach Against the worship of Diana. Look at verse 26. Moreover, you see in here that not alone at Ephesus, but almost throughout Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away. Much people saying that they be no gods, which are made with hands. And so that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at naught, he'll go on and A minute. But Demetrius gets his fellow businessmen together and says, Have you heard of Paul? The nerve of this guy. This guy is persuading people that the very idols that we're making that they're buying from us are not real. That these idols that we have to make, that the goddess can't make herself , He's saying that they don't have any power. And so people aren't as interested in buying our little trinkets anymore. And I don't know about you, but I'm losing money. Are you losing money? Yeah, we're losing money too. You see, Paul, it was pointing people to the source of real power. And Paul, not only in Ephesus, but in the surrounding region Was influencing many people that were following after the pagan ways of the goddess Diana to leave all that behind. God was working real power through Paul. And the people were saying, wow, there is someone that's much more powerful. There is a God that's much more powerful than the one that we worship. We may build her a fancy temple, but in reality she's not doing a whole lot for us. And yet, this God of Paul and of the Christians of the way, he truly is powerful. And many were rejecting the false worship of Diana. And rejecting going to the temple and turning to Jesus and worshiping him instead. Well, these men didn't like that. And Demetrius had a good a very political way of turning that narrative around for their benefit, so that they could get rid of Paul He's a good politician besides just a businessman. Look at verse 26. But also, so he's saying, Not only is our craft in danger, we're in danger of losing money on this guy's, but also that the temple. of the great goddess Diana should be despised and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worship. Guys, more important than our revenue, which is very important to us But we need for the people to see that Paul, as he proclaims the Word of God, he's causing people to lose faith in the very false God. Well, he didn't say false God. goddess but the goddess that our whole culture is based around he's gonna bring the very foundations crumbling down By proclaiming God's word. We can't have this. Her greatness may be destroyed as well. By the way, if an itinerant preacher and his followers can come into a town and preach the gospel, and that destroys the power of a false goddess, does that not really point out that she really was Wasn't that great to begin with? And that's what Paul and his followers were pointing out, and people were understanding. Yeah, we've been worshiping this weird idol all these years and our magic books. And worshiping black magic and all of these things, as we saw last week. And they were turning their world upside down. And these guys say, we can't have this. They're going to mess up our way of life and our way of income. And so what do they do? Verse 28. And when they heard these things, they were full of wrath. Demetrius' words stirred up these other things. men and they cried out saying great is Diana of the Ephesians no foreigner is going to come into our town and say that our goddess isn't the best goddess around And speak ill of our temple. We're not going to allow that. We know how powerful, great, uh, and great is Diana, even though we're afraid of her losing her power. We don't want to say that. So let's fill the whole city with this reminder. And they stirred the whole city up. And folks, here's another reality. That God's word is at odds with the value of the word, and many with the world and many times God's word is opposed by the servants of the world. As even we see today. And these men were able to stir up this whole great city. You know, unfortunately, we don't have to think too far back in our own culture to think of experiences like this. Where a whole city is being stirred up to riot, right? I think we've seen something like this in our news stories in the recent past. It's not unfamiliar to us. And many times when chaos reigns, it's a result of the evil one And so, verse 29, the whole city was filled with confusion. And then having caught Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia. Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel, they rushed with one accord into the theater. And when Paul would have entered into the people, the disciples suffered him not, and certain of the chief of Asia Which were his friends sent unto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into the theater. I love that word. Paul, this is one adventure we really don't want you to have. Okay? There's a lot of chaos going out there. You're gonna get hurt. Your ministry might be effective. We know that you love adventure. But this is one we want you to avoid. So don't go out into the throngs. And in the midst of the chaos, Paul's disciples. Some of the very people that he has discipled and brought along in the faith, they're carried along in this riot. Men who have faithfully proclaimed God's word and the gospel. And Paul, his emotions are stirred up and he wants to help them, but cooler heads prevail. You see, Paul needed help as well Paul always didn't have all the answers. Paul didn't always make the right decisions every time. He was a human, flawed being, just like all of us. And so as an emotion, of course, you would think Paul of course would go after and want to help these men that he's discipled. But some others, certain of the chief of Asia, part of his group who were his friends, his friends sent messages and said, you guys, maybe they sent some friends to say you guys He's gonna rush right into that throng, and the only thing is it's just gonna get worse. He's gonna stir things up. The only thing that's gonna happen if Paul goes into that mess, it's gonna intensify That's not what's needed. And so these were probably high-ranking officers in the entire Asia province. So what this tells us is that Paul has friends in high places. Paul has made friends in all kinds of different cultural societal levels, and these high-ranking executives say, keep Paul out of that. And so Paul does. He stays back. He takes the advice. He doesn't arrogantly say, hey, I'm the Apostle Paul. Don't you know who you're talking to? Don't you think I ought to know what's best for my disciples and I? No, I think Paul backed off and said, okay Okay, I know I got emotional, I got worked up, but you guys are right. I'm probably not the guy to help out in this situation. That's one thing I another thing I appreciate about the Apostle Paul. Paul uh by the way, is that many times he admits that he needs the help. In the first part of that passage, we saw Paul planning on going back to Jerusalem and then to Rome, and he sent Others to preach the gospel, he knew that he couldn't do it all. And Paul was humbly willing to admit that. That's probably a good thing for us as believers today and as Pastors and as workers in ministry also to admit that we can't do it all right. Sometimes we need to back But that doesn't mean that the chaos didn't continue to reign. This became a various danger Situation. But notice who's causing the disturbance. It's not the Christians, verse thirty-two. Some therefore cried one thing, And some another, for the assembly was confused, and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together. And so here you have Demetrius, and these other men that have stirred these folks up, they're all in a rage, but it's kind of almost humorous. They're like, yeah, great is Diana. And by the way, why are we even Here saying this. Well, I don't know, but they said it was important. Okay, well let's keep crying that phrase. I mean they don't even know why they're there, but they're stirred up. And folks, in a mob mentality And in a riot mentality, chaos reigns, and that's always dangerous. That always causes destruction. Finally, there was a man. It seems uh that um Dr. Luke, who's narrating this event, describes him as a prominent Jew. Verse 33, they drew they drew Alexander out of the multitude. The Jews putting him forward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand and would have made a defense unto the people. So here is this man, probably Alexander. He's probably a A respected Jew is pushed forward, they find him, but he's not able to help. Maybe he wanted to make a defense because it lists him as a Jew. Maybe he was a believer, or maybe he just wanted to say uh hey guys um this isn't us this isn't the jewish people it's these Christians whatever he wanted to say he doesn't get a chance to say it because the mob just gets louder and louder and the chaos reigns by the By the way, I'm going to ask our guys in the back. You got one more picture for us? This picture will show us to this day where this took place in Ephesus. Can you imagine that being filled with angry people and you're one or two followers of Jesus Christ? And you're facing the wrath of hundreds of people. Wow. That had to be an intense experience, don't you think? And this Jew tries to say something, but it's too much. Nobody wants to hear it. The only thing they want to do is promote the power of their false deity who they're afraid is going to lose all of her power. Verse 34, and when but when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice about the space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians. Um have you ever been in a crowd, whether it's a baseball game or you see these riots, and at some point they're all able to rally around one song or one phrase and so So all the chaos and the yelling comes together and comes with words that's understandable. And so all this yelling and chaos, they're all able to coordinate together. And for two hours, you imagine the anger in that Coliseum, in that theater. Just a few Christians and all of these hundreds of Christians people yelling out at the top of their voice, great is Diana of the Ephesians. That would have been intense, would it not? Why all the chaos? Why was this necessary? Why were people so stirred up anyway? Because folks, we need to understand that whether it's our world system or our national system or our local, even our local Cultural system. These folks, many of these folks had lived in Ephesus their whole life. Maybe their neighbors were yelling at them. Even our local cultural system of worldly values, when it's Confronted by God's word, there will be pushback. You can count on it. Because their very lives, their very economic. Ability and status was being threatened. The threat was economic, cultural, and religious. The word of God was working powerfully and it was turning their whole world and system upside down. And Satan is always going to fight in this world when that happens. Count on it. Don't be surprised today when people fight back when we promote Christian values. Don't be surprised today. When people get upset and angry because we promote what uh the um Ten Commandments and the moral values of God. I mean, we can be, we can feel the intensity and we can And we can be disturbed by it, but don't be shaken by it, folks. This has been happening ever since the church began. Satan doesn't like the presence of God's word But what we see here in this last part of this narrative is that even in the front in the face of intense confrontation, God's servants can face the rage of the world and survive. Sometimes it's just a matter of surviving. So here we go. We have a town clerk, verse 35. And when the town clerk had appeased the people, what is Well, I think that's a good idea. Well, for Ephesus, he would have been a keeper of the records, the registrar, the accountant for the temple funds. He would have been the highest civic authority in the In the city, rather like a powerful city manager. And he was also the spokesperson, he was the liaison to the Roman authorities. This man had to answer to the to Rome if his city got out of control. And folks, in this narrative, would you not agree this city is out of control. And so this town clerk is panicking here. And so he's trying to now they didn't have megaphones or big speakers back then, but they had that amphitorium, and so he could get down at the at the at the end and people realize, oh, it's the town clerk. He has something to say. Shh, let's be quiet. And he yelled, I'm sure at the top of his voice, ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city of Ephesians, of the Ephesians is a worshiper of the great goddess Diana and of the image which fell down from Jupiter. Now that's an interesting description there. It does not say that an image that the the idol of Diana fell from the planet Jupiter. Jupiter. That would be weird, like an asteroid. But the idea, Jupiter, also another term title for Jupiter is Zeus, who had a part in creating Diana. Their folklore. And so the town clerk is pointing out the history. He's trying to counter the teaching of God's word with the history that they know. Our great goddess Diana sent from us. Maybe if they were thinking like an asteroid from the god Zeus. We all know. Maybe he's talking about a meteor that they took as a divine sign from Zeus. But he's saying, We know what we believe. Verse 36: Seeing then that these things cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet and do nothing rashly. He's like, guys, we know what we believe. We believe in worship of Diana. We know how powerful she is. Nobody's going to take that power from us. But yet you have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers of churches, nor yet blasphemies, blasphemers of your goddess. He's pointing out here that you're getting all upset the Christians, but look at Look at these guys. There's just a few of them. They haven't done anything wrong. There's a real problem with you bringing them before us uh expecting prosecution. These Christians, they've not done anything wrong. They've not been they've not um been involved in fevery. They've not stolen anything. They've not really, they've not said insulting things about Diana. They've just preached the truth of the word, but he's saying actually the Christians aren't the ones that's causing all the trouble here. It's you guys, my fellow Ephesian Dwellers, my fellow residents, you guys are the ones that's stirring up all the trouble here, not the Christians, so calm down. He says, For you have brought, okay, verse 38, therefore if Demetrius, if these guys that stirred up all this mess and the craftsmen which are with them If they have an ought against him, a matter against any man, remember what you're supposed to do. You either bring it to a legal court or you bring it to assembly. Let them impede one another. Don't let these guys who are just basically concerned that they're losing money get you guys all worked up. They should be taken This is to court or taking this before the elders in an assembly. But you guys, everybody's handling this in the wrong way. But if you inquire anything because Concerning other matters, it shall be determined in the lawful assembly. And then he points out here, For we are in danger to be called in question for this day's uproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of this concourse He's saying, guys, if you don't settle down, I'm gonna have to tell Rome, and then we're really gonna be in trouble. So let these Christians alone Calm down. Go home. Don't get us in any trouble. And did it work? And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly. And after the uproar was ceased, the Christians didn't freak out. They didn't run terrified the other way. They calmly picked up where they left off. Paul called on him the disciples and embraced them. Them and departed for to go into Macedonia. It's as if Paul and his friends got together and said, Well, riot 's over. Okay. Now what was next on the plan? To proclaim the gospel. Paul's like, okay, I'm headed off on my trip. You guys continue to preach Christ. What do we see here? In all of this. This very interesting story. Again, folks, is that God's power through his word is just as active and as powerful today as it was in Paul's time, but there is going to be a reaction for it in our world system today. But did you notice what this town called Clerk, that God is able to use pagans that are fully committed to the world system, that still have a reasonable sense of fairness, God can use them to accomplish his purpose. purposes. What do we do when more and more people get stirred up against us in our area here, in Hartford County, in Maryland, in our Do we panic? Do we run away in terror? Do we hide? Do we shh don't talk about the gospel anymore? We can have communion and celebrate what Christ has done for us, but outside Of these walls, don't talk about it anymore. No. This is what we do. We continue to proclaim the Word of God. And what we do is we pray, Lord. Lord, even with our secular pagan leaders in our culture, Lord, give us reasonable people that have a sense of fairness that will let us us continue to proclaim your word. Wouldn't that be better than to always be panicked about political situations? Lord, of course of course people are against us. Of course people are are fighting your word. But Lord, in the midst of all that, give us some politicians and some people that have a reasonable sense of fairness that will allow us to continue. To proclaim the Word of God. You see, we need to pray that in the midst of spiritual darkness and satanic power, That God will help us to be strong in Him, be bold, and protect us as we proclaim His Word. And don't be afraid of the power of the Word of God, folks. Expect it's going to cause a disturbance. And be loving examples for Christ in the midst of all of that. Father, thank you for this reminder that your word has created disturbance and chaos in the world. The world because of Satan's reaction against it. And that this shouldn't make us fearful. Or scare us, but that we rather should be bold in our testimony for Him and lead us The results to you. And we do pray for local leadership and national leadership that will be reasonable toward the truths of the gospel. And let our voice But whether they do or not, with the time that we have, help us to be good witnesses. Of Jesus Christ. The very one that we celebrated today as we commune together in the author of his sacrament. Sacrifice and resurrection. Let us be good witnesses of him beyond these walls. You think on that. You pray that God will give you strength and power and courage. To testify of Christ in a dark world. Ask for that while Leslie plays