Why good morning everyone. It is good to be with you again. It's been been a while, and uh when you pass called me, I was excited. Um do pray for him. I asked him on the phone a couple weeks ago when he called me. I said Now, who's it gonna be worse for, mama or you? You know, dropping them off at college? I think it's both of them. Me? I would have did a drive-by with my kids. Oh. No. I'll tell you, a lot's changed since the last time that I was here. Um how many of you are familiar with George Jones to country singer. They called him the possum, right? Well, I get teased sometimes about that, but I'm proud to tell you it's no longer George Jones Deposum. I am now Grandpa Jones. My daughter gave birth to our first grandchild back in June. Oh, being a parent's one thing. Being a grandparent is great. I love it. I got a little granddaughter. And I usually go over every morning to see her before I go to the mission. And then I go over in the evening when I get out of the mission. I mean, I just love it. But pray for your pastor. Let me give you an update on the mission since the last time I was here One of the things I'd like to update just since your pastor is at Bob Jones dropping off. We started a recovery program, addictions and recovery program at the Baltimore Rescue Mission called Freedom That Last. It was started by Dr. Jim Berg, who actually was faculty at Bob Jones University and pastors in South Carolina. And it is all scripture-based, a lot of scripture memorization. It is intense. We started off just doing it one day a week. That wasn't enough, so we're doing it two two nights a week. We meet Tuesday night and Thursday night, but we're also available every day of the week for individual discipleship. And We saw just within the first month of having it up and running, five people come to know Christ as their Savior And that is the foundation of it all. You have to have a foundation. And the very first point that they go through is saving faith and they have a pillar or column saving faith and God has just been doing a work through it We've actually had an individual coming from outside into the program , person who was on the mission field. Twenty-some years ago, a Bob Jones graduate who struggles with some things, and he started coming to it. And it's Making a difference. So I just wanted to update you with that. God is doing a work at the mission. Last year, I mean, not last year, but just this year alone. So far, we have seen over 80 men and women come to receive Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Thirty-one just from May to July. It is a blessing because that's what we are there for. Yes, we want to bring them in, give them a place to stay We want to feed them and clothe them. But if we don't give the gospel to them, all we're doing is dressing them up, sending them them to hell. We don't want that. And to see the work that God is doing. God is doing. I am still amazed. How many of you are familiar with George Mueller? Well, if you ever read his autobiography, How God Provided Every Day? We get to witness that every day. God meeting needs. We don't go to the government. We don't go to man. We go to God And when you step out on faith, you see God's hand of mercy. You see, a lot of people look for God in the big things. Oh, he does so much in the little Little things that we take for granted every single day. And so To be able to share that with you. Now, when you serve the Lord, it's not without battle. There are battles. I've been teaching our staff every Monday. We have chapel time for the staff five days a week, Monday through Friday at 12 o'clock. I do every Monday. And I've been going through the book of Ezekiel. And I've actually been doing that. September will be one year that I've spent in the book of Ezekiel, and I'm only on chapter 28. At this point. Well, if you study Ezekiel 28, you'll see spiritual warfare at its finest. You'll see the powers behind the throne All the missions in Maryland have been under attack from Annapolis. They have Been trying to propose legislation to require all shelters to be licensed, in which they set up all the parameters and all your rules Of who can come in and who can't. Basically, they want anyone to come in. Now, we don't force anyone to come in. Matter of fact, I don't believe any of the missions do. They come in, their red rules, and they agree or not. Well, Annapolis thinks That they are to legislate how shelters are run, and it is spiritual warfare, is what it is. Now, last year we were fortunate enough To see them pull the bill off the table. This is the second time they tried to force it through. And it's being proposed by the governor's board of LGBTQ affairs. That's the real. Group that is doing it. And I've already found out they're going to try and do it again. So we need your prayers because uh if it passes They will tell you that you can't preach the gospel because it can be construed as hate speech. They will tell you you will have to allow women in with the men and men in with the Now we want everyone to hear the gospel. But when they try to set forth the rules and part of their guideline last year when they tried to force us through under uh House Bill 93 and Senate Bill 234 , If you didn't get into compliance within one year, ten thousand dollar per day fine. Well, I take the stance out of the book of Acts. I'd rather obey God than man. It's about the gospel. But those are some of the battles that we face. A lot of spiritual warfare, just as the missionaries on the field. You keep Brother Matt and Sister Amanda in your prayers. Wonderful people. And uh Servants of God and all your missionaries. We're all in this together. It's about the furtherance of the gospel. Now, some of the things that take place with those salvations down there that we're seeing. I'll share your story. We have a man named Matt came in To our mission. I think he's originally from North Carolina. He wanted to volunteer. He said he was saved No motivation. Always sleeping just really no drive. And we used him because we can use help. I mean, I I I've seen the grass list. Y'all can use help here, right? People cut grass and everything. I'm sorry, I will not volunteer for that. I suffer from allergies bad. I enjoy watching grass grow. I enjoy playing in it. But cutting it is a whole nother story. But Matt Heard the gospel. He got saved. Now he had been hearing it. He had been sitting here every day, every night. We have a gospel service. every night of the week. And as a volunteer, guess what? He's got to sit in on the Bible studies. We have Bible study for the staff every Tuesday and Wednesday with Brother Chuck Bittner. A chapel service. He's heard the gospel. But God got a hold of his heart and he got saved. I tell you, Matt is now motivated. Matt is wide awake. I mean, his eyes are like, he's become a sponge. And he's really wanting to help others now. We had another man come in through the mission, a Navy veteran named William. Got saved the first week he was in there. We brought him on board as a volunteer. and then brought him on his step. And he came to me a couple of months ago and he says, How long do you expect people to stay here? I said, we would like to to see you really get back out into society, he said, because I want to start a family. I said I'm all for that. I said, but do it God's way. Start praying for a wife now. Do it God's way. Well, Matt, that's no longer with us. He's not from Maryland anyway. He went back home to California. Got a job out there And it is going to church, waiting for God to provide home for a wife. It's nothing we did. It's everything that God does for somebody. We just try to be faithful stewards, trusting with what God gives us. If you've got your Bibles, open up your Bibles this morning to the book of First Corinthians, chapter number 15. If you know anything about the book of First Corinthians, Corinthians chapter 15, this is the victory chapter of the Bible. And I'll just begin at verse number one. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved if you keep in memory that Or excuse me, what I preached unto you unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Can we pray? Heavenly Father, just help us for the next couple of minutes to glean from your word. Father, I pray today that you would speak to hearts and souls. From the Word of God. And Lord, if there's one here this morning who does not know Jesus Christ as their Savior, let today be the day of salvation for them. And we'll give you all the praise, honor, and glory that you alone deserve in Jesus' name. Amen. Now if you know anything About 1 Corinthians, Paul says here, I declare unto you the gospel. Paul in her text is declaring unto them the gospel. Not only the one he preached, but the one he received in the same gospel on which he stands. This is the same gospel which Jesus preached. This is the same gospel Paul was not ashamed of in Romans 1. 16. When he said, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is power of God unto salvation for all who believe the Jew first and also the Greek. This is the same gospel that still has the power to save. Now, I want to say this in this day that we're living in today, you have a lot of compromising preachers, you have a lot of compromising churches, you have a lot of people who want to please the world. And they are attacking the Word of God. They say Paul wasn't a real person. You'll get these Facebook and TikTok theologians who will say that. You'll get others that say Paul was a misogynist and hated women and this and that, and that his uh letters here should not be taken literally and we shouldn't listen to them. And you'll get others that say that we don't need the Old Testament. Well, when Paul's talking about the scriptures here, he's talking about the Old Testament. Didn't Jesus say in John 5. 39, search the scriptures? The New Testament wasn't written yet. And so Paul here is telling us about the Old Testament. And you can find the gospel, that same gospel that he preached in the Old Testament. If you go to Exodus, when Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness. Didn't Jesus say in John chapter 3, and I believe it is verse 14, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness. wilderness, so must the Son of Man also be lifted up. And then in John chapter 12 he said the same thing, and then it adds, Speaking of the manner of his death. So you can find the gospel in the Old Testament. Matter of fact, if you look at Abraham when he took Isaac. Up to offer him a sacrifice. There is the gospel. If you look at Isaiah 53, there is the gospel. How many of you have ever heard of Charles Spurgeon? Charles Spurgeon, when he was 17, he was going from church to church to the church looking how to be saved and nobody could tell him and he walked into a little Methodist church on a snowy night when the pastor didn't even show up And a deacon got up and just read out a scripture, look unto me and live. The gospel. It is all through the Old Testament. And that is the gospel that Paul was preaching here. Can I tell you, that is the same gospel that we preach every night at the Baltimore Rescue Mission. It is the same message. Yes, I said we could feed them, clothe them, give them them showers, a place to sleep. But the most important thing that we do every day is to give the gospel of the shed blood of Jesus Christ. The president said something the other day which kind of confirmed my thoughts on him, and I'm not knocking the president. I pray for the president. But I'll tell you this, I don't believe he's saved. And he said something the other day. He said, if we could broker a peace deal between Russia and Ukraine, I believe that will get me into heaven. I'm sorry, there's only one way to get to heaven, and it is still the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Believe me, I pray for our elected representatives, both Democrat and Republican. Because God ordained government. I pray for them. It tells us to pray that we maybe live peaceable lives. But there's only one way to heaven. And every man, woman, and child that's ever been born apart from our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ need to hear that same gospel. And the message has not changed. And when they Hear that gospel, and I thank you that you support us. Not only support us, you come down there and preach the gospel. You're down there, I believe, the fifth Thursday, every fifth Thursday. Faithfully. Faithfully, there. And I want to try to show you this morning four things out of this text. About the gospel. First thing I want to show you, let's look at verses two and three. Again, by which also ye are saved if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed In vain. Now that right there tells us a few things. A lot of people believe in the wrong things. You know there's all the gospels That's why Paul would address if any man or even an angel of heaven preach any other gospel. You have the prosperity gospel. There were the Gnostic Gospels There's a feel-good gospel. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also Received how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. The first thing I want to show you here is the encouragement of the gospel. The encouragement. The gospel is actually encouraging. Now, the men and women who come through our doors are not even rescue missions, homeless shelters, but you get people who Will come to church. They're down. They're on their last legs. They're looking for something. They're searching. Have you ever heard the old saying, don't be the dead horse? Or don't kick someone when they're down. These men and women who come to our doors, they have nothing left. They're down. A lot of people come into churches like that. They're down And they don't want to be beat down. I was on an ordination council last Sunday. Um one of the men out of my home church uh was called the pastor, his first church. And A church in Harford County that was needing a pastor, and he was given this advice. That an old man of God had said over 30 years ago at an ordination council to another preacher He said this, Dr. Ray Stewart said this. You can only skin a sheep once. But you can feed them every day. You can only skin a sheep once, and that stuff People get beaten and downtrodden, put down every day, and they're looking for some encouragement and hope. First thing I see here about the encouragement of the gospel is it's encouraging hope. Say, what do you mean? You don't have to die and go to hell. Is that not hope? You don't have to die Romans 6:23 says, for the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. It's encouraging hope. Look with me in the book of Ephesians, chapter two, and verse number one. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins You were dead. You see, if you're if you're not born again, you're already dead in your sins. You're spiritually dead. That word quickened means made alive. You ever heard a saying? Born twice, die once? Born once, die twice? Right there, there's hope. You don't have to hope have to die. That's encouraging to me. You mean wait a minute, I don't have to die? No. It is hope for the hopeless. And not only by giving them assurance , it gives them assurance. You know that song, Blessed Assurance, Jesus. Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. In John 10, 28, there is assurance of salvation It says here, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand And so they're receiving hope, but not only in assurance, but hope in knowing that you're free from the bondage of sin I hear a lot of people when they get saved say, I feel like a weight was lifted off of my shoulder. You tell me that's not hope. Doesn't John eight thirty-two talk uh and thirty-six say about let me turn it. so I don't misquote. That's the problem with getting old. You start to misquote things, but John 8. 32, and ye shall know the truth. And the truth shall make you free. Verse 36. If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. You know why a lot of people, even once they're saved They still struggle with the sins and the problems. They act like they have no hope. They don't Realize the prison door is open and they can walk right out. A lot of Christians are prisoners of war in that spiritual battle. When they need to be on the battlefield. So there's encouragement, and that's what we try to offer them through the gospel. The encouragement of the gospel. But then we see here in verse number three the example of the gospel. Now, as a man Especially before technology and YouTube and my wife always in my ear, do it this way. How many of you men enjoyed putting things together and wouldn't read the instructions? Yeah. Or it didn't come with instructions Or it's like instead of IKEA, I call it IKEA because that stuff will kill you trying to put that together. And you're looking and looking like what are I You see, I was one of those if no one starts I'd just look at the picture on the box how it's supposed to be. There's an example Some might call it an illustration. There's an example. You see, in verse number three For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins. According to the gospel. The example of the gospel is Christ. It's a picture that is painted for us. He died for our sins. First of all, it's an example of love. Now I I I'll be honest, I don't tell my wife I love her all that much, but I show her. I show her. Did you know John three sixteen, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life? That word gave is an action word. It's a verb. Now I was not very good at English I'm a product of Baltimore City Public Schools, please forgive me. But at least they taught us a few things back then. It's an example of love. Say, what do you mean? Romans 5. 8, but God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God didn't just say, I love you. He showed us how much He loved us. And we have an example to look at to see that love One of the things that breaks my heart is when I hear stories of of People who have been broken. Especially young ladies. I've got two sons and a daughter. My daughter's always been a daddy's girl ever since she She was born and they handed me the first in that delivery room. And she looked up with those blue eyes. I was a goner. That was it. I was done. You hear people who suffer from Addictions. Whether it's drugs, alcohol, depression, anxiety. It's because no one in the house ever shows Showed them love. There was never an example. Isn't that the problem with a lot of broken homes? There was never an example of love. But God showed us that example of love with His Son on the cross, how He died for our sins. But not only is an election Example of love. It's a perfect example of grace. Ephesians 2:8, for by grace are you saved through faith in that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. That gift. It's that perfect. God said, I'm giving you a gift because I love you And all we have to do is look at that cross as a reminder. We have an example We have an example of how to live our lives. We have an example Of how to love. You know what I love about studying the life of Jesus? He led by example. He led by example He didn't just tell the disciples to do things. He showed them how to do it. But not only do we have the encouragement of the gospel, the example of the gospel , we have the effect of the gospel. The effect of the gospel. Verse number two. By which also ye are saved. The effect of the gospel is salvation Now, I'm I'm not a smart person, so to speak, as far as science goes, and that's where y'all go. Should have said amen just when I I said I'm not a smart person, but I believe it's the second law of thermodynamics. Basically, cause and effect. For every action, there's a reaction The effect of the gospel is salvation It is salvation. And I want you to see something. Turn with me over to 2 Corinthians chapter 5, just a few pages over. Verse number seventeen. Therefore, if any man be in Christ. He is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. It's an effect. We see the gospel's effect on our nature. How many of you have ever gone through life, you hit a difficult time, and you said, I just want a fresh start. I want a new beginning. I want if you play golf, I want a mulligan. Believe me, I've taken a lot of them. Uh I used to play in golf tournaments and uh I remember uh I was uh playing with a VP, and one of the things they were raising money for one of the hospitals, the tournament I was playing in. Was they were selling mulligans. And this VP, I think he spent a thousand dollars buying mulligans And what's a mulligan? You're just getting a do over. You see the effect of the gospel on Therefore, if any man be in Christ is a new creature. So we see the effects on our nature But then we see the effect of the gospel on our identity. Our identity. Have you ever met someone who claimed to get saved and there was no change in them at all Nothing. Makes you wonder if they were truly saved, don't it? But look with me here at the rest of 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature, old things are passed. Away, behold, all things have become new, and all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's dead, be ye reconciled to God, for he hath made him To be sin for us who knew no sin, that we may be made the righteousness of God in him. So I'm talking about the identity The gospel's effect on our identity. We're gone from sinners, wicked sinners, to ambassadors. We are now representatives of Christ, trying to get the world to come to him. And how do we do that? Through the gospel. Those missionaries we're praying for on the mission field. Your missionaries. They're trying to bring others to Christ through the gospel. Through the gospel, because it has an effect on them. It's the gospel that can change a man. And we know this, Isaiah 55 says that God's word would not return unto him void. It's an effect on our identity. Let me ask you this question. Who are you in Christ today? Even if you never said a word to anybody, would they be able to Or would they think that you're part of the world? But the gospel also has an effect on our impact. Our impact. If we give anything less than the gospel, we're not going to impact anyone. Yes, we could tell people about the love of God, but if we don't tell them that man's a sinner and his need for salvation, and show him, right here, which is in the gospel. We're not going to have an impact. But if we give the gospel, because God's word won't return unto him void, it will have an impact. Think of the impact the first century church had upon the world. They went and proclaimed the gospel to the whole world. Rome thought that they were going to put it out. Many have tried to suppress it And look at the impact. But lastly, I want to show you the excellence of the gospel. The excellence of the gospel. Verses three and four once again For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our Sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. You see, the excellence of the gospel is Christ. Christ. The gospel is Christ. There's the excellence of his name Look with me at Acts four twelve. I love hearing pages turn in the Bible. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we Must be saved. The excellence of his name. His name The name of Jesus. Verse 2, Paul talked about if they had believed in vain. Romans 10, 9 and 10 says, If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Lord Jesus. , And believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, verse 13, shall be Saved. What's the Lord's name? Jesus. Jesus. The excellence of the gospel. Christ. There's the excellence of his name, but there's the excellence of his power and his glory He did not stay dead. He came out of that grave three days later You want to talk about the excellence. God will say, the Father will say, This is my beloved Son. In whom I am well pleased A lot of churches are failing because they fail to preach the gospel. They'll do topics on the news, topics on politics. Paul tell Timothy, preach the word, be instant in season and out-of-season? Reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all long suffering? It's still the gospel. What is the gospel? How that Christ died for our Our sins according to the scriptures. I love that. Not according to me. Not according to some teaching The evangelist according to the scriptures. The word of God was buried and rose Again, the third day, according to the Scriptures. You see, at the Baltimore Rescue Mission. That's what we're about. The gospel of the shed blood of Jesus Jesus Christ. That there is encouragement, there is a hope. But not only Only is there encouragement, we have an example to live by. And not only the example, the effect, It can change you. Look at what it did for Paul. Paul was a religious zealot, Pharisee of the Pharisees. He was going out to kill Christians. Matter of fact, he he held their coats while Stephen was stoned. And then he and Cam Christ on that road to Damascus. The gospel changed him You see, the gospel is Jesus. Every head bowed and every eye closed. If I was to title that I would call it the witness of the gospel because uh j the the proof you go down and see how he was seeing of uh Cephas, the the twelve, and then uh by five hundred The witness of the gospel is it witnesses to every person and tells them, you're a sinner and you must be born again You must be born again. If you're here this morning and you have never truly trusted Jesus Christ as you your Lord and Savior. And I'm talking with your heart, for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. Your heart. A lot of people have a head knowledge, but they don't have a heart knowledge. In your heart, you can today. I'll be glad to take my Bible and show you how to be born again. According to the scriptures. You can. Maybe you got family members, friends, neighbors Children who have never trusted Christ Would you pray for them and pray that they would receive the gospel? Would you take them to the Lord God's the only one that can change our heart And he still does it through the gospel. During the Sunday school hour, he talked about foolishness. Foolishness. But First Corinthians one eighteen tells us that the foolishness of uh what's I say, the preaching of the cross is foolishness under the It is the power of God. The cross is the gospel. I pray for every man, woman here today. Lord, if they're saved, I pray that they would share the gospel with someone this week. And if they're not saved, I pray that That the gospel would touch them. The message hasn't changed is still about your son Jesus. And thank you that there's encouragement in the gospel. It's hope for the hopeless. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right, I believe they're going to sing a song.