Desire to want to see the love of Christ be extended and have a witness that way That we would pray that we would have a strong witness amongst others in our community. And with each other. And that strong witness is what we're going to see today as we continue in our study of Revelation. Still in the beginning chapters, but these messages to the churches and this grand vision that John had of the victorious Lord, the victorious Savior. Jesus coming to him in a way that we don't normally think, with the eyes of fire and the two-edged sword that will be mentioned here in just a minute. glorious vision, fearful vision. And Jesus yet says, don't be afraid, I have work for you to do, Geoffrey. gives him these messages to then distribute to these churches that John was so familiar with. John would have um would have known and probably ministered in all of these churches at some point in his ministry and his base there in Ephesus. But Jesus knows these churches even much more intimately than John ever could. And so these messages and these churches are representations, you know, we we we may be distanced by what, thousands of years between ours and in these churches back then. But folks people are all the same. We have the same struggles even as believers. And as the struggles and Jesus gives condemnation, but also gives connotation and condemnation. These are things that we struggle with today too. And so we need to pay attention and say what part of this applies to our church and what do we need to be aware of. See, John, Jesus has been revealed to John, the victorious Savior, right? He holds authority over the churches and he knows the condition of each local congregation. And so his message now to this third church, this church in Pergamon. Is commendation mixed with condemnation both? This church is doing something wonderful. It is holding fast to a witness in a very difficult setting. But they're still on the wrong side of it. They are allowing sin. tolerating sin that will ultimately weaken it. Really we're gonna see what we all tend to struggle with That is we tend to lack an effort or desire for complete spiritual analysis. In other words, we tend to think of ourselves sometimes better than we are For those that are faithful servants to look at all the things that we're doing and kind of just overlook some of the weaknesses in our lives. It's our tendency, by God's grace, we can focus on both, but Jesus points that out today, that all of our service and ministry is important to him. And therefore, if we're weak in any area, we must repent and turn and change that. And so this church is described as holding fast while tolerating evil. How can that be? We're going to see. It's going to be a warning to us for us as well. For a faithful witness, make sure as well that we're not tolerating evil. We'll read this passage 12 through 17. And to the angel, the church and Pergamon, right? The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword. I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is, yet you hold fast my name. You did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was killed among you where Satan dwells. But I have a few things against you You have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balach to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality. So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaechian, the Pleotons. Therefore, repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will give some of the hidden manna. I will give him a white stone with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it. Father, prepare our hearts for this message. These messages that our Savior gave to these churches are those that are still relevant to us today. Help us to see that relevance, to look, and as we continue with each of these messages, to measure Village Chapel Baptist Church. where our strengths and weaknesses are. Father, let us be honest with our weaknesses and be willing to repent so that we don't have this warning come upon us. We want to be pleasing in all of our ministry to Christ. We can only do that through his power, and so we ask for that today, for it is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Holding fast while tolerating evil. Jesus commends and he condemns. But first of all, he commends commitment to himself. He commends our commitment to himself. And he points out that in the midst of all the persecution and the struggle that we face, his words will bring power and victory when we listen to them and embrace them. Well, first of all, verse 12 to the angel of the church, that's the leader, the pastor of the church in Pergamon, who would then relay that message to his congregation. And he gives the message there. Well, let's talk about what is what is the city of Bergamo like? What's the basis? What's the background behind that? A Pergamum could also be it could be described as called Pergamus And it actually meant parchment. And interestingly enough, it was the location where parchment was first manufactured Where in essence a type of paper was discovered. So because of that, probably not surprisingly, it eventually ended up holding one of the largest libraries in the known world and eventually grew to over 200,000 volumes. Now we appreciate our library is here. My boys love our library. It's right behind our house, which is very, very convenient. And we we access that a lot, especially on home trips. But I think 200,000 volumes would overwhelm them or be overwhelming to any of us, then yet back then this was a big deal, and so Pergamum, Pergamus was well known for this and it was prominent in world history even 300 years before the birth of Christ It was the prominent city in Asia, and so eventually the Romans made it the official capital of the entire province of Asia. Now all of these cities that we've talked about have had their distinguishing characteristics and are significant in one aspect or another. And certainly that is the case with Pergamon as well. What 's some of the highlights? Unfortunately, folks, the reason why the Romans made it the official capital is because they approved of its idol worship. It was a city entirely devoted satiated with idol worship, including four different temples to four prominent false deities. And this city was the first of all these cities to have a temple devoted to emperor worship. We've talked about this before in the other churches, Smyrna Additionally, and it's interesting in this um evaluation of Christ We see both of the difficulties that were mentioned of the previous churches. This church is struggling with false teaching and persecution both. There's a lot going on. They were so dedicated to emperor worship, which was worship, offering sacrifices and incense to Caesar, to the emperor. They became so well at it that later an additional temple was made. And this became literally the most intense emperor-worship city of the Roman Empire. You remember in Smyrna how we said once a year that the person Christians in particular face persecution if they would not offer incense to the emperor folks in Pergamum everyday Christians faced that type of persecution. A threat to their very lives. Just for living in the city and proclaiming rights. in danger, never knowing on a daily basis if they would face the ultimate persecution and give up their own lives. And wasn't described in that very soon Folks, to this city, Jesus needs to remind them and gives them a very specific message to encourage them, and that is this. The words of him who has the sharp, two-edged sword, the powerful Victorious sword of Jesus words. He is the one. Jesus is the one with all the power. It is interesting, another thing about Pergamum Because of this emperor worship, it had been actually given by the Roman Empire the honor of the right of the sword, the ability to carry out capital punishment as they saw fit. And many times that was the persecution of believers. This was a hard thing to go through. A great struggle for believers. And folks, they needed to hear this. That as they faced the sword on a regular basis. Maybe had to give their own lives that there were one day, the persecutors of these believers would one day face the all-powerful judge with the two-edged sword. who truly had the cosmic right of the sword to pronounce judgment on them for their deeds and would defeat them with his very words. These Christians needed that message to remember who they served. And Jesus Christ, who has the power to judge the right of the sword, would one day come and make everything. What a glorious way to start this message and a reminder to these folks. At the same time, it's also a reminder to them that he is their judge too. And they need to be careful. But first of all, it's commendation here. His name is worthy of our full commitment. And these people understand that. And because of all of these aspects of idolatry and persecution within this great city that I just described. Jesus has a very significant name for this verse 13. He says, I know. That's an intimate knowledge. He says, I know everything about you. I know where you dwell. It's where Satan's throne is. Describing this, these believers, as having a home in the very same city that Satan had a home in. That's intimidating, right? They dwelled in the same place. But the fact that he says Satan's throne is in this city does indicate that Satan had some sort of power and authority, albeit temporarily, in this particular city. It's interesting, in fact, at least two of the gods worshipped in the city were portrayed with images of serpents. Satan, it was in a visual way, it was clear that the darkness of Satan reigned at least temporarily, in a city filled to the rim with paganism, idolatry, and all with the power of the sword to enforce its demands. What a difficult place to live. And yet amazingly, here is Jesus testimony of these folks. Yet you hold fast my name. You did not deny my faith. Even in the days of Antiphus, my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells? And this church amazingly was able, through the power of Christ, to stay true to the name of Jesus, remain faithful in the midst of this intensity persecution, this intense evil, paganism, idolatry, worship, and even in the midst, as one of their own, literally had to give his own life for being committed to the witness of the name of Christ. Remember. The name of Jesus refers to his very nature, his character, and his works. And this Antipas and all of these folks were giving faithful testimony to Jesus Christ in the very dwelling place of Satan. That takes courage. That takes guts. And yet God had given these people that courage And it cost Antipas his life. And he was still willing to do that. And these people, even though they saw that, I'm sure they loved this man. Faithful servant witnessed alongside of them, they said, we will continue to proclaim Christ, even at the cost of our very lives. Before we go any further, let's all acknowledge that sacrificial committed witness to our risen Lord is no small thing That's no small thing to Jesus Christ. He knows. He knows everything about us, but he recognizes and is pleased and will comfort those who are willing, no matter what they face, to give continued faithful witness to his name. And let's be honest about this as well. The scriptures made clear in many passages, it is a necessary element, is it not, of all true believers? That we will endure some sort of suffering to proclaim the very word as it's described, the word, the sword that comes out of his mouth, Jesus' words, the word made flesh. When we proclaim him and are faithful to him. Maybe not the type of suffering we're describing here is what we're facing in our lives, but we'll face something. And folks, as more as this country and this nation and our society becomes more and more antagonistic to Christianity. This may be around the corner. We don't know. But this prepares us for whatever we would face. by reminding us that the all-powerful Savior with the sword will come and make all things great. And in God's time Jesus made clear he will judge the persecutors and he will set all things right. And these folks knew that And they depended on that. And their faith was gloriously strong in Christ. Praise the Lord. We rejoice in that. Now in the midst of all that, wouldn't we just say, praise the Lord for this church? Hallelujah, brothers, keep it up. But Jesus knows all things. And there's also some problems that this church does need to address, for Jesus is actually going to come and deal with them, amazingly enough. And he warns here in the second part, verses 14 through 17. He warns of the church's toleration, of our toleration of evil. Disobedience. And he is against the allowance of disobedience in his church, his commands. These believers' faithfulness was certainly highly commendable, but on the downside, they were tolerating evil within the very body of Christ. And they were causing believers to stumble in their Christian lives. And Jesus describes it interestingly in this way. But I have a few things against you. And by the way, that's no small thing. You don't want Jesus to say that of you. Because that means that if you don't change, he is against your actions and there's correction coming He says, I have a few things against you. You have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols. and practiced sexual immorality. Balam? Well isn't he the guy that the donkey talked to? What does that have to do with the church in Pergamum? But this is Jesus, right? And so we need to understand, not just look at this and say, what's going on? But Jesus is telling us this We need to dig further to have understanding and thankfully in the Old Testament we have that. We're given that. Jesus is using this Story of what Balaam had done to God's people to say there are people doing this today in the same way. Not Balaam himself. But the same teaching, the same stumbling block that Balaam put before God's people, you are allowing people today in this church in Pergamon to have that same stumbling block before believers. Numbers 22 through 24 tells a story of Balaam, the local prophet for hire. Ufach, the king of Moab, if you'll remember, as the people were traveling through the land, the king of Moab didn't like that, and he wanted something done about it. So Balaam was the local guy to go to who was known that speak the words of the Lord, but Balach didn't fully understand that. And he just wanted Balaam to curse Israel as they made their way to the promised land. Now we don't have time. Four whole chapters or three whole chapters of Old Testament stories. You go back and read that sometime. And I appreciate Peter reading what he did and giving the explanation back But if you remember, Balaam told Balak that he can only speak the words of God. But he did. He made it clear he was interested in the money. And he wanted a way to have that money. Obviously, the king of Moab had some great resources, was offering him quite a bit of money. He wanted the money, but he had to make it clear, I can only speak the words of the Lord. Sorry. In his mind. But I may not be able to help you in the way that you want me to. And that was certainly the case. As he spoke, he actually tried I think Balaam was hoping that maybe he could get a curse out on God's people. Foolish thought, but this man was overwhelmed by desire for money. I think as a side note, it reminds us that our desire for money And our passion for something other than Jesus Christ can make us very foolish indeed too, as it did. You think God had a um a sign or a message for Balaam and having his donkey speak to him To show him how foolish he was being. And yet Balaam could only speak blessings instead of curses upon God's people. And it says in the end that Balaam and Balach went their way. And then in chapter 25, something very interesting happens that it What we find is that the Moabites discovered another way to be a stumbling block to God's people. Go ahead and turn to Numbers 25, because we're going to look at Numbers 31, too. Just a few verses. Numbers twenty-five, one through five Right after Balaam and Balak parted, we have this story. While Israel lived in Shetam, the people began to war with the daughters of Moab. What happened here, the Moabites somehow figured out that they could tempt the men of Israel through immorality with their young women. And that's what we see here. And the men of Israel became captured and immersed in immorality and also idol worship. And God had to deal with them severely. Let's read. These invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods. They invited them to idol worship. The people were tempted, and the people ate and bowed down to their gods because they now had this. attachment because of these young women that the Moabites sent to the men of Israel, causing them to stray from faithfulness to God. And so Israel yoked himself to Bale of Theor. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And the Lord said to Moses, Take all the chiefs of the people and hang them in the sun before the Lord, that the fierce anger of the Lord may turn away from Israel. And Moses said to the judges of Israel, Each of you kill of those men who have yoked themselves to Baal of the Lord. And the king of Moab did find a way to be a stumbling block and cause uh disaster to come upon Israel as he tempted them to disobey. Now ultimately that was Israel's fault. It was their responsibility But the king of Moab was crafting and figuring out a way to do that. He caused the people to stumble with this stumbling block of idolatry and immorality. But it's still a little bit of a mystery. And it's not until Numbers 31, turn to Numbers 31, 14 through 16, that the mystery is revealed. Where did Moab where did Bala get this idea? And what happened to Balaam? Well, after the sin is dealt with, God calls his people to go up against people and there is a great slaughter. God gives the people victory over their enemies, and it is told in Numbers 31 that among the slain is Balaam. What's Balaam doing with God's enemies Well, Moses tells us what Balaam's doing with God's enemies in verse 14 of 31. Moses was angry with the officers of the army, the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds who have come from service in the Lord. Moses said to them, Have you let all the women live? Behold, these on Balaam's advice caused the people of Israel to act treacherously against the Lord in the incident of Peor. And so the plague came upon the congregation of the Lord. Here we find that Balaam got this great idea. Maybe he came back to Balak and said, I have an idea. Okay? I have to speak God's word. Really wants your money though. And I know hey, you contempt the people of God to stray from their God and cause great destruction. A major plague came and killed many of these people because of their disobedience. Balaam may have been a prophet of God in a sense where he had to give God's word, but he was also, we see here, the enemy of God. Isn't it remarkable that somebody that speaks the very words, even as Peter read those words this morning, all truth about the power of God. And did you notice, by the way, it was a prophecy of the one who would come Balaam gave a prophecy of the coming of Jesus Christ. And yet that same person was the enemy of God. Folks remember that. Even as we highlight certain people and give certain people importance in our lives that we think because of merely their speech, their wonderful Christian. Be careful. Make sure you know the person. Make sure you know their character before you trust them to lead you. Anyway, that's all as a subside note here. What we find out, though, is Balaam was the greater perpetrator than even King Balaam. He was the one most responsible and actually devising stumbling blocks of temptation for God's Well, how does that connect then to what Jesus is saying, to the teaching that is being allowed in the Pergamon church? And what Jesus is saying is that same teaching, that idolatry and immorality connected with false worship is actually being tolerated within the body. Remarkable that a group of people that are commended for holding fast to Jesus' name would actually be allowing teachings of idolatry and immorality in their midst. How can that be? Well, we're all a mix of strengths and weaknesses. I think personally, and maybe we can understand this, that these people were fighting so hard and having such a difficult time. And you know this, when you are giving your all for God You're fighting. There are certain other things in your life that you will go ahead and give allowances for because you know what I just I I just need a little bit of relaxation or I just need a little bit of downtime or you know I just we we can't be strong on all these things and some of these things you know they're okay. It's not gonna be that big of a deal if we allow those things into our lives because we're fighting a good fight. We're doing what's right, but we just get weary and sometimes when we get weary we let our defenses down and we allow things into our lives or possibly into our church that should never be allowed Sometimes leaders, they're fighting the battle, they're dealing with all kinds of disciplinary situations, and they just get tired. And they allow other things to go on within the church that shouldn't be allowed. And yet, folks, that can happen, but also don't miss the grace that Jesus has here. He doesn't come with the sword and just decimate or provide correction for this church. He gives them warning. And I find great comfort in that. That something that as a leader that something has escaped my attention or I there's a hidden sin as David says, a secret sin that I become blind to. That Jesus isn't just going to come with his sword. But he's going to make it clear, he's going to give me opportunity to repent. He's going to do that here in a minute. But that wasn't, that would be bad enough, right? But they would be allowing that. But also, verse 15, you also have some who hold the teachings of the Nicolaeans. Now we've heard of them before. What did I tell you about those teachings? Remember those teachings? Probably not. Because we don't really know what they were. But whatever they were, they were a false teaching that was an offense to Christ. And we do have some, a little bit of indication that this teaching may have been um that allowed God's people license for um adultery, immorality, excuse me, and idolatry that would fit well here The church is giving allowance for evil. And Jesus says, I have that against you. That needs to change. Here's his sobering, boring. Well before we do that, let me just give a little bit of application here on this. You know, there's many secondary applications. that I could make about being careful about immoral and idolatrous strands within the church function and practice that would taint its purity. And those would be important emphasis to make. But I think the direct application here is a warning not to allow blatant disobedience to God's commands in his word. Can that really happen in a church? I'm aware of stories. You've heard of these in the past, and we grieve over these things. We're faithful churches. Find out even among the leadership of immorality going on within the leadership and it's just kind of weak that. Yeah. Don't make too much We we almost marvel that that could take place, but folks, I know that it does. I've heard stories You probably know situations too repeat and I think it sometimes it is that people look at their ministry and it's doing great things for God and so the leadership's like, well, we can just kind of slip in these areas and nobody will find out about it, and we'll just keep it between ourselves. And Jesus says, no, I'm against that. No immorality. It's direct disobedience to my command, and I'm against that practice of my church There's other situations, even with idolatry. You know, a pastor or leadership can serve God faithfully and let and yet make it clear that they have great passions that sometimes if they're not careful they can make clear they have a greater passion for something of worldly origin. than of Jesus Christ. Maybe it's a sports team. It's not wrong to be loyal to a sports team or to love to enjoy sports But if we talk about, this is just one practical aspect of this, if you talk, if we talk about sports all the time to the point where when people think of us, they think, sports team, rather than servant of Christ. Isn't that idolatry? If as a pastor, I'm constantly, and I this isn't my weakness, but if I did this, I don't think I'd hardly ever use sport stories just because that's that's uh I don't have a lot of those ready in my mind. But if if I were to be one that would use a lot of sports illustrations of things about a specific team And people left thinking about my funny story about a particular sports team or whatever more than the message, wouldn't I in some way be be proclaiming a leniency toward idolatry in some way or another? You see, direct disobedience to God's commands can happen in a I could give many more illustrations, right? Anything that would come across as idolatry or something That even a particular leader that allows himself to be adored and people talk more about that church leader and that pastor than they ever do about Jesus Christ. That's idolatry sin. And my point is that those types of things need to be mentioned need to be noted and eradicated. And that we, the church, need to maintain firm obedience to all of God's commands. Our society is continuing to get more and more degenerate We are facing opposition, the basic commands of God. Folks, do you think that the church is going to face persecution soon for just putting out the basics that God could be in men and women different? Isn't that it is. Abortion. That the very basic command that Jesus that God says about the the right to life in the um the importance of life and yet to even be supportive of groups and those that try to fight against abortion in our land is becoming almost a crime. And we're being painted that way. It is going to be harder and harder for God's people to maintain loyalty to even the basic commands of Scripture. Yet Jesus says, you can do it. Don't tolerate it. Don't give in. Don't get lazy. It says then he's not going to tolerate. He will deal with this disobedience in those who tolerate it. Verse 16 makes that clear. He calls for them to be careful and to repent. Therefore, repent. Turn from your way. I've made it clear. I've pointed out your fault. You turn from that now. Don't wait. Because if you wait, I will not wait any longer. And if you wait, if you will not turn, if not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth. I find this interesting. Have to be careful of the context and make sure we interpret this correctly. I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword in my mouth. He'll come to the church, but he'll be against them. What's going on there? Jesus is saying, I will deal with those false teachers that are teaching disobedience to my commands. in your church. I will come to you and deal with them. I think what he's saying here is if you tolerate or if you're aligned with them, you may be caught in the crossfire And in context, Jesus isn't saying, I'm going to come back one day in the second coming and deal with this, but this is more immediate. I will come to you soon and deal with them. And really as I study this out, there's a number of interpretations that I really believe that this is most accurate is that those leaders and those people that tolerate or tie themselves to those false teachings Jesus says, I might have to deal with you in the same way. Let me give you an example. Doesn't Paul refer To the fact that those believers, true believers, who refuse to turn and do right in specific areas that God has noted in their lives and they refuse to change. Paul makes it clear that God has an option for those people that's not pretty. 1 Corinthians 11, 28, let a person examine himself then, so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. And that is why many of you are weak and ill. And some have even died. I really believe that Jesus is saying here, if you will not repent, then my usefulness for you may be done. And I may take you home to be with me as I deal with the sin in your midst. That's a sobering warning, folks. We rejoice that the sword will defend us. We don't want the two-edged sword against us in any way. We won't win. Some of you know that uh my boys, two of my boys, well Kendall and Luke, one of the basically the main thing, their focus for Christmas, they wanted B beguns. I visited a friend in Georgia and they'd recently gotten their son a BB gun and he was showing them how to shoot it carefully and different things and they just from that moment on became obsessed. And so we thought about it and we thought, you know, we're at the right time. We've got some advice from some of you. Oh, I think I think you're ready for this. So they got their their BD guns and we had that we weren't even able to put those things under the tree until the very day because it was so obvious what they would be, right? We wanted a little bit of this mystery, are they going to get it or not And as soon as I had put those under the tree that morning, Christmas morning, and we got back from church, and they saw those there, they knew right away what they were. And they were excited about that. Well, um while we were at Leslie's Parents, um I found some time to take in the patch of woods that's behind my father-in-law's house um to let Luke in uh Kendall do some target practice. We put a target up that we bought for them and he was being careful and he was sizing up his scope and all these things, being very careful Because he wanted to hit that target. And we already talked about, you know, point the gun over here. There's a house behind you. So be careful here. We are all careful and we had he had a sight aligned for that one target. But There's a dog that my in-laws have his name is her name is Dixie. She's a lovable old gray dog. She loves people And as Luke was just about ready to shoot off one of those pellets, she came bounding through the trees and right toward him, right in the line of the scope, and I said, whoa, hold on, wait. And we waited and I'm like, see, get over here, get over here. I mean this whole huge walk yard and she had to be right in front of where he was shooting because she wanted to get to us more quickly. Well she had put herself in danger of something that could have hurt her very significantly. And she was fine and we got her out of the way and we enjoyed it. Well folks, Jesus is warning us, don't put yourself in danger because I will deal with you. And here's this warning. Get out of the way. Don't support this. Don't tolerate this. Christians must always keep in mind if they persist in known sin, the Holy Spirit warns us consistently of that God can remove them from the service. Jesus is serious about the purity of this church, folks. He will act to protect it. I can guarantee you that, and he does here. In contrast to that, he has a wonderful, marvelous message for all of those who will remain faithful and committed to And this again is to all the churches, number 17. He who has an ear, let him hear. And that really means you should all have ears that are hearing, that are listening, that are paying attention. Pay attention. What the Spirit says to the churches, the one who conquers, I will give some, I will give some of the hidden manna And I will give him a white stone with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it. Now isn't that exciting? If you are faithful to the end, you get hidden manna on a white stone Amen. Amen. And I'm glad I'm glad uh Rob said that. But as you think about that, you might still be wondering, well, I'm sure that's gonna be really good. What is that? Do we get to take some of the manna that God had created for the children of Israel? Well, I I suppose. I suppose it's a possibility. I don't really think that's what Jesus is getting at. But he is describing a reward for faithful churches. And whatever this means, folks, we can trust Jesus that it is going to be pleasurable, that it is going to be employable. But I have a few ideas about what this means to help us out here. What is the hidden manna? Well, the manna of the Old Testament that God gave to give to his people for nourishment was eventually put into the Ark of the Covenant. We don't know where the Ark of the Covenant went to. Some uh some traditions say that Jeremiah, right before the um the Babylonians came, as as they were destroying the city that Jeremiah took the art of the covenant and buried it and hid it somewhere. We didn't start tradition. Is it possible that it might show up again at Jesus' return? We might share some of that mana? I suppose some scholars think that's the case But really, folks, who what was the picture of the manna supposed to be? Who was supposed to be the fulfillment of the manna? That picture. It wasn't just sustenance for God's people, but it was a picture. Of the bread of life that was to come. I'm convinced of that. That there would be a greater, deeper spiritual nourishment Not just physical that God gave his people, but a deeper spiritual nourishment that one would come and call himself the bread of life And would give us satisfaction for all eternity. I'm convinced that's the best description here is that Jesus is saying, you be faithful Not that we don't have the experience of the true bread of life already in this work in our lives, but misunderstanding. Well, we don't see him face to face yet. We'd all admit that. And when we see him face to face, that will be the full experience of communion with the bread of life. And we will all, as his followers, enjoy that. And I think that's the picture there of the hidden manna. Well, what about this white stone? Well, let me tell you, there's all kinds of interpretations about what this white stone could be. And I'm not going to go through them all today, because we're already past our time here I think the best is that this is describing a ticket to the marriage supper of the lamb. That's unique, right? Well the background behind this is that in this culture in the Roman world, stones were used white. Pure clean stones were used as invitations to entertainment events and banquets in the Roman world. In fact, When people would go to the athletic games, something along the lines of the Olympics, and the victors that would win those different races and events, they would be given, awarded a white stone that would allow them access to a special feast. So when Jesus talks about this white stone, people knew what he meant. This would be an invitation to a very special banquet and feast and event, and we're going to find out later. It's the Married Supper of the Lamb. All of those who remain faithful will feast with the hidden manna, the bread of light forever. We'll have that opportunity as well at that special marriage supper of the Lamb. The heaven imitation have a part of that. But he's not done yet. And remember, there's also a new name written on that stone Jesus describes here a special name that he has for each of us. Do you know that Jesus has a special name for each of you? Now you may like your name. I will admit to you, I really like my name a lot. Um and it's not that if I meet somebody else named Rock that I'm um that I'm not cordial to them or I'm hungry toward them, but it is a little weird. Because I don't hear normally hear Brock a lot. I like that name. I should thank my mom one day for naming me that. But I have to remember, and if you like your name too, that that's not the name most likely you're gonna have for all eternity. Jesus has a name for you and that's what he's gonna give you. Thank you. By the way, it's not going to be something derogatory. Well done, as we mentioned earlier, thy good and faithful servant for all of those that endure and persevere. And that will be a part of this banquet. We will appreciate that name. But you know another thing, you don't miss this, that Jesus is saying, it's important. He has the authority to name us. Those that are our masters have the authority to give us new names. That was understood in this world among bondservants. Jesus is our master and he can name us whatever he wants. And we'll be appreciative of that. Don't misunderstand me. But it signifies his lordship over us if he has the right to name us. and a new name that we'll have forever. Well as we conclude here, we've seen the church certainly functions in the domain of the enemy today too Sometimes folks, don't we feel like as we hear the news that we we hate to say it, but the United States is where Satan dwells? And we could say that in countries all over the world, but we sense that. The church functions in the midst of the domain of the anti And because of that, we're going to face persecution in one form or another as a result. Will we hold fast to the name of Jesus Christ? We must hold fast to his name. And give faithful witness to him. But that's not enough. We also have to be vigilant in our church bodies, in individual church bodies, in the local church. To not give way to the temptation and tolerate evil. Jesus is going to provide eternal victory for those who persevere faithfully. He promises that That's that two-edged sword, but that sword will also deal with those who refuse to refuse, excuse me, to allow disobedience. Or two, the sword will deal with those who allow disobedience to flourish within his church. We must always be vigilant to keep our purity. And remember then, as we persevere That we will receive a new name, that we will have a heart in the Mary's Supper of the Lamb, and we will enjoy the presence of Christ forever. Folks, it's true. We live in a dark, broken world now. But one day Jesus will return and we will enjoy spiritual riches for all eternity. On the two, keep the perspective And let that joy of that eternity and relationship with Christ in his presence motivate us to be faithful and to be pure. In this time that God's called us to serve Him And he can enable us to do that. Father, what a blessing this message is, as well a warning. And we pray specifically for this church in this region that you help us to hold fast regardless of what we face, regardless of what we face, challenges, the surprises in this new year. That we would continue to be a great witness for our Savior in this community. But help us also to be aware. If we are tolerating specific disobedience to your commands, that you would make that clear to us. Thank you, that you do Give us the grace to acknowledge, to show us those things. Show us, Lord, if there is that here. And give us opportunity to turn. Help us to turn and be pure as a church in this community that we may not have to face your discipline because we refuse to do what you called us to do. Keep us pure, keep us faithful. May Jesus return soon. All this we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.