So we're going to be starting a new series this morning, and it is found in the book of Habakkuk. Now I hope most of you at least know that there is a book in your Bibles named Habakkuk. I like to joke about this, but especially those of us that have uh new books Bibles. You know, that might be a section of God's Word where the pages still stick together a little bit because we haven't quite um gotten there in our reading. And I would guess that really, in a lot of ways, this book may be one that is more under unfamiliar to us. I had someone even mention to me this last week that they were excited about this study because they just never in And this is a section that's referred to many times as the minor prophets, not that they're minor insignificant. But they're just shorter in length. So you have the major prophets: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations isn't a prophet. Ezekiel, and then you have these smaller uh books, and Habakkuk is one of those. And we may come to this portion of scripture, maybe that's one of the the reasons this some many times is not as well read is we think that they don't when it comes to these last books in the Old Testament with the prophets that maybe they don't really relate to To us as much as what we would expect. But folks, my goal in this study and even this morning is to show that they do have great Relation to what we go through. And that you you will understand that your your spirit will Engage with the prophet this morning and understand where he's coming from because we all struggle with the same things. That is Is that many times as we look at this broken world around us and we read the headlines and we see what's going on, we think, Why, Lord? Why is this necessary? Why would you allow this? Some things we think we may understand, but then some things come up and we just think that that has no right I can't get my mind, my my mind around why that would even be necessary. Just looking through the headlines. Yesterday, we know of the barrage of missiles that Israel has experienced, and God has given them big great protection, but I believe that There were some deaths still involved. And we can look at that and say, Lord, your people have suffered so much. You know, the people of Israel, God's chosen People that nation. In a spiritual sense, those that have trusted Christ were all his people, right? We understand that. We think of what Israel's gone through, and even this is yesterday. And what they went through last October. And all of this, and it just after a while, we think, Lord, do they really have to go through the This much difficulty and pain. There was as well in Sydney, Australia, there was a stabbing attack. Six people lost their I read about the the title of another news article, Sudan's Civil War: Children Living Between Starvation and Death There are still Russian troops advancing in Ukraine. It seems like that never leaves the headlines. Just back and forth, back and forth. What's the purpose of all that? Another interesting uh headline that I read, the earth now is starting or or continues to pulsate every twenty Now I don't know what that has to do with anything in particular, but it doesn't sound very good. Right? More earthquakes, I think, more recently. Um another headline Ohio River expected to flood town again for the second time in one week. Ohio, and you've already been flooded out, and now the river overflows again, and you're experiencing flooding again. Even as believers, you may be tempted to say, Really, Lord? One more time? We're already reeling from this. Another headline, just very simply: why American teenagers are so sad. Why they're struggling so much right now. And then we also hear about what's going on with the Smiths. A family that just wants to go to Columbia and share the message Of Jesus. Lord, do they really have to go through all of those things? That doesn't make any sense to us at all. Why wouldn't you protect Maybe protect them a little bit more. Why wouldn't you give them strength? Why wouldn't you at least allow them to have a stable housing situation, Lord? What's going on here? Well, we would admit that we all we live in a broken, fallen world. The tragedies, cruelties, and violence of this world can really make it seem even To God's people, that many times he can be distant and almost unresponsive. Where are you, Lord, in the midst of all this? We spoke to a people yesterday that were reeling from the The death of a loved one, and they were wondering where God was in all this. And it's not just the incidences of wickedness and oppression like the headlines that I just described. But it's the frequency and the lasting nature. As we said, that town in Ohio, not just one time, but twice, Israel, constant bombardment. from their enemy. It seems like when trouble comes it comes in bucket loads. Why, Lord? Why can't it be more spaced out And in our world today, I think many of us as believers are not just frustrated by a lack of justice, although we see that all the time. Um the very Definitions of morality turned upside down, and it seems as if there's no justice in the world or even in our country that we lack in our society proper justice. People always get free and that they prosper. There's other aspects as well. As God's people sometimes Turn their face from the world and look within, many times we see within Christianity and within our own churches indiscretions and morality failures that sometimes disgust us. And we say, how can these people claim to be Christians and this go on in the church? Well what I want us to see from this book this morning in this book of Habakkuk, I hope you found it at this point, is these are Just descriptions and characteristics of things that our world goes through today. Christians and followers of God have asked these questions for quite a long time. Actually, all the way back in the Old Testament, here we have this prophet who's asked Asking those same sorts of things that he's seeing seeming, let's say seeming contradictions between God's justice and his presence. And this this huh this prophet named Habakkuk that we're gonna see is really unknown to us. We don't know much about him except for his name and the fact that he was a prophet. He had the same Frustrations that we just voiced just a few minutes ago. Where are you, Lord, in the midst of all of these troubles? The one thing that we see with Habakkuk that's different many times from what we do is the one thing, folks, that we must do. And even as we start this study, we must ad uh uh reflect And we must acknowledge that Habakkuk, when he has these difficulties and complaints and concerns, he goes to the one person that can give him answers He goes to the Lord. And even in the midst of some very tough questions that he asks, we're going to see that this man of God is not afraid to ask God, but he bears, he gives his burdens, he talks, he discusses these things with the only one that can do anything about them. I think sometimes that we maybe when we have these questions or we have doubts, and even the most mature, the strongest believers at times struggle with doubt. Doubts in God. That sometimes we're almost afraid to go to God because I can't talk that way to God. I mean, He's God. I'm supposed to be respectful. And it is true that we're supposed to be in awe and we worship and um we are careful in his presence but we're gonna find out as well that he wants to hear from us that he wants to hear every even more When we're struggling, he already knows that we are. than We can't hide these things from him. And even in our questions, there is a legitimate way that we can even question God. And that's really what this entire series is about: questioning God. Because again, let's just admit we all do it. So, why don't we go to him and take our questions to him? That's what Habakkuk does. We must do the same. Here's the caveat That as we go to God with those questions, be prepared. He's not going to leave us where we are. We can go to God as we are. Lord, I'm frustrated. I'm struggling. I don't understand, but God isn't gonna leave us there. And another thing, folks, is that when we ask questions of God, be prepared, we will receive answers, but they're not always the answers that we But he will be honest with us. His answers may just be different from our expectations. Supposed to add this morning that uh we're not having children's church, so probably was of apparent to you. Um some of the things that we're talking about today I think are good opportunities. For our parents to discuss with their children afterwards. And so even as we get into these things, I think this is helpful. But I think this will be things that we will need to discuss. And talk about with our children and with our families. We're going to see here a prophet that is weary, even as he starts out. This book of the Bible, he says, Lord, how long? How long do I have to go through and suffer? And do your people have to suffer these things? And he will get the answers that he needs. Not the answers that he expects, but the ones that he needs. But he's weary. And many times we we can be weary in our Christian lives because we're not, we we almost it seems like at times that God is silent, that He's not there at all. We see all the difficulties and the tribulations. But where are you, Lord? And we can become weary in that. And so Habakkuk reminds us even in these first few verses of chapter one that even when When we're weary, we must go to God and seek help from Him alone. Let's look again, let's look then at chapter one and what it says about this. Prophet, the oracle that Habakkuk the prophet saw. And that's really all that we get, the information about who this person is. But look at his question, verse two. This is One we resonate with, right? Oh Lord, how long shall I cry for help and you will not hear? That's something that we can all relate to, is it not? The silence of God. Where are you? Habakkuk understood that as well. Well, we can know a few basic Things about this prophet. Just a couple things. First of all, the meaning of his name in the Hebrew, interestingly enough, means embrace. So I would always tell our young people, or I'd tell the people people when I would when I would uh work through this study. In our language today, you could just say his name means hug. Really, embrace It means, and I don't know if that means that this prophet was a very emotional, very huggy person, you know, that everybody that he greeted, he always he put his arms around or whatever, but that is the meaning. Of his name. And I think maybe then it would say that he has a love and concern for people. I don't know. I don't want to read too much into that. But as then he's looking at the Difficulties that his nation, his own people are going through, and the the the um great tribulation that they're afflicting upon themselves and their own sin I think it grieved him to see people that were hurting. We know as well, obviously, that he was called to as a prophet, and we have Kind of a general sense of the time frame in which he lived. We'll get more into that in just a minute. But this prophetic book is unique from some of the other books. And that is because in most of the books, well except for Jonah, we have a prophet that proclaimed to the people the message of the Lord. Isaiah, Jeremiah. Ezekiel. All these prophets, God would give them a message and they would proclaim that to the people. But in this instance, in this book, we have a prophet that proclaims to the Lord Most of the prophetic books, it's God using a man to proclaim what he once said to the people. But in Habakkuk, Habakkuk Habakkuk proclaims to the Lord what the people want said. And instead of proclaiming God's word, Habakkuk is questioning what God said God is doing. And we're kind of brought into a personal conversation between Habakkuk and God that God in his sovereignty and love decided to include in the scripture. And Habakkuk's burden here is that evil and wickedness flourishes. That word oracle actually means a great burden. And it's something that Someone that maybe is set upon someone that greatly burdens them down. And many times the words and the message that God gave to the prophets were Were oracles were burdens upon them. And Habakkuk's burden is that as he looks around him, evil and wickedness flourish. And again, it just seems as if God doesn't say anything at all Well, what did Habakkuk have to be concerned about? Again, this is a general sense, but most likely Habakkuk's looking around and he's living within a time. For those of you that know your Bibles well, the um the nation of Israel Israel, because of the judgment of God, had been divided into two kingdoms. , There was the northern kingdom that at this point had already God had already judged them and had used a nation Of people, cruel people called the Assyrians, to literally disperse the northern kingdom all over the known known world. As a people. But there was still, God was not done with his people. And with the southern kingdom, there was a number of godly kings, a number of people That still cared about the things of God. God gave them a little bit longer, but by the time of Habakkuk, there was more bad kings than good kings. Habakkuk may have ministered under the under the reign of the last really good king in Judah. The southern kingdom of Israel was called Judah. And his name is Josiah. And he re-he discovered the law of the Lord and the Bible, and he um accommodated and accustomed God's people to God's word again, and he did a lot of wonderful things. But one thing that he did, he wasn't really supposed to do, is he went after Egypt as the enemy uh when God didn't give him clearance to do so, and so he was killed by an enemy nation. And then his descendants, the next couple of guys were not at all, they didn't follow at all in their godly father's footsteps and Josiah's footsteps, but they were rebellious against God, and they did not serve him , and they were evil in their ways. Became a tyrant as the king of Judah as a people of God, and he was literally known for killing innocents and despising God's word, and most likely even And this was the status of things during while Habakkuk is writing, and the status of the World as Habakkuk is lamenting before God. Why, Lord? Why do you allow this evil king to do these things? And so he goes To God. Verse two, again, let's look at this. O Lord, how long shall I cry for help, and you will not hear Or cry to you, violence, and you will not save. We can hear the frustration in his voice, right? Well, one more thing I'll let you know that's positive about Habakkuk in particular, this does seem to be a long-term pattern. In other words, he's saying, Lord, I have continually come to you and you alone for help. Habakkuk is a wonderful reminder to us to persevere in going to God when we struggle, when we hurt, when we're going through life's deepest hurt. Hurts and agonies is to pursue God. Continue to seek his face. And Habakkuk has done that, but he's getting frustrated. And he's weary and he's tired. I think a few of us can relate to that even today. And he says, literally, Lord, how much longer? I'm so tired. Tired. I'm seeking your face. And it just seems like you're not listening. How much longer do I have to seek you before I'm going to get an answer from you? I've had many situations in my life where we've prayed. And many and even coming back here to Maryland as we were praying. Um it seemed like God wasn't giving the answer that we needed at the right time. And we were kind of reminding God like He needed a reminder. Lord, we need an answer really soon here. Time is Taking away. We only have a few months and we need to make a decision. And so, you know, I I know you know this, but but do you know this? And we wait and we think that God needs To acquiesce himself to our timeline. And the frustrating thing is that many is that God has his own timeline and it doesn't always accommodate us. And you know That's what Habakkuk's saying at this point. I've called out to you something else that's interesting here, as Habakkuk really spills his soul and his heart to his heavenly father is that he knows God very well. In fact, the problem that Habakkuk is dealing with here is not That he doesn't know God well. Sometimes the struggle that we have as we question God is that we don't know God's word well enough to really understand who he is. And the solution to that, folks, is that we must be better students of God's word. Many times that's our problem. God, it's because we haven't been in His Word. We've mentioned this morning in Sunday school how the Holy Spirit guides us and helps us to understand God's word. And folks, we especially need the guidance of the Spirit in God's word when we're at our rope's end, so to speak. When we're in a situation where we just don't see the end of the tunnel and we don't Know and and we feel like we can't hang on any longer. That's when we need to know God's word even more succinctly and understand it better. But that's not Habakkuk's problem. Because he knows God well. He is the prophet, you know. But his problem is that experiential experientially, even though he He knows a lot about God, it doesn't feel like God's there. In his experience, I know God who you are, and that you work all things for your purpose And for my good, but experientially it just doesn't feel like that right now. And there are many times where we find ourselves being more motivated by our feelings and what we know. Of God. And guess what? That was a problem and a temptation for the people of God all the way back in Old Testament times, since the beginning of creation. And we can understand his frustration. He's pleading here. How long I'm crying for salvation that you will come and deliver. Deliver me and deliver your people. I need your deliverance in my life. And I just want to know that you hear my prayer, Lord, and that you'll respond. The second part of verse 2 is very interesting. Or cry to you Violence and you will not save. Do you know what the Hebrew word for violence there is? It's actually the word Hamas. Have you heard that word? Recently? Yeah. And it means violence that is done, uh murderous um actions and uh Murderous intentions, destruction by means of terrible violence. And so it's as if Habakkuk is looking around him and he There's there's so little that he could say. Maybe he has just seen, maybe King Jehoiakim, he has just experienced um King Jehoiakim putting to death one of the Prophets, maybe that prophet was a friend of his and he's literally relaxing. He's saying, Lord, look violence! Look what's happening. You've got to do something, Lord. Look what's happening over here It's like when uh crime is being uh perpetrated and people are trying to react and some ignore, some try to point, and and some then try to rush in and do something. But it's almost like Habakkuk is seeing something right in front of him and saying, Lord, do something. You gotta react. Look what's happening there. Are you gonna allow that to continue? Are you not gonna rush in and deliver? And save us from these things? That word there for cry in that second part of verse two is actually an even stronger word where it literally describes This is vivid, folks. I mean Habakkuk's gives Giving God everything that He's experiencing. He's not holding anything back. And it's almost like He's just saying, I'm in the midst, I'm experiencing pain. Lord, stop the pain. Stop the hurt. I can't take it I was reminded as I studied for this of a situation that came to mind. Um we are Obviously have four boys and we love them dearly. Um no girls. Again, uh Les my wife's the only female, well except for the dog. The dog's good at barking, but she's not very conversational. So we have these these four boys and one of the things that boys like to do is believe it or not, they like to pick at each other at times and Irritate and aggravate each other. And we had, especially when they were younger, one son in particular that Was very heart-wrenching in his response to pain and to frustration and to trouble. I won't say which one that is. And I did get Permission to share this story first. But when he when when a brother would bother him or he was going through something very difficult, it first would express itself on his face. You could see it on his face that something was wrong. His jaw would drop before there was ever anything said, or a cry, and you just knew that something was wrong. And then when that noise came out, it was a cry Of just utter desperation. And even though he didn't say this, this is what the words always translated to me: avenge me, father, for I have been wronged. Now actually I shouldn't be surprised by that, not to go off on a tangent here or anything, but he did our boys, if they were dramatic in their responses to difficult But they did come by it honestly and naturally. I grew up with four brothers as well. And one of my brothers was a master of dramatic research. responses to pain. In fact, you could see as we were growing up, and it's whether it was an emotional response to somebody teasing him or he was actually hurt, You could see on his face it it it was almost like you could see him process it and his face would twitch a little bit and you know it would start the the corners of his mouth would start to go down. Like he's processing, is this enough to really get upset about? And then at just the right dramatic moment his jaw would drop. And just no nothing, just total silence, but the jaw would drop. And at that point Whoever if there was a perpetrator involved who had done violence to him or bothered him, that person knew that that brother at that point that he had about a good four or five seconds to leave the room and get away before he got trouble. Because there was a cry that was going to come out of that mouth that would just bellow. And after that moment of that jaw then dropping, this Agonized, um, heart-wrenching bellow would come out. And it would provide the correct response as our parents came into the room and rushed in. What's Going on here. And uh actually, you know, I I still have a picture, it's kind of funny, uh somewhere where at Christmas time me and my brothers are all gathered around the Christmas tree, and you see one Brother to the the right here, and he's all happy with his gifts, and there I am sitting next to him, and I'm all happy, hands folded with my gifts. And then the next one is his brother with his mouth drop jaw dropped wide open. I don't know what why he was crying about, but it was encapsulated forever in that picture. Um his dramatic ability. Uh the only thing I could think of was this child needs to be avenged. And so I would go and I would find out the details and like, you know, what's going on here and the the the whoever had done the wrong wrong, knew that they were gonna be in trouble. And so maybe they're like, well dad, all I did was I just flicked his elbow. It wasn't that big of a deal. It doesn't matter. This child has been Traumatized and they need help, and so you're going to fix what's right. Um, because it was that sense of helplessness in Christ Well that is the description here that Habakkuk is giving us that he Even as a grown man, he is crying out in hurt and agony, and he's saying, When are you gonna respond, Lord, to what I'm going through? And he continues on then, verse 3. And he makes it clear that God's people long for God to address sin. And when they sin See injustice around them and sin happening, and nothing happens. That's so frustrating to them, and it is to the prophet as well. Look at verse 3 again. Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you look idly at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me. Strife and contention Arise. This is very interesting what the prophet's saying here. And I'm certain that we can relate to this. But Habakkuk is actually complaining to God that God God has given him spiritual perception to know this true state of evil and rebellion and the true brokenness of men around them, and then he can't We talked this morning at Sunday school about the work of the Spirit in our lives, and the Holy Spirit helps us as we're in God's Word to understand God's Word more. We understand we also understand how broken mankind is and how desperately they need Christ. And what Habakkuk is saying here is God basically at the end at the beginning of Verse 3, you have made me spiritually sensitive to where I understand the brokenness of man. But what am I supposed to do with this? I can't Fix this. So I'm more aware than ever of man's sin and evil. And it's almost like torture. Because the second part of that it seems like you're not responding at all. You make me see it even more clearly. And yet it seems like you're not doing anything Anything. Can we relate to that today? We look at the world and we look at the evil and everything we talked about with Israel and even what's going on with The Smith family, and you name it. And we think as believers, we have a better understanding of why this all happened through Adam and Eve, and we have a better theological understanding through God's Word. But it just makes the grieving even worse, does it not? When we have a greater understanding of why man is so broken and of his sin. It's like Don't sometimes we almost tend to, Lord, why'd you make me understand and see this when I can't do anything about it? And why don't you do something? Can we really talk that way to God? Well, the prophet did. And what is he saying when he says, you idly look at wrong? He's saying, God, it just seems like, now I know, I know the reality of who you are, but my experience seems like you're at a distance. And it seems like you're unconcerned. Concerned. And as I see all this evil around me, it almost comes across as that you're incapable of helping. That word also can mean idly look, means incapable of providing Salvation. And this is what it feels like to me, Lord. In other words, I'd rather just not know. I'd rather not have to deal with With any of this. And yet here it is. Lord, when are you going to act? When are you going to move? When are you going to address the Wrongs that are being done. And certainly Habakkuk has experienced the violence and the oppression to his people, the Jewish people. And that still goes on today, doesn't it? But actually, to be more precise, Habakkuk is looking at the evil and wickedness and violence within his own people. And this he's saying, Lord, what are you going to clean up this mess of your people? What are you going to do something about the violence and the sin that your own people are perfect? perpetrating that are involved with here. It disgusts me. I'm tired of it. Do something. I'm weary with this. And can I say this today? What are some of the One of the things that weary us the most as Christians today and as churchgoers, many times it's finding out of the sins within our own church and community, in our own Christian community. Isn't that sometimes even more wearying and It's even more wearisome to find out that the people of God have their issues and that they're broken. Lord, I didn't want to know that That doesn't encourage me and help my day. And we get weary. Let's continue here just quickly and we'll finish up. Verse 4. Law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth, for the wicked surround the righteous, so justice goes forth perverted. Basically, the prophet is saying here, You've given us your law. You've given us a standard, Lord, of how we're supposed to act, and that you will provide justice when people transgress that law. And it seems like your law and your ways are powerful. Like you've held us to these um standards and these rules, and that you're powerless to um to affect And to bring um you're powerless to follow through on bringing justice when people disobey your rules. And so what happens is the wicked get to do, seems like anyway, that they get to do whatever they want to do. They surround the righteous, they bully us. We don't have peace. Those that are concerned with your law, it seems like we have more trouble than it's worth. And so justice goes forth perverted, that people in the end, that evil never Never really gets dealt with, Lord. This is what it feels like. And this is what I'm experiencing. Your law has ceased to be effective. In other words, God You seem powerless to bring the effects in work the corrections of your law on the way Whenever someone set gives a set of rules and doesn't follow through on them and the punishment and the correction or whatever, those rules don't mean very much. And Habakkuk's saying here that maybe he's close to doubting that God's Justice seems crooked and twisted, that it doesn't operate the way that it should, because his own God's own people aren't living up to their commitment to following his righteous way And it seems like those in the end that do care about God's ways and that want to see his will done, but they always suffer. Now that's heavy. And again, as we finish up this morning, we might say, Am I really allowed to question God in that way? And here we have this prophet, this man whose name means embrace, that he sees the herd of the people around him, and he says, I have to bring these questions to God, or I'll Literally go crazy. I can't hold it in any longer. And he's weary by the evil of God's people around him and frustrated in God's seemingly lack of interest. But folks Folks, look at verse 5. We're gonna get into this next week. God doesn't leave him there, he gives him an answer, and he reminds him to keep holding on On to the power of God and to keep watching because God in his timing will deal with evil and he will bring justice. Look at verse five. Look among the nations. This is God's response To Habakkuk's initial question, and see and wonder and be astounded, for I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if I told you, if I And so as we're gonna see next week, we're reminding Today, as we end this, that when we're frustrated, folks, remember who has the big picture in view? It's not us. Things aren't gonna always make sense from the laypersons from our earthly perspective. We're not always gonna have all the answers to questions. People are gonna go through hard things and even myself as a pastor, I'm not always gonna be able to explain To them why they're going through that. I wish I could. We don't have the answers because we don't have the big picture of perspective that only God has. And so what What then do we have to do when these questions come and the doubt comes? Is that we have to continue to trust God and know that He knows even when we don't understand and we're Frustrated. He knows what's going on. So when wickedness and trouble abound, don't distance yourself from God, but hold fast to him. Draw closer to him. And another thing here as we finish up as well, God's says the reason that I don't tell you everything is because you couldn't handle the truth. You couldn't handle it. He says you would not believe If I told. That's kind of a way of saying, if I if you could see everything from my perspective, Habakkuk, you'd probably literally go crazy. You wouldn't understand. It's more awesome and magnificent and amazing than you could ever comprehend. But you're just gonna have to trust me and know that I'm in In control, that the things that seem pointless and understandable and difficult and hurtful with other people, that there is a purpose for them. So hold on And in my perfect sovereign timing, I will act. I will do exactly what you want me to do, and you will be amazed at what I do. And for those of you That have waited and have prayed, and God finally does act, isn't it the case that so many times it's more amazing and astounding than anything that we could ever have imagined or ever So as we continue in this study, then folks, the first line of hope here is that trust a God that is sovereign and knows more than you do. And hold and cling to him when you doubt and when you're in pain. Don't run from him. That's the time you need him even more. Draw closer to him and trust him. Father, thank you for this beginning of this beautiful Message in a book that's kind of hidden away in the Old Testament. Help us to continue to see as Habakkuk expresses frustrations, and God gives him honest Answers help us be reminded that you are in control and that you do know what you're doing. And that it is literally sin To continue to doubt and accuse you of not having things under control and that you don't know what you're doing. Lord, thank you that we have a message from this book That we can go to you, and you will give us reminders from your word of who you are and your power and your strength to see us through. Father, I pray For all of those here that are struggling today with deep-seated hurts, that you will be real to them. Help them to go to you. Help them to take their discouragement. And their frustrations and their hurt to you, and that you will move and act. Thank you for the reminder that your presence is with us. And that When you feel distant, that we need to seek your face even more fervently. And help us to do that even this morning. As Leslie plays , Let's renew our commitment to holding fast to God and seeking His face in a more fervent way, even in the midst of terrible and great difficulty. He is our strength. Let's reflect on that as Leslie plays