This morning. Our choir is going to go down as well. And we get to just for a few brief moments really dwell on the truths of the resurrection. There's a lot of Lots of passages that we could have gone to this morning for that, but today we're going to look at Matthew 28. Matthew twenty eight, and looking at a number of verses from this chapter. As I was thinking again over this passage, you know, it really is ironic. There's a lot of actually irony. As we get to this point after Jesus' crucifixion, that's give we're given account of in the scriptures. And one of the things, another thing that's fully ironic is that To understand true life, eternal life, that we must talk and focus on death. And that is exactly what We have been attempting to do throughout this week, even our Good Friday service, and emphasize the terrible suffering, both physically and spiritually, of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, His terrible death, His shed blood, all of these things, but yet they provided cleansing and forgiveness of sin for All even today who will trust, who will depend, put their faith in Jesus, not in their own works, but in the work that He And yet still we can't leave Jesus in the grave, can we, in our account of him? Because in order to enjoy new life and victory Over sin, he had to conquer death and sin. He had to be raised from the dead. He couldn't stay dead in that old grave And we're so thankful that we in chapter twenty-eight and in many other passages find the account of his resurrection. But at the end of chapter twenty-seven Before we get to twenty-eight, there is a lot of events and things that are a lot of things that are happening very quickly, activities that are quickly set in motion. As Jesus was on that cross And the others it was common for crucified criminals to be left hanging on crosses literally for weeks, and it is a terrible thought to even think of that. To not follow in their criminal ways. But this was really abhorrent to the Jewish mindset, and so they very quickly took Jesus off of the cross. A man named Joseph of Arimathea, if you know the account well, really courageously upset the convention of the whole thing. In the death of Christ, and as a Jewish man, he requested respectfully, went to Pilate himself to prepare Jesus' body and bury him That would of course with the wicked and with the Rich man in his death. And Pilate unconventionally and surprisingly gives permission for Joseph to do that very thing. Um if you'll know Notice, let's go ahead and read just very quickly from Matthew 27, verse I'm sorry, verse 57. And it was evening, there came a rich man from Aaron Named Joseph, who also was a disciple of Jesus. He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it be given to him, and Joseph took the body and ran Wrapped it in a clean linen shroud, and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away. And Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there sitting opposite the tomb. Let's continue. What was the response of the chief priest after this? The next day, that is after The day of preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees gathered before Pilate and said, Sir, we remember how that imposter said while he was still alive, after three Three days I will rise. Therefore order the tomb to be made secure unto the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people that he has risen from the dead. And this last fraud will be And so they went and made the tomb secure by sea. While Joseph of Arimathea, and of course we find from other accounts a friend named Nicodemus, who is one of the religious By night courageously took Jesus' body from the tomb, put it in Joseph's own tomb, and um prepared the body and then And sealed that tomb. The ladies were standing there helplessly watching the whole thing. There's a lot of irony then as these leaders get together These leaders remembered Jesus' words of resurrection when Jesus' own followers had forgotten them. Here as followers are Weeping and we understand the emotion of this moment. They've lost the one person that's dearest to them in all this world and the next. But isn't it interesting, his enemies the relig religiously Remember that Jesus said that he would rise again. And so they took very inadequate measures, really ludicrous measures. To try to keep that from happening. And those who don't believe then act anyway. And those who do believe in Jesus, like The women that watch outside the tomb feel helpless to do anything at all. Another interesting thing with these leaders, these spiritual these religious leaders, the Pharisees, the Sadducees , And yet their own unbelief is a very important thing. Will cement the greatest spiritual disaster for them that they could ever experience. Pilate sends Roman soldiers to guard. They officially see The tomb, so the leaders, Satan himself has done everything that he can to keep Jesus' body in the tomb. And as we get to then twenty-eight, we find the Followers of Jesus as well are helplessly positioned outside the tomb. They're separated from their Savior. But as we see, folks, they will not be separated from Him. For very long, Jesus is no longer in the grave, and his resurrection was witnessed by many. Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to to see the tomb, and behold there was a great earthquake for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came back and rolled back the stone, and sat on it, and his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. This is so fascinating, really, that as these women come and head to the tomb after the earthquake and All that happens, these ladies come and find the stone rolled away. The stone that it would almost be um it would be impossible for weak men or one person To try and roll the way. It was hard enough with seasoned, mighty Roman soldiers to do so. And it was against the authority of Pilate himself to do so. But these women see this, and they're immediately filled with terror Seems from the other accounts that we can tell is that one, Mary Magdalene, seems to have run right off to tell Peter and John. She sees the open tune, and while the other ladies are there, she runs back. to get Peter, the chief of the disciples, the cornerstone, and John himself, these other li women Or stay behind and witness the angels. Only one of those angels is mentioned here. And Matthew tells us then the actual occurrences in this gospel. The only gospel that tells us what actually happened during that resurrection. And the followers then marvel. Ain't dead way. One scholar said the ones assigned to guard the dead themselves appear as dead, while the dead now have been made alive. And those powerful soldiers couldn't keep our risen Lord in the grave. But he rose again. Well, this had to be terrifying for these ladies. And so the angel speaks to them to comfort them. The angel, uh let's see, verse 5. The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay. And these this woman, this angel speaking Words of comfort to these women who are terrified. They didn't quite faint like the soldiers did, but they're still very concerned. And he says, There's no reason to be afraid. In fact This angel says, your fear is inappropriate at this point, because your savior is no longer in the grave. He is risen. And so this is a moment of joy. He's alive. And that stone was rolled away, by the way. But the reason why the stone was rolled away is so the followers could then look in and provide witness and testimony. And the angel calls them to do exactly that, and then to spread that witness of the empty tomb to the other followers Of Jesus. They are not to cower in fear, but they are to see for themselves and then proclaim the witness of the empty tomb. Proclaim the angel's message that we still proclaim today, folks, and that is Jesus Christ is risen. The most glorious message that we could tell other people. And the angel, as well, has the expectation that they are going to obey. Seven again go quickly. Tell his disciples he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you into Galilee. Told you, so they departed quickly from the tomb with fear, but also what? Great joy! And ran to tell his disciples. As we gather here this morning, and as we've heard the singing, and as we've heard the scripture being wonderfully read, folks, is there a joy in your heart that wells up? Within you. That for those of us that are the children of God through faith in Christ, we have a promising, a full hope, a full future of new life And we will see our Savior again. Does that fill you with joy and anticipation and excitement? It should. Maybe even more so than these initial Folks that were at the tomb, we should not be feared or filled with fear any longer, but with joy. And so they run And they tell the others. Now, probably at this time, as we look at other the other gospels, it seems Mary, as the women ran to tell others that she came back, she saw the And then Jesus appeared to her. Do you remember that? And she fell and she clung to him, and he said, Don't cling to me, there's much to be doing. And do you get the sense from both Jesus and the angels that the reality of the resurrection causes God 's children should cause us to do things? The angel and Christ himself said, You have things you need to do because now you know the reality that I am risen, that I am alive. Don't just stand here. Go tell others. And it's a reminder to me as well that even as we enjoy the beauties of celebrating Jesus' resurrection this morning. We have a responsibility, folks. Don't just keep it all inside, but go out there and proclaim the truths of a word of a world Two-way world, excuse me, that is in total opposition and is against this great truth. We need to proclaim the gospel of Christ and let people know. Well, as they ran to tell the disciples, verse 9, behold, Jesus met them. This Came up and they took a hold of his feet and worshipped him. Can you imagine these ladies that were filled with tear but or or fear and yet great joy? And Jesus appears as their Running and they try to stop real quick and they realize it's him and they grab a hold of him and they don't want to let him go. And Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Because there was still some apprehension in their hearts. What's going on here? How could this be? Jesus says, Don't stop now. Maybe you could add in there, I already told Mary I'm telling you, go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. And this is a beautiful word as well. That Jesus Jesus now refers to his followers in the true sense as brothers and sisters. He is using family words, a familial relationship. The risen Lord, Jesus has risen, he has conquered. Sin and death, and can provide a way for us not to have to be under the curse of sin. And for those that trust Christ, we are a part of the family of God. And immediately when Jesus sees his first followers, he reminds them, your family now, you go proclaim me, and let's grow this family. Through my power, through the power, resurrection power, that I have defeated sin. The victory that you have in me, go proclaim. Proclaim me. You are my brothers and sisters. You can do this. And the Lord is able to reconcile us to God through new life in Him. Well, they certainly have had a message to proclaim. I don't know if you've ever had a message that you've been excited about proclaiming. I remember one time not too long ago in New Hampshire that two of our boys came running in from playing out um in the woods. And when we lived in New Hampshire, we had a kind of a nice arrangement where we lived in a small town. There was a beautiful little town called Kentuck. And it was behind a very nice library, or it was in front of a nice library. And there was a lot of grass of field in between our the back of our home and the library, and then there was a lot of running Trails and fields behind that, some sporting fields and things. And so they've been out enjoying uh the spring. I think it was spring. Doesn't matter. But they were all excited and they came in almost breathlessly and said, Mom and Dad, you're never gonna believe what we saw. Just like literally out in our backyard before you even get to the library, over in the corner in the tree. Trees over there. There were some rocks. And we got to see a baby bear cub. Isn't that exciting? And they were excited, but we were excited for another reason. We're like, how close did you get to that bear cub? And they said, Oh, we stayed a little far back, but we want to go and see if we can get up closer and You know, see if we can see him and like, no, no. Because wherever that bear cub is, there's most likely a mama bear not too far away. And so as exciting as this news is, the dampening effect is we don't want to go over and see further or find out more about that for or you might be in danger. Well, their excitement was certainly exuberant. And they they were just overwhelmed with being able to see that. Folks, in a much greater sense, these women and these followers of Christ had a greater excitement because their Savior had been risen from the dead and they Could be with him and they could touch him and they could listen and talk to him. They could experience relationship with him again, one that they thought was dead. They could now be in relationship with him, not just at that moment, but for all eternity. And they were thrilled. And they had a message to tell. Now Matthew kind of skips over what happened in the inner room when Jesus appeared to his disciples while they were still in Jerusalem. That portion, our brother Mare read for you just a little while ago, and how Jesus appeared to those followers, and then later on Thomas as well. Matthew skips ahead and goes to what happened after the Passover celebration when Jesus made it clear that he wanted his disciples When the Passover was over, and all the celebration had ended, to meet him all the way back up in Galilee, in the region near the Sea of Galilee. And he called And so that's where we have the rest of this then verse 18 or 16. The eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed Them, and when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. How could that be? How could that be that these followers who had seen Seeing Jesus risen in their midst, we kind of get on Thomas for doubting, but here we find out that there were a few more disciples that also doubted At this point. What do we make of this? Is their faith not genuine? Well, I don't think we should go there with that understanding of this, but this just makes uh the practical reality even more uh apparent to us folks that even the followers today even as we love our Lord Jesus Jesus and we look forward to his return. Let's face it, there are some times where we feel a little doubt. We still struggle with our faith. And so we're not so far removed from these disciples. As they're still trying to process and figure out all that has happened here, they worship him. That is the first thing that we should Do when we again recognize the realities of Christ and His death and the cleansing of His blood that He shed for our sins and the forgiveness of sins that He offers us. And the newness of life that He can give us, that ought to cause us folks to worship. As we're doing this morning. Jesus knows as well, sometimes there's doubt in our hearts. There may be some here this morning that are children of God, but you're kind of questioning some things. You're wondering. Is all this really true? Well, Jesus says to them, yes it is. He appeared to them. He's basically saying, you don't have to There's no time and no Room for any more doubting. Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. I have all the power and authority Necessary, and all of it means all of it, to change you, to make you new, and to expect that you will Do what I ask you to do as your Lord and Savior. I have all authority to call you to do this thing. And then he says verse 19 What it is he's calling them to do. Go from here. Be busy about this. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son. Of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. No more need for doubt. Out because Jesus is with us for all eternity. But he's with us in this life to enable us to do what he has called us to do And that should give us hope and courage. This proclamation again, this commission to his disciples to make disciples Has the idea of proclaiming the truth that Jesus is their Redeemer, that He died and shed his blood as the perfect Lamb of God. He came And was born fully man, the God of heaven. Still unfathomable in some respects for us to consider. But he was fully man, he fully obeyed God God's law in a way that man could never do. And as sinners, we were separated from God because of that sin, but Jesus was One with the Father, and he perfectly obeyed his father's expectations and commands, and therefore he was the only one that could be the spotless Lamb of God. That could take away the sins of the world. And he shed his blood on that terrible death, on that terrible tree, that cross, so that we could be cleansed and redeemed Redeemed of our sins, of the curse of the law, and be with God, our Heavenly Father, forever. Be reconciled, enjoy new life, eternal life with Him, and be free. Free from having to sin. Jesus did it all. All we have to do is trust in what He did, not our own works. And we will experience the joy and the hope and the confidence that only those that know Christ can know. People of this world have a void And so Jesus, that very message that I just described to you in just a few words, Jesus says, you go proclaim that and people will trust in me and then you bring them along in my word. You make disciples of them. So tell them of me and then continue to help them to grow in me. Proclaim Proclaim who I am, the gospel, and then help them to grow in my word and grow in their relationship with me. That you need to do these things, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, because they have relationship really with the Trinity. Amazing truth. And these men that were still doubting and still wondering, Jesus says, You have all you need to proclaim what I've just told you to tell others. The truths of the gospel. And all of that, folks, the fact that we can have new life, the fact that we can proclaim Christ. And move beyond our fear and intimidation. All of that comes because Jesus Christ is risen and he has conquered death and hell, and he can conquer our fears in proclaiming him. To this world that needs him. Jesus ascended then, but the disciples got the message and literally went to the Corners of the world to proclaim the risen Savior. Are we willing to do that today? Here is the truth Jesus Christ is risen, and his resurrection assures us of his presence and power in our lives to proclaim the gospel. And to make disciples to help people to grow in their faith as we teach them and help them to understand God's word and be instruments of growth in other people's lives. Folks, we We are called on to submit and recognize the truth that Jesus is risen from the dead, and then we're called on to help people to grow and understand that truth through God's word. And make disciples until Jesus comes. Are you ready to take the power of the truth this morning and proclaim it to a world? This world is so broken. This world is so hurting. They need to know that there is a risen Savior who can save them from their sin. And provide them new life and give them true joy. Let's ask God to help us proclaim that this morning. Father, We rejoice again that we serve a risen Savior, that He truly is alive, and that He has provided all that He needs in His death and shed blood. We can have forgiveness of sins, that He can heal the hurt and the void and the loneliness that people without Christ experien Experience regularly. Father, today, if there is one here that doesn't know Christ as their Savior, may today be the day that they embrace The truths that Jesus died for them and that they can be forgiven. And they don't have To be under the curse of sin, eternal punishment, but they can have new life and be with you forever, and have true joy and rest. Father, today let them experience that through faith and trust in you. And for the rest of us, then, Lord, let us be even more motivated as we hear the truth. We heard the truths, proclaimed In music and in scripture. Let us be motivated to proclaim them to a world that needs to hear. And if Jesus will Were to come today, we would be thrilled. And as we wait for that, we cry out: He is risen indeed. Let's take some time this morning to meditate on these truths of Scripture. Again, if there is one here that wants to know more about having a relationship with Christ. Come talk to me. Come talk to some of our leadership. Reflect on these truths as Leslie play plays the Piano and let the power of the resurrection change us and make us more like him. Father, we revel in the truth that no power of hell, no scheme of man can ever pluck those of us in Christ from his hand till he returns. Or calls us home, we stand in the power of Jesus Christ. And may we be confident in that as we experience the power of the resurrection. Resurrection and the power of change to help us become more like Christ. Let us glory in that and joy in that today For it's in Jesus' precious name we pray. Amen. Tim's gonna come and lead us in that last verse in Christ. Christ alone. No guilt in life, no fear in death. The power of Christ works in us. You stand as we sing that last verse together. You'll stand with me, please. No kills in life. Life, no fear in death. This is the power of Christ in me from life's first pride to fight No power of hell, no steam of man Can ever mark me from his hand till he returns or calls me home here in the past Let's pray. Deavenly Father, we do just thank you for this opportunity to celebrate your resurrection. Resurrection that you came to die on the cross for our sins, but that you did not stay dead, but through your almighty power you rose from the dead to live eternally with us. I pray you would give us a good afternoon as we go our separate ways and help us to keep this truth in our lives as we go throughout the week. And in Jesus' name, amen. Uh, uh