And there's there's so much that I could say uh about my dear friend Rand this morning, um, and I won't do that, but it's hard, because I will say Uh I really one of the privileges of ministering um and um leading in ministry is some of the wonderful people that you get to meet. And And the Lord has blessed me in so many ways to be able to meet so many uh people that have helped me and have encouraged and strengthened me. And I don't want to embarrass Rand though, but I will say Rand Right at the top of the list. God has used him, and it's all the work of God. It's all the power of Christ. But even while we were up in New Hampshire, we were already friends. I'm friends with his son Josh and to be able to get closer to them and just to get to know them more and encourage them as they were encouraging us while we were in New Hampshire was just a special blessing on the top of Everything else. But also there, as God used Rand to really teach me some things, even in ministry. I'm thankful for his mentorship and what God's continued And our friend Rand, who's been involved with the Wilds of the Camps, uh the Wilds Christian camps forever, he's going to come now and say some more about the wilds. And then lead us in God's word together. All right. Again, good morning. All right, I'll do like we do with the teams. Good morning. Turn Turn to the person next to you, give them a big smile, and say good morning. Turn to the person next to you one more time, give them a big smile and ask them this question. Don't you wish you looked as good as I do today? Uh it's a joy to be with you. And again I want to thank you. Two things. One for all the work you did yesterday. What a joy to see, you know, a hundred and here just all together. listening and and crying and laughing and just letting God speak to their hearts. Amidst a bunch of good games and great team leaders that had the excitement. It was loud up there in that building. The wilds of New England. We put that up on the screen here, okay. Um there we go. That's that's who we are, and that's where your kids have come and Uh it and many of your teens, I see Carly's here. I think she's she's one of the older favorites around here, right? She's all grown up and and we're just praying that God brings a husband or life real soon. Anyway, we'll move on. What a joy to be in camp. What is camp all about? Well I want to show you real quickly, this is what camp 's about. These are the core values. And we really do have them, even though it just went blank. Here we go. Let's see here. I'm not sure what's going on. Can somebody back there help me out? All right, let me I'll take care if moving it. Listen, next one. Okay. We'll freeze right there. Okay. I have the clicker. I can move it from here on. All right. What do we do as a camp? You know what? A lot of what you do here at church. As I told you in some I get to be the sheepdog. He's the shepherd. You're the sheep. He guides you and leads you, and I get to bark at you and bike at your heels and push you back to the shepherd, okay? Or Cam's We want to stay faithful to this precious book. And people all the time call me, say, Rand, my teen. They're addicted to porn or my teen, they don't even know what gender they are. My teen is It's such an angry teen. Can you help me? I said, yeah. Turn in God's word too. Everything we need is in this book. It really is. Serving the local church. That's who we are and what we do. Refreshing enjoyment of life in Christ. You gotta be a little bit weird. You do, just a little bit weird to be in camp ministry. And uh I fit into that one really well. I have matured. I really have. I don't always put green uh gummy bears up my nose anymore, but there was there was a day, okay? Christlike servants committed to excellence you know okay is never okay when you serve an excellent god right and I appreciate your facilities oh they're excellent they're beautiful okay and then environmental and conducive to spiritual growth. When we talk about camp and all the growing you get to do and all the fun, usually those who are too old for camp, they go, oh, I wish I could go Well, we're gonna go. And I dare say the wilds in North Carolina, we have uh a lot of camps. We have senior saints retreats, and they usually go from a Tuesday through a Friday. How many of you are over the age of 50? Can't you just see your hands? I would love to see every one of you on the zip line at the Wilds of North Carolina, right? How about the giant swing? Put two of you in a hand gliding harness and you look at me like you're c Crazy Randall K. Well, I think it'd be fun to go to camp. So let's go. Okay , don't think that's what the game is for the thing. Your Savior Jesus Christ can save you just so you can get off to a good start. Yeah, he saved you to live life to the full and to compete as an athlete, as a runner, as a boxer. And to do it really, really well all the way until Jesus Christ calls you home. You may not be able to trust someone with a lot of power in your life. You may not be able to trust your peers. You may not be able to trust your own. The authorities at school why because you're not ultimately sure whether they want your best or whether they're acting on your best. But there is one person you can be sure he was all he is always acting for your best, and his name is Jesus Christ. Yes, you can trust him. Hey guys, you can do this. You can be as close to God as you want to be. Draw near to God, he will draw near to you. This is a promise, and God never breaks a promise. Jesus is saying this, what's on the throne of your heart, Peter, and what's on the throne of your heart? Who or what is Jesus competing with tonight, teenager? Take up the belt of truth. How do you find the truth? Read The Bible. Get into this book and just start reading it and learning it so that you can know the truth Spiritual warfare is not a chessboard where Jesus and the devil are constantly trying to outmaneuver each other. Jesus and the devil are not on the same playing field. Jesus already won If the Bible really is true, if we can trust this, then we, you, me, have a responsibility to find out what it says about our relationship to God. Do you remember what John says in 1 John 4? That he not only loves you, but he himself is love. God's love is as big as he is, and he loves you. Alright, you ready to go to camp? It's great. I tell the teams, do everything you can to stay as close to God. as you can. And I encourage you folks to find some grandkids and nephews and nieces. Do all you can to encourage them. Because when you go to a Usra like yesterday, that's like an appetizer but you go to a whole week of camp I promise you it is life-changing it really is so we're gonna open the word of God and uh I want to show you a verse up here here. Uh they're gonna get that switched over, just wave to me or tell me if okay. Uh the wilds of New England. What we what do we do? We serve people. of God, so lives can be changed to the glory of God. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus. Jesus Christ our Lord. Say it with me. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus. Our Lord. What is grace? That divine enablement? That grace, that undeserved, unmerited favor that God gives us in salvation and continues to give us as we grow. In his grace and mature in Christ, peace, knowing everything is right between you and God and you and others. What a wonderful way to live. But God says these things can be multiple. I was talking to Brock before we came and I asked him, what about your congregation? What are they like? And uh you know one of the things he said? He said they're probably the most intelligent intelligent congregation in all of Maryland. So I I understand that's true. You ready? So if it's okay, Brock, we're gonna do a little test. This is grace and peace be. multiplied. Well there's a difference between addition and multiplication. So this is your test. Ready? Um two plus two is what? Plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two, plus two Plus two. Twenty. Okay. Yeah, you they're smart. They really are. All right, everybody help me with this, okay? Because we're gonna need some more help here. Mulvication. Two times two is what? Times two times two times two times two times two Times two. Let's get a little quiet in here. 256. Times two. Five twelve. Times two. Two thousand forty-eight. So I got a question for all of us. What do you want in life? What do you want for you? What do you want for your kids? What do you want for your grandkids? Do you want 20 handfuls of grace? And 20. 20 handfuls apiece? Or do you want 2048? You can have multiplied grace Multiplied peace. You can. Where does it come from? Being really good, keeping tradition, never doing bad things? No. Through the knowledge of God God and of our Lord Jesus Christ. Pursuing growing in your knowledge of God. So we're gonna perhaps understand that as we mentioned in Sunday school we talk about what we think about and we think about what we love. So if you really, really love God, then He will He'll be part of your conversation. He'll certainly be part of your thought process. The more we know God, the more we love God. And the more we love God, the more we dread displeasing Him. This is called sanctification or spiritual maturity. Okay? Those of you who are parents, don't you love it when you see your kids making mature decisions? God loves it when he sees his children making mature decisions. The more we know God, the more we love God, the more we love God, the more we We dread displeasing him. One verse this morning. Be therefore followers of God as dear children. Say it with me. Be therefore followers of God as dear children. children. Nine words. You can say it in seven seconds. Your teens can text it in five seconds. Okay? Nine words. They can totally change our mind life. Be. Be is an action word. Be being. Don't be satisfied not to be being. Never get to the place where you stop be being. Be. Action. And if you're a B Christian, you don't even know how to spell apathy. I get asked all the time, Rand, how do you deal with apathetic teams? I said, never mind. They're very passionate about not caring. Okay? Be praying. Be giving. Be serving. Be kind. Be loving. Be patient. Never be satisfied to coast. Always be growing, maturing. Be. Say the first two words with me. Ready? Now, ye, as you know, is a plural form of you. Now I did have the privilege to work at the Wilds of North Carolina for 30 years, 1970. He said I was too old for camping, so they kicked me up to New England. So try to start in New Wales. So we've been there for the last 16 years, okay? And because I lived in the South and now I live in New England, I'm an official officially I am bilingual. I really am. I am. I go to Bahava, y'all. Okay, so I can do them both. Now the southern way to say the plural of ye, the ye the plural of you is all y'all. Say it with me. All y'all. So in other words, instead of saying good morning, how are you? It's all y'all doing right, son. Okay. Same thing, same thing. You know when God asked Paul to write this, this was not a mistake. He said, ye, plural, all of you. And folks, you have to admit there is not one of us in this auditorium right now, not one of us, that can say that this verse does not apply to us. Regardless of how intelligent you are, regardless of how many years you've been saved, regardless if you're a teen or a senior saint, regardless Regardless, every single one of us, I'm not but an hour from the homestead, the birthplace, and the grave site of Del Moody I am told that when God when he was preaching, God used him, get this, that more than one million people trusted Christ under his ministry. David Livingston, he sacrifices. He sacrificed everything just to open the heart of Africa to the gospel. These guys gave their lives. Did you know that Livingston and Moody are dead? But you are not. And there's somebody that you bump into at Wawa, and somebody that lives three doors down , And there's a relative, might even be distant, that you can text or FaceTime that needs Jesus. You can't depend just on Moody or Livingston to do your work for you. You can't even just depend on your pastors or your church leadership. We can do this, folks. Be ye. Say the next word. Therefore. Say it. Therefore. And I'm sure your pastors have taught you, whenever you see a therefore in the Bible, you always have to look back to see what it is. Therefore. Got it. And Ephesians chapter 1, 2, 3, and actually 4. Oh, it's like a treasure chest. In fact, you'll see in the back, what I do is I normally write six-week Bible studies to open up the word to make it easier for me. for for teens and older ones to study. And I try to keep it within six weeks. Why? Because I was told that 21 days, if you do something 21 days in a row, it becomes a habit. So I thought, well, I'm gonna do a double habit and do something for forty two days. But I don't even know if that twenty one is right, 'cause if I go to Duncan Donuts and get a Boston cream on Monday and do it on Tuesday say I'm hooked on Wednesday, okay? So I would love the word of God to be a habit. But when it came to Ephesians, six weeks, I couldn't do it. There is so much in there. It is so rich. that I did two six weeks, chapters one, two, and three, what it means to be in Christ, six weeks. And then six weeks, chapters four, five, and six, what it means to be like Christ. I encourage you to get it and study it. of family devotions. Be ye therefore. And as you look back in the early part of Ephesians, Paul's saying, now that you know that you're saved, that your sins are forgiven. Now that you know you're empowered by God, now that you know it's by grace through faith, now that you know all these things, I have something for you to do. I want you to be followers. Of God. Followers, you know in many of our Bibles, it says imitators. To imitate someone, that means you have to study them them. Know how they move, how they walk, how they talk. Learn everything you can in order to imitate, okay? I was on a plane, Manchester New New Hampshire getting ready to fly to somewhere to preach. I think I was going to Detroit first. And we're sitting there and I have a yellow taboo and I'm working on some stuff, but we sat there a long time. I finally asked the flight attendant, hey I'm going to miss my connection. Do we have a problem? She said, we do. I said, what? She says, we have a runaway. I said, what is a runaway? She said, we have a teenager that ran away from home. from Michigan and the police caught her here in New Hampshire. So we're waiting. They're gonna bring her on the plane. And when you get to Detroit, you're gonna have to wait and the police are gonna come on the plane, get her and take her off. Okay, it wasn't a real big plane, but there were two empty seats in front of me and one right next to me. So I quick moved over against the window. Said, Lord, have her sit by me. This kid came in, 15-year-old girl. Oh, with An attitude, whoa. She was ticked, okay. She looked at the first seat, looked at the next one, looked at me, looked at the seat, plopped right down next to me. Said, How you doing? Whatever! I said, Okay, okay, okay. She was really upset. And then I pretended to ignore her. I did. And I can't draw at all as trying to, this is computerized here. But I drew this the tree and then I put all the little apples on there and and then very carefully very methodically thoughtfully I just started putting some call-outs like hurt And fearful, lonely, and unloved, unforgivable, depressed, guilty, angry. Bitter, hopeless, suicide, just one at a time, and I'd think about what I helped try to help kids with, and I dried another one down just real slow. After the longest time this girl looks over me she said what's that I said it's a tree I really did she goes no no really what is it I said really it's a tree I know I can't draw What does it look like to you? You know what she said? She said it looks like me. So had a kid come to camp. She was 17 years of age. She had already tried to kill herself three times. The third time in a hospital in Manchester, New Hampshire, some teens heard about it. it and went to meet her in the hospital, befriended her, invited her to youth group. She came, came to the church, and she became a Christian. She got saved. By the way, teens is Still works today, okay. And now she's at camp, and because of the suicide attempts, they wanted me to meet with her, and so her counselor and her were there. I showed her the very same thing, and you know what she she said. She said the exact same thing that the other girl. I said, what does this look like? She said, Rand, it it looks like me. You know what's sad? about this tree. I'm preaching to people, and some of you have been in church for 25, 30, 40, maybe 50 years. I dare say many in here have been saved for at least, I don't know, five or ten years. Yeah. And still, we can sit here this morning and you look up at that screen and you say but rand oh it kind of looks like me now okay I am lonely, fearful. I don't feel unforgivable. I'm not suicidal, but sometimes. I'm kind of hopeless. Where does this come from? Where does this fruit come from? If you examine your heart, regardless of your age this morning, If you re-examine your heart, the real you , not what people think you are , not the polished fruit that makes everybody think I'm perfect. The real you deep inside. And you see a bunch of these there. Where does that come from? If this is the fruit in your life, I already know something about your theology. In other words, I already know what you believe About God. Like this. God doesn't love me. He said, come on, we're in church. I know. And some of you, it's not like you believe God is not a God of love, but come on. Some of you sitting here, you would say, I know God loves them more than he loves me. I'm sure that he loves their family more than mine. Look what it's happened in my family. If God or if everybody else really knew me like God does, there's no way. Or you might believe that God would never ever forgive me. Say, Rihanna, come on. I do have a dark side that nobody knows about And and honestly, it did it just it makes me shudder. I I I have to wonder if God will really, really forgive me. Some of you think that I'm I'm all alone and there's no reason to live. That God doesn't care and I want to die and God's too busy to mess with me and God is a thousand miles away. Where do these things come from? Now we gotta understand every single one of those, everyone are lies, okay? And the world is constantly Throwing out lies. Satan has not changed his battle plan in the whole time. Just like he did in the Garden of Eden. He tried to get Adam and Eve to believe that God was not who he really said he was. And if you sit here this morning and say, I don't think God loves me, and God doesn't care, and he's a thousand miles away, then you don't know God. I did not say you're not a Christian and you like most Christians know about God but you don't know him well if you're believing these lies Where does this come from? This is a picture of my life till my late 20s. I grew up in an extremely abusive home, okay Never ever heard the words I love you growing up. Grew up in rural, rural Pennsylvania. And my father was probably one of the most angry men I've ever known. I'd go to bed bed and put the pillow really tight over my head so I didn't hear mom scream while I beat her. I thought every kid in the world grew up this way. Some of you know what I'm talking about. Mom couldn't take it. She finally left us. I was only eight. And then I went and was raised for a number of years by my grandparents. My grandfather. was a very very very heavy drinker if you know much about booze you got happy drunks and mad drunks and he was a mad drunk Tough. My grandma, I will say that she was precious. She's a Polish woman , about four eleven, both ways. I mean, she was just wonderful, she was. And I grew up knowing that God loves you, good people who go to church all the time. doesn't love me. I didn't even doubt that God was a God of love. I just knew that he only loved you type people that were really, really good. And I thought everybody went to church was like perfect, okay. So I thought I could outwork this thing as a plumber getting through high school. That's what my life going through was to be. I went to college playing uh as a plumber, paying my way through school and and um when I finally got there I thought okay I'm gonna go to the mission field, go to Chile South America I'll be a plumber. I play guitar, I play a trumpet, I'm gonna help a missionary with her music. I had my life all figured out. Because if I could do that, I could go to Chile South America, be six thousand miles away from from my family and never have to see them again. I was running from my past, wasn't I? Just like some of you are doing. You may do it in the different way but you do it. Instead of dealing with it you stay real busy. And when I get to the end of college nothing opened up. I was so ready to go I'd taken four years of Spanish And all this, I never worked at the Wilds because some of you would understand. Okay, when you're raised in a tough home, you feel like you're nothing, okay? You feel on love, you feel worthless, like that. There's no way a place like the wilds would ever accept me. There's there's no way they would accept me. And so what happened was there came an opening to go to the wilds and work maintenance. That was a plan I thought, oh, I can do that. Oh, and I can learn camping to take it to the mission field. So that's what Amber and I did. We got married, went to the wilds. They asked us to stay a year. I said no. They insisted We stayed one more year to work maintenance. Then we they just kept begging us to stay on. We had our son Josh, and then we had a little boy that died at birth. And he's Buried in a cemetery, not far from the entrance of the wild, just up about another mile past that. We're expecting our next, and all I can say is when Amber came back from the doctor, when she got out of the car she was crying I said what's wrong she said we're gonna lose this one too so folks I lost it I still remember losing it with God I couldn't I didn't talk to my wife. Was so angry with God. I remember walking up that dirt road, God, what is going on? I've given my life to you. I'm working like sixteen hours a day. Why are you so mad at me? Can I never ever please you? When I got home, I plopped the A chair and say God's mad about something. You know what Amherst said? No, he's not. He doesn't care. He's a thousand miles away. I was so blinded to my own heart folks when my amber said that I thought oh I looked at Amber and said Hunt we don't know God and I wasn't saying that we weren't trusting Christ in Christ alone. We were both through Bible college and we knew a lot about God, but we didn't know God. Because she believed he didn't care and I believed they didn't love me. Where'd this come from? Why would we think such thoughts? Again, I was raised in an incredibly angry home. dear wife, some teenager had her put into foster care, adopted out. When she was only seven, her daddy died. Her mom never got married again. Amber grew up without a dad. He's a thousand miles away. My father was an angry man. Now I'm your friend But folks, we got to stop playing church. Do you know where our kids get their concept of God? Through us dads. And for some of you, it is wonderful. It's great. For some of us, it's pretty rough, isn't it? And then those of you who are of years you look back and you can tell similar stories because those of you like my age or even six say even down to sixty and above We had these dads. They did Korea, World War II. You give them stainless steel wire and duct tape. They could build a helicopter that could fly. You know what I'm saying? They could do anything. But they weren't big at expressing love, were they? And we doubt God's love. So you have to understand That a wrong and a proper view of God produces bad fruit. So you know what we do in our squeaky clean conservative fundamental churches? We polish them the fruit. Ooh, Paul says, ooh, don't let anybody church see that you get angry. Ooh, be careful here. Don't let them know that you don't really believe that. And we do. We we pretend that everything's okay. Instead of dealing with the only thing that will change us, what is that? Increasing in our knowledge of God. What happened with my anger, my problems, I went to our director and I knew he would dismiss us. And I told him the problem. I said, sir, I I I'm sorry. I just can't do this anymore. I am so angry at God and I don't want to be. And he looked at me and King Cayer counseled me a long time, almost 45 seconds. He looked at me instead of firing me said Rand, you don't know God, and walked away. So what do you do? I asked him Amber to be patient with me for at least six months. I I was a mess, a mess. I should I mean I had an anger problem. Most people didn't see it. I mean I did get 75 demerits about Jones for beating up two guys most known. Okay, I was a mess. I don't beat up people anymore. Okay, but I was a mess. I thought David had his problems, but he was a man after God's own heart. So I thought, you know what, I'm gonna hang out with David. Now, okay, I'm not saying that if you struggle with what I struggle with, you've got to follow my exact pattern, but I'm gonna tell you what Rand did. I got so scared. I went to my wife. I said, hun, please be patient with me at least six months. And I got up at 5. And from 5. 30 to 7. 30, I opened my Bible, blank notebook, Psalm 1, and I went through all 150 Psalms real slowly. And by the way, it took me 18 months to do this. And I had to write down one or two things that I would find every day. And it was either God is my blank or my God is blank. God is my shepherd, God is my high tower, God is my strength. And I'd write the verse, little paragraph, kind of like a journal, what it meant to me. My God is strong, my God is loving. My God is patient? Come on, God, with me. You really still want me? I'm telling you folks to start to change my life. It started to change my personality. After six months, my wife said, you're kind of different. When you're raised in a tough home, some of you understand you don't Laugh a lot, you don't cry a lot, you just kinda hold all your feelings inside. Now, well, I get choked up at like supermarket openings, okay? I mean, I'm a totally different person. God did that. How? Grace and peace be multiplied to you through the knowledge of God. You know the cool thing? That's not the only tree I showed these kids. And hundreds of others. I showed them this tree where it's loving and unselfish and happy, joyful, content, secure. Peaceful, kind, self-controlled, patient, respectful. And when I show kids this one who come from tough backgrounds, you know what they usually say every time, oh Rand. That's that's what I want to be. Yeah. Could you imagine, Mom, your daughter goes off to college, she's sitting with her roommates and the girls in her group, you know, and They get talking about mom. And the different girls are saying different things. And then your daughter says, Oh, I wish you'd meet my mom. She's the most loving, uns selfish, joyful person I've ever known in my life. Or how about you dads? Maybe your son goes to armed forces or gets a job. Guys are They kind of dissing their dads a little bit, and your son interrupts and says, No, not my dad. He is probably the most patient, kind man I have ever known. Where does this go from come from your theology? What you believe about God. You really, really believe that God God loves me. Do you believe that this morning, folks? I hope so. You've been singing it since you're like two. Sing with me. Jesus loves me. This I know, for the Bible tells me so. God is promises to forgive me. He's always there for me. I have a purpose in life. I know He cares. He helps me. He's in control of my life, and God wants the best for my life. And this is not just statements, these are biblical truths of the character of God that I truly, truly believe. And it changes you. And as you get to know God, you and even others start to see Okay, let me start the list and you tell me where it comes from. They start to see you become a little bit more loving, much more joyful. All of a sudden there's a little bit of peace in your heart. Your patience is amazing. You become pretty meek with others and the fruit on the tree changes. And all of a sudden, the fruit of the spirit. Yeah. Every single one of us can be here. Where does it come from? A right and proper proper view of God produces good fruit. Can I beg you please, first of all, don't look at this service, I know we're late and I really don't care, but um don't look at this as a service Please look at this as a God send that we are here together on purpose, that God wants us to stop playing around and wake up and get to know him better. That's it. And every Single one of us can do this. This has nothing to do with coming down, raising a handfill, not a cart. This is between you and God. A right and proper view of God produces good fruit. Be. Ye, therefore, followers, imitators of God, say the last three words with me. As dear children. It literally means as dearly loved children. Kids are cool. I love being a camp director, but do you say do you have a favorite age? I kind of do. It's second grade. I I personally think once you get out of second grade, intelligence goes down from that point on, okay? Because second graders are really smart. I mentioned that one time and the teacher of second graders said, sent me a whole list of some Knows that her class wrote to God. Let me share some of them with you. Dear God, I didn't think orange went well with purple until I saw the sunset you made on Tuesday. That was cool. rooms. That's what my mom did for me and my brother. Dear God, I bet it's really hard to love everybody in the whole world. There's only four people in our family and I'm having Dear God, did you mur mean for the giraffe to look like that, or was that an accident? Dear God, I went to this wedding and they kissed Right in the church. Is that okay? Dear God, of all the people who work for you, I like Noah and David the best. Dear God, I think about you sometimes. Dear God, thank you for my baby brother, but I think you got confused because what I prayed for was a puppy. Why can little kids write Notes like this to God because to them he is real and he's everything his word says he is and without Faith, it is impossible to please God. For he that comes to God must believe that he is. He is everything the Bible says he is, and is the rewarder of them that what? Our faith won't church every Sunday. No. Give Lob some money. No. To them that what? Diligently seek Him. Simple, isn't it? I'm not saying it's easy. It is simple. Be, ye, therefore, imitators of God. As dearly loved children. Let's pray. Father, we need to change. We are so crazy distracted. With everything this world has going. That we do, we forget the most important thing is getting to know you. Lord, you know our heart's desire today was simply that somehow we can encourage all of us to get into your word so we get to know you better, so we get to love you Thank you, dear Lord. Thank you so much for being such a precious guide. Lord, I don't know, there might be someone here who doesn't know you. If they don't, would you please encourage their hearts to come talk to the pastor, one of their friends, or me today All of us need to get to know you better. We are trusting in Jesus and Jesus alone. But Lord, too many of us doubt your love and your patience and your kindness and your forgiveness. Forgive us for that. Help us to truly believe that you are who you say you are. Thank you, Lord, for letting us have this time together this morning as we pray. In the wonderful name of Jesus. Amen. Pastor. Let's take just another minute as Leslie plays to meditate on what Rand has just. said and you know for us my family it's like we've been preached to by family um and for you uh a dear friend or a new friend as Rand has spoken. But folks, what are family members and good friends able to do that others aren't able to do sometimes? Tell it to us straight. And that's what we've heard this morning. We've been confronted with an area that we all struggle with. What is it that's keeping you From growing in God's word and growing your relationship with Him. Let's meditate that and you think and get some things right in your own heart, as Leslie plays for a few minutes.