No more. No more need on our end to pay anything. Young people can go down for Children's Church. Appreciate the Hansons being willing to teach that this month. And you can turn back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 as we continue in this study. We saw so far in the book of Acts how Paul came upon these folks and preached Christ. And a little church was soon formed that was dear to Paul's heart. He wasn't able to spend a lot of time with that church before he was forced out in the chaos of a riot. And yet that church continued to weigh upon his heart, and he was concerned for them, and so he sent Timothy back to check on them. And as we're going to see today, Timothy came back with marvelous news of how gospel ministry was going. Paul introduced the gospel and his companions. To the people there at Thessalonica, and many came to trust in him. And because of that They were able to continue effective ministry, even in Paul's absence, which was his main concern. Timothy, not only Timothy alone came back with good news, but we're going to see today that news came from other sources. That through the power of Jesus Christ, Paul's and his companions, their ministry was effective and it was being imitated. And we'll see today that when effective ministry is imitated, And reproduced, it multiplies results and effectiveness. And it involves the whole church, folks. Did you know that ministry, gospel ministry, was never meant to be relegated to just a select few individuals in the church, the really spiritual ones who are able to communicate better? Seemingly. But Jesus gives us the power to replicate the message of the gospel through all of us. And we all need to have a part. And Paul rejoices in the fact that the whole church is carrying out this gospel ministry. We hear a lot about trying to get back to the way that the early church did things. And we heard a lot of teaching and a lot of different things. different spheres about things that the early church did and how we need to imitate that. Some of that is through kind of deductive reasoning and things based on what we know of the early church. But what's helpful in this case, folks, is Paul actually in 1 Thessalonians He makes clear in his early church ministry efforts that he wants us to imitate him in these things that we're going to do So there's no there's no mystery in what Paul wants us to follow after and imitate as a church family here today as well. Our goal is to imitate this effective ministry. Now we have heard the passage read, so you just turned 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and we're beginning now at verse 6. But in fact, you know, I'll read the first part of the letter one more time, just so we can kind of have that background So the beginning of the letter, Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians and God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. For we know brothers loved by God, that He has chosen you. Now remember that we we we talked a lot about election last week and God's choosing. Remember that because we're going to see the other side of the coin today in verse 7 6. Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. And now in verse 6, we're going to see imitating effective ministry in the verses 6 through 10. We're going to see, first of all, imitating effective ministry expands effective ministry. When we imitate, God blesses with expansion and numbers in the church and those that are willing to sacrifice and suffer for the cause of Christ Effective ministry will produce Christ's likeness. And it did in this little group of believers, even in the absence of Paul. They became imitators of him. So look at verse 6. And you became imitators of us. So it wasn't a sole effort by Paul, but it was the full of the whole of his group that was ministering. It wasn't just one guy. Many people, Sylvanus, Timothy, maybe even Luke and others, they were expressing, they were Showing forth true gospel ministry, producing it, and the people now are imitating it But even more importantly, not only of them, but more importantly of the Lord. For you receive the word in much affliction. With the joy of the Holy Spirit. Note that phrase, you receive the word in much affliction. That is the other side of the coin. I know some of you still get nervous when we talk about election and God's choosing. Well, it's in God's word. We must assess and And uh acknowledge that that is so. God chooses people for salvation. But here's the other side. We, it's our responsibility to receive the gospel. And these folks made their own personal, individual decision to receive the word even in much affliction. Again, how can we put those two together? God's choosing and man's responsibility to choose, receive the word, we'll never be able to figure that out. But we know it's true. So these folks heard the message and saw the message of the gospel play out in Paul's life and so many others. And they received the word, the gospel for themselves in the midst of great distress and affliction. Let's go back to that idea, though, of imitating ministry servants. Paul calls on us, calls on these people. And it has the expectation, and they are following through on that, but also calls on us to imitate him. But Paul does that. With the expectation that we follow after his life when it reflects Jesus Christ. And so today, as leaders, folks, I can also, and other leadership can say, imitate us, follow our way, but only as it reflects the law. Lord as it reflects Jesus Christ. We encourage ministry discipleship and reproduction among all of those whose lives measure up and follow after Jesus Christ. And that is what Paul is saying here. You're imitating us because we were reflecting Jesus Christ and his character. And his love and his grace. And so you can mimic. Really, the word there has the idea of mimicking. Not mimicking in the way that small children do, irritate each other by following every motion and I'm going to do what you do, and then the other kid gets irritated or whatever, not that way, but it really has the idea and context here of following this person's way of life. And these folks in Thessalonica were following the way of life that Paul and the others had set before them. And they could only do that on a daily basis as they lived and worked and were alongside the people. As we're going to continue to see here, this isn't a ministry where Paul just once a week got up and preached and told them what they needed to know and then expected them to follow. Paul and the others got into their lives. Got to know them. Displayed the way of Christ on a daily basis with people And now they're imitating that with others. It's much more than a once-a-week preaching. But they're imitating their lives because they saw them live on a regular basis. And that's really the only way that Paul could be so bold in his letters as to say, imitate me, not because he was some great person, although he was for God, but it's because he reflected Jesus Christ in his life. Not their idiosyncrasies of personality, but their way of life and following after Christ. And so these folks were so much This affected them so much that they were willing to follow after the Word of Christ lived out in Paul's life. Even in the midst of much affliction. You remember there at the end in Thessalonica where the where the mob came, and Paul and Silas and his friends Friends weren't there, but some others were, and they were dragged to the magistrates, and they were made to pay a price in order to make sure that Paul never preached again. Or his companions were there any longer. These people saw that and they saw the fact, if I stand for Christ, I will experience suffering, and they did it anyway. And God is doing marvelous things through these people as they mimic the example of Christ. Can I just be real practical? Always, folks, whether it's our own ministry, my own ministry here, or another, maybe it's a favorite author that you have of Christianity. Christian books. Maybe it's a a well-known Christian singer or whatever. We tend to get enamored by certain people and their personalities and And the way that they teach and the way that they write. And we can be very well helped by the writings of other believers and other Christians. Certainly. But we must be careful not to almost make it like a personality cult where we follow everything and we're We ascribe to all their podcasts and we know everything about them. Now, podcasts aren't wrong. I actually, in my letter to you every week, I include a link to a podcast and things that I'd like you to listen to. That's not wrong. But sometimes as believers we can just kind of hold on to a particular personality, whether they've called us to do that or not. Um and it almost becomes like a cult. We just listen to everything and we we just take everything in and they can't do anything wrong. And truly godly individuals, folks, and leaders will reject that. And as your pastor, I reject that Now, I don't think that I'm very powerful to have a cult of personality anyway, so it's kind of a blessing that I don't have to worry about that. But The point is, is what I want to proclaim and what all those other teachers and those that we're so enamored with, what they ought to proclaim as well, is this imitate us only in the areas that we imitate Christ. Don't follow the ways that we don't. Don't follow our mistakes. Okay? Come to us, point those out in a loving way. But follow us as we follow Christ. And kind of put away the rest. That's what Paul's saying, and that's what we need to do. No person should be above scrutiny to see whether in their areas of their life they're following after For the Savior, and then when you see that, it you should imitate that as they live out the life that Christ has called them to live out. So these folks received God's word And they proved their acceptance of the gospel and their real relationship with Christ in their passionate, committed service. One of the ways that we know the gospel ministry is real and active is that it continues under great suffering and persecution. It says here, their affliction was great. But did you catch the last part? So was their joy Can we really be afflicted and go through suffering as believers and still have great joy? Is that even possible? Well, it must be because it's in God's word. And Paul says that we can. How do we do that? We have to be convinced of the gospel truly and steadfastly in our hearts. And ready to imitate the Lord Jesus so that others can see that and hear of their need for Him. Effective ministry always reproduces Christ's character so that others can see that. And it expands then further gospel ministry. What is the best way for me to attract people to the gospel? Well, it's it's in of myself, I can do nothing It's the power of Jesus Christ, but living out the love of Jesus and His grace and His compassion attracts people, attracts people And giving them the word of God and the gospel gives them the information that they need to trust Christ as their Savior. That is effective ministry. And effective ministry, as we are more like Christ as a church body, daily, as we follow after Christ and we look more like him, it will also multiply in its fruitfulness. And so even in the midst of affliction, their joy continues. The Holy Spirit is giving them great joy. And so verse 7, so they should You became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and Achai. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achai, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere. So that we need not say anything. Paul here is, he continues his travels. He's wondering about the believers in Thessalonica. And he's thinking, oh, I hope they're holding on. I hope they're staying together as a church in the midst of all that suffering that they have to go through in the midst of that great city of Thessalonica that's so devoted to Rome. And so many cults. Timothy comes back and says, Paul, you're not going to believe it. Not only are they hanging on, but they're thriving. They're an example to the whole area. Paul, they've gone beyond the city limits with the gospel. The whole region is hearing of this ministry, of this church. And the gospel is being effective. They've been an example. They were imitating the life of Paul and the character of Jesus Christ. And so it's gone on throughout the region of Macedonia and Achai, a major area there in Asia Minor. And so Paul says, I was worried about our gospel witness not being effective there, and it really sounds like you don't even need us at all. You've taken these truths and you're proclaiming it's the word of the Lord has sounded forth from you. Look at that. Go back first of all to that word in verse 7, example to all the believers. That word example. has the idea of minting a coin by making an impression with a die. I have here A mug. Don't worry, there's no coffee in it. I kind of wish there was at the moment, but I already drank it all. This mug says Simple Faith Farm. And I received it a couple years ago and visiting our friends the Kleins down in their farm ministry down at the South Carolina. And they had uh multiple examples of this fine mug, and they gave one to me. I was very thankful to get it, and come to find out one of our very own, Marcer Russian. Marsha Russell made these mugs. And on this mug, no, you can't have it, this one's mine. That sounded so There's this imprint where she's obviously taken a dye or some sort of mold and she had to in the clay imprint Simple Faith Ranch and when it was fired, it's there now for the life of the Mug. It's firmly implanted in there so that everyone can see the name of the ministry. And that's helpful. And I just like the color too. Some reason the coffee tastes better coming from that mug. I don't know why. But it's an enjoyable experience Well, folks, that is the idea of that word example, that we are bearing the imprint of Christ in our lives. That it's permanently sealed that way so that other people can enjoy the gospel and enjoy the message that we need to proclaim. The message this was imprinted, they, as they went out into the region beyond Thessalonica, it was obvious that something had changed with these folks. And they were living in a different way. Well, that begs the question, doesn't it? For us today. I'm trying to make this real practical. The church in Thessalonica, the believers there, were very successful in bearing the image of Christ How successful are each of us here at Upper Crossroads? Each of us here. How successful are we at bearing the image? of Jesus Christ. Are we a good example in our communities? Do people know that something's different? With our lives and our testimonies, some people should know there's a difference before we even folks get to the point of the gospel. They should see the imprint of Christ's love on us. I remember having a conversation with a young man that was a pastor, a new pastor in an area in New Hampshire , and he mentioned somebody that I knew really And he mentioned this particular individual. I say he was telling giving me his testimony and how he the Lord led Him to ministry, and he said, it was through the example of my youth pastor back when I my family and I lived in Massachusetts And this man really left an impression on me, an impression that was so deep that I learned through his testimony I had a desire to want to And he went to seminary. Um, he had come back and he was being used effectively, and that very individual was a deacon in our church. And so I was able to go back to that man and said, This young man, this pastor, said that you made such an impression on his life that it's one of the reasons, or and it's what God used to call him into full-time minister. Well, that particular individual was a humble person, and he was very humbled by that, but it was also encouraging for him to realize that he'd left that kind of imprint on another individual. So that ought to be with all of us. The reverberations, look at that ver that word in verse 8, sounded forth. It has the idea of a loud instrument, loud reverberations going on, not just through Thessalonica, but through the whole region, as the people trumpeted the message of Jesus Christ. Do you get the point that these people were making an impact for Christ in their community? And not just their community, not only their Jerusalem, but their Samaria. Amazing. Paul says, here I was worried. You don't need us. You're having effective, faithful ministry in your own right. Because ultimately Paul knew as well. It wasn't through his own efforts. People didn't need him to effectively minister for Christ. They needed Jesus. And they were relying on the power of Jesus. Remember our three important principles about effective ministry. We need to rely, have faith Trust in Jesus for the work that He will do through us. And we need to be motivated by His love and the hope of His return. That will motivate us to want to tell others. They were being heard all over their community. Another story here , this reminds me. When Leslie and I were first married, I had a small ministry that the Lord had provided for me. Every ministerial student in the seminary where I was at was responsible to have have some sort of ministry out in the community. And mine was at a retirement home. It's actually a retirement apartment complex. And I would meet with some of these older senior saints every Wednesday night and we'd have Bible study and we'd sing. some songs together and I was so thankful after I got married that one of the many things was that my wife could play the piano so she could play the piano for us and we could sing together. But before uh we were married, um I was always struggling to find somebody who could pro who could play instruments and be of an encouragement to our our friend folks and this was in the basement area and it was it a lot of chairs set up and so I had um a young man that I had been friends with for a long time and he came to me one time and said hey Brock, I'm learning to play the bagpipes. Like the bagpipes. That just sounds wonderful. How are you doing? Well, I'm doing really well, and they've actually invited me to be in this processional and I'm gonna go play. I'm like That's wonderful. You've really picked this up quickly. And then I had the bright idea. I bet you those folks in my this retirement apartment And he said, that's a great idea. I said, why don't you bring your bagpipes next Wednesday night and we'll really give them a thrill. Well, we really gave them a thrill, all right. If you've ever done this type of ministry. Now, I hadn't had a lot of experience, I will be I will grant you with live live bagpipe music. Do you know the bagpipes in small quarters are really, really loud? And as this young man started playing, I just I was in the back row and it just like blew me away and I thought, oh no. I almost have to put my fingers in my ears, but I can't because that would be an insult to him and he's really playing well. I'm sure this whole multi-level complex is hearing this hymn right now. I thought, oh, I hope these poor little old ladies don't go back and their hearing are affected by it. And as I'm looking around, I'm seeing them smiling and tapping their toes and they were really enjoying it. Didn't Seem to be bothering them at all. Maybe uh they were already having some struggle with their hearing, I don't know. But they were really, they were really enjoying it. Well, whatever, those bagpipes in that plane made an impression on that whole building. We got out pretty quick after that so that I didn't have to take any questions or an interrogation from any of the uh People that were working there, it made an impact. I wouldn't recommend playing bagpipes in a small room to make an impact, folks, but certainly knowing the gospel well. And being ready to tell others, that's a really good way to make an impact. And that's what these people did. What were they saying? They were talking about their faith in God gone forth everywhere Faith in God. A lot of people talk about faith. Faith is kind of a nebulous thing. Sometimes with our teenagers, I would say, well, let's talk about this more. What does faith mean? Well it means to believe. Well what does it mean to believe? Well it means to trust. Well what does it mean to trust? Pastor Brock, you're just being ignorant. But I was trying to get them to think through what does it really mean to have faith? I think a good definition of faith is dependence. Remember Peter when he was with the disciples and with Jesus, and Jesus gave that hard teaching. about eating his flesh and many of uh the disciples, hundreds of the disciples that followed him left, and Jesus turned to Peter and the twelve and he said, Will you also leave? And Peter said, Where else are we going to go? You have the words of life. That's faith. Lord Jesus, there's nowhere else to go. You're the only, you're the way, the truth, and the life. Why would we go elsewhere? Our faith, our belief. Our trust is in you. And so these folks proclaimed not just any faith, but a faith in God and in Jesus Christ. They pointed people to Jesus. And we must do the same thing. Uh I remember many years ago uh a fam uh a TV show that we like to watch as a family. I won't even give you the name of it to distract you. But there was it was a really great show. It had a lot of good family values. Um but the father one time in this show was trying to encourage a lady that was having struggling in her marriage. Um And and with her kids, and I think one was sick and ill, and he was trying to to help. And she said, she he started talking about God. And she said, how can you trust in God? In the midst of all these difficult things. And this is what he said. He said, you know, I just have faith that, and even if there's not a God, if I come to the end of my life and find out that my My faith has been in vain. God At least it motivated me and gave me joy and help during my life. That's faith. Now, isn't that incredible? Encouraging, folks. I don't find that very encouraging at all. And it wasn't my favorite episode in that show. That's not faith. Faith has to be put in something. Real dependence in something. Not just, well, at least my faith inspires me and gets me through life, so you know I'm better off than the person that has no faith. No, faith in Jesus Christ or no faith at all. Faith in God proclaimed. And Paul is now rejoicing in the benefits and the results. Two more verses here, 9 and 10, where we see imitating effective ministry magnifies the gospel message, and the gospel message proclaims our need. We saw this on Sunday school This morning. Our need shows us our need for the gospel because of our sin. Verse 9. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you. And how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his son. Is it pretty this is pretty cool here. But Paul's saying, not only I was expecting a report from Timothy. Timothy, waiting on Timothy to get back. And in the meantime, I'm getting reports from a lot of other people in the region of Macedonia in Achae, maybe even before Timothy got back. Letting Paul know of the powerful ministry that these folks are having and imitating his gospel ministry. They themselves report, people from all over the region, and they're coming back and telling me The type of ministry that I had among you. It wasn't just Timothy, but these folks had made an impact in their community, and Paul is now hearing from multiple sources. About the power of God working among these folks. How is that possible? They had to turn to God Paul came in and preached. They turned from their own ways, from idol worship, and they turned to God, the living and true God. Really, isn't it true that all of us, in order to trust Christ, have to turn from some kind of idol? We all have to turn from something that we are putting our faith and trust in, maybe it's our own effort. Maybe it's another figure. Maybe it's a philosophy or something like evolution or or whatever. We all have to turn from something that we're putting our faith and dependence in. A lot of cults, a lot of idols. And these folks knew that they would face persecution if they turned, and yet they were willing to turn anyway and turn to God, the one true God, the one that was living. And the one that is all truth and is still living today, folks. And all of us here must acquiesce to that truth. As well, that we will turn from whatever we are depending in and turn to Jesus Christ, who is the living and true God. It says to wait for his Son from heaven. Their primary allegiance was all kinds of things, was Rome, was false gods. And they heard the gospel and they said, Our we believe our allegiance is now to the living and true God. And he has all of our commitment. And so God is able to use them in an amazing way. I could say this in application, folks, as well. If we're truly aligned and committed to God Our community is going to know it. If we're truly committed to the message of Jesus Christ, if we are a committed follower of Jesus Christ, you're not going to be able to hide your light under a bushel. It will burn the bushel, it will burn the basket up. People will know. And people could see amongst these believers in Thessalonica. The truth as they proclaimed it. What is the truth? The great hope? Gospel ministry proclaims our need, our need to turn from our sin and from worshiping all kinds of other things but God and turn to Him, the one, the living and true God, but it also directs us to the hope that we have in His His son, Jesus Christ, verse 10, and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. The hope of Jesus is now being proclaimed. As Paul proclaimed it to these folks, now they're proclaiming it to their whole region. And they have a confidence. That is providing motivation for their service. Remember, we talked about this the last two weeks. That the motivation of Jesus Jesus' return was giving them confidence to share Christ. That's what's described there. They're waiting for Jesus to return, and so they have confidence. To tell other people about him. He's coming. Can almost hear , imagining the trumpet being called up Folks, you want to follow him too. You want to follow the living and true God and have forgiveness of sins and turn away from your other things that you're worshiping and turn to Jesus Christ. Because he is our deliverer. He has delivered us from the wrath to come, and the wrath is coming As we finished up our study in Sunday school with Revelation, the wrath of God is coming, and it was a reminder to us that it is a vivid wrath that will punish all sin and those who have not trusted Christ. It is a righteous wrath. We don't like to think about an angry God. We like to think about the loving and gracious God. And that is our hope, and we're thankful. That our Heavenly Father loved us enough to send His Son for us. But if we refuse that offer of Christ, there is a wrath for sin that is awaiting us one day And Jesus was willing to offer up himself that bloody, terrible sacrifice, his torn body, nailed to a cross Almost not being recognizable as a human being. Jesus went through all of that to be our deliverer. folks to save us from God's wrath. No, God isn't a cruel, ugly person For his wrath and judgment, but he loved us enough to send his son so that we could escape and be delivered. What is truly tragic is when we reject his love and we reject his gift. And these folks, as they proclaimed him They pointed to the fact that he was returning. It motivated them. And they said, He is our deliverer that will deliver us from judgment. You trust him too. Put your confidence in him. Put all this together. How do we experience effective gospel ministry as a local church body? We're going to continue to see more specifics about this as we continue to work through this book. But did you get the idea that we need to be imitating the Apostle Paul in our Lord Jesus Jesus Christ in our daily lives. How are we doing on that? We don't have to be caught off guard or unprepared when opportunity Come for us to show the love of Christ, or maybe to proclaim and talk about our Savior and our friend through our trust in Jesus Christ. And our motivation by his love and his soon return, we can be ready to have an answer for everyone that God sends our way, folks. We can be ready ready for that? Are you going to be ready this week? Maybe just to in in an interaction with somebody at a grocery store and a fellow employee, maybe just showing them the love of Christ. Maybe just showing them a kindness and a thoughtfulness that you care about them. Maybe that would be the start to further testimony in this Ministry about Jesus Christ. Effective gospel ministry trusts in Jesus, proclaims our need And directs people to our hope. That is, that He delivers us and cleanses us from sin. Father, thank you for this Reminder that it really is possible to have effective gospel ministry as we imitate what you have shown us here. So many things about the early church that we don't know for sure. We don't know all the things in and out of how they worshipped. How they met together. But we are told here the specifics of the gospel and that we need to imitate these things in order, and that is proclaim Jesus. With our lives and with our words. Father, help remind us that this is not just A fruitful blessing for a time that's long gone, for a different era. But these words are given to us that we can experience the fruitful blessing of gospel ministry today. Lord, have us a desire to want to be known as gospel proclaimers as we lead people to the The truths of Jesus Christ. Help us to be faithful in that. As Leslie plays, let's consider this again. How can We better proclaim Christ. Are you depending on Jesus to help you proclaim him? Are we being good imitators of the character of Christ. Think on these things and talk to me if you have concerns or if the Holy Spirit's working in your life. Let me know. Let's take a few minutes and reflect as the piano plays. Father, do a work in us. Do motivate us. Do a powerful work in us to prepare us.