I saw Tom with that camera and you know it's always are we videoing this now too? Or not that I'm nervous or anything, but Oh. We just need to praise the Lord. Lord, right? And thank him for his marvelous work. Only He can do these things. Oh, thank you. My wife, my son's always right there to help me out too. I'm thankful for that because I'm gonna need this. Um was thinking about Rick's song there and um That so encapsulates actually a lot of things this morning. Encapsulate what we're going through and what we've been thinking. The Sunday school lesson this morning from Stephen, and even the songs that we sang and what Rick just sang. What Phil's saying as well. They did a great job, by the way. Um, I'm already thinking. I my mind, I'm really kind of scattered this morning, by the way. It's been an amazing Week. And hopefully sometime we'll be able to sit down with you and explain. It has been a week, unlike I could say this, and I think I say this for Leslie too for my family unlike any we've ever experienced. Um and just incredible what the Lord has done and and what he's doing. So forgive me for being a little scattered this morning because in the end We're just so grateful, we're overwhelmed to Jesus. Um so anyway, my mind was going as listening to these guys sing, and I thought, oh, you know, there might be a chance for a duet or maybe Maybe a trio here. We could talk about that later. But that would be a real blessing. Like I said, the uh the Lord has really brought us through uh uh quite a week and we're thankful, so thankful to be here um to be established even without a house yet. Um we We know the Lord's gonna provide that too. And it's all part of the adventure, right? You know? Um and I know we've got the food over here, and that that would be a temptation, that would be a distraction, except that we got fed really well at the Wetzels this morning. I appreciate that. So my family's good. I don't know about you all. I'm okay. And uh we'll uh we'll see what uh we'll try to get done with a The passage we're going to be looking at this morning is Ephesians chapter 4, 11 through 16. We're going to go over kind of the broad themes of this passage this morning. I'm not going to get into every detail of it. I do have the opportunity to go through this book in detail because it really, I mean, all of God's Word is marvelous. But this is written specifically Talking to the church as a whole about things that Christ is doing and um the work that He's doing and the ex Expectations that he has. But as we get into this , I'm going to do some some broad themes here. Again, overwhelmed this morning by just the many God has has just given us little hints this whole week that hey I'm in this. I'm in this and I'm going to share some of that with you. with you this morning. I was are I'm glad that Tom started it out earlier by by crying up here because that means I have full permission, right? Um I'm not gonna cry every week, I don't think, because I'm not that type of But I think today, if you'll forgive me, there may be a few tears. Even during Sunday school this morning, I'm wiping away tears, and maybe Steve thought, wow, I really must be impacting Pastor Brock with my Sunday school lesson. Lesson. And uh it was it was good, but I just happened to look at my phone because I know that our clock here isn't always accurate. I wanted to see what time was What time it was. And I I already had three text messages from people back home that had just said, We're praying for you today. A lot of neat things like that. So, as we get started with our first Sunday, senior pastor of Village Chapel Baptist. Church. I think it'd be good to ask the question then: who's in charge here? Right? And I'm thankful for what God's Word says the answer is. Because folks ultimately understand it's not me. And I'm thankful for that. But the title of this message is The Morning: Jesus is the One Who Leads Us. And that's for all of us. Jesus is in charge of this thing. Jesus is moving. Jesus is sovereignly working out His plan. Of course, scripturally we understand God the Father is working out his plan. And Jesus is his son. But Jesus as the king that will one day return has a plan. plan and he is working these things out. And we all humbly submit to that plan. And we need to do that starting out even now as we start a new chapter at Village Chapel. Baptist Church meeting now in Ware, New Hampshire. All of us need to understand this isn't something that we could come up with. I couldn't come up with a story like this. This is all Jesus. Jesus is the one who leads us. Let's look at the passage together, starting at verse 11 through 16, and then we'll pray and we'll look at God's word. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men and cunning craftiness whereby they are They lie in wait to deceive, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ From whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the effectual working and the measure of every part, maketh in Of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. Father, go with us today. Our hope and our confidence is that you are guiding this ship That you are in charge. Lord, I know as the pastor here now I am so thankful for that. And I gladly submit myself and humble myself to your leading. Lord, help us to do that in the days ahead. Help us not to follow our own ideas or our own opinions in and of themselves But help us to take the time to make sure that all that we desire to do is anchored in what you want us to do. Help us to have that understanding. Even as we go forth this morning in the midst of the fellowship and the excitement of this time. Lord, help us as well to be encouraged to know that no matter what. Disappointments, what discouragements we face, that we go in your power, and that you will lead, and you will help us to be the Testimony of Christ that we need to be in our community. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Jesus is the one that leads us along. And let's look then at verse 11, where he gives specifically Jesus plan and we find out point one that Jesus decides who leads. Yes, Jesus gets to decide that too. In fact, Jesus Jesus gets to decide the categories. Look at these, verse eleven. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. I think another translation could be pastor teachers, but I think that also applies to pastors, and I I think it can apply in a broader sense to the teachers. In the church. So that includes all of you that taught this morning. Okay? Jesus makes up the categories. He decides who's in leadership. Now, we could talk a lot about these different categories this morning. And I'll just go over them real quickly to make sure that you have an understanding of what these are. But I think what's going on here is what Paul is saying is this is the category of leaders that we have in the church at the time I'm writing this. And I want you to understand that Jesus is the one that decides these categories and decides who your leadership is. Okay? Apostles , that would include Paul. And my position is on this that the apostle leadership category is no longer in existence Because one of the main categories about being an apostle is you had to see Jesus. And although we all love and we talk to Jesus in prayer, I don't think any of our testimonies this morning were would be that we have actually seen him. Okay? That's a major a category, a major requirement to be an apostle. And God directed them and specifically gave them Gave them leadership abilities, the twelve, but you know there's more than twelve apostles, right? Paul and then there were others that were Paul assigned that name as well. Some prophets. Even at this time, Paul wasn't referring to what we would look at as the Old Testament prophet office. But this was kind of a mix. Of a transition between the Old Testament and the New. Before we had all of God's word, there was this New Testament prophet office that was really interesting, but it had really the main idea of proclaiming Who Jesus was. Sometimes it involved giving some prophecy, some future events. But today I don't believe that that that is the gift that Paul is talking about here, or the opposite he's talking about. If it does continue today, it's more along the lines of someone Who proclaims God's word boldly. Okay? Then we have evangelists, someone who is gifted. Giving the gospel. By the way, that doesn't let us all off the hook. Okay, I've heard people say before, well, I just don't have the gift of giving the gospel, and other people do, so that's their job. I'll just do something else. No, Paul's not letting us off the hook here. We all have a responsibility to give the gospel, but Paul does give or God does give some people. This special ability to communicate the gospel. I think, again, we're going quickly here. I think this would include what we consider to be the evangelist Today that come in and speak and have uh and have meetings and things like this. But I think more accurately, even more accurately, it has the idea of church planners who go and give the gospel and start churches. Um that would be a good idea of evangelists. And some pastors. Another word for that in the Greek is a shepherd. And I I, you know, out of all the titles that a pastor has That's my favorite. Because the pastor is supposed to be a shepherd. He cares for the sheep. He's diligent. He's watching for them. He gets to know them well. Okay. He doesn't distant. He doesn't get up on Sunday morning and preach the message and say, Now you people just go out and do what I said and we'll see you next week. No, he gets involved in their lives. He wants to help them. Okay. The shepherd is intimately involved in the lives of his sheep. He knows them. He protects them. Sometimes he has to involve Some correction too, and bring up some things that maybe they need to work on. That's involved in that too. But the pastor as the shepherd in every aspect of his ministry. is a beautiful picture. And it I don't know if you've ever read the book's been out a long time. I think his name is Philip Keller, a shepherds look at twenty at Psalm 23. Beautifully written book. You can't read that without getting an idea. The the shep the job as a shepherd is a daunting task. It's not an easy thing. So please don't think that That being a pastor, I had uh people tell me in the past, oh, I wish I could be a pastor. All you do all day long is sit around and study books and study God's Word. Well, if that oh, if that were the case. But there's so much more that's involved with it. Being a shepherd is a daunting task that God has to call you to. And he does call us to that. And teachers, the pastor also needs to be a teacher of God's word. And I love to teach people God's word. I love to teach children. I love to teach teens. I love to teach adults. Okay What God's word means. And my prayer is always that I am accurate. Because I don't want to be. I use the word unaccurate. With God's word. I want to make sure that I am portraying and proclaiming to you what God's Word says for us so that we can go out and live it in this community. Okay? So there's our list. I don't think it's all inclusive. I think deacons could be included in that as well. Maybe that's included in teachers. But did you notice something? It says Jesus gave. Have you ever heard I'm sure you've heard this saying before, and it's not meant in a positive light, but um somebody who's being arrogant. And we say, boy, what do they think? They're God's gift to whatever. Okay, maybe it's somebody who's the best guy that uh on the basketball team that play plays basketball well, but he's also very arrogant and he hogs the ball or whatever, and somebody would say, Boy, he thinks he's God's gift of basketball, okay? Or whatever sport, or um maybe on the job. Guy thinks he's Scott 's gift to this company, but man Man, he's arrogant. Well, if I could take that in a positive way, if you ever think about that as far as your leaders, what do you think Do those guys think they're God's gift to the church? Well, humbly I'd have to say, Yeah. We are, because that's what Paul says here. We are God's gift. God decides, Jesus decides, and gives us as gifts to the church. Now you might say, okay, wow, I can't believe Pastor Brock's talking like this already. I'm getting a little nervous about, you know, his arrogance. Here, whatever. And I don't say this in any kind of arrogant way. Trust me, this is incredibly humbling for me to be a part of this church ministry. This is not something That I have sought out on my own. I have always been willing to do whatever God wanted me to do. When I knew God was calling me to full-time vocational ministry, my Basic response was, Lord, I just want to be a useful tool in your service, whatever you would want me to do. But that senior pastor thing, I just can't imagine That. And he's brought us through many challenges. He's allowed me 11 wonderful years of ministry as an assistant pastor down in Maryland and God has finally said and made it clear, I want you to step up now. Now is your turn. I have chosen you. Gifting you. I hope that ends up being that way. At least it is with you. You get my wife and my boys as well. So that's the better part of the gift. But I'm sending you to that church to minister. I put on an Instagram post uh got kind of emotional this week as I was looking at pictures from our send off last week and then my time with our teenagers This Wednesday was just an emotional overlord and overload and a huge blessing. But I put in ministry cycles, it can be described like this: that God sends you to a church And teaches you how to love those people well so that you can proclaim Jesus' love to the community and be an example to them. And then at some point God says, Now I want I want you to take that same love, and I want to take you to a new place. And I want you to show Jesus' love to that place, to that ministry too. And that's what it is. And that's what God's doing. And I hope that I can do that well through the strength that Jesus gives. So Jesus decides all this. But then he doesn't just give us the leadership, but he decides their responsibilities. What is the responsibility of the leadership, of the pastor? of the leadership of the church. Well, it is verse 11 or verse 12 for the perfecting of the saints. And then there's a comma there. The pastor's job and the job of the leaders in the church is to perfect the saints, the work of the ministry, and the edifying of the body of Christ. And what Paul is actually saying there is there is saying no the leadership is involved. It says perfecting there of the saints, by the way. And that could make you misunderstand what Paul's trying to say Trying to say here because honestly, if it were my job to try to make help you all be perfect, I'm telling you right now, I would fail miserably. I don't have that kind of ability. I can't make any of you perfect. I can't make myself perfect. Only Jesus Christ can do that. But it has the idea here of equipping the saints. Helping them. Helping them, motivating them, teaching them, coming alongside, and equipping them. Well, what are the saints supposed to do? By the way, the saints are all of you. It's all of the church. It's all of us. What are they supposed to be equipped to do? I'm glad you asked. The work of the ministry and the edifying of the body of Christ. So that favorite rule that you see so many times of so many ministries, sometimes they call it the 80%, 20% rule, where the pastor is supposed to do 80% of the work and the congregation does twenty percent. Um you may see that in a lot of especially small churches, what happens in b in large churches. But that's not the way that Jesus intended for this to go. As the leader, I am leading you and teaching you and looking out for you and helping you to help you and motivate you to do the work of the ministry. I'm doing that as well. I don't get, you know I don't get out of that in any sense or way. But I'm helping you all, and the leadership here is helping you all to effectively portray Christ. To this community. That's my job. I'm glad for it. I'm thankful for that. I need to stop here real quick and just say a couple things personally. Okay. about the leadership here. I am so thankful for the leadership that God has given this church before we ever showed up. But I want you to know that The leadership here, as we're getting to know all of you, the leadership here is one of the big reasons that God called us to this church. Because I could tell these were men that had a love for God that wanted Wanted to be a testimony for Jesus to this community, and they wanted to move forward and do this. And I thought that's the type of leadership that I want to be a part of. And God used that. And I'm in their corner. I love these men. They're they're I've become friends with them already. I'm looking forward to working with them. That's a lot to say, and we're not even past the second Verse, so let's keep going here. But I really did want to take a couple minutes and have you know that I'm so thankful for them. So, to equip the saints. The work of the ministry, the edifying of the body of Christ, equipping, providing the right tools, building up. That's all for all of us to do, not just the leadership. You know, each um Person whether you're a plumber or whether you're an electrician. I worked as a commercial painter for a number of years to make money um for college. And you You have to have your tool belt, you have to have specific tools. You can't come into a job without your tools, or you're not going to be able to do the job God's called you to do. That is, Jesus equips, but he also gives you leaders that Help equip and get you ready to go out there and be the example of Jesus that you need to be. The edifying, not only an example Of Jesus Christ love within this church and building each other up. We all have a part in that. Nobody gets to sit back and just be a spectator. We're all supposed to be building each other up. And encouraging each other then to get out there and tell people about Jesus Christ, the work of the ministry. That's all of us. And we can all do that. And don't People need the message of the love of Jesus Christ in our community today. They do. And I'll get onto that in just a minute. What's the purpose then? Jesus not only decides who leads He decides the responsibilities. He decides what we're all supposed to do, and he also decides the game plan, if I can put it that way. Verse 12, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry. Verse 13, I'm sorry, till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. And then he'll continue on there. Let me point this out. God's game plan as we work together is unity. Something Stephen talked about this morning. Our need to be be unified as a church. If we are an example of if we're an example of divisiveness and we can't be unified together as a church to our community, There's going to be no attraction for them to want to come to Jesus. They want to see a group of people that love each other and that are working together and that can work together for a common cause. And say, wow, there's something different about that group. I want to know more about them. I want to know the person that they serve. And be an attraction for them to know more about who Jesus is. Is there must be unity of the faith. We all have a common faith in Jesus Christ, and we must be unified in that and go forth and be a light. And of the knowledge of the Son of God, growing and knowing more about who Jesus is. And I hope that we as a Bible and the That's another thing that drew us to this church is your love for God's word. You all seem to be people that love God's word, that love to be in God's Word. So thankful for the teaching that we We have that's that's so careful about being careful and explaining God's word in a detailed fashion. And then what happens? As we get to know Jesus more through God's word, unto a perfect man, and again, this doesn't have the idea that in this life God God's going to perfect us, or if that's my responsibility, um, I'm woefully unequipped to do that. But it has the idea of this, okay? A mature man, not a perfect man, but one or a woman that That's maturing. And in that sense, it's kind of still like an extension of youth ministry that I've done for so many years. Don't be offended by that. But it is helping, continuing you all to see You mature in your faith and grow in your love for Jesus. And I love doing that. With the power of Jesus working, the power of God working in my life and in the leadership, the lives of our leadership. We want to encourage you. Hey, you can do this. Because Jesus has the power to help you to mature, to grow. Don't be children anymore. You know, it's ugly when you see a child throw a temper tantrum But unfortunately, adults throw temper tantrums sometime too, and those are really awkward and disappointing. We don't want to be adults that throw temper tantrums, tantrums tossed to and fro, carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, and cunning craftiness, this is verse 14, whereby they lie in wait to deceive. We don't, I don't want as your pastor, for you as a group to fall for the deceit and the lies that are out there. I need to emphasize this: that more than ever, the lies and the deceit and the distortion of truth is epidemic in our culture today. You don't even know where to go to anymore to get the real events about an event that actually happened because it's so politically twisted and everything, trying to figure out even the details of what happened takes weeks Takes days at least. As a pastor trying to lead you into truth, that is a big task. Well, that's what God's called me to do. To help you, to protect you from the deceit out there, to protect you from those that want to pull you away from this church. From your faithfulness to Jesus Christ, they're out there. And my job, my wonderful responsibility is to help you mature so that you can see past all that. So that you can see past the lies and deception and live for Jesus and not be swayed. You know, it's fun to fly kites, isn't it? I don't know if you enjoy flying kites. I enjoy flying flying kites when there's a wind and I can actually get the kite up. kites Otherwise I get frustrated really quickly. And when I have boys that love to fly kites, so I do the best I can. Sometimes at the beach when the wind's really going That's a really great time to f or place to fly a kite. And that helps out a lot. And I was flying a kite one time with my boys and had it up in the air and it was fun to watch it, but you know, it was swirling around back and forth. The wind caught it and you know it was swoop down as like, oh it's gonna crash and then oh it didn't. Okay, it goes back up and then it came down again and crashed. And I thought, what a horrible way to live your life. I would never want to be a kite. Not that you could be a kite, but what a horrible existence up there, I mean, at the at the whim of the wind, and wherever the wind goes, it takes you. And what a horrible way for people to have to live their lives. But so many, even Christians, live their lives on a daily basis that way. They're so immature, they know so little about Jesus that they They fear God or they take God too lightly. They don't understand when someone is distorting God's word. Oh, that sounds good. Yeah, that sounds that guy's got a great speaking voice. Sounds really good. I think I'll follow that. And they're carried around by every wind of doctrine like that kite and they're blowing all over the place. It's a horrible way to live life. And Paul says, you're not supposed to live life that way. You're supposed to be grounded in the truth of God's word. And we all as a body are here to help each other. Deceive through the deceit. People are literally lying in wait to deceive Us out there. Really? What's their motivation? It's hard to understand. Maybe it's Satan. Maybe it's the desire for power. But they're waiting for us. Are we ready? Are we a mature body? That's ready to face that and face the world. Don't be like that. But what are we supposed to do? We're supposed to be mature. Verse 15. And speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ. You may say, Pastor Brock, I'm spiritually mature, you don't have to worry about me. I don't think anybody here would say that. But I would say to you then, okay, compare yourself to Jesus Christ. How you doing in that That comparison. When we compare ourselves to the people around us, we might start looking pretty good. But when we compare ourselves to our head, who is the leader? And Paul makes it clear. It's not the senior pastor. Jesus is the head. We compare ourselves to him. We say, okay, I got some more work to do in this area here. And I got some more work to do over here. Lord, please help me to continue to grow in my maturity to be a testimony of Jesus Christ. When we have Him as our um As our measure, he shows us the things in our life that still need to be worked on. And then we finally get to verse 16. Jesus knows our needs From whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the effectual working and the Measure of every part maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. That's a lot of words, and that may be a little hard to understand. It could be translated this way, joined and held together by every joint which it is equipped When each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. Have you ever seen a newly born calf? Okay. Now what I've seen, I haven't got to see a I haven't got to see this live or in person, but I've seen it on TV and that counts, right? Born and or or maybe uh a a deer or some or an animal that's just been born that has legs that where where it's kind of just w toppling around and kind of woozy and and trying to get its balance. Um we understand that when you have a firstborn calf or something of that nature, it takes a little while, a little maturity, to get its feet, to get it to the point where it can walk around and function the way that it needs to function. to help the church not be wobbling around trying to figure out how to make it itself work because there's a weak link over here and there's division over here and there's jealousy over here um and all kinds of divisiveness and so we're kind of wobbling around trying to To just make ourselves work so that we can be a testimony. But through the power of Jesus, it's to help us get our legs under us and act the way we're supposed to in this community. So that we can go out and function the way we need to function, so people will come to Jesus Christ and to know him and to want to know him. Don't oh, don't miss this too, by the way, in verse 15. This is so important. I emphasized this when I read this. Did you see that speaking the truth in love? I've known people that have said, and I don't know if there's anybody in here here like this but have said, you know what? God's just gifted me with a way to just tell it like it is. I just put it out there and if people can't handle it, well that's their own fault, because that's my gift. And some people I even had one guy that told me, I have the gift of The prophets just put it out there, said it w like it was, and they didn't care, you know, what the effect was, and I said, well, that's not exactly That's a little bit of a distortion of what a prophet did. Prophets had to be loving too. And if you've ever thought that way, and I know sometimes you get people, we get people in our lives, we get irritated with people, and we just want to tell them like it is. Give them the truth. But Paul reminds us, in love. That's a requirement. For all of us. None of us just gets to say it. That's, by the way, that's a horrible example to the community. But if they see people that are controlled, that can bring up things that need fixed, that need correcting, but they know that you love them They're going to listen to that. And so Paul says here, in love. How are we doing in that? How are we being as far as a loving example to our community? You know what? This community needs to See the love of Jesus. Simple kindness. All of us can be kind. So the next time you're in Walmart. And there's only two registers open, and there's like sixteen available, right? Or the next time um you know something goes wrong with your order and you don't get exactly the way or you get shortchanged a little bit. But please be kind. Show Jesus love. Don't just be harsh. They get enough of that already. Our community needs to see Jesus love, and we can do that. do the simple things. Even if you're just kind to people, that can make a difference. Or they might think that you're on something or taking something. But Regardless, they need that. We can do that. And Jesus will enable us through the leadership and through all of us working together. to be able to function all of us as different parts. Every part of the body is needed, right? Some aren't as visible, but we need every part of the body that God gave us. And people, we need everyone In here to function as Village Chapel Baptist Church. Don't give up. Keep going. I know we've had some discouragements. You've had some discouragement Discouragements in the past, but we're here together. Let's be ready to share Jesus with our community. Let's be ready to be patient and kind with each other. Let's thank God for the leadership. I'm not talking about just me. Um let's let's work together all of this. You know what all of this says as we finish up? Who's in charge here? Well it's Jesus. Jesus is in charge here. Let me tell you, that gives me so much relief. When I would tell people that I felt like God was calling me to be a senior pastor, um I I I got some positive things, but I got a lot of negative things too. But you know what? It may seem daunting, but when I remember that I'm not the one in charge, that it's Jesus, what do I do then? I submit to his leadership. And what do I do when it comes to leading this church? I don't make decisions and I don't go by my own opinions or my own feelings, but I pray and I talk to Jesus first. And when I fail, it's because I didn't do that. And when we have success, it's because we, the leadership We're listening to Jesus. We're ready to do whatever He wanted us to do. And we're going to go out and doing it. Don't worry about past struggles. I'm not here to have a power struggle. I'm not here because I I've always secretly desired to be the one in charge. That's not me. You'll get to know me more about like that. I don't have a worry or concern about legacy. I'm doing all of this to make a legacy so one day people will remember me. I don't care about that, honestly. Trying to make a name for myself. If everyone forgets the name Brock Mosley, that's fine with me. If they remember that that whatever that guy's name was that was the pastor of those churches Chapel at some point. He pointed us to Jesus. Success. That's what it's all about. So Jesus helped me to be the right example to this church. And help us all to be an example of the love of Jesus. Whatever else is important to Village Chapel Baptist Church, and there's a lot of things that are important and should be important. Please understand, the greatest thing that people need to see from us is the love of Jesus out there. And we need to go out. And proclaim Jesus accurately through his word, but also share Jesus' love with others. Father, thank you Lord, as we go from here, let this be our desire. That people see a church that love you, that love Jesus. And people see a place that will show Jesus' love to them. Re wherever they are, Lord, the people that come in here and the people that meet at we meet at work and the people in our community that are different from us, that do Do things that they shouldn't, that are involved in in wicked things even, and have habits that they're they're captive to. All of these people need To see Jesus' love above all else, and they need to be pointed to Jesus accurately and have an Understanding of Him. Lord, help us to do that. Help Village Chapel to be that beacon of light. Father, we love you. Your word is important to us. Practicing and proclaiming your word is important. Important to us, but help us above all things to want to show the love of Jesus through a display of unity of faith Together and help us to go forward and do that. Lord, we need your help. I can't do that. These people here can't do that. But But you can. And so our faith is in you. And our trust is in you. That you will do this work. Jesus is our head. And we're still trusting Thankful for that. Humble us, prepare us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen