In your relationship with Jesus Christ this morning. I truly hope so. Children are headed off to Children's Church. And we, before we take communion together, I should say that we have someone in the back that will let Children's Church know when we're ready for communion. So that our children can join in as the parents see fit for communion at the end. Turn back to Ephesians chapter 4. And we're starting the last three chapters really of the book of Ephesians, and this is the practical application of all that we have learned, the beauties of our riches in Jesus Christ. Christ, the beauty of the character of God the Father. And folks, I don't have time. I wish that I did. I could take, you know, a long time and just go back through the character of our God, the riches that we have. In Christ. But we do have communion today, too. I would encourage you to go back and read through the first three chapters of Ephesians. We also have, we're up to date on the message online you can go back through and hear some of those preached as well and just get your mind accustomed and ready for the practical outworkings in our lives of the truths that we heard in the first three chapters. So as we work through Ephesians 4, and today we'll get through hopefully verses 13 through 13. 16. We're seeing that Jesus because of his death and resurrection His death was fully sufficient, his shed blood for our remission of sins, that our guilt is taken away when we depend and trust in him. And he is fully sufficient to give us new life and provide us new life to be forever with his Father because of his resurrection. Jesus accomplished all of that and he has the authority to give us gifts. And who doesn't want to get gifts, right? As we're getting closer to Christmas. Um the children especially are getting more and more excited. Well, maybe they're getting excited this week because they might be getting a little candy at the end of the week as well. I don't know. But Christmas in particular, the wrapped gifts, the giving of gifts just because we love each other, who doesn't love a gift? And Paul describes in Ephesians 4 the gifts that Jesus has the authority to give us. Why does he have the authority? Well, we just read it in Psalm 68. And Peter or Peter, Paul repeats it for us in Ephesians chapter 4, that Jesus gained the victory in his resurrection. And so he gives us gifts. And we saw those gifts last week, and that those gifts are to equip the body of Christ. All of you. To be able to do the ministry that God's called us to do. So let's look back before we get to verse 14. And we saw Jesus' gifts that he gives that grow the unity of the church. And Paul reminded us of the importance of unity, that we ought to be eager to be unified together around the truths of Jesus Christ, and he'll give us gifts to make us unified. Verse 7 of Ephesians 4. But grace was given to each of us. Each of us in the body of Christ. Each of you this morning has this grace of Jesus if you are a child of God. According to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, quoting from Psalm 68, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean that he also descended into the lower regions, the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. He came, was man, he fulfilled the law of God, and he was he died as the perfect Lamb of God, was raised again, that he might provide all that the church needs. To take the gospel to the whole world. Beautiful verses. What are the gifts he gave? Well, 11. He gave the apostles. The prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and the teachers to equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ. Paul is admonishing us in many different ways here to do two things. Build up the church. Build each other up and walk worthy. Walk in a way that's pleasing to the Lord. We can sometimes get bogged down in all that we We've learned of Scripture, try to make it easy. What is Paul admonishing us to do as a church? Build each other up. Encourage each other to do the work of the ministry. And walk in a way pleasing to the Lord. Those may sound like impossible tasks, but no. We have the one who conquered sin, death, the grave. And the eternal punishment in hell. We don't have to have eternal punishment in hell. We can experience new life in eternity with Jesus Christ. He was the one that was powerful enough to accomplish all of that. So I'd say that Jesus Christ is powerful enough. To build up the church. Let him use you. And he's powerful enough to help you to walk in a way that's pleasing by being humble, by being gentle, by being patient. Putting up with a lot of stuff. Oh, Jesus can help you to fulfill that And he's given you gifts. And I know this sounds a little self-serving, but the gifts are the leaders, the church, the pastors, the teachers. Those are just some of the gifts. Not the only gifts, but that's what's described in verse 11. We saw that last week. And the church needs leaders and pastors to guide them, to disciple them, to teach them God's word, to teach them directly, to be direct and exhorting in their lives. to remind them of the gospel. So that the saints, which are the holy ones, the ones that are called apart, that are called are sanctified as vessels of service for Jesus Christ, that you may be able to, as a church body and as individuals, serve him effectively. The pastor, one of his main responsibilities is to teach and help you understand your need to be holy vessels before God. And that builds up the body of Christ. So again, folks, I think you understand this, but it's not all in the pastor. It's not all in the leadership. In fact, uh there's if if I were this might be a little scary But if I were to say, you know, I'd like to take another survey and everybody just write down the five, maybe ten things that you think the pastor ought to be doing. Some of you might come up with list that's even greater than that. And as I looked at all these lists, I'd begin to realize, and maybe if I shared them with you, you might be able to realize, you know what? There's a lot more on these lists than one guy can Can do. Well, but he's the pastor, he's just going to figure out a way to do it. Well, not quite. There are some basic things that God has called me to do, and one of the basic things Is teaching and discipling and helping you to build each other up. And I have to be careful not to get distracted with a lot of other things. And I need your help for that. And so all of this is a good reminder to help us to bring unity together. To all of us see our need for service through the teaching of God's Word. Each one of us that have named the name of Christ, that are a true believer in this room You all are necessary to help this body to build each other up and to function correctly. We need everybody. And I hope that you see that. And the more we are all working together for the cause of the gospel and the truths of Jesus Christ, the more unified and stronger we are. And so, with that, then today, in verses 13 through 16, we see also that Jesus' gifts help grow the church. They do grow the church. Unity comes from the About. Jesus has given us what we need to be unified, but also to mature as a church and as individual believers. That's what we have in verse 13. A mature church experiences spiritual growth. And they experience that spiritual growth, first of all, by growing in the knowledge of Jesus. This is again a common theme that we've seen already. We continue to see in verse 30. And Paul is describing here the attainment, the pursuit of a goal. He's giving the church, this is a goal that we must attain. That we must be successful in as the local body of Christ. But not only does he plead that we must be successful, he says, you will be successful. Because Jesus has given us what you need to be successful. Okay, verse 13 then. Until we obtain. Well, let's go back to verse 12. So we're kind of getting right into the middle of the sentence. He gave gifts to equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for building up, edifying each other in the body of Christ. until here's the goal, we all attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. There's actually three parts to this goal to mature manhood and womanhood, to measure to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Here are these goals that he's calling us to reach. And he's saying that these are important goals, but as well, we will be successful in them. Because God or Jesus Christ has provided what we need. So isn't it wonderful that God gives us as a church goals to reach, but he gives us what we need. And he says that we will all be successful in these things. My son Luke has recently joined the FCA Fellowship of Christian Athletes cross-country team running team and uh Bob is really uh Leslie and I were really glad to see that he had an interest in that and he's made some new friends and as well Sam Howard's on that team and and Tyler and a number of other young people. And they do a great job. It's a great team. They're very successful in doing a lot of running all over God 's creation. And it's been exciting to see them be successful. successful in that. But one thing I when I was on Meet the other day that touched my heart was, you know, sometimes some of these kids just get really tired and they can't run the way that they're normally able to in these cross-country So there was young one person in particular that was having a rough day and was way far behind the rest of the teams. And after many, many minutes This young person, everybody was kind of wondering, where's so-and-so? Haven't seen him yet. Where is he at? And finally he came up over the hill and he was struggling and doing his best, but he was tired. But he kept going at the same time. Still running. Still running. Over the next hill. And what was neat, at least my understanding was, was that the whole FCA team that Sam And Tyler and Luke are a part of. They all got together. They all ran to meet that runner. And they got on both sides and encouraged him, you can do it, you can do it, you can do it, till he crossed the finish line. Because they knew that the goal that he could do and accomplish Was that the whole team could get across that finish line. Folks, that's what Paul is saying here is that he's going to give us a goal to obtain, and he's going to describe what that is, but he wants to us to let us know up front, Jesus can help us if we are running the race that God has called us to do. And if you're a child of God, you're a runner in that race. You will cross the finish line. Jesus will help you to do that. So don't be cynical or discouraged as you hear this goal. Okay, what is the goal then that God will accomplish in his church through Jesus Christ? Well, the unity in faith, back to verse 13, of the knowledge of the Son of God. And this is the first part of this goal, that we will continue to have a deeper and full understanding of the basics of doctrine and our faith. Basically, a better knowledge, a deeper knowledge of God's word, and we're unified as a church over God's word There's lots of things that we look around and say that we want to be unified in folks, and they're lesser things many times. But the number one thing when we talk about unity and when Paul talks about unity That must unify us is adherence to the Word of God. Above all else, that ought to be our greatest priority. Above worship styles, above what we the the decorations in the church, about the pro the programs and activities, all those are important, but what needs to be our ultimate uniform Factor is the fact that we all believe this book and we want to grow in our knowledge of God's word. And that is my responsibility as a pastor to help you to do that. And even if I don't tell the best stories or my poems aren't as great as somebody else's, the main thing is that you're learning God's word. That's my responsibility because unity comes as we have our faith increased, as we know more about Jesus, and that's only through his word You can only know more about the Savior Jesus Christ by getting into God's word, reading it more, praying and fellowshipping with Him. These are basic things, are they not? And yet we must never be satisfied with the level of attainment that we have in reading God's Word and studying it, but we must always seek to have more, to have a deeper understanding. And knowledge. And that unifies us. And Paul says, oh, that's one of the great goals of the church is to be unified in the knowledge of their Savior, Jesus Christ. I will tell people many times as far as giving a testimony for Jesus that it can be many times as simple as sharing Hearing your testimony about how you came to know Jesus Christ. If you want to share someone what God has done and how you came to faith, To share how God led you to an understanding of Jesus and whether you were saved as a child or as an adult, to share that with others, that's a good start. And folks, I believe that's the case. But I do want to make a caveat to that. We should never be satisfied. With that, with just being able to give our testimony. But what Paul is saying here is that we ought to desire and strive to know more of the gospel. So that we can also share God's word with people. Yes, here's my testimony, but here from Scripture is what Scripture says about how you can know Jesus Christ. We must never be satisfied with a cursory knowledge of the gospel, but go deeper, understand it more. And that also then, the next part of this goal, is it helps us to be mature. It helps us to grow up. And Paul says in that second part of verse 13, to mature manhood. And he's basically saying here, church, you need to grow up. In modern vernacular, we would say, he says manhood here, you need to man up. But it's not just for the men, it's for the ladies too. You need to be more mature. And that maturity that only comes through knowing God's word better and more deeply. A mature church of excellent moral quality That may sound like a daunting task to take a local group of people and certainly then the universal church all over the world and to have these people pursue holiness and blamelessness. That reflects, that is a better reflection of Jesus Christ, of Christ-likeness. You may look at yourself and you may be you may despair and say, I I don't really, Pastor Brock, look very much like Jesus on a regular basis and in my daily walk and throughout my week. I'm ashamed of that. But it just seems Like sometimes I can't ever get there. No, folks, you have the power of the one who conquered death and hell, who was raised from the dead. You have the power of God, the Holy Spirit working in you. Oh no, you can change. You must change to be more like Jesus Christ. And your reactions with people that irritate the fire out of you. When people do evil against you. When people take things that aren't theirs. When people make life hard for others that don't have as much. When evil is perpetrated in the world, oh, we need, this world needs a better and better example of mature believers, not baby Christians Now we're all baby Christians at some point. But if the world sees a local body of believers, and it's like a children's nursery, Is that really going to be the example of Christ that we want to show? No, we want to be maturing. And so that means a deeper commitment to the things of God. A deeper commitment to God's Word. We want to grow up. Why wouldn't we? To mature manhood. And the third part of this goal, then. Is to the measure of the stature of the fullness of God. What is this talking about? It has the idea of the church is to look more and more the fullness of Jesus Christ. A testimony that we have not as individuals alone, but as a church that measures up to the full reflection of Christ's likeness. that we submit to the power of Jesus Christ and submit to the direction of the leadership and the teaching of God's word, and we become more like Jesus Christ as a local church body. All of us together. And that is the goal. That's what Paul is praying for. He's praying for a mature church. In Ephesus, in the city of Ephesus, it's doing great things and testifying of Jesus Christ and or being a great example. But Paul says, even more so, I'm praying. You need to be more unified. You need to know God's word better. You need to grow up more. You need to look more like Jesus Christ. To this broken world that needs desperately a reflection, a proper reflection of Jesus. I had the opportunity, many of you know my testimony. My undergrad was not Bible studies, it although I was at a Christian college, but it was commercial art and graphic design. And so I had many painting and drawing classes. may surprise some of you. One class that I took was extracurricular, but our instructors said that it would be very helpful. And that was pencil portrait drawings. There was a class in the evenings. where we would have models and and different things come in um and uh well people and we could even invite our our friends or whatever and we would uh draw their faces Because as our instructors said, if you can draw, the hardest thing in the world is to draw somebody or the human figure and to draw someone's face. And if you can do that, then everything else comes into play. And so we would be drawing these portraits, and for many of us, myself included, our first time, they they weren't really much to talk about. In fact, after we words um we kind of hid our drawings and kind of put them aside. Hey how how did yours go? Oh don't worry about that. How does yours oh yeah yours looks that's really nice That's really great. Uh no, you don't need to see mine. But after a while we would uh as we got better, the the drawings would get better and the purpose was it would reflect and look more like the person's face in front of us. We were maturing in our abilities. That's a picture of what Paul's saying here is that we mature and we look more like the portrait of our Savior Jesus Christ. Now, folks, that's something that, as you know, we will continue to grow in throughout our whole lives. But don't get comfortable where you're at. Don't get comfortable on your portrait of the Savior. Well, yeah, I think people can see Jesus in me. Yeah, the nose is a little off, the ears are a little off, but you know, overall they could they they get it. No. We want to better reflect Jesus in our character. As a church, as a pastor, I want people to come here and not see perfection, but see people that are all in for living for Jesus. And they show the love of Christ to those that come in. And let them know that we care about them. Because Jesus cared about us I want to be a proper reflection in our church so that people know in this building there is a safe harbor. Of people that show mercy and love and grace and patience because they have a great savior. Would you not agree that's so important? Well, let's continue on. Why is this important? Because a mature church maintains spiritual stability, not just our knowledge of Jesus Christ, but the more we reflect Him, the more we the more stable we become, verse fourteen, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness, and deceit and deceit deceitful schemes. There's a lot there. But Paul says one of the most one of the many important reasons you need to have a deeper knowledge of Jesus and reflect him better is because there's a lot of storms and a lot of de s deceptive teaching Out there, and you as a church body need to be able to notice those and not fall prey to them. We started a study in Jude this morning that shows us how to distinguish false teachers. within our midst in their actions. And Paul says, in order to pick out those that would distort the Bible teachings and distort the gospel, You need to know God's word and be mature. In order to see the wolves in your midst, you must have a maturity to be able to spot them. And he didn't want these believers that were coming into the church at Ephesus to be carried away by deviant teachings and blasphemies. They were vulnerable to that. He didn't want them blown all over the place by wrong teaching, certainly within the church. But he wanted people to come into the church, trust Christ, and be anchored by mature believers around. them. My boys used to really enjoy flying kites. A couple of them were better at this than others. Um and it was always exciting. It was always especially exciting to fly a kite near the beach, go to the beach for vacation and have this kite and you know the winds kick up and sometimes you can get those kites going really high up in the air. It's like Wow, that's amazing. Look how high it is. And then you watch this kite, and as the winds come, it kind of beats it around and it swirls, and then it does a shhhh. huge loop and dive and then it goes back up again. And you know, it's it's exciting to watch. And I don't know if I'm the only one that does this. I guess I'm I'm a little strange in this way. But as I was watching my boys fly these kites, after showing them how to do it, I began to watch those kites and I thought, what would it be like to be a kite? To be up there in the air and this and then whoo-hoom and then wow over here and I thought I I don't think I'd like to be a kite. It's a beautiful thing, it's a lot of fun, but it's not something that I would want to be a part of. I wouldn't want to actually be that kite. I know it's a little weird, but at the same time, folks, what Paul is saying is here, you don't want to be Be kites. kite You don't want to be believers that just take in everything that people tell you and wow, that's a really neat teaching over here, and then oh, there's a great Teaching, well, I don't know that it has anything to do with God's word, but it sounds really good. And then, you know, crash and burn over here because we're following something that we shouldn't. That doesn't speak well of the church. We don't want to be kites that are just led whenever the air cycles hit a certain way that we're carried away by them, but rather we want to be anchored. in knowing what we believe. Many of you have probably experienced this. I know a lot of folks that have scams online. Where something maybe many times on Facebook Marketplace, it used to be Craigslist, something sounds really good. And Some uh some folks that I know and maybe you know get carried away. Wow, that is a great deal. And all you have to do is send this money in to this address and then we'll meet you or whatever. And they send the money in and they never get what was promised them through that Facebook marketplace or through Craigslist or whatever. That doesn't happen all the time, but sometimes it does. We've gotten more tech savvy to keep those things from happening, but scams still happen and people lose money that way. And we understand sometimes people make things and um emails and things that are put online for sale, they sound really good, but you have to be really careful out there. Or you can get caught up and lose a lot of money and fall for a scam. Folks, as your pastor, I don't want any of you to fall for a scam of false doctrine. I want you to know God's word so well that you're not just depending upon me, but that you can go out there and when you hear someone say something that they say is from the Bible, you can know God's word well enough to say, no Actually that's not right. , Here's a passage that says this. And the wolf w runs the other way. Paul says we've got to stop being children, just believing in everything. Oh that sounds good. Oh that sounds good. No, tossed to and fro by the waves. That's no way to live your spiritual life. It's a terrible way. If you've ever gotten sick on the high seas, on a fishing trip or something like that and the waves are going and the boat's going up and down and you lose your lunch you feed the fishes. Had that happen last year on vacation. It was not a fun experience. That's not a great way to live your spiritual life, folks. Paul says, no, you need to be firm in your knowledge of Christ so you're not taken about by every wind of doctrine like a kite, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes. This that those words actually describe craftiness and deceitful deceitful schemes really in the Greek is talking about a magician. Now the magicians that you've probably seen in your life are hopefully they're really Good at what they do. But what does a magician try to do with his craft to try to make you think that he's done something miraculous? Well, he keeps you distracted over here while He or she does something over here that you don't see, and then they pull up this amazing result. You're like, wow, it's like magic. How did that happen? Well, magicians are fun to watch. And there are some that are famous, that are able to get us so distracted that we miss what they're doing. And that's a lot of fun when it's a magician that we're watching or that we've paid to watch. But folks, we shouldn't ever be entertained by spiritual magicians. Could try to deviate us from the truth of God's word by distracting us by something we really like. Oh, I really like that in the ministry. Oh, I like that that in the ministry. And we totally miss the deviant teaching that they're hiding over in their other hand. So easy to happen. We can be so distracted. That's why one of the greatest compliments you can ever give me as a leader As if you say, that pastor taught me God's word, and I learned God's word better and closer in my walk with Jesus Christ. Christ. Praise the Lord. I don't care how well I sang the last song or what I did in um a a That we had with the teens. You know, all these other things, the most important thing is that you are growing in God's word. And that comes Through trusting in Jesus and letting him help you to grow. Let's finish up here quickly, verses 15. Rather, speaking the truth in love, don't be like those immature believers that are immature and are being blown around by all kinds of false doctrines. Rather, you do this. Speak the truth in love. We are to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ, from whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped. When each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. It's not just the job of the pastor to help Build the church. But verse 15, we're all supposed to be growing in our knowledge of Scripture to help each other to grow. But notice in verse 15, Paul gives a caveat, but you must do it in the Love. There are many people that have come to me and said, you know, I just have the gift of telling it like it is. Just laying it out there. I don't mince words. I just tell people like it is. I think, hmm, well, okay, directness is good. But are you doing what Jesus, what Paul asked us to do here? Are you encapsulating that truth that you're kind of smacking people in the face? face with with love? Well if you're not you're not really helping to build up in the way that Christ has called us to You don't just smack people, hit them over the head, smack them in the face with truth, but no, you'd speak it in love and carefulness and concern. For them. You show them not just, hey, this is the way it is, and you know, life's tough. But it's, hey, I'm concerned for you. I really do love you as a fellow believer. Here's something that you need to consider. We grow up this way. So every member must help build others. And all of the members must continue to grow themselves. The whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped. When each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. John Calvin himself said Once that man is mistaken who desires his own spiritual growth, his own or his own or her own separate spiritual growth For what would profit a leg or an arm if it grew to an enormous size? Does it do us well, folks, as a church, to have some parts of the body that are really mature and obviously have grown and other parts that are weak and flimsy. No, that that looks strange. That looks monstrous. I'm really gonna take you back here, right? You guys remember the old cartoon Popeye? I eats me spinach. I I still remember that song, right? Well, you know, the whole thing was was ludicrous. was kind of silly. It was supposed to be, but you ever take a look. I actually as a kid tried to draw Popeye a couple of times and um I was successful at it. But here you have this guy who's really skinny with these really huge forceps or biceps or whatever. Okay? Huge bulges in his arms and he ate spinach and it gave him power, but he looked really weird. Folks, that's not what we want to look like as believers. We've got certain parts of the body, certain people that obviously they're the spiritually mature go to them, but the rest of us are just really flimsy and skinny and weak. No, that's strange. We don't want a church that's strange, that people come pay to see, to see, look at the spectacle. We want to all be growing together. We're all strong. Mature, that we're all able to help others from not taking in the false doctrine of the world, but protecting them, helping them to grow. Grow. I hope that we as a church body desire for all of us to be mature and growing. It's not just the pastor. It's not just the leaders. It's everyone growing together. Father, thank you for this reminder of our need for Growth. Help us not to be satisfied. Lord, we repent. It happens so many times that we reach a certain level within our churches, within our spiritual life, and we just get content. We have certain areas of our life that are really strong, and the rest we're just content to be weak and flimsy and flabby. But Father, we as a church don't want to be a spectacle. We want to be useful servants. And a model of strength and a proper reflection of Jesus Christ. And we need the power of Jesus Christ working in us to do that. Thank you that you have promised us that. Help us to be submissive to the Spirit That we would be motivated to read your word, to understand it better, to be in more unity, to grow in every area of our life that we're reflecting Jesus Christ better and better. And that we're functioning properly as a church body