We appreciate our children's church teachers. You turn to Ephesians chapter four, and that's where we're back this morning. Ephesians chapter four, verses seven through twelve And we've begun the second part of the book of Ephesians, where the first part of the book we've had all of this wonderful doctrine. These glorious truths about our Heavenly Father, about the God, the supreme creator of this world, of this universe Who through the work of Jesus Christ we can come to as our Father, who chose us as his children, who has given us an inheritance that we can find secure. That we can have confidence in. And we've discussed in Ephesians the work of Christ and all the blessings that Come through that. Oh, I wish I had the time to go back through that this morning, but we need to get into chapter four because chapter four through six is the practical application. Of all that we've learned in the first three chapters. Okay, so God has all these wonderful things, and then we have all these blessings in Jesus Christ. So how do I, how, what does that mean to my daily life? And that's what the rest of the book is all about. And so, folks, if you're hearing this series for the first time this morning, I would encourage you to go back and read the first three chapters. Of Ephesians, you really need that background to know what Paul has said about our glorious Lord and Savior, the Holy Spirit, our Heavenly Father, to know those truths so that you You can be motivated and know that through Christ we have the power to live in the way that He calls us to live. And so we saw that last week. Let's read again the first six verses before we get into the next verses of chapter 4. This starts out the practical application of all the beautiful things we've learned about God. And his grace. I therefore a prisoner for the Lord, this is the Apostle Paul writing again to the church in the city of Ephesus, the great metropolis of Ephesus. That had a vibrant church ministry growing in that region. Paul is saying, I have prisoner. For the Lord, urge you, Ephesian church, to walk in a matter worthy of the calling to which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience. Patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And those words aren't just for believers back over a thousand years ago. Ago, folks, the church today needs those words and that admonition just as much, probably more today. I love that word eager. Again, I can't emphasize this too much. Are we as the Church of God, the Church of Jesus Christ, proclaimers of the God? Are we eager for unity, folks? Do you desire that above almost all other things? Do you desire for us to come together and worship together without dissension? Oh, Paul says in that case you must be humble. Look through that list again. You must be gentle, not harsh. Don't have a harsh tone. Don't be cruel. Be gentle. That's meekness and that's that's strength under control. That all of us have strength under control. But we can put it under the control of the Spirit and we can all have the right answer toward anything. Even the most irritating person in our lives that happens to attend this church. I don't know if that's the case for you. We can have the right answer and gentleness for them. With patience, bear up, bearing with one another. That means if I can put it in modern vernacular, putting up with a whole lot of stuff. With other people, in love, and not some sort of human-manufactured love trying to manufacture affection. Oh no, this is the power of Jesus. Jesus Christ and His love shown to us that because we have relationship with Him through faith in Him, We could show supernatural love to those that, folks, if I could say this even this way, normally we might even despise. Wow We can show the love of Christ. Wouldn't you agree that that kind of attitude would bring unity among God's people? We ought to be eager for that. Lord, give me more. Help me to be more humble. Lord, help me to be more gentle. Lord, I need a filter on my mouth. Help me to have that. Oh, I need to I need to be more more patient with people. I want to, I'm eager. I desire so strongly for our church to be unified. And then Paul gives us in the next verses, which we covered quickly last week, what we should be unified on. The things that disrupt our unity are things that are not biblical many times, like decorations and and like I said last week, and music and offenses between brothers and sisters. But what truly ought to bring us unity is not unity on those things, but unity on this creed that Paul gives us in verse 5. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope that belongs to To your call. God Here we go: one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But grace was given to each one of us. According to the measure of Christ's gift. We're going to get to verse 7 here in just a minute. Mark this. What brings us unity, folks, is our is our um Our unity and our agreement, that's the word I'm looking for, over this creed, verse five, that we believe that Jesus Christ is with us Lord. That ought to unifies. One faith that we believe in Jesus Christ alone. We don't put our faith in our own works or politicians or anything else, but our faith is in Jesus Jesus Christ alone, all that ought to unify us. That we are serious about baptism, not that baptism saves us. It says one baptism here But that it is a sign of the obedience that we have toward God in following in through baptism, and it's a sign of what God has done in our hearts, that spiritual Baptism, that cleansing that Jesus Christ has done, in an outward show of obedience to God, that ought to be important to us. And then one God and Father of all, that we believe that there is one God, that we don't worship multiple gods. And in a culture like the City of Ephesus, where all kinds of gods and spirits were worshipped. This would have been remarkable. No, we worship only one God, the one true God. Yes, three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, but one God. Are we unified on that? And are we unified that that God of heaven, in all of his glory and holiness, That he provided a way for us to call him Father, and that he is over all and through all and in all, and so he can do a powerful work in us. See, folks, those are the things that ought to unify us or divide us, right? If somebody says that Jesus Christ is not Lord, well, then we should be divided from them. If someone says that you can have faith and someone besides Besides Jesus and still receive salvation and be with God, we can't be unified with that. If somebody says that there are many gods, oh we can't unify These are the basics that we all must come together on. Not all those other things that tend to divide Us, but the truths of the gospel. Are we united at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church this morning by the truths of the gospel? Or there are a lot of other paltry things that so easily divide us. It's a good question for us this morning. But Jesus, thankfully, folks, with along with this, Jesus provides us what we need to be unified and to work together as the Church of God. And we're going to see that this morning. That Jesus' gifts build our unity. And all believers receive gifts of grace. And they are distributed by Jesus Christ. Christ himself. So look at verse 7. But grace was given to each of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gift. And Paul is quoting Psalm 68, verses 18. Verse 9: in saying he ascended, what does it mean? But that he had also descended into the lower regions of the earth. He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the church. To equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ. And we'll stop there in the midst of that sentence. That's what I want to I want to focus on this morning. say. And yes, Paul in this letter to the Ephesians is has an entire church focus that every individual of the body of Christ needs to be doing these things. In order for the church to function correctly, all of us need to be humble. All of us need to be united in our commitment to the gospel. These are key things. But now he gets to, in the midst of that body of Christ, there are the individuals that make up that temple. Do you remember it was described, the church was described? As a temple, we're the building blocks. And God has given gifts to each of us to help the church function in unity together. And here's what that means. That means if you have put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and you are a child of God and you have a relationship with Him and you're human This morning, as a part of a local church, our church, or another church that faithfully proclaims God's Word and is loyal to the truths of Scripture, folks, that means this passage Is saying that we all have been given grace gifts, gifts given to us entirely by God's grace. Nothing that we deserve, but gifts that enable each and every one of us not just the pastor or the leadership, but all of us to serve the church faithfully. That's what it says, verse 7. Grace was given to each one of us. And Paul, if he were speaking in front of the people Of Ephesus, he could point to each one. He means each one of them, the whole church. Grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gifts. Each of us in our different personalities and different talents, working together in submission to our head. Jesus Christ. Even in this room, I marvel at what is resembled represented as far as talents and abilities and personalities. Aren't you glad we don't all have the same personality? But we all have a variety. I'm glad that there's not multiple Pastor Brock walking around out there. That'd be pretty scary to me. Me. To my wife, too. God has made each of us in a unique way for a purpose. And yet He brings all of these individual personalities together. Together with gifts and serving together submitted to him, and it's how this church thing works. And here's another other part of this, Jesus decides who gets what gifts. You ever our kids always were excited, well I think they still are about Christmas, but when they They were kids, as many of your kids uh were, if they're getting older. Our kids were very excited about Christmas and the dispersal of gifts. And we probably I we probably tortured them a little bit. Because we had stages, you know. Okay, it's time to get up, and now we're going to turn on the music and now uh the Christmas music and now you stay at the top of the stairs while we get some things ready and okay you can get little A little lower on the stairs, and by this time they're about ready to go crazy, you know. And um then, okay, now it's time for the the nativity story, the the story of Jesus' birth. We'll read through that. No, no, this is the important part. And now it's to the gifts. But now dad is Santa if you do that kind of thing. Dad is the distributor, let's say that, of the gifts. And oh it's almost it's so hard as they see the gifts distributed. And they want to know how many are there for them. And, oh Dad, can I help be the distributor this year? Well, no. Now they're now they're older, we let them do that. it did drag out a little bit. But the excitement about those gifts being distributed and individual, meeting individual needs and according to their individual likes. The parents were the ultimate arbitrator of what gifts they received. Well, Jesus certainly is that same way. He has the authority to decide. What does that do, by the way? That really, if you think about it, eliminates jealousy and envy, or it should. You ever looked around the church and said Said, man, I wish I could do that. Or I'm really glad that I'm able to do this, and I feel bad for the person who has to do this over here or or whatever. We can I I've I've been envious and we can be envious of the gifts and talents that God has given us given others. But folks, that is counterproductive. You see, Jesus has given you the talents and spiritual gifts that He knows um Intimately, that you need. Your gifts and talents have been chosen by the God of heaven. And that ought to be enough for us. Don 't be jealous. Don't be envious. And certainly don't battle others over positions in the church. But be humble and be thankful with the gifts that God has given us Given you. We're going to see some of those gifts in just a minute. But this is all a part of that. We are, as a church body, we're not boring uniformity at all, are we? Oh, there's nothing boring about our church. We're not uniform, we're not all the same. But rather, we're diversity and harmony A lot of different gifts, a lot of different personalities, but we all ought to be able to sing in harmony the true song of worship toward Jesus Christ. Christ. That's how it ought to be when we're serious about church unity I remember uh one time in a church that Leslie and I were serving in down in Greenville, South Carolina, before the Lord called us up here to Upper Cross. Crossroads. And there was a particular position that a young man had, and it had to do with selecting who would be special music and who would Do certain things. And he and his wife left a little bit earlier for another ministry than Leslie and I did. They were called to a particular ministry in another state. And so he came to me and said, Brock, I think you'd be good for this. He said, This is what the ministry, this is what the requirement is. You go to these people, you make sure that the special music, that um that it's set up this way, you talk to people, you listen to them, you make sure that you know it's appropriate for the message that pastor is going to be speaking that day and I was I was pretty energized by this. I'm like this is good. This this will be a lot of fun. And and I had a lot of opportunities, Leslie and I both to do a lot of a lot of different things at this ministry, Cornerstone Baptist Church down in Greenville, South Carolina. The Lord g uh blessed us with the ability to do a lot of different things at this church. But I was really Excited about this one. So it was meeting with people, um talking, working through things, getting to know what this position entailed. Well, it wasn't too long, maybe a week later. Um The pastor of the church came to me and he, you know, he looked a little sheepish, which I had never seen him show that before or look that way. I thought this is interesting. He said, Brock, I need to talk. with you. But uh oh, I'm in trouble. He said, look, something happened last week or a couple weeks ago. You were giving something that I didn't intend for you to have. And he said, this ministry that you were given by this particular individual really wasn't uh it hadn't been communicated to me, and I already had some Somebody else in mind. Not that you haven't been doing a great job, you have, but this really wasn't who I intended to have do this because so and so um is well well gifted in this and And they're looking for a way that they can serve in the church. And this really is is up their alley. And you have a lot of different ways that you can serve. Now there folks, there was a part of me that was like, Aww. I I was enjoying this, but immediately I checked myself in my spirit. And I thought, you know, I've been given so much. This is one minister Of course, I can let this one go. The pastor, the lead, the head of our church has said it's better for this person To have this particular ministry. Obviously, God is gifting this particular position to someone else rather than me. I need to humble myself myself and submit myself to that and just do well the other things that he's given me. And I said to the pastor, I said, sure. I said, I don't want to do this if it's not God's God's will. And that person can do it very well, and they're qualified for this. And so I let it go. Do we have a spirit like that in our church today? Or do we tend to cling to things? No, I had this position for five years and and I really enjoyed it, and but now it's time maybe to let somebody else do it. you move on to something else. Are you are you okay with Jesus switching things up a little bit? Because he's the head It's his church. He's the one that gives the positions and the gifts and abilities. Oh, that's something in our church that can cause a lot of division. And it shouldn't when we're humble. God's grace or grace gifts are distributed by Jesus. And he quotes here at the end of verse 8, Psalm 68. Interesting. And he says, Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and gave gifts to men. All this is saying is using the Old Testament and saying that Jesus was the fulfillment, that he truly was raised from the dead. experienced resurrection. Jesus died for our sins. And his heavenly father gloriously raised him From the dead. That means Jesus is the conqueror of sin and of Satan. He is the one that crushed the serpent's head. And he is the conqueror over evil. And because he accomplished that, guess what? He has the authority to give gifts to whom he pleases. So don't argue about these things. He has the right. Are you going to argue with the resurrected Savior over the gifts that he wants to give and distribute? I hope not. Don't let that be a cause of disunity. See, God's grace gifts are distributed by Jesus, but they're also tools to help us fulfill his plan. Now, I have to admit something here in verses 9 and 10. This is something that our Sunday school class has a little bit of an edge on the rest of you on, because I don't have the time to go into the details. that I did in Sunday school, but this is what is many times a misunderstood passage of what Paul is actually saying here. Okay? So I'm going to try to go through this very quickly this morning. And if you want to know more, you can talk to me afterwards about this issue, or you can talk to one of our adult Sunday school members who I'm sure would gladly give you An explanation as well. But here we go in verse 9. In saying he ascended, what does it mean that he had also descended into the lower regions? And then the ESV has a comma that's Very important. The lower regions, the earth. Some of your translations may say the lower regions of the earth, but I believe the correct translation and the correct interpretation. Interpretation is that he descended into the lower regions, which are the earth. Okay? That's important. We'll get back to that. He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens. That he might fill all things. And that fill all things is the most important phrase of why Paul is saying this at all. So here we have difficult verses to interpret And there is one very common explanation that even as one of our Sunday school members mentioned this morning is in the Apostles' Creed. So it has to be right, right? Well, remember the Apostles' Creed isn't scripture. It's a great creed. But we have to make sure that we understand that. compared to the text of Scripture. So one interpretation of this is that Paul now gives us more information about what happened either after Jesus Jesus was crucified, or after he was resurrected from the dead, that somehow he descended into Hades. And he preached the gospel to the spirits, the demonic spirits that were chained up there in Noah's time And also the people that rejected Noah's message, salvation message in the Old Testament. Jesus specifically went to those individuals as a group and said, I'm victorious. And he preached the gospel to them. And then he went and appeared to his disciples. And maybe you've heard that. It's been a part of Christianity for a long time. Maybe you've heard that interpretation. But the question is, folks. Why? Why would Jesus need to do that? And why would Paul mention that right here in the midst of talking about gifts? See, people combine this with a passage in 1 Peter. I'll just read to you real quickly, 1 Peter 3. Verses eighteen and through twenty. Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, that's his death, but made alive in the Spirit, that's his resurrection. And then Peter takes a turn here that's really interesting, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Well that's interesting, isn't it? And people, back to this passage in Ephesians, say verses 9 and 10, Paul must be referring to what Peter is talking about, and Peter must be saying that Jesus Jesus went to hell, to Hades, and preached the gospel almost like, not to be sacrilegious or anything, like he went down and said, aha, I gained the victory, kind of like a spike before football moment, right? And then went back up to heaven, or not to heaven, went back up in his appearances uh before the disciples. Well, would you not agree with me that that is a little strange? What's the Again, I don't have time to say a lot this morning. I'll give you my interpretation, I think, is the right one. Peter is referring to the fact that Jesus' resurrection was the fulfillment, follow me, of the victory over sin And the righteousness that was proclaimed by Noah before the flood. Noah proclaimed, and Peter says that Noah proclaimed was a preacher of righteousness with the Spirit of Christ within him. In other passages, Peter says this. The message of salvation. And what Peter is saying then in these verses is not, I believe, that Jesus. Went to hell, but that his resurrection was the fulfillment and the final this has happened That those who had rejected God in the past during Noah's time, that they were finally, they saw realized. So I don't believe that Jesus went down to Hades and preached there. And so when we go back to Ephesians, then I don't believe that Paul is referring to a moment. Where Jesus in between his death and the resurrection went down to hell and preached to those that had rejected Noah. I don't believe that's what it's saying here. This makes it, we don't take that out of the way, this makes the whole understanding much more simplistic. Here it is. Are you ready for this? Jesus, when he ascended, when he resurrected, Paul says, what does it mean? But he had also descended into lower regions which are the earth. He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens. that he might fill all things. Here, simply put, Paul is saying, this marvelous Savior that was victorious and raised from the dead, he first of all had to He had to be sent to earth as the incarnation, as man, and suffer as man, the lower regions, the earth. He lived his life on earth. And this is the one that descended, the God of heaven that became And left the glory and really humbled the humiliation of becoming a man. Living on this earth and dying, that one that was willing to do that on this earth is now resurrected and has the authority to give us gifts So that at the end of verse 10 he might fill all things. What does that mean? Hey? I think that has the idea of God is continuing. Continuing his program through the church, and the proclamation of the gospel is filling all of the world. Continues to fill all things with his message and the testimony of his grace. And so Jesus as a victorious Savior, he lived a life on earth and suffered, and now he's victorious. And he has the ability and the authority to give us gifts that continue the gospel witness throughout the whole world. Doesn't that make a lot more sense then? Something about Jesus descending into hell. I think so. And it makes more sense in context, too. Let me just work through this very quickly. We have this list here. And he gave apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds. and the teachers to equip the saints. What are these different gifts? This is not an exhausted list that Paul gives, but these are some of the gifts that Jesus gave. Some are in the past, some are in the continue to the present. The gift of apostleship is one that was in the past, and it was a special delegation of Jesus with authority to lead the early church, declare the gospel, and establish churches. The original 12 disciples and the one that was added after Judas Iscariot, remember, committed suicide. The one that was added, they had been with Jesus in ministry. They had witnessed his resurrection. The Apostle Paul had witnessed the post-resurrection appearance of Jesus. Jesus, and there were others that were called apostles like Barnabas, James, and Apollos. They were given the gift to communicate, to lead and communicate The gospel. That was a gift that was given to the church in the past that is no longer needed because those men fulfilled their role. But also the gift of prophets. Yes, the prophets here, there were New Testament prophets who not only communicated God's word, but also gave revelation of things that would happen. Is the gift of prophecy for us today, not in that sense, but in the sense that we proclaim with boldness and confidence And authority, the word of Christ, that gift of prophecy still is with us today. God decides who will lead and who will teach and who will boldly proclaim. We have, again, a man among us who's in Africa right now, who God has led to To boldly proclaim the gospel in Liberia and Uganda. God gives gifts for these things and distributes them through Jesus Christ. And Jesus has the authority to do these things. Evangelists. That's a gift as well. And this shouldn't be confused with the idea of what we have today, the traveling evangelist that holds revival. Meetings. Nothing wrong with those folks, but I don't believe that's what this refers to. The evangelist in New Testament times was more of a missionary or church planner who had a gift of bold evangelism that is vital to starting new ministries. That was the evangelist And God gifted people for that too. He does today. Pastors, shepherds who care for their flock and are committed to faithful ministry with the local church flock that God gives them. Teachers are another gift. One who is committed to explaining God's Word fully and carefully with the intent of leading people to God's intended message for each Passage. A pastor shouldn't be a teacher. A teacher will not always be a pastor. Now, folks, I'm going to say something here that's going to sound really arrogant, but it's scripture, and I'm saying it. It because Scripture says it. Those that are your leaders, your teachers, your pastors, and many other leaders, Paul is saying here, this is they are Gifts from God to you. The gifts of Jesus to you are those that teach and lead and help. But notice what is their primary Responsibility as we finish up this morning, look at verse 12, to equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ. This has been misunderstood many times. to sound something like this, that we'll just take the pastors, for instance, the shepherds, as it says in the ESV. Pastors are Shepherds, that the shepherds equip the saints, that the shepherds do the work of the ministry, and the shepherds are building up the body of Christ. So get to it, Pastor. It's all on you. Is that really what Paul's saying? Functionally, sometimes we act that way, but really that's the exact opposite of what Paul's saying here, folks. We need to understand this. What he's saying is that these gifts, apostles, prophets, evangelists, the pastors, shepherds, teachers. Teachers, they were given to the saints to help equip the saints, you guys, for the church, the work of the ministry, so that you can build up the body of Christ. Not that the pastor is not involved in that too, but folks, one of my primary responsibilities is to help equip you and build you up for the work of the ministry. Ministry, so that you can help strengthen the body of Christ. See, Paul says Jesus gives gifts to the church body, even in leadership. So that the church body can function and be in unity and minister and serve the way that it should. It's not all on a few people. This eighty percent 20% statistic that's been a part of church ministry for a long, long time is a travesty, folks, where 20% of the people do the work and the rest sit around and enjoy it. That's not enough. all what Paul's saying here. He's saying you have been gifted people to help equip you so that you can serve. And all of us in the ministry now Not just the pastor and the leaders should be serving and building up the body of Christ. You're more than just a pew filler. Certainly for members here that have joined this show. Church. God has gifts for you. God has responsibilities for you. And you're missing out on the joy of ministry if you just sit in your pew and you don't use it. Use those gifts. The pastor, would you agree with me as we finish up this morning with this? The pastor can't do it all. I'm so grateful that that's not the interpretation that Paul had here. The pastor does the work of the ministry, building up the body. It's all on him. Folks, I couldn't do it all even if I had a full staff of ten people. But it's all of us together. In unity. That's why unity is so important because Jesus has given us gifts to help this church function, and if we're constantly fighting And in dissension, we can't function properly. We're a dismembered body. We're abhorrent to the world. We need to be a unified body that is ready to minister, ready to serve in whatever ways God has gifted us to do, whether it's finance, whether it's singing, whether Whether it's administration, whether it's cleaning, whatever it is, take that on as your privilege to be able to serve Jesus Christ as your privilege Head and do it with all your heart. And by the way, don't fight about the fact that somebody else got another job that you really wanted to do. Let it go. And let's serve together in unity. For the person here this morning who doesn't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, this probably all sounds really strange to you But let me encourage you that you need to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. This world does not have what you need. It will not Not fill the void, the spiritual void that is within you. But Jesus Christ died on the cross to deal with your sin that separates you from God. And he was risen from the dead to bring new life, and he conquered death and hell. So that you don't have to be imprisoned in there once you die. Folks, we don't Don't want anyone in here to be a part of that prison that was mentioned in Peter of those that have rejected Jesus Christ. But we want you to be with us in glorious worship to Jesus Christ forever. All eternity by trusting in Jesus as your Savior and turning to Him and the work that He did. He reconciles us with God, He cleanses us Us from our sin. He gives us an inheritance, and he makes us a child of God. All this and much more. Won't you turn to Jesus today and experience what it's like to be a part of a body that lives Loves you and cares about you, and a savior that loves you beyond measure. Oh, those are such precious gifts. You come talk to me About how you can have a relationship with Jesus this morning. Let's pray. Father, we need unity. So many churches today are so dysfunctional because they argue over such petty things. Who gets to have what responsibilities in the church and offended that they didn't get asked to do a certain thing? Upset that the church doesn't look a certain way or That somebody is angry with them or the list goes on and on and on. And yet Jesus gives us Use the power to serve Him in unity. And He gifts us, and we praise you for that, that you have allowed your Son to distribute gifts that enable us To serve in unity together and be a testimony of His grace and power in this dark world. Help us not to be a church filled with conflict and dissension. but help us to be a church that humbly is ready to serve and use the gifts that you've given each of us in the capacity that you've given You've given each of us. us Help us to be humble and eager to serve our Savior with all our hearts. Folks, you think on these things as the piano plays