I was thinking about that psalm that was just read. And in the end, verse 8, Arise, O God, judge the earth, for you shall inherit all the nations. All the nations are God's. He is and including our own country. Ultimately our country will answer to him as well. But that also points out to his sovereign control over the nations. So even as it seems like our nation is spinning out of control in a lot of ways, and we do have major concerns, God is still in control. We don't need to be concerned or worried about that. And he will deal with the nations. Jesus will one day return and will bring perfect justice, perfect righteousness, and perfect peace. So ultimately that is our our ultimate hope, right, in all of this. And our hope is in Jesus, who is the Son of God. And so as we turn to John chapter 10 this morning, As we finish, what really is in the Gospel of John, Jesus' final public teaching, at least in Jerusalem. Jesus is going to end. This whole chapter has been comforting as he's talked , explained, described himself as the good shepherd. that will take care of his sheep in the way that no shepherd other shepherd ever could. Jesus was clear as he finishes his public speaking here to let his the folks know, the the in Jerusalem. That he would lay down his life for his sheep. And that that would happen very soon in his life and in his ministry. But the comforting truth we have again that we finished with last week and we see again today He will give to us. But it will be unfortunately, again, tragically misunderstood with a majority of this audience, as we're going to see in this passage this morning as well. He has offered them secure eternal life, and they will accuse him again of blasphemy. And yet through all this, Jesus will maintain, as we'll see this morning, his testimony of his very unique relationship with his Father And he will say some marvelous truths that just go beyond what we can comprehend. And yet we know they're true because Jesus says them that he is one with his Father. And he is the Son of God. And so we're going to see this morning again, Jesus, even more clearly than he has throughout this gospel. Jesus declares he is the Son of God. And so let's just read a couple verses here. We're going to start actually with verse 27, even though we covered that last week. And we'll read through verse 30. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall anyone pluck them out of my hand. My Father, who gave them me, is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of his out of my Father's hand. I and my father are one Let us glory in this truth this morning, for we know that it is truth because Jesus stated it very clearly, and yet. It's beyond our comprehension, as this is the truth of the Trinity. And more in-depth revelation as to how the Trinity operates. How they function, who the Trinity is. And when it comes to this, Lord, we just marvel. We know it's truth, but we marvel in our lack of being able to comprehend something that is so great and so wonderful. And yet God, in the form of his son, in the word would come down and be willing to lay up his life As our good shepherd. This is marvelous truth indeed. So help us to be encouraged today, but Lord, at the same time If there is anyone here who has not put their faith and trust in the Good Shepherd in Jesus Christ, let this be a sobering warning for them. Let them embrace the marvelous truth, even as we hear it this morning, that through faith, through belief in Christ, that he can be their shepherd, help. Let no one today who may not have a relationship with Jesus Christ reject the truth that is offered today, lest they face eternal darkness. So, Lord. Increase our love for Christ today and understanding. For it is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Jesus is pointing out here as he finishes up what he what what he is going to say to them, to the people here in Jerusalem. That the Son is one with the Father, and that means that Jesus and the Father are one. Now remember, Jesus has just finished stating he's the good shepherd. And his sheep hear his voice and follow him. And yet most folks in this audience that he's speaking to continue to misunderstand him. And what is that proving? That they are not his sheep. They are making it apparent. Even some, amazingly enough, that have just testified that they have put their faith and trust in him Have not really done so, and they're proving they're not his sheep. They misunderstand all that he has testified of about who he is. But remember, Jesus, and we read that again, verse 26. Jesus says, but ye believe not, or well he says, but ye believe not. He's talking about those that are not among the sheep. But my sheep, verse 27, hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And those who are the sheep of the shepherd gain eternal life. And as he continues here, this is the wonderful, the ultimate. Revelation of the blessings that we receive, we have a secure transaction with assured benefits. And Jesus points out then in verse 28: I give unto them eternal life. That is a promise. And they shall never perish. They shall never face eternal darkness, eternal punishment. There's no worry or doubt for those that are truly the children of God that have trusted, that are the sheep of the shepherd. They can have full assurance they will never perish. And neither shall anyone be able to pluck or snatch them out of my hand a guaranteed secure future. Jesus is infinitely capable as a good shepherd. of keeping those who are is. Folks, let that let that be assurance. Let that be a wonderful truth to you this morning. When you doubt, those doubts come at times, don't they? Go to this passage. Let Jesus' word speak to you And know that we are held in the hand of the shepherd. And that would be wonderful truth in and of itself, right? But he continues, because we're not just held in the hand of the shepherd, but look at verse 29 as we begin the passage again today. My Father, who gave them me, is greater than all. And no man is able to snatch them out of my father's hands. Jesus points out as well that he's not acting independently of the Father. It always goes back to his relationship with the Father. And he points out here that it's the Father who is ultimately at work. He is the one who assigns the sheep to the shepherd and to the son. Imagine all of us that have trusted Christ, the sheep, in the hand of the shepherd. And now imagine all of us in the hand of the Father. Folks, really, even though we're weak and sometimes we doubt, that picture should alleviate all doubt We're promised securely that we are in the Father's hands. And Jesus tells us what that means. That no one can snatch them. You can't be taken out of that. You can't lose your salvation. And for those that would preach or teach that, that a true child of God who is a sheep of the shepherd can lose her salvation, that is false It's not true because of what we see here. Those that ultimately reject the shepherd were never the sheep in the first place. Because those are held. Let that today, even as we go from here, assure you and give you joy. But then Well let let's let's let's continue to just think about that for a minute. A wonderful passage for assurance. And then if you think on top of that, and I had an a pastor one time come to me and explain it to me, and this was so encouraging to me. You're held in the hand of the Father. You're held in the hand of the Son. And then we talked about this this morning, actually. What a help that is to me. We are sealed with the seal of the Spirit. All of that together, we're held in the grip of the Trinity. Amazing truth for our comfort and for our assurance. You know, when Jesus gives a promise, he can deliver on that promise I've been, as you know, I've told you many times, I enjoy reading history, especially American history, and that's appropriate for what we're celebrating today. And in the recent past, and I also I also when I'm not able to always read books, I like to do audiobooks where I can if I'm driving or different things and I just want to learn about more history, listen to those even off my phone. It really is it really is a marvel the technology that we have access to today. I could just pull up a book on my phone. I don't have to pay thirty bucks for it and listen to it through the library It's great. And I've been doing that with uh the event of Pearl Harbor. Um and learned something interesting. Uh the president, you hopefully you know, FDR Franklin Delanore Roosevelt. At the time that that happened, he had just come through another election. And he was promising in that election. I believe it was his third election, which is rare in our country's history. But he was giving a promise to the country that was very concerned about something In the midst of war, he or uh over in um in the world, in Europe and overseas, in the war that was going on there with Hitler and all that was going on. He gave a very distinct promise that was one of the highlights of his campaign, and he told folks, I will never, I will make sure that your sons and daughters will not have to go to war. And he said that because recently, September 16, 1940, the United States had instituted the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940. which for the first time required men between the ages of 21 and 45 to register for the draft. And this was the first peacetime draft in the United States history. So you can understand people were a little nervous. And people at that point did not want to go to war. So FDR said one of his campaign promises that was really the largest one that he had, I will not send your children to war. And then , actually I can quote him here, let no man or woman thoughtlessly or falsely talk of American people sending its armies to European fields. Then what happened? Pearl Harbor, December 7th, 1941. He wasn't able to make good on his promise, was he? And we understand the events of all that, and people were then more motivated to defend their homeland. But that was a pretty big promise, right? That uh one of our leaders gave that he wasn't able to follow through on. But folks, listen, we have a greater leader, the ultimate leader, who will follow through on his promises And we can be eternally secure in that relationship and knowledge with our shepherd. And he says this amazing, bold statement. Don't miss this. Sometimes we gloss over this Verse 30, he says, I and my father are one. Amazing statement, mystifying in some ways. What is Jesus saying? Why would he bring this up now? Well, this has echoes of a very important, actually the most important Jewish confession called the Shema, which literally means here. And it comes from Deuteronomy 6, 4. Moses told the people in verse 4, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And this was one of the identifying features of their God, is that he was one God. He wasn't multiple gods. He was different from all the other multifaceted gods, plethora of gods that were worshipped among the pagans. God was one God, and he was the only God that they should worship him. And isn't it interesting? Remember what has just happened in this passage that or that we talked about last week. The Jews came around Jesus and said very specifically, look, if you're the Christ, tell us plainly. Identify yourself. Make it clear who you are. We want to know. Now he did make it clear who he was, but he hadn't really specifically used the word or said the statement, I am the Messiah or I am the Christ. Because there was so much confusion among the people of who the Messiah was supposed to be. Jesus actually does better than that. He does not give them what they demanded. You admit you are the Christ. He gives them more than they expected. More than they demanded. So what is Jesus saying here? Well, we have to look at this carefully. It's a wonderful, beautiful statement But we can misunderstand. See, he's not saying that they are one person. What do we know about the Trinity? One God. That's what the Shema made clear. They are one God. But three persons, right? Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. So if we say here that Jesus is saying he's one person , Then we spear we steer into heresy, and we don't want to do that. The misunderstanding of this has actually led to heresy in early church history. We want to be clear. Jesus is not saying That they are one person, but that they are one God. He is making a clear statement of deity here And this is apparent, if it's not, it's apparent in the reaction that the Jews have to this statement. Because then, verse 31, the Jews took up stones again to stone him. And so we're going to see here, Jesus and the Father are one, but Jesus is going to repeat again that the truth, that he does the works of the Father, and that these folks need to believe in his works. This audience considers what he has just said as blasphemy. He has applied the Shema to himself and the Father And they think, most likely here, that he is trying to raise himself up as a competing God, as an alternate God, and they misunderstand what he's saying here. Isn't it interesting by the way? Here they are again ready to stone him, and it's the very thing that they were trying to get Jesus to do. Do you remember this? When they brought the sinful uh woman, the woman caught in adultery, they were trying to tempt him into s having her stoned so that he would be in trouble with the Roman government. And now there's such an arrage they don't care about the Roman government anymore. They just want to see Jesus death Right here, right now. Now many times when this happened, Jesus has slipped off and he's evaded. I wouldn't even say Avoided. But in his power, it's not God's timing yet for him to be captured, for him to be taken And so he's just able to slip right by. But Jesus boldly here stays and continues to talk with them in the midst of a mob that wants to stone him. Folks, our Savior is confident and bold and strong. And we see that here as well. But he's also gentle. and patient. So rather than disappear, he carefully poses a question to them. And he wants to give them pause for consideration in the midst of their rage. And notice what Jesus is doing here. Remember that principle in Proverbs? A soft answer turneth away wrath? Jesus is giving that here. And he's trying to calm them down. And so verse 32, Jesus answered them, Many good works have I showed you from my Father. For which of those works do ye or are you going to stone me? Um He's again, and he'll continue to do this, he's pointing them to his miraculous signs that they have all seen him do and that they've argued about in dissension together. Some have said he has a devil and others have said he can't have a devil. He can't be possessed. Look at the works that he's doing And so Jesus points him again to the works that he is doing. He says here, I have shown you multiple examples of the works that I have done from my father. So why would you want to stone me for doing the things of the Father? This is a legitimate question. Right? And he points to these things now as signs that this is definitely not the right reaction that they should have. Will it change them? No, they will have none of it. And they continue. The Jews answered in verse 33, saying, For a good work we stone thee not. Don't talk to us about your good works. You're a blasphemer, but for blasphemy, because that thou being a man makest thyself God. And another interesting point here for those false religions and cults that say that Jesus is not God and that their scripture does not indicate that he is God. This is a very direct. Rebuff of that, and the fact that even those around him realized the truth of what he was saying, that he was, in effect, referring to himself as the Son of God. Throughout John, the book of John, the Gospel of John, excuse me, is a wonderful rebuff to the idea that Jesus never considered himself the Son of God. It's all throughout this book. And these men, these this audience obviously understood what he was saying. That he being a man maketh himself God. Now they're misunderstanding, he's not making himself a competing God. That part they're misunderstanding, but he is saying that he is God And so Jesus again , and he uses the passage that we looked at this morning in Psalm 82, is trying to soften their response. He's trying to calm them down and make them think through this. You know what the irony in all this is as they call it say that he's blaspheming? Is that Jesus had always been God. And he had now become man. The exact opposite of what they're talking about. D. A. Carson says this: the audience, the Jews were wrong in the fact that they envisioned another God, a competing God. But they were right in that Jesus not only claimed he could do only what his father gave him to do, but that he did everything the father did. And continuing here further, we see the Son does the works of the Father, and Jesus works fulfill Old Testament scripture as well. So he's reasoning with them now from Psalm 82. 6, and he says here. Verse 34. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, ye are gods? And if he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken, say ye of him whom the Father hath sanctified or consecrated and sent into the world, thou blasphemest, because I said I am the Son of God. Now we have to examine this very closely here to really get the point of what Jesus is saying. You've got to put on your thinking caps here for this one, all right? Jesus, first of all, he says, is it not written in your law? Well, I thought this was a song. He's quoting Pastor Brock. Well, remember, law was one of the ways that people referred to the Old Testament scriptures, sometimes the law and the prophets. They had other ways of referring to him, but sometimes you could describe the whole of the Old Testament scriptures as the law. And he says, your law, pointing out that the very scripture God gave to the Jews Works against what they're trying to do. Their very actions , their very scriptures, speak out against what they are about ready to do here. Again, he's trying to reason with them. And so what does this mean? Why would he use this passage? It says, I said ye are gods If he called them gods. Well, let's look, let's turn back to Psalm 82 real quick. We need to understand, and I appreciate Tom actually starting to bring this out, what This passage is referring to. There has been a traditional interpretation, and we've got to go through this quickly. That this is speaking of the judges in the time of judges, that the book of judges describes that They were given the word of God, and yet they didn't fully, as we know, the leadership in the book of Judges was had failed in many ways. They were a huge disappointment, and so they brought the judgment of God on them because of that. That has been a traditional understanding of this passage, but I think that that misses, I think that's too specific. So let's just read this real quick. God has taken his place in divine counsel. He is judging. His people. In the midst of the gods, he holds judgment. How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? That's the part where people think, well, he's referring to the judges in the time of the judges Give justice to the weak and the fatherless. Maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked. They have neither knowledge nor understanding. They walk about in darkness. All the foundations of earth are shaken. I said, and here's the part that Jesus quotes, you are God, Son of the Most High, all of you. Nevertheless, like men you shall die and fall like any prince. And then he continues on with that message of judgment and God's sovereignty Now, who is else is called sons of God, or that they are sons in the Old Testament? If we go to the book of Exodus, the whole nation of Israel is referred to as the sons of God. Or in that context, that they are God 's children. They are his sons, the whole nation. And then Jesus continues, if we go back to the passage in verse 35, and it says, if he called them gods unto whom the word of the Lord came, well did the word of the Lord just come to the leadership? God gave his word to his whole people. So really, probably the better context here is that Psalm 82 is referring to the children of Israel when God gave them the law. He had expectations for them. Judge justly. Show partiality or don't show partiality to the wicked Be gracious. All these things were like a summarization of the law. And did the people of Israel keep the law? What did they do almost immediately after they received the law? The golden calf And God had to judge them. And yet he referred to them as sons of the Most High. He refers to them as gods. Amazingly, but it's from the idea of being sons of God, that they are his children. And so Jesus points is pointing this out. He's saying, why are you so worked up that I would call myself the Son of God? God in his old in your Old Testament scriptures that God gave you The Israelites are also referred to as the Son of God, so just calm down here and think through what I'm saying. I hope that makes sense what he's trying to do here. In verse 35, if he called them gods, unto whom the word of the Lord came, he gave them scripture. And if he's able to call them gods, and then he reminds them a truth about Scripture that is wonderful. Scripture cannot be broken. This has the idea of the entirety of Scripture is truthful. Nothing will ever happen to it. And he says, if this happens, if this takes place in your Old Testament scriptures, then you can't argue against it. You can't argue against the truth of Scripture. You know that, and I just pointed out to you what God has done for the children of Israel and what he's referred to them. So don't argue with Scripture. You could kind of sum that up. If all that's the case, then verse 36, stay ye of him. He's talking about himself, whom the Father hath sanctified, consecrated, and sent into the world. Thou blasphemest, because I said I am the Son of God? God had sanctified his people. And wanted them to be holy and wanted them to be set apart so they would be the example for the world. Notice he doesn't quite say Christ here, but there was the expectation that the Messiah that would come would be consecrated, would be set aside and sanctified. And so Jesus, even in this, doesn't refer to himself directly as a Messiah. But he still refers to himself in that way, that he would be the ultimate one that would be consecrated and sent into the world. But he's saying, why are you so worked up when the very and ultimately this is this this divides whether they believe in him or not? But he's saying, I am the Son. And it is appropriate for my for for as the son, for God, for me to be considered by you as the Son. I am who I am. Don't argue this. Okay, so now he's given them pause to think through. And folks, this is just another practical aspect of this. When somebody is really worked up and angry And you realize you have to say something, that's not the good time to get into a big, long debate and argument, right? Stir people up further. Even Jesus models this for us. But Think, pray, ask the Lord to give you something quick, something that will just help them to penetrate their wrong thinking and help them quickly to see, to be more reasonable. Less is better said when other people are angry, right? Choose your words carefully. Well, certainly Jesus does that. He gets enough of a pause here that now he's able again to remind them of the truth that they need that they must accept It's they pause. I can just see them almost thinking through what he said. So their rocks, maybe they dropped their rock, or maybe their rock is down. They've got enough of a pause here, he's going to go back in now and give them the same truth that he's been giving them. Verse 37. Now, now that you're with me, if I do not the works of my father, then believe me not That's understandable. But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works, that ye may know and believe, or understand really this idea here, that the Father is in me And I in him. He's saying the works. Look at the works that I'm doing. And folks, it is legitimate for us to look at the works of Jesus and from those even alone. Trust in the fact that he is God. Yes, we should be listening to his teaching. We should be moved by his teaching and want to know more and and uh know his truth well in his teaching. But it's not wrong to look at the power that Jesus has in his works and also believe. And that's what he says here. You've seen the works. You've seen the testimony with your own eyes of who I am. And the Son of God believed the works. Here he is calling them one more time to believe in him as their Messiah. And then he says another amazing truth. He's just said that I and the Father are one, and now he says that the Father is in me, and I in him. And this describes what scholars call the mutual co-inherence of the deity. The very fact that there's three persons and yet one God and they are in each other. And folks, as Jesus is giving this information to his audience, and we're looking through this today, don't be Disturbed if you don't fully understand this. This is insight to the Trinity that we'll never fully understand, but we ought to marvel at it We ought to be amazed at this. And again, what has Jesus done here? They've said, you tell us whether you're the Messiah, and he says, No, actually, I'm going to give you more. But the Father is actually in me. And I am him. He goes beyond what they've asked. And again, he is in a not so subtle way really explaining his deity here. And by the way, you could also, he's talking about him and the Father, but the Spirit would be a part of this as well. And he gives them the truth of where of who he is. And they have opportunity to believe in him. What happens? Verse 39. But unfortunately, they sought again to take or arrest him. So he's calmed their rage enough they're not going to stone him, but they want him arrested. They want him tried. And he, at that point, he gave them truth yet again in his grace and mercy in the midst of their rage, he gave them truth. And they ignored it. And so he escaped out of their hand. Jesus wasn't worried that they were going to capture him. He knew that his the time of his father had not arrived yet. And so he just literally walks through the midst of them and walks away. Well, where does he go after he walks away? And really, we can kind of look at this and be a little discouraged. Man, it just seems like very few people are believing in Jesus at all. Well folks, even in the midst of um cr uh of disappointing and dark unbelief, there will always be those Who still trust in him. Jesus has sheep that he's going to, verse forty, and went away again beyond Jordan into the place where John at first baptized. And there he abode, or he remained for a while. It goes back to where he started his ministry, there with John the Baptist, north by the Jordan River. And many resorted or came unto him and said, John did no miracle, but all things that John spake of this man were true. There would be those that looked at his works and said, he must be the Messiah. And they were those by the way that John the Baptist had worked with for a long time. So if you ever get disappointed in someone that you're working with and saying, oh, they're not saved yet, they haven't trusted Christ, this is another reminder to us as well. It's in God's timing. God may not use you, or well, he will use you, but you may not be the one that sees that person actually say the words and and um Trust Christ right in front of you. These are folks that John ministered to, John the Baptist for a long time. And now after that ministry and now Jesus ministry, now they come to the truth in verse 42, and many. believed on him there. A continued result of the fruit of the Baptist ministry that's still going on. And God will use our ministry. So this is another aspect of encouragement. Don't give up. Even if you don't see the results, you never know. John never knew until, well, I guess he's in heaven. Maybe he knew at this point of the results of his ministry here. But many believed because they realized that John was of God. But John couldn't do the works that Jesus could do. So Jesus must be the Son of God. So folks, as we finish up here today, let's be encouraged that Jesus is the Son of God who must be believed. To have secured eternal life. If you have put your faith and trust in the Son of God today, don't doubt. You are secure And your promise of eternal life forever. You are held in the hand, folks, of the Trinity. I have another hand come up here and hold my hand. You're held in the hand of the Trinity. You're not going to jump out of that. Nobody's going to snatch you out of that. You're secure. But if there's anyone here today that's struggling and you know that you haven't put your faith but you're still rejecting the truth of who Jesus is folks be sober be warned You may only have a limited time. These Jews that rejected Jesus had a limited time and they they gave up. They rejected the truth that they had, and Jesus finally went on. The next time he would be in Jerusalem would be to literally lay down his life for his people. Don't resist the truth of the Son of God. Embrace it. Father, thank you for your the truth of the Son That Jesus truly is the Son of God, that he laid down his life for the sheep. And that those who have put their faith and trust in Him are eternally secure. Marvelous truths. Lord, let us also be encouraged that to know that those that we have ministered and worked with, that even though we may not see the results that we want, that you are still using that, and then your timing You may bring many to Christ that you have used us to minister to in the past, just like with John the Baptist ministry, that in your timing people will see the truth of who Jesus is and believe in him. So help us just to be faithful. But Lord, finally, for that one or person who may still not have trusted Christ, may today be the day. That they place their faith in our good shepherd and they experience the assurance of eternal security that Jesus offers. A promise that cannot be broken. Lord, as we go from here as well, we thank you for the freedoms that we have. And Lord, as long as you continue to allow us to have them, let us use them to minister and serve you well until Jesus returns. For it is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.