We are finally back into the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5. And you could turn there. And I really did have this planned because as we move into really the second section of the Sermon on the Mount It is a good section to go through at the beginning of the year because even though we're a few weeks into the new year , Um people are still thinking about their New Year's resolutions that they like to make. And maybe some people are still keeping those resolutions. People usually get to the end of the day. Which is by the way why I'm not real keen on New Year's resolutions because from a worldly standpoint, New Year's resolutions are as they say made to be brought in. And so at the beginning of the new year, I do not encourage people doing New Year's resolutions, ultimately because it is Is a goal that they've made for themselves to do or to accomplish in their own strength. And we as believers should be making what I'll call faith commitments. You might have A better word for that, and that's fine. But basically, Lord, this year, by your grace and your power, I want to commit to doing better. And through faith, that's the idea of Faith commitments. I believe that you can help me through your wisdom and your grace to do better in this area. And you'll get a whole lot farther with that kind of commitment than you will with just a plain old New Year's resolution. Well, what Jesus is going to be pointing out here, areas that we need to change are things that many times don't end up on If you do have New Year's resolutions on that list, even as Christians, there may be things that are important to you that you want to do better in. Even as Village Chapel Baptist Church, there may be be things that you want to see us do better and um have changed in our lives for the new year. But it's interesting the focus that Jesus has. Jesus is going to point some out things out that we're going to be looking at over the next through Sunday evenings and then after we're done with Philippians. Continue on. That normally we just kind of look at and say, oh, I can let that slide. Well, everybody struggles with that. We all understand. So kind of Wink wink, you know, I'll let you get away with it, you let me get away with it. It's just the way that it is. Or we can kind of excuse it away. Out of all the things I need change, well that one I don't know that that's really the most important. Important. And yet Jesus has a way of pointing things out that and and making it clear that in fact those are things that we We need to work on. And they are more important and they actually are more destructive and devastating than we realize. And that topic we're going to be looking at tonight is one of those. It's anger. We'll be looking at anger tonight. Matthew 5, looking at verse 21 through 26. And it says, You have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill, and whoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you That whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever shall say to his brother Raka shall be in danger of the counsel Whoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if thy bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, Leave there thy gift before the altar and go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Agree with thine adversary, quickly, whilst thou are on the way with him, lest any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge delivered thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the utmost farthing or the utmost penny. Lord, help us. Father, our value systems are many times, even as believers, so much different From yours. And that's why we need your word to help us to more correctly and accurately line up what's important with you To the changes that are important to us. So, Lord, in these topics that we're going to be looking at over the next few Sunday nights, help us to commit, help us to see, first of all, the need Need for change, and then help us through the power of the Holy Spirit to make those changes, realizing that in and of ourselves we don't have the ability to change in these ways. But you can help us Help and you can help us see progress. Let that be the case tonight, Lord, in this issue of anger, and help us to trust in you that we can change and that we can eradicate sinful anger from our lives. Help us to do that, Lord, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Anger. And Jesus has some strong words as we read on what this is all about. But you know, there is a question before we even get any further into this about anger. And that is, is there a right kind of anger? As we've read here in Jesus is talking about judgment over Well, is there a right kind of anger? And of course we know that there is. We know our Bibles well enough, I'm sure. We know that even Jesus got angry at times. From the temple. That wasn't an indecisive, kind of weak, gentle person, although Jesus was gentle, don't get me wrong. But in that moment, his righteous anger rightly came to the front. And he had to deal with things. So there is a righteous anger, and Jesus is our example in that. However, if we're honest with ourselves in our life, most of the time the angry outbursts and the angry that Anger that we struggle with isn't righteous anger at all. It's sinful. And it's wrong. And so Jesus is pointing out this sinful anger anger and pointing out its destructive nature and how it needs to change. And we're going to be seeing that here in these verses. God's kingdom law judges sinful anger. Remember, we're a part. This whole message that Jesus is giving is what people should look like that are part of the kingdom. What believers should look like. How they should conduct themselves. They're a part of God's kingdom. Faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Now, what should their testimonies be like? Or to even simplify it further. What should you be doing and how should you be acting if you're on God's team? Well, certainly we shouldn't be acting like the other team. And Jesus' point here is: the people on the other team let anger and wrath control them consistently. And it shouldn't be a part of our lives because God is going to judge sinful anger. And so again, we begin verse 21. And Jesus points out here, he's going to do this many times, but he gives this formula. You have heard that it was said by them of old time. Well, who are them of old time? Are they just elderly people? That he's referring to. Notice that he doesn't refer to the Old Testament law, but he says, by them of old time. And yet we can tell, as he continues on, thou shalt not kill. This is a commandment, obviously, that God gave in So there certainly is a connection there. But what he's referring to when he says this, those of old, by them of old, seems to be referring to the Jewish Interpreters of the law and Jewish tradition. That as God gave his law over the hundreds of years up until the time of Jesus, there were Jewish leaders and priests and the Pharisees. that would give their interpretations of the law. And so Jesus ultimately is referring to these These revered elders them of old that have told the people how to conduct themselves or reminded them Now, this first one is obvious is something that would be obvious to all of us, and it's straight from God's word. So there's no there's no um real change or distortion in what the older people, what these um Jewish teachers had taught the people. It's simple. Thou shalt not kill. Straight up from the Old Testament. From God 's Ten Commandments. And then whoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. This is simplistic enough. Nobody would argue with this. If you kill somebody, you're going to face Punishment. This judgment that he's referring to would have most likely at the least been a local court in the Jewish system that would have met together and discussed This person that had murdered, and then would bring judgment upon them, a group of 23 members that would meet locally in a particular Jewish region And they would pronounce judgment. And everybody, now remember the audience here of Jesus is most as disciples, and other people then are continue to gather to want to hear what he has to say. Say. And nobody would have argued this. Well, you're right, Jesus. It's one of the Ten Commandments. Thou shalt not kill. But now, and Jesus is going to continue to do this on a lot of these issues, he's going to go deeper. And he's going to say, wait a minute. Don't be satisfied with this interpretation of the law. Because Jesus has come And he has the authority to give further, deeper fulfillment and teaching and understanding of what God's law means. He says, Don't be satisfied with that, verse twenty-two. Because I say unto you, that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And in some manuscripts that without a cause isn't even a part of that verse. It may have been added in later We don't know for sure. But most likely, Jesus is saying here, if you're angry with your brother, any kind of sinful anger, you're getting Ready to face judgment. He's pointing out here that anger is a destructive heart attitude. You've heard this many times before, but what is anger really? It's murder within the heart. And Jesus is pointing that out as something that we cannot allow to fester or continue in our lives. It's destructive. And so Jesus is saying, don't just be um satisfied by saying, Hey, I've obeyed God's commandment about not murdering. Well that that's good. Glad that that's the case. And I would expect that's the case. of everybody in this room. But Jesus says, don't be satisfied with that. Because you need heart obedience. It's just not outward conformity to God's law. But I've come to show you you have a greater need You need to obey with your heart. And hatred is murder within the heart. And if you have hatred, you're still guilty of murder. Now that's intense and dramatic, isn't it? And that would have caught the attention of the people that were listening. This idea of judgment whenever someone is angry. Really? Can that really be the case? Jesus says. Those that have sinful anger in their lives will face judgment. This first kind of judgment that he's referring to is that local court, it seems to be the He's referring to the local court I just mentioned in the Jewish system, twenty-three members, and they would deal with crimes like murder, but certainly not with the fact that somebody was angry. with another person. They wouldn't have time for that. And they might have said, well, Jesus, is anger really that big of a deal? I mean, everybody gets angry, right? We might ask that today. Is that really that big of a deal, Jesus Because that's something that we have to admit we all struggle with. Across the board. This is one of those things that we all have to come to and say That's a problem we all face. We all understand that we deal with and we struggle with. Yet Jesus is pointing out here that yes, when we're angry And it's sinful that it's evidence of what's going on in our hearts. It's showing people that we have murder in our heart. And that's extreme. But that's what Jesus is saying. Disdain, hatred for others. Anger is a destructive force within Our homes, churches, and societies. And God is going to judge it. And we need to understand that and be aware of that So he continues on here with this. And he says, not only just anger, but you need to give it's not that just anger is a problem. It's going to be judged, but you need to give careful consideration to the anger in your own lives. And he brings up two other things that people would probably have never and thought was a problem until Jesus lists them here. Not just being angry with your brother and being in danger of judgment. But then he says, And whosoever shall say to his brother Rakah shall be in danger of the council. What is he referring here to? Well, the idea of the name Raqqa really probably has the idea of calling somebody in our language today a moron or a dummy. Or something like that. In other words, we would hear that and think, well, I didn't think that was that big of a deal. Why is that such a big deal? And here Jesus is pointing out that they're in danger of the council. And this idea of being judged by the council actually has the idea of being judged by the Sanhedrin. Now it's moved up a notch. Those that would insult someone else are thereby should be ready to face the Sanhedrin, which was the Supreme Court of the Jewish system at that time. It had seventy-one members with the high priest as the head and the chief priest as influential members, and also included law professors and city elders. This was the court that eventually Jesus Himself would be tried falsely and would be in front of. But he's pointing out here that even those that would insult someone Else are liable to the Supreme Court of the Jewish system. Wow. Is it really that big of a deal? We know we don't have too many TV shows about court drama Crimes and court drama TV shows that the defender or the person accused gets up and um the judge points out to the um or The lawyer points out what they've done, and the man gets up and somebody says, Well, this person insulted his neighbor. I mean that would be a very boring crime drama if they tried to make a Hollywood TV show about that, right? It's just like what why why would that be such a big deal? Well I continue to think about this. I get plenty of opportunity to hear this I don't think this will surprise you, but when you have small children, you get the opportunity to hear insults. Once in a while, go about. And it can, as as parents, you're trying to stop that. But I will admit, having four boys and coming from a family There are times when I hear them insult and I'm like, okay, I know I need to deal with that, but I remember growing up the things that I used to say to my brothers. And that wasn't nearly as bad as some of the things that I used to say and call them. So, you know, do I really need to Isn't there uh more important things to um discuss with them about? You know, my time is valuable and all of this. And this passage here reminds me that I'm still on the right track because ultimately when you're insulated Someone, when you're doing it out of anger, you're showing that you don't value them at all, that they're worthless, and you can literally Show hatred toward them as you're criticizing them. Now, at the same time, I don't think that this refers to you know just kind of a family A familiar family type jesting and joking, and even with friends, there can be a friendly kind of banter back and forth. And even certain types of sarcasm. People understand in family family situations that they don't mean it or they might have family nicknames for each other or things like that, and Jesus isn't referring to that. But he is referring to those that would call somebody a name in their minds or verbally, and they mean to hurt, and they mean to wound, and they mean to get back at that point. person because ultimately there's hatred in their heart for them. And Jesus says, Don't excuse that. It's wrong. And it will fail Judgment. Something else here. Finally, the third, but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire If it didn't seem extreme before, how about now? This idea of calling someone a fool or accusing someone of being a fool The idea of slander, being angry with someone to the point where you will accuse them of being things in front of other people. You will misjudge their character and you don't even care about it. Because you don't don't like them anyway. So it doesn't matter to you if you'll slander them. It doesn't matter for you to get the facts first about a particular individual and what they're doing. Because you don't like them. So, yeah, I heard this and I'll just pass it along, or I'll I'll refer to someone as having this problem or this difficulty, but I won't take the time to actually find out if that's true or not, and I won't actually take the time to go to them and and and maybe help them deal with it because why would I do that? I don't even like them It's these kinds of things that show the anger and the hatred in our hearts. And Jesus says that because of this murder that's in our hearts We will face judgment. But that particular word there for hellfire, that's intense. That has that in the Greek that is the word gehenna Gehennah was the Hinnan Valley immediately right outside of Jerusalem, where in the Old Testament, when Israel was at its worst, they were actually involved in Human sacrifices that were offered to the false god Moloch at the height of their idolatry. Thankfully, the Lord brought them out of that. And by the time In the New Testament, when Jesus is talking to the Jewish people, idolatry is not a problem anymore. But that valley that valley became a place where they would store where they would throw their trash and other things. And it would burn constantly. And the people could look in that valley even in nighttime and see the burning and the trash burning and the smell, and it was hideous. And so this became a symbol of eternal judgment, hellfire, where um God would send those that reject him. And it was a vivid picture to them. A vivid picture of judgment. We would look at this and say, Jesus, why such the intense expression of judgment here? One other thing that I ought to make mention of here, I used to study this and see a progression in these judgments. And I used to make note of that. That is, Jesus, if you're angry with a brother, you go to the local council. Um, if one says uh insults a brother, then he goes to the sand, he And if one slanders a brother, then he's guilty of hellfire. It seems to be a progression, except for the fact that what's being judged Seems to be out of kilter with that progression. The one that's angry with his brother, oh, he just has to go see a local court. But the one that slanders, he is guilty of hellfire. That doesn't really make sense. What is Jesus saying here? I don't think there's so much a progression here as the point that Jesus is making that we've already, I think we're already getting In this, that no matter what form of anger you struggle with, the judgment is imminent. And it's serious. And we need to take it seriously. Other forms of anger. Jesus has listed some here, but I'll give you a few more. Things that we deal with. I have counseled many families in the past that have dealt with family members that have explosive confrontations. and their anger. That just hold it in and hold it in and finally they get to a point where they can't take it anymore and they blow up and are a poor testimony to their family And even to others around them. That explosive anger that you just hold in finally, I can't take anymore, and it blows up. Or even, this is really going to hit home, irritability. Just leave me alone. Can't you see the kind of day I've had? The last thing I want to hear is talk to anybody. I don't want to talk to people. Just get out of my life and leave me alone. Being irritable. With family, with friends, with church people. That actually can be a form of anger, right? It's a sanctified form of anger Because everybody gets irritable. I know. Trust me, I know. And yet it still is a form of anger. And it's not it it can't be justified if we really consider it, honestly. Cruel sarcasm. I think there is a place for sarcasm, even j Jesus and and Paul. Paul would use sarcasm in a number of sanctified ways in his letters. So and I I tend I have a certain gift gift for sarcasm myself that I have to keep under tabs and curb at times. But there's a cruel kind of sarcasm that people use as a weapon. Where other people that they're Referring to understand. I am trying to get at you, and I'm trying to point out my lack of love and care for you. So I'm just going to throw this comment out. And it's a type of anger. Also, here's another one. You might say, well, Pastor Brock, um, I don't struggle with those forms of anger. But you know that you can show anger and not say a word at all? It's called the silent treatment. And if you've ever been the recipient of that, or you've done that yourself, you know, people can make it very apparent to you that they're angry with you or don't even like you. And they never have to say a word. This one look says it all. And even that's anger that needs to be dealt with. So you might say, well, then Pastor Brock, how are you doing in all this? Don't you struggle with these things? And that reminds me of a wise comment that a mentor of mine You probably know him, Pastor Gary Reemers. And he would get us together as seminary men, and he would uh or he would teach us on the practical aspects of ministry. And he would say many times, he would say, guys, one of the biggest blessings that pastors get to experience Is that they get to repent first as they're studying God's Word before their people get a chance to repent. And I'll add this, and they get to apologize first before You guys get a chance. And even looking over my life, I sat down this week with my family and said, you know, I'm going to be preaching on this. And I want you guys to know it's still a work in progress for me, too And if I have um if I have done you wrong in this, you know, let's talk about it. But I want you to know that I'm sorry if I have. Because if you think about it God gives me, in a blessed way, many opportunities to put this into practice every day. It's not really a normal situation in our house. We homeschool, so the kids are home all day. And so my wife has opportunities for this, and she does, I think, a whole lot better at letting the Holy Spirit control her attitude and her her words than I do sometimes. But she's working through that. But now also I have my office at home too. So we're all at home together all the time. School, office, all these things. And And that's just a wonderful mix of an opportunity to be able to put into practice this every day. Even as I was studying for this, the Lord, as he is wont to do many times, gave me some little extra opportunities this week. And I said later on, Lord, that was a test, wasn't it? And I'm not going to tell you how many of those I passed and how many I didn't this week. Okay. But I apologize. The whole point is, I get it. This is hard to do. It's not easy. And I will tell you in my own strength, if that's what I'm relying in, I can't change. But thankfully, I don't rely on my own strength. But God's grace is available to all of us to make the changes we need to in this area. And we have to We really have to. Rand Hummel does an excellent seminar on anger. And he does it probably every other year at the Wilds. He's also written a book called Turn Away Anger, Meditations to Control Anger and Bitterness. And this is just an excellent book. He has a series of these about this and the issue of of lust and it and worry and these different things. And he basically just takes you through multiple passages of scripture for you to memorize and meditate on. There's a whole lot more that God's Word has to say about anger that we need to know and be aware of and be challenged in this. God has enabled major change In his life, because he asked for it. Because he sought help in God's word. God can do that with any of us. Because I will tell you, and one of the reasons why this has become even more Important to me. I know that I am a new senior pastor, and my opportunities for counseling as a youth pastor were limited. And I haven't seen some of the counseling situations that other Senior pastors have, although I've heard of them. And um I did take some counseling classes in seminary, and my wife did too, so we should be all ready to go, right? But I will say some of the most devastating situations that I have had to counsel personally in the lives of teenagers and their families are directly connected to Anger, where anger was literally tearing apart homes, tearing apart families. And as I would deal with the Heartbrokenness of these teens. And I would remind them, you don't have to be this way. Even if your dad or your mom is acting this way. Let's pray for them. It was Is a reminder to me that the very thing that we tend to put off is not a big deal. It's actually very destructive. And Jesus said it is going to be just So in the second part here, his point is we then need to seek reconciliation and seek it quickly. God's kingdom law requires reconciliation. twenty six Therefore, if thou bringest thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way, first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and Offer thy gift. Jesus is first referring to something that has happened between two Christian brothers. And he says, Don't be content. with damaged relationships to the point where Jesus says, don't even perform public worship at all without private restoration. Now, we may not understand at a first read here what Jesus' disciples would have heard when he said this, but you think about this. He's saying, as you get ready to offer your sacrifices, there near the temple of Jerusalem, In Jerusalem, if somebody comes to mind that you need to be reconciled with, you need to return home if you have to and make that right. Well, where is he speaking? To his disciples, he's speaking near the Sea of Galilee. It's a long journey to Jerusalem. He's speaking speaking to disciples who would have to travel a long ways and thus they would only go to Jerusalem once or twice a year for sacrifices, and because so many people would be there, there would be likely long lines of travelers waiting Waiting their turn, it would be no small task to try and return home and seek reconciliation. They're waiting and waiting a long time, and all of a sudden something comes comes to mind of a brother that they have hurt. Or also I think it goes both ways here. Somewhere a brother that is angry, that has done something to them and their needs That doesn't seem like a very practical thing, especially for people in our country today who get frustrated when we have law Long lines at Walmart, right? Oh, I gotta wait an extra ten minutes. Can you imagine somebody come up to you and saying, hey, are or and this this this happened This is a common occurrence, right? You've been waiting in line, you get to the point where you're right at the cashier, and your wife or someone calls you and says, Oh, I got an extra thing on the list. Well you go all the way to the back of the store. And even then Alright I get a chance to practice what Pastor Brock said this. But to go all the way back from traveling that distance from Jerusalem to Galilee, it almost sounds like Jesus is making a joke here, but he's not. What he's referring to, what I think we get the point here though, in the end, is reconciliation is that important. That if you've been angry with a brother or you know of a brother that's angry with you, you should try to do everything that you can human that 's possible for you to do to reconcile with that brother before you're involved in public worship. Reconciliation should come before outward worship takes place. And that is a big responsibility for me, who is up in front of you on a regular basis, leading public worship. And many of the rest of us. But all of us involved in this worship should, if God puts something on our hearts, a person on our heart, He's pointing out the fact that however it happens, we need to make sure that we reconcile with that individual right away. Don't be distracted from reconciliation. Make sure that you're you you handle this and go quickly. That's why he says go quickly. and take care of this. Don't be content with damaged relationships. Don't be content with feuds against enemies. Verses 25 through 26. Now he's talking about someone who is an enemy, who has done something wrong against someone else. Agree with thine enemy, thy adversary, quickly, whilst thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge. And the judge delivered thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison. Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt be by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the utmost farthing. Kingdom members should desire conflict resolution. That should be a desire of our hearts. And certainly with those that maybe have done something against But certainly if we have done something in anger towards someone else and it's been our fault, Jesus says, quickly, as soon as As soon as you can go make it right. Agree that it was your fault if you were the one that did it. And go make it right. Because he pointed Paints us picture that judgment is at the door. It's ready. It's close. Don't fool around with this. Make things right. Those who stir up strife with anger are going to fail. Judgment, Jesus says here. So act with immediacy, because God's discipline will be certain. How does this apply to us? It means that if we have done Things and we are we have sinned in our anger against relationships in our lives. We need to quickly go and make those things right. In our marriages In our relationships with our parents, other church members, co-workers, etc. Jesus says, take care of it quickly, as soon as you can Because it's serious. Well, what do we do if somebody has hurt us in anger? Well then we need to let God do the judging and not allow bitterness to reign in our hearts over that. Do you remember a while back I preached on forgiveness? And that forgiveness is only possible, that we can only offer forgiveness if somebody else has asked for forgiveness. And certainly we need to be ready at any time to reconcile and offer that forgiveness when When it's ask of us. But do you remember what God's Word says to do if that person doesn't ask for forgiveness? Then we give it up to God. Lord, you take Lord, that person's hurt me with their anger. That person has done this, but I can't afford to be angry because I realize from your word how serious it is to have serious Sinful anger in my life. So you take this and you deal with it. And don't let bitterness reign in my heart. But then this last verse here as we finish up seems to be so extreme, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid the up And ultimately combine that then with what Jesus said about hellfire. And really the paint the picture that Jesus is Painting here is that people that lives are characterized by anger and wrath face eternal judgment And what he's referring here ultimately is unbelievers. See, one of the characteristics of unbelievers is that they're always full of wrath. And anger. And yes, that will be one of the things that God has to deal with them and judge them for is that anger because it's sin. Do we live in an angry world world today? We do. Angry about politics. Angry about the guy in front of you cutting you off. I've had people um before that have driven by and shown their anger and I didn't even know what I did as I'm driving it. I'm like thinking back through. No, I followed the speed limit, I did this, and somehow I still made them angry. I'm thankful that they didn't try to get out of their car and you know, road rage and all that. People are just angry all the time. It is The characteristic of a world that has rejected God. And God's going to judge them. Judgment is coming for people because of anger and so many other stuff. So here's the point that I think Jesus is trying to make to the members of the kingdom. And that is the members of God's kingdom have to ask We can't just let anger slide by like the rest of the world does. Oh, it's no big deal. It's the way I was born. My dad always had a temper and I do too. You know, even um bringing back someone's uh nationality into it. Oh, you know, I'm I come from a long line of Irish, angry, redheaded people, and it just happens. And no, no, we can excuse it pretty easily But God's people that are part of his kingdom, they don't excuse anger. They deal with it to be a proper example of Jesus Christ We should view our relationships with our spouses, our kids, our parents, our family, our church people, whoever. co-workers with so much importance that we want to get this right right away. Because I guarantee you, before the week's out next week, we're all going to mess up at this. How seriously are we going to take Jesus' warning to us. Don't allow anger to be a destructive force in your life. Take it seriously like Jesus Jesus did. Be an example of Jesus, not the anger and the wrath of the world. Father, thank you This is something that we don't often take seriously. We just kind of let it slide a lot of times. And Lord, thankfully that as as believers, we know we don't face certain judgment. We don't face hell because Jesus has saved us from That through faith in Him. And we rejoice in that knowledge. But Father, none of us in here should want to act like people who are facing Certain judgment. For we should want to be different and be a good testimony of the love of Jesus Christ, his kindness His gentleness. And Father, it starts with the people that we love the most that we're closest to. Help us this week if there's someone in our family or someone that we're close to that we have bitterness or we have an estranged relationship because of anger, because something has happened, help us to do everything that we can To reconcile that and then, Lord, leave it up to you and let you have it so that we don't get bitter. Help us to deal with with this issue of anger and not to play it off like it's not a big deal. Because Father, we know Jesus' word says that it is a big Deal. So give us grace. Help us to depend upon the Holy Spirit. Because in and of ourselves, Lord, we know we can't get victory over this. And we need the Holy Spirit's power. Help us to depend upon that this week and experience victory over our sin. Sinful wrong anger. All this we ask in Jesus name that we pray. Amen