Are found in these first three glorious chapters of the book of Ephesians. But the one that Paul has on his mind the most when we get to chapter 3, verse 14. Is what he mentioned at the end of chapter 2. That we are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ Himself being the cornerstone in whom the whole structure being joined together. That's all of us that are in Christ. We are a part of that glorious temple. Grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you are also being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Now folks, as you think through that concept, that takes some meditation. That takes some consideration. And Paul is praying then at the end of chapter 3 that we have a better comprehension, a greater comprehension Of the truths such as this, that we are the living temple of the Holy God together as his church. And that closer, better understanding only comes through submission. Mission to the Spirit. And that's what he's praying for. He's praying that we won't just put our brains in neutral when it comes to God's word But that we'll always be ready to learn more, that the Holy Spirit, that we will be, let's put it this way, that we'll be submitted to the Holy Spirit as He brings us us deeper as he takes the submarine lower into the truths of God's word, or higher really. Then that loses the submarine illustration, but you know what I mean. That we are submitted To a greater and better understanding throughout our lives of God's Word. We have never arrived in this life at a full, true understanding of God's Word. None of us have. There's more always that we can understand and know. Yes, the truths of the gospel are so simple, a small child can understand them. We praise the Lord for that. But oh, the truths of God's word are so deep. That it'll take all eternity to understand. So why not start now? Be ready to put on your thinking caps and be ready to meditate. They force our concentration. The truths of God's word demand our time Meditating on a passage like this should not just be an academic exercise where, oh, that's really interesting. You know, Paul was a great theologian and a wonderful And I just always am fascinated by his intellect. That's good, but they need to be deep, the truths that Paul is uh Relaying to us need to be deep within us, folks, and that means we have to think on them. We literally, Paul is praying in verses 14 through 19 that we would be on a quest. To know God's word and to know the love of Jesus Christ in even a deeper way than we already do. That we're on a mission. To know God better. Let's just be honest. We get so comfortable at such a shallow level, don't we, many times? Or we may have in our lives we may have gone deeper into God's word and think that we've had a pretty good understanding of its truths, and so we stop there and we don't continue to seek out and know more about Him. We become comfortable. Even as Christians, we look at our lives and say, you know, I've got a pretty good moral compass. God has helped me in this area, and I'm a pretty good person, and I have a good testimony in my church. Um or you know, I'm a leader in this ministry and people look up to me and I've kind of attained, you know, we're beyond what I expected, but I'm so thankful that God has brought me here, but I'm I'm kind of good where I am. I'm just waiting for Jesus Jesus to return serving the church. to And so when we hear truths from God's word that sometimes push us to have a deeper understanding , We just kind of in our mind say, oh, I'm good. I'm good where I am. And we get comfortable And that's what Paul is doing here as he is praying that the Holy Spirit will confront our comfortableness, so to speak. And where we are in our knowledge of God's Word, and that the Holy Spirit will move within us a desire to know more, to know God in a deeper way, to never stop learning, always be a learner. Especially when it comes to God's word. And so let's go back to verse 14, chapter 3. Before we go to verse 19, let's read back through. For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints. That means to have a deeper understanding and comprehension. And it says all the saints, not just a few that know Greek a little better or that have a higher intellect. But all the saints ought to strive for this knowledge, that they may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth. And I believe in context what he's saying there that we may have a better understanding of our whole Christian experience. Who God is, what he is doing in our lives, and most importantly, the full understanding of his word and how his word represents his character and who he is and his plan for us. The full scope of that, Paul is saying, I pray that all of the saints would be moved To understand more about who their God is and what he's doing in their lives. And then on top of that, again, he goes back to the love of Christ. It's just he can't stay away from that topic of the love of Christ for long. And he says, and also then to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. And that is where we are this morning. And it's fascinating again as I look at that phrase in verse 19 to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. Paul is praying for a miracle here, isn't he? Paul is praying, Lord, help them understand how much Jesus loves them, even though in the end it's beyond understanding. Help them to have a better idea of how much they're loved. And that is something that will take all eternity and even longer. to under know, but to know, but it can be, as Paul is saying here, it can be known experientially. Folks, as we reflect on all that Jesus has done for us and sacrificed for us , you read through the Gospels. And his glorious sacrifice, his shed blood, the torture, and the really the maiming that he went through in the crucifixion. The trials and to be crucified on that cross, and then to be put into the grave, raised three days later If somebody's willing to do that for you and me, isn't it necessary? Shouldn't we dedicate our lives To studying God's Word and saying, why would someone do that for me? Why? I'm not worthy of that. I'm a sinner. I'm a rebel against God. Why would someone, why would the Son of God, who is fully God, come to earth and Submit himself as a lowly human being, as a lowly creature And go through so much. That kind of love ought to draw us and say, I want to know more of what's going on there. I want to know more. Lord Jesus, give me a better understanding. How could you love me that much? Do we know the sheer delight of the love of Jesus towards us? Do you know that Jesus Christ delights in you? He would have to to give that kind of sacrifice. Now, theologically as well, we need to understand that he also, first and foremost, delighted in doing the will of the Father. Yes. But his love for you also drew him to that cross. And he was willing to do that. You see, folks, as Paul prays here, he is praying, he is pleading with the Heavenly Father, Lord, help them to know the love of Christ. that we'll never fully know, but we should never stop desiring to know more of. Don't just throw up your hands and say, I just can't comprehend that kind of love, but draw closer to it. Folks, when we get preoccupied with how much Jesus sacrificed for us in love for us, Us and loved us to go through this. When we're more preoccupied with that than other things in our lives, we'll get to know him better. And the distractions of the world will start to fade away. All the anxieties of our finances and the temporary nature of our jobs and what we're doing and the the The hostility that others have towards us and the breaks in relationships with family and friends, these are things that many times consume us and sometimes let's be honest a lot more shallow temporary things than those things consume our thoughts and minds I'm glad personally that the Lord has taken off the table the consuming nature of my love for the Orioles baseball team. So now I have friends that are consumed with rooting for the D Detroit Tigers, and I guess I'd probably like to see the Tigers win out of any of them at this point. But it's kind of nice not to be consumed by that anymore. I'm being going really shallow there, right? But folks, we get consumed by so many things. And Paul is saying, please let their understanding of the love of Christ for them so permeate their being that they lose the distraction from all those other things. That we would be preoccupied with the love of Christ and know him better. And so as we get closer to him in relationship to him, we start to grieve when the things of the world pull us away. or attempt to pull us away. The distractions of the world start to pull us away from our fellowship and our abiding in Christ. Have you ever been studying God's Word or praying and your phone goes off, or one of the family members lets you know that the There's something going on in other room that needs to be taken care of, or you realize it's time to get to your job because you have to be responsible with your time. And has there ever been a lament, a sorrow? Oh, I was having such a great time of fellowship with my Lord and Savior. And now he's with me all day, I know that, but this was so wonderful. I hate to have to break away from it Folks, I hope that all of us could say that we've had at least a few incidences of that in our lives, but I would, if we're all honest. That experience happens unfortunately very rarely. If we're really honest, what we really tend to struggle with is I know I need to get in God's Word, and I know I need to pray, but I've got so many other things. And we lament that we need to take time to be in God's Word. Rather than lament that we're in God's word and we're growing in our knowledge of Christ, and we have to be pulled away from that. And Paul's saying, oh, that that would be the case in the lives of the people of God. That they are growing and knowing Christ so much when they have to get pulled away from their communion with Him, it's a loss. Because the Holy Spirit is reminding them how much they're loved in Jesus Christ. We must pray that God will give us that kind of fellowship with Him through His Word. And He has to teach us that through His Word. And we must obey Him in His Word. Let me just briefly ask you to turn to John 14, where I think this is described well what Paul is dis what Paul is praying for here for us. Jesus mentions that the more we pay attention to his word, Jesus, the very word of the Heavenly Father. The more we commit ourselves to his word, we commit ourselves to him in obedience. And true understanding, the more our relationship grows with Christ and with the Father. John 14, verse 21 through 23. Jesus says, Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Those are important words. Because Jesus is saying, as you as committed followers, and of course what I'm describing as a committed follower, just be clear, are those that have seen their need for Jesus. Jesus Christ, that have put their faith and trust in him, that have recognized their sin, that keeps them from God, and that condemns them for all eternity in a terrible place called hell. And yet realize that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, as he says in John. And we put our faith and trust in Jesus work on the cross where his blood And his sacrifice paid for our sins and cleanses us of sin and forgives us of sin through our faith in him And this is a relationship where it's faith alone. It's in him alone. It's not faith in Jesus and something else. else in our own works, but our dependent faith in Jesus alone and the work that He has accomplished, that the Father has sent us him to do. Those are the people that John that Jesus is referring to here. And he says, when you, those, the children of God, we say chosen as his children just a little bit ago. When they understand my commandments and submit themselves to my commandments, do my work in them They will grow and I will manifest myself further to them. That's what he means. He who loves me will be loved by my Father. The love to love Jesus is to accept him as Savior. To commit yourself to him as Lord and to stop going your own way, but relinquish, admit that your way condemns you to hell. And that his way, through the work of Jesus Christ and his salvation, provides for us eternity in heaven, cleansing of sin, forgiveness, and fellowship with him. Those are the ones that love Jesus. Then he says, My Father will love them, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. The more we grow in Jesus, I believe this is a saying, the more he will manifest in me. make himself real to us. Does Jesus feel real to you today? In an experiential way, do you feel close to Jesus Christ? You can. Through committed study for the believers in Christ. Committed study, submission to what the Holy Spirit shows you in the truth of God's word. And Judas, the other Judas, not Iscariot, was so moved by this, verse 22, he said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not the world? Why would you give us the privilege of that kind of close relationship, Lord Jesus, and and not others. Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him. Will he we will come to him and make our home with him. They will he will abide within us. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words, and the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. me and there may be some here this morning that don't have relationship with Jesus because you don't love him Maybe you've never heard the truths I just described about all that Jesus gave up in love for us and his Father so that we could be forgiven and cleansed of sin. Maybe you've heard those truths of the gospel before and you've rejected them. And when you reject the truths of the gospel that are so clearly laid out in the Word , Jesus says, you are not one of my own. You have to come to me in faith, in full dependence And then I will make myself known to him. So then back to Ephesians, what Paul is saying here is that he's praying that we will continue to know Jesus better. More obedience. More trust that God knows what's best. And yes, I will obey what you've told me, the commandments and the principles that you've put in your word, that you've given us in your word. More experiential knowledge of Christ helps us to be faithful In obedience to God. And that's why this passage is a great bridge passage from the first three chapters where we hear all about the theology and who God is and what He has done for us. And the last three chapters. where Paul then says, because of all that God has done for you, you can do these things. You can treat your wife in a right way. You can be humble. You can have unity with other people. Not because you're you're in and of yourself good enough to accomplish these things, but because the power of Jesus Christ works in you. And the more you draw closer to him, the more you're able to obey him. The more you understand Jesus, the more you want of him and relationship with him. Folks, isn't it, you think about this Isn't it an incredibly wonderful thing that we have someone in our lives, the children of God, have a being in their lives that loves us so much that we'll never be able to fully comprehend that. That's marvelous. And yet we're so satisfied with such lesser things. The respect of a colleague, um uh uh a thumbs up or a like or a love on our social media. And Paul is saying here, no, I want them to understand how much their loved in a way although they'll never be able to understand it fully. Who are you depending in? Can you not depend On the Son of God who loves you more than you'll ever be able to comprehend. Doesn't He deserve your dependence and trust this morning? I hate to bring this back to a more mundane illustration, but thinking through this, I don't think it's a mystery to anybody in here or surprise that I really do love a good cup of coffee. I really do. And I remember the first time that somebody bought me. I had my first purchased cup of coffee. A friend of mine was going to a place called Dunkin' down in Greenville, South Carolina, Dunkin' Donuts, and he said, Have you Tried the coffee. I'm not you know, I'm not really a big coffee guy, but I've been drinking it recently. I've never paid for a cup. He's like, you know what, I'll take care of it. I'm going over there. And he brought a cup back, and I don't even know if it had a flavoring in it or not, but I tasted I'm like, ooh, that's really good. I like that. It's almost like dessert coffee, that's what my wife calls it. That was a really good experience, and I've enjoyed it ever since then. But I have to admit, I've also moved on. I will admit to you all this morning, I have become, over many years of enjoying coffee, a true coffee snob. I heard it is. There are some coffees that I used to like that I really in and enjoyed and now it's like, eh , this just doesn't do it for me anymore. And I have specific places that I like to go. You can talk to me afterwards if you're interested, where I know I can get some of the best coffee. And I remember many years ago hearing people say, you know, you know the place that makes The best coffee out of all the coffees I've ever tried, they said McDonald's. And I just looked at them kind of my nose down, eyes down, and them like oh You have no idea. I have experienced so much greater things in riches. McDonald's. You need to bring your standard to a higher commitment. Whatever. I know. Um maybe I need some therapy or something with that. But I do love coffee. Why would I even bring that up, folks? In a m in a in a in a minuscule way, it does represent What I'm trying to say. When you truly get more and more of a taste for abiding in Jesus Christ. And knowing him in a deeper way. Folks, one of the marks of that will be that the things that used to and entrance you and captivate you and marvel, they just will lose their luster. Because the more we realize how much Jesus Christ loves us and what that means and that he sacrificed all so that we could be with our Heavenly Father for forever. When we truly understand all the lesser things will be like, yeah Ah, the Orioles didn't make it this year. There's always next year. Ah, you know, the Ravens are playing, but uh, you know, they're not doing as well as what I thought. No, not a big deal. You know what, my bank account isn't looking real good right now, and I'm really struggling with some things, but yeah, Jesus loves me. This I know. For the Bible tells me so. That's all I need. Yeah, there's some people in my life that have really hurt me. Some people that were close to me that I expected more from that actually have deeply wounded me. It's okay. Because Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so. Yeah, I've lost a loved one recently. Good example in my life. I know someone with sickness, or I have a sickness in my life, struggling with, but it's okay. Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. And the more we know of his love, the deeper in we'll go. And the more rooted we'll be. One theologian said, his name is Clinton Arnold. I like this. Paul is not implying that they cannot grow in their knowledge of this love. It's quite the contrary. He wants them to know. To be rooted in it and to be established in it. But they will never be able to understand the full extent of it. Paul continues, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now what does that mean? Now he's referring back to that concept of us as the believer. As the church being the temple of the living God. And that the more we grow in closeness with Jesus , The more we will fill that temple of believers of the church with his The more we will glorify him and the more fully his presence will be experienced and we will comprehend, yes, God is in this place among us. And I know. Because as I've let my distraction move away from the lesser things, and I focus more on Jesus, I know I can sense that God's presence is here. More fully in my life and in this temple God's glory used to fill. Remember in the Old Testament, the tabernacle and the temple? And it was described by the old many of the Old Testament authors Authors, David included that the glory of God filled the temple, a powerful experience that God was with them. Folks, should not the Church of Jesus Christ be so close to Him and growing with Him that the people outside of the Church see within this temple, something going on and sense the presence and the power and the glory of God among us. When's the last time anybody has walked into our church building or maybe some other Orthodox church ministries or assemblies within Uh this county that truly follow after Jesus and yet when people walk in they say Oh God is in this place Oh you can tell you can sense it Probably not as often as we would like. It's all a part of making God's word a priority and drawing closer to Him in prayer and in an We can be filled, we can literally be as the temple of God, the local temple of God, Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. A display case of God's handiwork, his fruitfulness. When people come in, they ought to hear, they ought to see, excuse me. These fruits from Galatians 5, 22. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Those who belong to Jesus ought to have these things. And so when people from our community come in and they experience our love and our joy of being together. And our sense of unity and peace. And that people are patient with each other. And that we're kind to each other. Because we have a better idea, we have a better understanding of all that Jesus gave for us. So, of course, we'd be patient and loving and careful and kind with each other. And people will say when that kind of fruit is on display in a local church, all the presence of God is there. It is filled with the fullness of God. That was an amazing experience. How do we get that fullness of filling of God in this temple that is our church and in each of our lives? Folks, again, it's simply through more submission to the Holy Spirit's work. In this word and through prayer and meditation and fellowship with God. We need more time for that in our lives every day. And the distractions and the anxieties and the worries that tend to fill our lives are like a gauge that says, more of God's word, more prayer. More submission to the Spirit, you need to know how much Jesus loves you. Will we respond to that? One Puritan pastor many years ago, John Owen, well, I guess that was a number of years ago actually, he said this beautiful phrase. On Christ's glory, I would fix all my thoughts and desires. And the more I see of the glory of Christ The more the painted beauties of this world will wither in my eyes, and I will be more and more crucified to this world. It will become to me like something dead and putrid, impossible for me to enjoy. Oh, be ready. When you dedicate this kind of commitment to your walk with Jesus Christ, be ready. A lot of things that used to really thrill and excite you. You're gonna lose the thrill and excitement for those things. Who knows? You might be able to sell some things off and make some money at that because you just you're not excited about the things that you you used to be excited about because you're so overwhelmed with what God is doing in your life and the love of Jesus Christ. And the lesser things are. If I have them, I have them. But I have Jesus, and he is all that I need. Another wonderful writer, you all know, many of you know, C. S. Lewis in a book called The Weight of Glory. I love this forever. This quote, it would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures fooling about with drink and ambition when infinite joy is offered us like an ignorant child. who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a vacation at the sea. We are far too easily pleased. And Paul is saying this morning, and he's praying for the church in Ephesus and for us today, Lord, don't let them be so easily pleased. But give them more and more of an idea of how much they have in Christ. And so then at the end of this, we can come to these last, these beautiful verses. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all we ask or think, according to the work at work, the power at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Maybe you've heard this this morning and you still think, can I really have that kind of relationship with Jesus Christ? I don't know. It's so foreign to me, Pastor Brock. I I don't know that I could love anybody that much or experience that kind of relationship. I just I just, I'm not sure. Well, Paul gives us all the assurity that we need. Look at verse 20. He has three words here that he uses for power. Him who is able. To do, and that means he can accomplish. How does he accomplish it? Through the power That as at work in each of us. Yes, you can have this deepening relationship. With Jesus Christ because the power of the infinite Almighty God is at work in you. And so there's really no excuse. And he actually uses three words for abundance, but it's overabundance. Yes, you can have this commitment and better understanding and relationship with Jesus. Jesus Christ and with me more abundantly, more than we could ask or think, according to the power that works within us. The Father has the power and ability to do beyond what our finite minds can ever comprehend. The incredible, awesome, spectacular power of God works in us. So the question is legitimate. Why aren't we experiencing a deeper relationship with Jesus Christ, we have the power and the access to God to be able to do so. And when we get serious about our commitment, I like what, again, Dr. Mike said this morning. Just put it pla just bluntly. We all need to grow up. We all need to stop putting so much emphasis us and dependence on the things of this world and start depending more on Jesus and seeking him Through God's power. And yes, God will do things and use you in ways beyond what you could ever imagine. That is a promise. When God called me to ministry when I was in my late twenties, I thought I was crazy. I thought there's no way that I could get up in front of people and speak the truths of God's word. I was like Moses. God, you You must have gotten the wrong address. I know you're all powerful and you're all knowing, but but this can't be. And God gave me these verses all those many years ago to remind me: oh, you trust in me. You grow in your knowledge of my word. You commit. To submitting yourself to my word and grow in my truths. And you can't imagine, Brock Maudsley, what I have in store for you. And folks, I stand here today saying, it's true. I marvel at what God has done. Don't you want To commit to the level in this way, pray. And my prayer is for you. I pray this prayer that Paul prays. That you would commit to Jesus in this way, in a deepening way, and that three or four years from now, or maybe a few months from now, Months from now you would look back and marvel. I can't believe how God is using me. That's my desire for you. And then what does that accomplish? Is that just, wow, look, look how much better Christians and leaders these people are. This is a amazing. No, the whole purpose of this folks is to give glory to the Father in Jesus Christ. God deserves all the praise. We mature, we grow up. And God gets the glory through the effective ministry of the church Is the ultimate desire of your heart to grow and to mature as a Christian so that people will respect you and like you more? Or is it that God will receive the glory that he deserves? That's the mark of a true truth. true Christian that says, oh, it's all God. Please don't give me any credit. It's the Lord. Praise be to him. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Folks, that is the song that we're going to be singing throughout eternity. Why not start now? And singing that with our lives. You see, we need to let Jesus master the affairs of our heart and guide our affections And give him full scope and domain to change whatever he would want in our lives. And we will experience that his love, our understanding of his love grows deeper within us, and it will root us and ground us and stabilize us and it will help us to better understand the full scope of who God is and what he's doing in our lives and the lives and and the ministry of the church and we'll then continue as we see God's plan worked out will be overwhelmed with joy With the love of Jesus in us. Don't you want that? This comes very practically through prayer and obedience In the power of the Spirit, the submission to the Spirit, with the purpose of God, whatever you do in my life, I will give you glory. Can you imagine what kind of testimony a local church would be if we had more commitment to developing That kind of relationship with Jesus Christ. Let's not imagine any longer. Let's pray that God would make it real. And if there's someone here this morning that doesn't have a real relationship with Jesus Christ, and this all sounds so strange to you, all I would say, folks, is that when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Jesus, you will experience the love of someone that loves you so much, you'll never be able to fully understand it. And it will change your life. Father, oh thank you for the beautiful truths of this passage. Lord, we as a people this morning, we admit we are we are comfortable and satisfied with far too little. We are comfortable playing with mud pies when you have a beautiful vacation by the sea planned for us in our experience. In relationship with you. We get so distracted by our envy and our anger and our jealousy and our suspicion And our anxiety over money and all kinds of things, that we get satisfied with so little. Father, I pray, as Paul did, that you that the understanding of our relationship with Jesus and the love that He had for it, has for us. Us will deepen and that you will give more of an understanding to the folks at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church of how How much they are loved, and your power working in them to do incredible things that, yes, will go beyond, that will blow their minds, that will go beyond what they can imagine Folks, as I pray that, I sincerely desire for that work in your hearts. For the chosen children of God, that you would experience this relationship with Christ in a deeper way. That whatever disappointments you're facing, it doesn't matter. Because you have a Savior that loves you beyond what you'll ever be able to understand. And my prayer as well for this morning is if there are those that have not put their faith and trust in Jesus. Jesus Christ, that today, this morning, that they would do that. They would trust in His work that deals with our sin. Provides us forgiveness and allows us to be with our Heavenly Father for all eternity. I pray that this morning that you would make that choice. Come talk to me, come talk to leaders in this church. We would love to tell you more about how you can know for certain the Savior that loves you beyond comprehension. You take some time to think on these things as the P. Piano plays.