Folks, hasn't it been disturbing to see in the midst of the terrible tragedy To take place, the literally the celebrating and the mocking. And you just look at our culture and our society and say, how? How is this even possible? How can people be this wicked to do this? And yet even I was reminded as we sang this song, verse two , ashamed I hear my mocking voice call out among the scoffers, and it is of a truth that before we knew Christ, folks, we were among the mockers. We were mockers too. And the very fact that that mocking over the death of one that proclaimed Christ and morality Goes on, the very fact that we grieve is a reminder that we are God's children, that He has done a miraculous work in our lives. And that we need to rejoice in that work while at the same time, of course, we grieve over what has taken place. Turn back to Ephesians chapter 3, looking at the next couple weeks, verses 14 through 21. And I really am so glad we're to this point. This passage is one of the most encouraging passages in this whole book and in all of Scripture to me. And I think it will be a healing balm to all of us this morning. And it is actually a second prayer that Paul prays. Paul is really on a roll in this letter to the Church of Ephesus. And he has taken time in a long, long sentence to proclaim the glories and the riches that we have for those that have relationship with Jesus Christ. And we have these incredible, eternal riches. And he's taken time as well to remind us that we're not deserving of any of those. that it's all the mercy and grace of God. But he's also prayed that the people would continue. People that are faithful and that are witnessing, being a powerful witness of Jesus Christ, Paul is still praying that they'll grow in their faith. But then we get to chapter 3. At the end of chapter 3, he says, you know, I'm just moved to give another prayer here. And this prayer is so beautiful and so encouraging. But even before we get to that prayer in verse 14, I just need to make sure that we have an understanding. Why is Paul praying a second prayer? We're good with one prayer before the meal and maybe one or two prayers in the service, and hey, that's good for us. And when people continue to add more prayer. There's obviously things on their hearts, and we ought to always have a heart and a spirit of constant prayer, of desiring to pray to God. But there must be a reason. Why Paul is praying this second prayer. He's very fervent about this. What is the cause? Well, the cause is all the way back in chapter 2. So go back to chapter 2. that has inspired him to break off in the second prayer. And he talks about what Christ has accomplished. The reconciliation that we have with God through the sacrifice of Christ that killed the animosity and the enmity, the hostility that people have towards each other. And those that are a part of the church are able to worship in unity. Folks, there is no place for hostility and hatred and harshness. In the body of Christ, when we come and worship together. There's just no place for it. Jesus died so that we could worship together in unity Verse 17 of chapter 2, and he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near. There is a peace and unity. Through relationship with Jesus Christ. Verse 18, for through him we have both access in one spirit to the Father. We now can go straight to the Father without a human mediator. We are priests and we can go and talk to our Father. So you're no longer strangers and aliens. You're no longer outcasts that don't have access to the privileges and the blessings of God, but you are now fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, and now we have this beautiful picture of the church, of the people of God as a temple with Jesus as their cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together ch grows into A holy temple in the Lord. In him you are also being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. And then Paul says, look at chapter 3. He's about ready to give this prayer at the beginning of chapter 3. He says For what I've just said in talking about the church as the temple of the Holy God, for this reason, chapter or chapter, verse 1 of chapter 3. For this reason, I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, on your behalf of you Gentiles, he says, because we are the living temple of the Holy Spirit and of the living God , I am going to do something. And then he goes off on a on a off on a side road. And we looked at that last week. Where he is explaining why even in his situation in prison in a set in a position of seeming weakness why all that what he has said is true. That's not a distraction, but Paul has deviated from telling us the reason that he was going to pray. And now we get back verse 14. We're going to hear the reason. And it's because. The cause of this prayer is what he's mentioned at the end of chapter 2. The understanding that God is building a living temple, people indwelt by God. We are the church. We are a living temple. And as a living temple, Paul says because of that, you need to know some more things And I'm praying that God will give you continued insight as the temple. And we're going to say that he is Praying, and we're going to see that in this and next week, that Paul is praying for an even greater knowledge for these very seasoned servants of God. That even in the midst of uh their own lives being threatened, they're in the the city of Ephesus, they continue to faithfully proclaim Christ. They are mature in many ways, but Paul says uh Don't misunderstand me. You still need to know your Bibles better. You still need to know God's Word. You still need to submit to the Holy Spirit and never be satisfied with the amount of scripture and God's word that you know, but always be growing. And Paul says, I'm going to take a few oper a few moments to pray for that, for you now. See, folks, no matter how long we've been believers. No matter where we're at in leadership in the church and how long we've served in the church, Paul is going to remind us that we're always growing in our knowledge. of our relationship with our Heavenly Father and with our Savior Jesus Christ. There's a level of knowledge That still we need to obtain, even with those of us who have studied God's word carefully, even those of us who have memorized all of our wana verses and maybe got all of the awards. There's still a level of understanding that we need to obtain to. Would you not agree with me that none of us have arrived when it comes to a greater understanding of God's word, there's always, folks, more to know and more to understand. And so one of the things that Paul is going to remind us about, and folks, one of the things that great tragedy and disturbing events reminds us of is that we We need to continue to pursue to know our God better. We need to continue to pursue to know our Heavenly Father better. We need to continue to pursue knowing our Savior better We need to go to him and say, Oh Lord Jesus, how can these things be? How can those of us who love you and And and men and women of God that love you and just want to share that love and share the truth of God's word. How can they be hated? I don't understand. And we need more understanding. Less of our own opinion. Less of the opinions of the news and social media, maybe. It ought to drive us to our scriptures to know our God better. That's what these times ought to do. And that's what Paul has to say here. We can have an even more comprehensive understanding by submitting to the Spirit as we study his word. I mean, really, as Paul addresses this, he's saying, um, how can we apply the fact that we are a living temple of God to our daily lives? And as you think about that truth, it does kind of seem kind of strange. We are, and even as as I say this and as you think about it, and as you may tell other people, try telling that to people sometime. As a Christian, I am a stone of the temple of God. We're part of the living temple. People say, Well, that's really interesting. That's that's That's fascinating, but not sure what you mean. And we would say, well, I'm actually not sure I know what I mean either. That would be the wrong attitude, the wrong uh response. Paul is saying this truth and many other truths, the truth that we are the holy temple of God, is so important, so powerful that we need to continue to know more. And have a better understanding. The title of this message today and next week as well is: We Need to Know the Love That Is Beyond Knowing When difficult times come, we need to know God better, even though we will never fully know Him. We'll have all eternity still. understand and yet we need to pursue that. I remember a pastor that was a mentor of mine, I think actually uh my son Arden is attending his church today, Pastor Martin Mark Minick that gave an illustration of this and about the idea that when Uh you've ever had this experience where two adults are trying to talk about something serious and a small child enters in when you weren't expecting that? Um or maybe um a small child just enters into a conversation conversation that's way above what they could ever understand. And so the adults use words or if they don't want the child to know what they're talking about, they may try to use words that are beyond the child's comprehension. so that they're really kind of puzzled by that. Why do we do that? Because there is a level of something on a serious issue. That takes much more effort and in-depth knowledge to understand than something that a child can understand. Folks, let me put it this way: we should never be comfortable In continuing to remain little children when it comes to our growth as believers. I think sometimes we get too comfortable with that. We hear things preached from this pulpit. Well, You know, I don't understand that word, even though the pastor tried to explain it. I'm good where I am. We hear things in Sunday school. Um I I by the way Uh I'm so thankful for uh Dr. Erickson's uh study in the Psalms. It really some of the th every i it this has happened a lot, but especially today. There's There have been so many things that sync well with what I'm presenting. It really gives a full picture. So I'm glad for that. But there are things that he presents. And we may hear things and we may study things in God's Word and say, I don't understand that, but that's okay, I don't need to. And we're happy to remain children and let the adults have the adult conversations. should never be. We're all supposed to be maturing and becoming spiritual adults. And I really think that's what Paul is saying here is my prayer is you'll continue to to mature, to be more of a spiritual adult and understand God and what he's doing and the love of Christ for you. That you may be able to remain firm and steadfast in the midst of terrible evil and wickedness. That's my prayer as well. Well for all of us this morning. You see, God can increase our spiritual resources Because God has the authority. Our Heavenly Father has the full authority and ability to be able to help us. So now go to chapter 3, verse 14. And let's read these verses together. For this reason. Again, what is the reason? Paul says, I bow my knees before the Father. The most immediate reason beyond sharing the riches that we have in Christ is the fact that we as a church are a holy temple. And Paul says, for that understanding, for this reason, I bow my knees before the Father. Notice who he worships primarily first, the Father. Why? Verse 15, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. And Paul, in the understanding of this truth, that we as a church are actually a spiritual dwelling place for God, he's so overwhelmed by that and humbled that he falls to his knees. To thank God in prayer. And he reminds us that as much as we love to talk about Jesus Christ, and we should That in this book the Father is primary. Jesus also mentioned that, that all that he does is for the Father. So Paul reflects this as well. All that I do, I humble myself before my heavenly Father. Why? Because he has all authority. Every family in heaven and on earth is named. God literally has the power to tell us what to do and even to give us names. One of the things that we find out in a study of eschatology, which is a study of last things, last days, one of the things we find out, folks, is when we meet Jesus and we're a part of the new kingdom. We're going to find that we have new names or names that God has given us that are different, most likely, from the names we have today. Well, I don't want my name changed. Well, the name that God has for us is much more beautiful and reflective of who we really are, but He has the authority to do that. What does he mean here when it says that he names families on heaven and on earth? That's a little interesting, isn't it? That's a interesting phrase. What does Paul mean by that? Well in the Greek, the family, the word for family, literally means lineage on the father's side. And so it could refer to the family subdivisions in a particular Jewish tribe. So Paul is saying that God has all authority, even over the authorities of the men in the different tribes. uh Jewish tribes or in the home, God has the authority to guide them and to tell them what he wants them to do. He has authority over them. Not just to name them. But in order to direct them and guide them in what he wants them to do. And that is certainly the case, folks. As Paul has reminded us at the beginning of this passage. Are we humbled before God? Are you humble before Him in your heart? That you would say, all that you ask of me, God, Heavenly Father, I'll be willing to do. Because you are the ultimate authority. We need to have that kind of humility as we study God's Word and as we worship Him together. God, you get to call the shots in my life because you even named me. Obviously, I'm yours. And so I submit before you, just like Paul, just as the church. But it's interesting as well. Then he says the family in heaven. Like, what's that about? That's interesting. And that probably from my study, and what I think is he's referring to the different categories of angels that are in heaven, the entities that are in heaven. And Paul is saying, God has authority over all things, whether in this world or in the heavens, he has the right to name all of those that serve him, the angels and all of the heavenly rulers. He names them all. Isaiah chapter 40 verse 26 says this. You don't have to turn there. Just listen really carefully, okay? Isaiah says, Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these. He brings out their host by number, calling them by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Oh, the angels in heaven that are so much more glorious and powerful than us in so many ways, God that they understand and they are totally submissive, and they're fine with that. To be submissive before God, and God has named them all. He has the authority to do that. And Paul says, one of the things I am praying about is that That you as the church will remember the authority that God has in your life. I remember the wonderful privilege it was to name all of our boys. And now you this might surprise you, but I actually really struggled with the naming process. If God had given us um some young ladies, some girls, which he didn't in this process Providence. I had some names available that I thought were really good, but I really struggled with boys' names. And my wife would get she was being very kind, but she would get frustrated because, well, what about this name? And I have to admit my carnality, many times the name that she would come up with, it was like, oh no, that reminds me of somebody in high school that I didn't get along with very well. Always gonna be thinking of that person if we name them that. Well, that's a really carnal reason to not name somebody a certain name, right? But I I was expressing my weakness. And uh my lack, I guess, of of maturity in that regard. It was a struggle. We finally did come up with names that we're very happy with. um Arden, Luke, Kendall, and Hudson. And we've been very happy with those ever since. And they only I only think of them or of good things as I think of those names. Of course Arden has my name and his middle name. And it all worked out. But it was a struggle, right? But I had the authority, we had the authority, we were supposed to name our children. Um in the baby uh uh bassinet in the hospital, sometimes they'd have baby boy maudsley. Well you can't just their whole lives call them baby boy maudsley. They need names. It's my responsibility. But folks, God ultimately has the ultimate responsibility for naming us and guiding us. and directing us in what he wants us to do, and he is a much better name decider than any of us. And he is a much kinder and much better a person in authority than any of us could be. be. We can trust him. He has the authority to guide and to help us, and that ought to be an encouragement to us. He has the authority, but he also has the resources. And look at verse 16. That according to the riches of his glory, he might grant to you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all saints. What is the breadth and length and height and depth? And Paul here, go back to verse 16, he says, the God that has the authority to bestow upon you what you need, he is asking God. to take from his awesome storehouse of spiritual riches and pour them out on his people. That according to the riches of his glory, the truly eternal important things, Paul says, Oh Lord, I pray that you would pour these things out on your people, that they would know you better. And that they would trust and depend upon you more. You could say here, when it says here, the riches of his glory, the sum total of his perfections. His brilliance, majesty, holiness, and his power. All of these are things that are unique to God, but when we understand them more, they give us more hope. And they help us, they motivate us to serve him better. Specifically that power, the all-powerful God of the universe that created everything. Paul is saying that you would give them that power to be strengthened in their inner spirit. In their inner beering, in their inner being, our inner man that would be renewed in the inner self only through the strength of the Holy Spirit. And Paul says, I pray that you would give them that strength. Strength and that power and that renewal. Folks, isn't that again what we need when we face what we face this last week? When we hear of these terrible things and we see the terrible violence, and maybe some of you saw the videos. I tried to avoid that. I saw some pictures, I tried to avoid the videos, but they're hard to avoid. And it just grieves and it weighs on our spirit. And Paul says, Oh Father, these weak vessels that are living in this dark world, they need the power of your spirit. Spirit to strengthen them, to give them hope, to remind them of the truths of Scripture so that they don't despair. Haven't we been tempted to despair this last time? last week. It's overwhelming. Sometimes it just feels like oh the darkness is overwhelming. I can't handle it anymore. After I got the news of the assassination of of Charlie Kirk Wednesday, Susie Hall, our secretary, and I were talking about it, and I was just praying, Lord, let him live. And soon after that, we heard that the Lord had taken him home. very quickly. And he was in the presence of Jesus, and that was wonderful. But folks, I have to be honest, I didn't feel much like getting up in front of young people and saying anything. I was still proud. Processing it myself. I needed to ask the Lord, give me strength to be able to expound and to represent your power. Even Lord, when I'm struggling right now. And Paul knows that all of us need to be strengthened in our inner man, especially at times like this, and he calls on God to do so through all of the riches of his glory and his power. And folks, when we pray and ask God to strengthen us with his power, you can be assured he will do exactly that, and you will have the sustaining strength that you need to make it through these difficult times. And to serve him faithfully until he calls you home. Paul says, Oh Lord, let them be strengthen with your power, not their own power. Our own power is worthless in situations like this. But oh the spirit in our innermost being give them strength. provide strength from that endless source of and supply of power that we have through the Holy Spirit in our lives. Isn't it true that we pay a lot of attention to the health of our outer man and what we put into this man? Well, some of us do. Okay, let's be honest, some of us still enjoy those Twinkies and all the soda and all the chips and everything, but there's more and more of an overall sense that you know what, it's better to eat in a nutritious way. And so we have all kinds of things in our society that if you really want to get distracted and into You can do, right? Make sure that we're gluten-free, and some struggle with that, and they need to do that. And you live in such a way that you're making sure that the food that's provided is gluten-free. But then also how about those eggs, making sure that those eggs are cage free? You know, that those chickens were happy chickens before they met their end. Well I guess they're not mean their end. They're just providing eggs. So making sure that those hens, before they provide those eggs, are happy and they have independence and freedom, whatever cage-free means. Preservative free, that's important. And sometimes when you get to the midst of all this and you get to the end and you're eating it, it's also taste-free. But you're healthy. No, all all of this is good. And I could provide a lot more things. You know, we're always we're we're more concerned than ever about dyes and things in our food, and all of that's good. But we have all this focus on on the outer man to be careful. And so much of the time, even as believers, we have very little focus on the inner man. Make sure I'm eating, well, yes, my inner man and strength of my inner man. It's not quite as important to me, I have to admit. But it should be the ultimate important thing for us We need to be concerned of what we're putting into our inner man. And that we're crying out to God for help to mature and to strengthen us and to renew us. So, what do we do when we're faced with horrific violence in our own country and maybe In our own community. One of the first things that we ought to do, folks, is say, Lord, I'm facing this and seeing this, and I have to give it an explanation to my kids and my church. Maybe I have to teach. Lord, strengthen me in my inner man because right now I'm feeling really weak. And incapable. So strengthen me with your power. And he He will do that. He will answer that request. Verse 17. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. That you being rooted and grounded in love. Now this is going to be hard for me as a pastor, but we're going to have to cut stop right in the middle of a sentence here in order to take the time to truly understand Understand what Paul is saying here. But I do want to get through verse 17 this morning, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. You know what that Greek word really has the idea of that you You would be settled down in your hearts. And that Christ would be fully at home. A full dwelling so that we can be strengthened in our inner man and also experience a deeper closeness to Jesus Christ. Yes, it is true. Jesus already dwells for the believer, for those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Jesus dwells within you. You can be confident of that. But we need to seek a fuller understanding of what that means and a fuller submission to Jesus dwelling within us. That if we really believe that we are his dwelling place, his temple, his home, that when he calls us to get rid of things that he doesn't like to see in our temple, That we're willing to do that, and that we understand and are submitted to what he wants to do. That word, uh those words at the end of verse 17, that you being rooted and grounded in love, that rooted as an agricultural term, grounded as a construction term, has the idea of we need to set our roots deep. And we need our foundation firm in the love of God. This is the language of a living building This love binds these stones together. So again, let's look at the whole of verse 17, that Christ may fully dwell in your hearts through faith. that he would deepen your faith and you'd have a full understanding that yes, I am the temple of the living God, that Jesus dwells through his Holy Spirit in me And I know him and getting to know him more. And I'm set deep. My roots are deep in that truth and understanding. And my foundation is firm and settled. And I'm settled in my heart that I have relationship with Jesus Christ. And so I won't be shaken when the most difficult of times come because I am rooted deep in my knowledge of who Jesus Jesus Christ is. There's an old story. Maybe you remember reading this. A guy by the name of Robert Munger wrote a story that was an analogy. of Christ within and do you remember the old story about um Christ knocking on the door of a certain person's heart and they opened up and they were glad to see him and They led him into the living room and they were talking. Oh, it's so good to see you, Jesus, and talking with him. And, you know, Jesus asked if he could settle down and stay in there. And the person was like, well, I I want you as my savior. Yes, you can. I don't have time to go through the whole thing. But as the person uh humbled themselves and acquiesced to Jesus dwelling within them, there were certain rooms that Jesus wanted to look through that that person didn't want him to see. Jesus, here's your bedroom over here, here's the living room, here's the kitchen. Oh, Jesus, Jesus. Jesus, don't go in that closet. No, don't don't don't touch that closet, please. That's that's my personal. And Jesus says, Well, I'd like to see what's in this closet. No, you you don't want to see what's in that closet. You really don't want to see what's in that closet. or that room. That's my own personal space. If you've read that story, I would I would I would encourage you if you haven't to read that by Robert Munger, My Heart. Christ's home. Folks, the point it makes is that when we're really understanding that we are Jesus' dwelling place, guess what? We don't get any personal space where we say, Jesus, you still Stay out of there. We don't get personal space. No, Jesus dwells fully in all areas. And there's not one area of our life that we won't let him examine and say, you can, Lord, you can tell me what to do here, my entertainment, in my music, and what I do with my life. You're in my life. I'm your temple. You have authority to tell me what to do. I can't help at the end of the message today to mention a few words of what I have learned about the witness of this political commentator. But really uh this this Christian man, Charlie Kirk. Um I didn't I knew of him and I'd seen him and heard, and I thought he was an eloquent young man. Man heard him um describe truths before, but I really hadn't listened to him all that much. But it's interesting, a lot of us, and I know a lot of people are listening to them now so it makes it appropriate to comment on that. Especially our kids, by the way. If you don't know or you didn't know who Charlie Kirk was before, your kids do. My sons do. Many do. And they are moved by this. There's so many things, but as as I was watching his witness of Christ before others, Some things stuck out to me that I thought that were important that really kind of again parallel what we're talking about here. I don't know this man personally, but he obviously had a close walk with the Lord. That maybe early on in his career he was learning more about Christ, and he seems like the type of individual that was growing in his understanding of God's word, to the point that more recently he was able to have Have conversations with people on the opposite sides of everything that didn't share his belief in Christ, and he was able to do it in an informed way. but also a winsome way, a reasonable way, where they would, and he would listen to them And then be able to share the truths of God's word with them in a good and helpful way. And he had much success in that Folks, that's just one example of someone who knows God's word well enough to be able to use it effectively in an Reasonable way to confront the ungodly things of the world and to help people see Jesus Christ. You know, Jesus is with or uh excuse me, Charlie Kirk is with his Lord now. And he was ready to meet him. And one of the reasons is because from all his testimonies What I can see is he knew Jesus well. He understood the truths of God's word. And we pray for his family in this regard. But folks, do we know God's word well? Do we know God's word well enough that when people and and there will come confrontation Will come. Can we give an explanation for our faith? Can we explain to people why Jesus is so important to us? Can we explain why we come to worship together our Heavenly Father in a place like this? If you say no, that's That's okay. There's a lot of folks here that would agree with you, but Paul says we must not be satisfied with that. Paul says, oh, I'm praying that you you will grow and that your relationship and your knowledge of Jesus and the Heavenly Father will grow and the love that Jesus has, that he would shed his own blood and sacrifice himself for you. In the midst of your rebelling and mocking of him, Paul says, I am praying that that knowledge would continue, that they would be rooted and grounded in that, so that they can be a better testimony to the world. Sometimes it's hard to explain these things to our kids, isn't it? And explain the evil in the world. And yet, folks, as well, when we um we dig down and we Access and we think on Jesus Christ and think on him well. We can point our children to Jesus and they can get to know him better in their personal relationship with When our kids have questions like, how could evil do this to someone? Why do people hate Christians? Wouldn't it be good for our kids to be able to go to Scripture? And what would Jesus say to that? Why do people hate Christians? Why do people hate the message of the gospel? And Jesus himself can tell our children, I know, it's wicked, it's awful. Look what they did to me. Look at the scars in my hands. I have a wound in my side. Oh, I know the evil and the wickedness that's out there. I experienced it firsthand. And when our children get better, At going to God and seeking answers from His Word. That is what they'll receive from Jesus. And so we shouldn't shy away from that. But in our own lives be better examples of seeking after God and knowing Him better It's a much more better it's a much um better experience of the Christian life. We had one of our kids, I won't say which one, that when we would go on vacation and there would be a pool there at where we were vacationing. A lot of the other kids would jump in and be all excited and, whoo, this is great, and they go to the deep end and okay, be careful. We have one in particular though that for a long time just sat at the shallow end of the pool on the first step and just sat there. and just kind of splash around a little bit. But we were always trying to get him to go further because we knew there was a much better experience. Experience for him than just splashing around there in the shallow end on that high step. There's so much more of the pool to experience Paul is calling us as God 's people. And this is for those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Christ. He's calling us to move out of the shallow end of the pool and go to the deep end and experience more and the deeper understanding and the deeper truths. Of Jesus Christ and of our Heavenly Father, and that the love that He has for us can enable us to be strong and rooted and founded firmly. Stop playing around in the shallow end, folks. And be willing to move to the deeper truths and the deeper understanding of what we have. If there's someone here today who would say, I don't know anything about Jesus Christ, I would love to take opportunity to introduce you to Him. today, that you could have faith relationship with the Savior who gave his all and died on the cross for your sin. So that you could be rooted and grounded in the midst of evil and difficult times. I'd love the chance to share more with our Savior with you today. come and talk to me afterwards. Let's bow and have a word of prayer. Father, I've said a lot. But I pray that you would encourage upon all of us the need to never be satisfied with the amount of your word that we think we know. But that we would always be motivated. Lord, I pray, as Paul prayed, I pray for this group of people People here that they would be motivated to learn more, to study their Bibles better, to maybe take an institute class. To do, to take advantage of modern technology and apps, to know your word better so that they can be stronger and rooted deeper And that we could be firmly entrenched in the midst of very awful things that we see around us. That we would not be moved, but rather motivated to continue to share Jesus with others. Lord, give us that desire. Work in our hearts. Convict us of our apathy when it comes to It comes to your word us and toward Jesus when He gave all for us. Lord, move us to give our all for Him and do a work in our lives. Folks, you pray and examine your own hearts as the piano plays. Not me.