But folks, if we really truly have a vision of what Jesus How he humbled himself and what he became from what he was. We would not really struggle with divisiveness, envy, jealousies. Frustrations, but we would just marvel that Jesus was willing to die for us at all. And willing to sacrifice himself, and that awe and marvel would suffice and would Would motivate us. Our children have gone out for children's church. Appreciate the Mullen family in teaching this month. We are back. In such a wonderful passage, Ephesians chapter 3. This is Paul's second prayer. It's verses 14 through 21. And it really is a bridge between all of the incredible theology and the beauty of the description of the riches that we have in Christ because of our Heavenly Father. And this prayer is the bridge gap between all that theology and the practical application and outworkings of it in the last three chapters. And so, because of that, I think it is one of the most important passages in the book to understand. And yet, folks, it does take some time. It does take some thinking. To really comprehend what Paul is praying here. And so I need you to be prepared for that this morning. There is such a beauty in this prayer, in these verses from 14 to verse 21. But it's that that we really need to consume and chew on and meditate over So I hope you brought your thinking caps this morning. You're going to need them. But really, all that we need is the Holy Spirit praying that he works in us, gives us understanding, and then Submitting to the truths that we have before us this morning. There's also another aspect of this that I've been uh just meditating on and working through, and that is as far as how to preach the this passage. There is a part of me that as a pastor wants to keep going on a steady flow through this book. I don't have a specific time frame to the date, but I do like, I would like to be able to get through this book by the end of the year. So that we could start in the book of Revelation. After that, some of you have asked and have been moved about end times things And eschatology, and you've been hearing a lot of people focused on that. And it really is a burden of mind for us to understand those truths well and to understand the book of Revelation well, which really is just is in the end a revelation of Jesus Christ. He's the Point of the book. So I'm looking forward to that. So I want us to move along at an even pace, is my only point. And yet when I get to this passage, it's so important, and yet it takes. understanding to the point I think that we need to go through it slowly. That I've decided I'm going to continue. I started it last week. Continue this week. and then in two weeks finish up this passage before we get into all the practical application of Ephesians because this passage is so important. And I've entitled this series of messages from Ephesians, Knowing the Love That Is Beyond Knowing. And so even as I say that, it's a reminder to me that Paul is praying that we would have an understanding about things that in a real sense In a full way, we'll never fully understand. Maybe when we get to heaven, we'll have, well, we will have all of eternity to gain even more understanding. But I want us to take time through this passage. I'm going to read the whole thing again. Remember, why is Paul praying a second prayer? Is that kind of unnecessary? Oh no, it's not. It really is not. Paul is praying the second prayer because he's just described us as a living temple or the people of God and dwelt by God that is the church. And that's kind of a hard concept to understand. We can understand Jesus as our Savior, and maybe even He Jesus as our head, but when we think of ourselves as living building material for a structure, a spiritual structure. It's like, okay, I think I can get my mind around that, but it takes some time. And so Paul wants us to take the time to understand what it means to be the temple of God as the church, the church where his presence is dwell. Folks, if we were to go from the outside the confines of this building and meet together in the pavilion or just out in the middle of the field. the presence of God would be within us. It's not a building. It's not in a steeple. As wonderful as these things are and as wonderful as the blessings of this building is for us. It's not like the Old Testament. The temple and the tabernacle where God sets, he says, his presence is above the Ark of the Covenant. We don't have a secret Ark of the Covenant back in the baptism. That we hide from you and his presence is there. No, the presence of God is in his church, in us, and we can all move out into the lawn out there. Of course, the weather's not really that great. For it today. And the church is there among us. It's remarkable. And Paul says then go to Ephesians 3, verse 14, for this reason. Because of this truth, I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. I'd like to start us out in a word of prayer, even as we begin This morning. Lord, we need your help to understand this passage. The very thing that Paul is praying for, we need the Holy Spirit to give us understanding this morning. Or we cannot understand the depths of these truths. So work, help me to explain it. And help us to understand that we may truly grow in this area of our lives and have what Paul is praying for here this morning. in our hearts. And this we ask. In Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. So last week we started at the beginning of this why Paul is praying, verse 14. He reminds us that this This is all about the Heavenly Father, the Father who has authority. Verse 15, he has authority to name his people. He has authority. He had authority to construct the church, this holy temple. And really what Paul is asking at the beginning of this prayer is that we would be To the fact that our God is sovereign and he gets to tell us what to do, and that we would trust him and be motivated to serve him because he has the authority. to direct us and to call us to service and to serve each other here in the church. And he does that even with that authority. He has given us the riches of his glory, all of the spiritual benefits that we have in relationship with Jesus Christ. Even the fruit of the Spirit. Remember in Galatians 5 how it's described? We have love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And many more. And God gives us these riches that we may be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. That the more we understand what we have in our relationship with Jesus Christ, it strengthens us. It anchors us. It helps us to be immovable during the greatest trials and tribulations. Again, folks, it's like every week there's a new tragedy to discuss, right? This past week, a number of police officers in York County, Pennsylvania, three of them lost their lives, just serving some sort of warrant or something. something and the other two survived. And yet we just see this violence and evil against authority and against those that proclaim Christ and against the what we refer to as the innocent many times, and it can shake us. It really can. And so that's why we need to be grounded in the truths of the Scripture and our relationship with Christ so that we remain firm no matter what's going to happen, because I'm sure something's going to happen next week. In the next few weeks , that's gonna have the potential to shake us But this is the recipe that Paul is praying for, that we, in the midst of all of these things, we don't have to be thrown about. Like in the midst of a storm, but we can be anchored firmly and be examples of people that are moved, but not destroyed by the challenge of God. Around us. How can we do that? By understanding the riches of what we have in Christ, by knowing his word better, so that we can be strengthened through the power of the Holy Spirit in our inner man. And be ready for whatever takes place. That's what we looked at last week. And then we got into verse 17. God can increase our spiritual resources. He has the authority and the resources. to strengthen us and to keep us grounded. Verse 17, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. That you being rooted and grounded in love, and we stopped there with that understanding, the idea that we need to set our roots deep, that our foundation needs to be To be firm in the love of God. And as a living temple, what is being described here is it is the love of Christ that is the mortar for the stones and the bricks. We are the stones of the temple, and it is the love of Christ that keeps us firm and solidified in unity. That helps us to forgive, that helps us not to be bitter, that helps us to come together to worship. It is the love of Christ that dwells firmly in our hearts. Do we have faith in Jesus? That he truly does love us as much as the scriptures say that he does? Do we have faith that Jesus truly sacrificed all for our good and uh for uh Our redemption and cleansing of sin is so we can be reconciled to God and to others. Do we really believe that? Does Jesus, the faith in Jesus, really dwell in us? Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. Folks, do you really believe These truths that are preached every week? Or are you still kind of skeptical sometimes? Do you sit in the back in your seats and just think, well, that sounds nice, but I don't know if God really loves me. No I want to encourage you that we never stop learning from God's Word. That we never stop asking the Holy Spirit to help us give us a deeper understanding. It's why the Word of God has such an important emphasis in our church ministry. And our new website, prominently the first picture, is a Bible with the cross behind it as a proc proclamation to our community that this word is important to us and it is what It is how and by which we live. Is God's word important enough to you? It's why we have, we are partnering and why we're thankful to host many times. The Crossroads Bible Institute, so that we can learn more about the truths of God's Word, that we're never satisfied, we're never comfortable But no, we need to learn more so that the love of Christ, that we would have more confidence. Yes, Jesus Jesus loves me. Yes, he died for me. Yes, he truly cleansed me of my sin. Yes, because of all that he's done, I can go out and serve others and I can release Release concerns and anger and all these things that I have because all of Jesus has done for me and I can be a more effective servant. I can stop being distracted by all these other things in the world that tend to draw my heart more than Jesus does, whether it's sports or whether it's money. Or whether it's time with friends, whatever, you tend to put a priority over God and His Word and growing in Him. We need to have as our primary commitment to getting to know Jesus more by getting to know his word more. I think you understand that. Hopefully you understand that. And that's what Paul is praying here. As Jesus dwells more fully in us. As we give over, as Jesus through his word points out things in our lives. You know, you really ought to deal with this. This really has no place in a Christian Life, these things that you're allowing in this um whatever it is, these images online that you're looking at, or this um this desire for riches that is just overwhelming in your life or whatever sins. As Jesus points these things out, we must be willing to say, okay, Jesus, through your power, through the Holy Spirit, I release these to you because I want you to have more and more of me. I want to be more fully grounded in my love for you. And that is the love that holds us as stones in the living temple of God. So literally one of the things Paul is praying here is that we be better stones. That sounds strange. The stones, the building material of the temple of God. And it comes through knowing his word better and being more assured that Jesus loves us And dissipating the doubt and the cynicism. God can give us a full, abundant experience of His love for us, and He can provide a full experience of that love. Look at verse 8 as we continue. Now remember, Paul has just said that you're rooted and grounded in love. That you believe that Jesus sacrificed and loves you and that grounds you and motivates you for what comes next. Hope I'm not being too repetitive here, but it just continues to impress on my mind before I go further. Uh folks, regardless of whether everyone else turns against you and every uh one of your family Members and your friends betrays you, are you still anchored in the fact that Jesus loves me? I could still serve him. Though everyone else disappoint and fail me, I believe what I sang this morning. Oh, how he loves you and me. I believe that. And I can serve him with a heart filled with trust and learn more about him That is the experience that we need to have before going into verse 18, okay? Does that make sense? Let's go into verse 18 then That you being rooted and grounded, firm in the love of God and in Jesus Christ, that you may then have the strength To comprehend what is to the saints, what is the breadth and length and height and depth. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? What does that mean? Because then we'll see neck uh in a couple weeks in verse 19, he wants us to have this comprehension and it g he gives us basically uh almost like measurements. For what this comprehension is supposed to be. And we might think that he wants us, he's referring to the love of Christ, but then he says in verse 19, beyond this understanding, I also want you to know the love of Christ. So what does he want us to comprehend in verse 18? And why these four dimensions, breadth, length, height, depth? What's this all about? And because again, I think Paul leaves this um He he he gives us all the information that we need, but he doesn't allow us just to have a cursory reading to give understanding. He gives us a truth here that we really have to think through in order to understand. It's not something that we can just read real quickly. And say, oh, I understand that. We really have to think through it. What does Paul want us to understand that's so important here and so many throughout church history? Have had many ideas. Some have said that these measurements and these dimensions refer to the new Jerusalem, that we must be motivated by the kingdom that's coming. Some throughout church history have said this is the four arms of the cross. That's an interesting perspective. You can ask me more about that after the service if you're really intrigued by that. That's just one interpretation though. Or another interpretation is that it's referring to Paul wants us to understand the mystery of God's plan. or God's wisdom, or God's love, or his power, or a better understanding of the new temple. Because he's giving us descriptions here that are spatial that seem to present some sort of space in our understanding. And even now I might start to deluse you a little bit. Okay, come back, listen. We'll have some more understanding here, but don't uh trail away yet. What could Paul be referring to that is so important to him That he says we have to have the strength of the Holy Spirit to even comprehend what I'm asking that God would help you to comprehend I think it has to go back to the new temple that he has just referred to in the recent passage. I think that he's saying, I'm praying that the Holy Spirit will give you the power of mind to be able to understand what it means to be the holy temple of God. Because it's not something that you can grasp in and of ourselves. We need his power to understand this. Let me give you a couple of examples. We have had opportunity as family recently since we've been back to visit Washington, D. C. Before we left for New Hampshire, we had the opportunity to visit visit there a few times. Now I'm not getting into politics this morning, but regardless of all of that and and who's leading there, you have have to admit that when you go to Washington D. D. D. C. whether you're overwhelmed by the traffic alone, or the people, or the buildings, in the knowledge, in the museums. It's quite an amazing place. In fact, Washington, D. C. connect D. C. can actually be very overwhelming for people that visit the There, their first time. Because you can't, for any of you that's actually tried, you can't get it all done in a day or two days. You can't see everything that you want to see even in a week. We had big plans recently taking the boys to DC again before Arden went off to college and we we got there and we ended up at a couple museums. We had like four or five places that we wanted to. to visit on our list. And of course we went into the archives, saw the Declaration of Independence and all these things. But we went to some of the other museums and we began to realize, you know, there's just too much here. We're not gonna get to all five. We'll be lucky if we get to three. And then we tried to quickly get in. I think we got in three and maybe part of four, but it was so the time was so limited. Um I think that was the next Natural history museum that we really couldn't do it justice. And I just left as I went to get the car and to pick up the family. I just kind of left with, man, there's so much here. That I don't know that I'm ever going to be able to come to DC and have the full scope and experience and get to see everything that I want to. There's not enough time. And it's amazing though the amount of knowledge and the amount of things that you can see if you have the time and you're able to walk long distances too, right? There's another example of this. On when I took Arden and Luke on our trip, we combined it with a mission's trip. It was Arden Senior trip. and we saw the bishops and then we saw the O'Briens down in Ohio. One of the things that I did especially for Arden because it was a senior trip, I took him to a place that I went many times when I was his age. In fact, the last time that I was there was right about his age, and it had been obviously many years since I'd been back. And it was an amusement park called Cedar Point. Some of you that have been there, you know what I'm talking about. Others may have heard of it. But it is one of the most um intense, amazing amusement parks in the whole world, but certainly in the United States. And all of these roller coasters that are just so tall and so fast. And by the way, this may sound arrogant, but I'll throw this I felt really good that I was able to go on all but two of the roller coasters that my boys went on that they rode. At 50 some odd years. That was really an encouragement to me. But there was a couple where they said, Dad, we really got our IDs and said, no, guys, Dad's got to know his limitations. Not going on that one. But we had a great time. But what I began to realize is that there was just too much for us to experience and we were walking around by the end of the day. I'm sure we had felt like we had walked around ten miles or more, just the back and forth and everything. And there was too much to experience in one day. This didn't have time for it all. Both of those kind of give the spirit of what Paul is saying here. He's saying that if you really have a true understanding, of what God has given you in His Word and the riches, spiritual riches that He's giving you, this is the this is This is where you will eventually come to in your life where you just say, wow, and all the time that God has given me, I just feel like there's so much to understand in His Word. And so much amazing contemplation of all that he has given me in Christ, I don't know that I'm ever going to be able to understand I don't know that I'm ever going to be able to have the time to truly comprehend all of the riches of the Christian life and all that God is in his character. And all that he has for me to do on this earth. And as you expand that and you think of the height and the length wait, the breadth, right? And the length. Okay, I don't know. Height. and and depth of our whole Christian experience. Yes, the love of God. But also the justice of God. I appreciate there's so much that's in sync with our study in Psalms with Dr. Erickson. He mentioned last week in the imprecatory psalm that he was going through. That we focus so much on the love of God, which is good, but we forget to focus on the fact that God is a God of justice as well. And we tend to, even with our study of God's Word, we tend to focus on the attributes that we really like. Jesus loves, God's love. That's great. And that motivates us. Paul just said you need to have a deeper understanding of how much God loves you. But folks, we need to have a deeper understanding of all that God is and all that He has given to us. His justice, his sovereignty, his love, his mercy. He has unlimited knowledge. And all you have to do, and I would encourage you even this week, just take a list and write down the attributes of God, and you will come to the conclusion there's a lot that I need to think and meditate on. That could take a whole lifetime. Exactly. That's what Paul is saying here. He is praying that God would give these people the strength and the understanding through the Holy Spirit to have somehow to comprehend what is almost uncomprehendable, and that is the majesty and the awesomeness. of who God is and what he has done for you and what he can do through you. And the work of the Father, and the work of the Son, and the work of the Spirit, that we would never stop having wonder for God's word and wanting to know Him more. That word, strength, is to have the ability to do certain things. There in verse 18. The word for comprehend is a comprehension that anchors solidly your understanding. Just one aspect of this, folks. If we understood the magnificence of who God is better, if we understood that better. And we had we we took a little more time to look around us and see what he is doing. I'm convinced we'd spend less time complaining and arguing, and we'd spend more time giving glory to God. But we get so myopic and we get so narrow-minded about what's in our lives. And Paul is saying here, the more we're captivated by God's work in the church, And who he is and his character, the more we're willing to set the lesser things aside, and then we also are in a better spirit and attitude and prepared for what he's going to give us in the last three chapters that we need to work on. Problems in your marriage? Remember the character of God. Remember what he's done through Jesus Christ in your life. He has the power to give you victory in your marriage. And the power to give you success. Trouble at work? Fear, do you struggle with fear about the future? About your your work or what's going to happen with your family or illness or whatever Contemplate, think more on the truths of the breadth and the length and the height and the depth of who God is and what he's doing in your life and all the spiritual riches that you have. And folks, those fears will start to fade. They will. Because you won't have as much time to be fearful and meditate on those fearful things because you're meditating on the wonders of who God is. Isn't that a better Um use of our time to think on his truths through his word. Are we walking worthy of our vocation as a living temple of God? Are we focused on Him? Remember, folks, as we finish up this morning, God has given the dead spiritual life. We were all dead. Paul told us that in the beginning of Ephesians. We were dead dead. And yet through what Jesus accomplished on the cross we have spiritual new life. And each of us are a building block of that living temple. And that living temple, whether it's here at Upper Crossroads or the Universal Church. It spans all racial and ethnicity throughout all time, throughout all divides. And it puts on display before the angels in heaven and before the minions of Satan, of the power of God. And we get to have a part in this. It's mind-blowing. We ought to be in awe. Folks, let me put it this way: we ought to be so much more in awe of the truth. That God has given us in His Word than what we tend to be on a regular basis. If we had more awe and wonder , For the truths that God has set before us in His Word, it would make the other things rather fade And that's what Paul is asking his Heavenly Father for. Is the fact that we have been, we are the children of God through faith in Jesus Christ, through what He's accomplished. He is our Savior, we are His temple. Paul is praying that we would understand more and more so that we'd be all in with what God is doing in our lives. Lord, I'm not going to fight you anymore. I'm not going to argue with you. I'm all in. Whatever you want to do with my life, my life is yours. It helps to, we had mentioned at Sunday school this morning the difference between inductive versus deductive reasoning. This is actually one of the characteristics of a mature Christian. As uh Mike mentioned this morning, inductive. I hope I get this right now. But it's coming to something with our own preconceived notions And what we think is right, and then filtering all the information based on. Actually, that's deductive reasoning. Sorry. Deductive reasoning is what we tend to do. We come with our own ideas and then we filter the information through those ideas. And what Paul, I believe, is praying here is that we would be more inductive. that we will put our side our opinions and our um our frustrations and all of the things that inhibit us from understanding understanding God's word. And we would just come to God's word saying, Lord, whatever your truths say are true, that's what I believe. And I'm not going to try to put my own template upon what your word says, but I'm going to come to your word and humbly before it says you as my sovereign God say whatever you tell me in this book. Put aside my preconceived notions. I believe I'm all in. Remember a man that not anyone in this church, but in a former ministry That would sometimes after I had done my best to explain God's word and give the truths, he would come up to me and he would kind of argue with me, he would be frustrated with me. And I would say, okay, well that's and he would give a different interpretation of the spiritual truths than what I had given. I said, well, I said, you go back to God's Word and you look through this passage again. But I said, make sure that your concern and that your understanding is based on God's Word, and he would come back a couple times and And he would say something like this, maybe not in these words, but he basically would say, Well, that was the way I was always taught, and the pastor and the church that I was a part of, um He had a really strong influence in my life, and I really appreciated him, and that's the way that he taught it. Now, that may be good or bad. But, folks, if we are basing our understanding of God's word just on what someone else has taught us, and yet we're not actually going to his word and seeing it for ourselves, that's a real problem. In fact, I would say this to you. If you ever came to me and said, I believe this, Pastor Bach, because you taught it, and it makes sense to me, and I'm going to go with it, I would be grieved. Because I don't want you to have an understanding of God's word based solely on what I have said, but I want to encourage you to do your own study of God's word so that you can know the breadth and the length and the height and the depth for yourself. And then the right thing then would be to come back to me and say, Pastor Brock, I understand now. what God wants from me and what his word is saying and you helped lead me there but I get it for myself now because I see it in his word and I would say praise the Lord that's what we want to hear That's what Paul is praying would be the experience for all of us. Put aside your own opinions, preconceptions. Notions and be with a humble heart, be willing to accept the truths of God's Word as He has written them and as the Holy Spirit guides us into what Never be satisfied, folks, with the depth of the knowledge that you have in God's word at this point. in your life, but always desire to go deeper, to have a better understanding, to better understand Christ's love for you, to better understand his sacrifice, to better understand God's sovereignty. And what he's doing. Never be satisfied with less than a deeper, fuller experience of God's word And your relationship with Jesus Christ. That is the goal. That's what Paul's praying for. Father, I do pray that we would never be satisfied Lord, I'm afraid that sometimes we get to a certain point and we think, well, I've I I'm pretty good morally and I have good standards in my life and I'm pretty good following the Ten Commandments. and I'm a leader in a church, so I'm good. I'm comfortable where I am. And we just sit around and wait for Jesus to turn to to return. While we sit on a spiritual couch and eat potato chips. Father, help us to yearn for more than that. Help us to never be satisfied with where we are in our knowledge of you. And our growth of your word, and help us, Lord, to be humble enough to admit that we get far too comfortable far too quickly. That all of us are broken. That all of us have sin struggles. Father, help us to remember that none of us have arrived spiritually and be willing to submit ourselves to more and more in Of who you are and what your word says. And the obedience that you have for our lives. Folks, you contemplate on those things as the piano plays this morning