The message, you know, but um, the children will be dismissed to children's church at this point. But we will be having we will have someone go down uh to get them to see the baptisms because some of the kids are getting baptized after the service and we want their friends to be able to see that as well. So uh again looking forward to this wonderful end to the service today. Well, again, it is Mother's Day. We are so grateful for all of you that serve in that way. God has called you To motherhood and the sacrifices, ladies, that you have made and that have given for your families are just too numerous to be listed. But we're so thankful for you. We're also thankful for another group of ladies. There are those here, possibly, that don't have children living at home or that have never had children and yet they mentor. Other young ladies and other people in the church. We're grateful for those ladies as well. And for just all that they do and sacrifice. We know that mom Moms, that job is certainly not a forty hour a week job. It's twenty-four hours. Well, you get some sleep in there. Yeah, um, hopefully. But it is a monumental task that God has called you ladies to, and we're so grateful for that. So uh we won't do the youngest and the oldest grandmothers and moms, we kind of already know based on you know some things we've already talked about this morning. But we won't put Nora on the spot. But I have been asked, okay, Pastor Brock, it's mother Mother's Day. Um are you going to preach a traditional Mother's Day message? Which I'm not sure what is a traditional Mother's Day message. I guess maybe that's Proverbs 31. possibly or are you going to finish the series that you know you started a number of weeks ago? Interesting way to follow after it being Mother's Talking about narcissism? Well, the answer is yes. We're gonna finish the series, but we're gonna talk about compassion. And we're going to talk about compassion that I expect that all mothers have for their children and care. concern. And so we're going um to note that and point out that compassion And gentle, loving, nurturing care is not something that mothers alone are required or asked to do. Now I hope for you mothers it's not a hard Hard thing. But folks, um, there are many times where the rest were where many of us can lack compassion, and we all have times where we lack that That love and compassion that is clearly the most wonderful part of our relationship with Jesus Christ. And so we really need, I want to I want to want to um encourage you as we finish this series to be Compassionate towards others. And that's something that your mom would want you to do as well. See how this all ties in together. Together. Okay. Well, if you've been with us, we are we are have been on a series talking about a specific personality disorder that is getting a lot of um recognition in our culture today, but we're looking at the traits and applying them and realizing that in many of these disorders there are traits that Really, we all struggle with. It's a common thing. So we're not trying to diagnose, we're finishing up today realizing that we all have these weaknesses. And we need to ask the Lord to help us to be stronger, to be better in these areas where we are weak. Remember, actually only about five percent of the people in this country are ever diagnosed with any So we're not trying to do that this morning, but we are talking about things that many times that we lack. We've talked about the serious sin of envy and jealousy, and how that should not be a part, how destructive that is That is within the relationship of a family or within a ministry. We've talked about being careful not to be manipulative toward those that we love Are closest to us, trying to control by manipulating people. And today we're going to talk about the need for compassion. When it's hard to show compassion, So we need to ask God to work that compassion, that care, that concern in In our hearts for others, when it's hard for us to show that The specific trait of NPD is that these folks have little or no, they'll say, it'll it'll be diagnosed officially as empathy, but I would like to say compassion for others. And their weaknesses or plights. And we need to ask God for compassion when it's hard to empathize with others. Now I use that word empathize, and I don't want to take a long time on this, but it is interesting. Empathy has become kind of a buzzword again in our culture. Well, I don't know if it was before. Um, but there is actually a debate on whether the uh empathy Empathy, whatever you think empathy is, is it a virtue? Or there are actually some pastors and biblical writers that are writing articles. There's one literally entire Entitled The Sin of Empathy. Wow. What I I read it recently. And I read that and I thought, well, there's obviously something similar confusion going on here. to And so I want to be clear. We're not going to get boy, we could talk a long time about all that and why Empathy is getting a bad rap. But it does remind me that I do need to clarify when I use these terms. You see, um empathy used to mean, from my point of view, and historian historically from my memory is that it is different from sympathy. We sympathize with others. We we feel badly when they're going through things and we we let them know that we're praying for them. And we let them know that we have sympathy toward them, but empathy goes a step further and we try to understand where the person is coming from. We try to understand God You've heard this term before, kind of fill their shoes and walk uh in their shoes for a while to really get an idea of why they're going through and why they're troubled by certain things, to better understand. And the and one of the very effective ways that people empathize is when someone has gone through someone has is going through Through something that they have gone through, and God has brought them through that, and they can more than sympathize with now this friend or this acquaintance that is going through. through a very hard time because they've gone through it themselves. They can literally say, I can encourage you and I can offer you Counsel in this, how God brought me through. Maybe it's the death of a loved one, maybe it's a loss of a job, maybe it's a sickness or illness or whatever. I can empathize with you because I've been there myself. I've gone through that experience. Now, I think all of us would agree that's a good thing. We ought to empathize. And one of the uh characters traits of a one that struggles with exalted self-promotion, let's put it that way, is that they really struggle with empathize. And being concerned and compassionate for others. Many times they don't even stop to think there are other people around that need help because they're so busy, exhausted themselves and promoting themselves, they don't even notice the needs around them. And they have a hard time having compassion. Well, why would our culture say that empathy is some uh pastors Now say that it's a sin. Well, just real briefly, just to explain that side of it, is that it does seem this word has been almost politicized. into the type of thing, well if you empathize with someone, you actually need to affirm and agree with their position. And so if you think follow that out, you could see where the problem would come for Christians, where we are deaf - we are opposed to different things morally, or even let's just say someone who has rejected Jesus Jesus Christ as their Savior, for us to say, well, I affirm Christ and I agree with your position , that that is not possible. for a Christian to say, or something that we're morally against that God's word speaks clearly about, and yet we are supposed to say, I affirm your difference from me, you see where that's a problem. And if that's where people are if that's what people are referring to as empathy, then I understand. That's not the empathy that that we want to show because God calls us to be light and salt in this world. So we can't affirm every position and make everybody happy in that. There's the difference. So that is the two options In our culture today, but I want to focus again really on just compassion for people. Hebrews four fourteen through sixteen. Turn there with me. We're gonna go quickly through some verses this morning. And actually we find this word sympathize But if you'll note with me in context, we're really talking about empathy. And here we have this beautiful passage. Again, I wish I could spend more time on all these passages, but we need to move This beautiful passage about Jesus is a is our high priest, that He has accomplished everything that we have to do. We need for salvation, for uh for cleansing of sin, to have reconciliation with the Father. Jesus accomplished everything by offering himself as the spotless lamb. He was the high priest that offered up himself as the lamb. That's an interesting picture, isn't it? And his sacrifice as the spotless lamb of God and his shed blood Provided for our sin and provided redemption from our condemnation that we deserved as a result of our sin Jesus became one of us and was willing to die for us that he could provide mercy, showing mercy and providing grace to help us Even as we hear testimonies today of people that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, Jesus accomplished everything that we need. In order to be declared righteous, He dealt with our sins. We can have our sins cleansed. We don't have to face condemnation in hell for all eternity in the lake of fire. But we can face a glorious eternal life future with God forever through the work of our great high priest, Jesus Christ. And we simply need to come to him in faith. And you're going to hear a lot of testimonies about that in just a few minutes. And they'll be a blessing to you. But let's read first 14. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to Sympathize with our weaknesses. But everyone who in every respect has been tempted as we are. Does that sound like someone who has walked in our shoes? Yeah. Does that sound like someone, God, who actually became human, a hundred percent man, and so he knows our frailty, he knows our weakness He is able to sympathize, yes, empathize with us in a way, folks, that no one else can. But note, it still says, yet without sin. He never sinned in order to empathize with us. And so he is the one that can show us true command. Compassion, so that we can with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time Yes, folks, if other people are not showing you compassion and empathy and sympathy in the midst of your great need, Remember, there is one who can and will when you come to him. And he can offer empathy and sympathy in a whole lot better way, in a whole more effective way. Than any of the rest of us can. However, that doesn't let us as the church off the hook Because, folks, as we grow in our relationship with Jesus Christ, we're supposed to be growing in our reflection and character of Jesus. And so we don't have the option of just sitting back and judging and being cynical. Being and and almost condemning others without showing any compassion. We don't have the option of ignoring people in this congregation. In our community, because we're so focused on our own promotion. No, as a loving mother notices when her children are hurt, When they're frightened, when they're afraid. So we must also have that same sense of noticing and caring. Let's look at another passage. In case you doubt me, 2 Corinthians 1, 3 through 5. Turn there. 2 Corinthians 1, 3 through 5. And then hold your place there because after that we're going to go to 1 Corinthians. That's convenient, isn't it? 2 Corinthians 1, 3 through 5. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort. Who comforts us in all our affliction. There again, the Apostle Paul gives us this beautiful reminder, folks, that God is the God of all comfort. That if you if you need like a child to run to someone who will sympathize and care and show you concern and love, you those of you that have relationship with Jesus Christ that have put your faith and trust in him, folks, you have a loving heavenly Father that's always ready to give you comfort. If I could be this familiar, to give you a hug, to give you an embrace, to let you know that things are gonna be okay. Maybe things aren't going to go the way that you expected they are. But folks, remember that when we have relationship with Jesus, our eternity is so Secured. We know that even death can't keep us from being with our Heavenly Father for forever. So even if we're facing death, we can run to the Father and He can console us. And as we're slipping away from this temporary time in this earth, we are embraced forever by our Heavenly Father. Oh, the joys! And the confidence that that gives. But there's a responsibility for the church. Paul says, no, God gives you this comfort, but you need to do something something with it, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. For as we share abundantly in Christ's suffering So through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too, in any affliction, in any difficulty. In any struggle with sin. Folks, people ought to be able to come to the church and find comfort. Because we've been comforted by our Heavenly Father. There's no excuse. There's no excuse for being among God's people. And rarely ever noticing their needs. It's a travesty. We have been comforted. In all ways by our Heavenly Father. And so we must be willing to sympathize, empathize, and give Give comfort to others. You don't have to turn there. 1 Corinthians 12, verse 26 reminds us though, if one member suffers, you know. Remember this verse? All suffer together. If one member is honored, all rejoice together. Boy, that's an interesting sentence within our study. Recently. But let's focus on if one person, if a member, if a part of the church body is suffering, that means that we notice. That we're not so busy trying to be the most important person within the ministry, or within our family, or within our career, that we're that we fail to notice. Folks, I I believe that we When we fail to notice others that are suffering, we are in sin. Oh, we we can't we can't help every single person. That is struggling and suffering. We just don't have enough time for that. We're only one person. God is the God of all comfort. But we don't have Any excuse then to say, well, I'm just too busy to notice. No. If one suffers, we all suffer. On the other side of it, interesting when we're talking about the tendency Of this struggle of narcissism, if one member is honored, all rejoice together. We rejoice when someone besides ourselves is honored. We don't get angry and how dare they honor that person. How dare they show recognition toward that. Don't they know how important I am? No, that's ugly. We don't do that. One person is honored, we all rejoice. Praise God! And we're rejoicing because God has chosen to use them. We, in a sense, honored the Meltons a few minutes ago, rejoicing in what God's doing in their ministry in Japan. We do that with many missionaries and many servants, but we're not worshiping the individual, but we're rejoicing that God is using them. And we ought to also All rejoice then when we're honored in this way. Folks, when we have these baptism testimonies, we ought to be ready to rejoice in what God has done. One other here, Mark ten, seventeen through twenty-two. I am gonna ask you To turn there. Mark 10, verses 17 through 22. And here is a man who seemed to be excited about the possibility of following Jesus. And at the same time, he understood that only Jesus could provide eternal life Verse 17, and as he was setting out on a journey, that's Jesus, a man ran up and knelt before him and asked him, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit. Do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother. And he said to him, Teacher, all these things I have kept for my youth. And Jesus Jesus looking at him loved him. That's remarkable. Note that. Jesus loved him because note the response of this young man. Jesus said to him, You lack one thing, go sell all that you have and give to the poor. And the man realized what Jesus was calling him to do and could not do it. And he was disheartened by the saying, And he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. He was not willing to give up his possessions to follow Jesus. But here's the thing I want to point out, folks. Jesus knew this man would reject him. And what does it say? He loved him. Wow. So one that Jesus knew, what greater sin is there than to reject the Messiah, Jesus Christ? And that man, unless he had a change of heart, he entered into eternal punishment once his life was over. He rejected the opportunity. And yet Jesus loved him. Let me ask you this, folks. Let's get right to the heart of things as we finish up this morning. You may look around in the church today and you may have concerns. Concerns about the sins of others, concerns about things that are going on that you're aware of. But folks, this is something that I've decided I'm going to ask a little more often. When people come to me, I'm going to ask them straight up, like Jesus did, uh expressed here. Okay, they may be guilty of these things But do you love them? Do you care about them? Or are you just trying to be a snitch? Are you just trying to be someone who just wants justice? But do you love them? And then remember in Matthew 18, verses 32 through 33, remember the servant that was forgiven of so much. Remember him. him more than he could ever pay by the king. The king uh repent uh or repaid not repaid but forgave him of everything and then he went to someone That servant who owed much less and forced him and threw him into prison asked and re and pressed upon him that he had had to pay him back a debt that was much less. And the master said, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should you have not had mercy on that fellow servant as I had mercy on you? You see, folks, many times in the church we lack compassion for those that are struggling with sin. Because we've forgotten how filthy each of us were in our own sin rags at one point. And therefore, we lack compassion and concern. See, I'm convinced we all have a little legalist inside of us. I'm not trying to um Or uh you know, trying to um just unneedlessly upset anyone here. But we all have things that we're willing to let slide, and when we see others making a big deal about it, we say, Well, hey, that's kind of legalistic, that's kind of self-righteous. Um, why are you acting that way? You should be more acceptable. But each of us has things in our lives where we're not as willing to be caring and compassionate and gentle. We all have things in things that we look at in people's lives and say, well, I'm willing to give you know weight um way for this, but you know, they've committed this sin or whatever, and there's just, I I just don't have time. I just don't have any compassion Or care for them. And that's not what we see in the example of Jesus Christ So as we finish up this morning, folks, I call for you. I'm not expecting that anybody in this room can Could be diagnosed with MPD , narcissistic personality disorder. But I think we would agree that all of us have tendency Tendencies to struggle in these traits that we've gone through, that we've gone through the past few weeks. So let me just give you here at the end just some general applications for consideration Real quick. Okay? I'm not diagnosing anybody here as a narcissist, but I think these are things that all of us could do a little better as we think through these traits that we we've gone through. Just a little advice from your pastor. And I think your mother would agree with me too. How about this? Wait for God to honor your service rather than seeking attention for yourself. Isn't that the better way? Instead of trying to self-promote within ministry and seeking attention for yourself, let God handle all that. Let him handle, let him honor you you in your time and then be satisfied if you never get honored. And other people that you think are lesser do. How about this? Another one. Don't double down on lies to win the argument. Young people, sometimes you can be so frustrated with your parents. That you're willing to commit to deception and a lie in order just so that they won't, so you don't want to hear the words, I told you so. Now, I'm not saying that they should say I told you so. so but you know your parents are right and you don't want to hear it so we double down on the lies many times. As spouses we can be tempted to double down on Lies. That's not true. Well, it may be true, but I'm not about to admit that to her or to him. No, stop the deception and stop Stubbornness. Admit when you're being deceptive. Stop trying to win the argument. Be sincere and honest. Stop trying to Another one, don't use manipulative tactics to affect change in others. Are you such a a are you so concerned about controlling your relationships that you'll literally bring up kind of cheap shots? about how so-and-so, you know, um you would be a good parent if you just stopped doing this one thing that actually really But you would be a good parent if you would stop this, even though all these other things you are God is using God is helping you to grow in these things, or maybe you have uh you you you use your children to manipulate your spouse or by that somehow um you you are a bad person because you're not doing this. I mean we know there's foul there's so many Manipulative techniques, folks, that we use to try to control others. We need to let go of all of that. Let God do the work in heart Hearts, let him convict. Know that, even as we've seen in our study in Ecclesiastes this morning, the God of Is in control of everything. And you're not. You're deceiving yourself if you think you can control anything and can control the people around you. So point them to Christ, encourage them to grow in their faith, but stop trying to control the people around you And finally, remember God has grace for victory over all of these tendencies. And if you've recognized any of these tendencies, These traits in your life, you can deal with them through humbling yourself and asking God to help you to stop be so controlled And manipulative and have compassion. Help me to care, Lord, for other people. We need to be aware of these traits and these self-serving tendencies. In order to let the Holy Spirit change us and we can experience victory through the Holy Spirit's work within us. And so, folks, we just need to repent Of our lack of love and lack of concern over deceptive and controlling tactics in our lives That humility will go a long way toward victory in these, if we are struggling with these traits. And I dare to say that all of us that we're finding that all of us struggle with one or more of these traits. God can give us victory. If we seek him , the power of Christ for change. I'm going to ask you to bow your heads and close your eyes. I have a couple more Things to say. Leslie's then gonna play the piano. I'm gonna have Dr. Mike Erickson after that come and finish us up with a prayer, and Tim's gonna come and lead us in a song so that uh those of us that are getting ready for the baptism Service can go now. And uh I will say if there's anyone, just uh if you could just leave the the bathrooms available for a few minutes for the baptismal candidates that need to change Real quick, okay? And I'm gonna change over here and then we'll get ready for the service. But you take a few minutes now and reflect on all that we've heard. About the biblical data of how to have victory over these controlling self-consuming traits that we've Talked about. Take it to the Lord. Father, help us. Give us conviction As we've seen perhaps many of these traits in our lives. Give us victory. Help us to stop being so self-absorbed. Help us to stop be so controlling Manipulative, deceptive. Help us to have compassion for other people as Jesus empathizes. Folks, you think of these things and check your own heart as the piano plays this morning.