They saw what we just say there in that verse, they saw him high and lifted up. Isaiah, Jeremiah saw that. And what was their immediate response? To bow the knee and worship. Well, I hope that you've come in your big ass today. And we have another opportunity now to worship as we hear God's word preached And I am personally very excited to hear our speaker this morning. He's one that has grown up here in this church. uh Mike and the man 's son Andrew. And I also had the privilege when we first came here to be Andrew's youth pastor, I think, for the last year of his time in youth group Sometimes in Sunday school, Sunday morning, it would just be him and I. We would meet in my office and we would go through some things together and finally I just said, Andrew, why don't you just pick up a book of the Bible and we'll just study it together You got a favorite book, and I believe it was First Timothy that you gave, and he said, This is my favorite book. I thought this is great. God's calling and leadership in the church. And so we just work through that book together. and to have the Lord call him through a process, let's see a full-time ministry. I also remember the day he came in and told me that he'd met this wonderful young lady and told me about a girl named Veronica. They're now married. One of their kids is not feeling well today, so Veronica had to stay home. But uh just so grateful, so thankful for how God has worked in Andrew's life. And so he's gonna come up now and share God's word with us. Good morning up across roads. It is a privilege and honor to be here with you this morning and to open up God's word together. Thank you, Pastor Brock, for the invitation. Um I it's uh so many of my memories grow up as he shared are in this building just many of you, and so it really is a privilege to open God's word together So let's not delay in moving to God's Word. If you would, if you have a Bible or maybe your phone or whatever it is that you would like to use to get your eyes on God's Word, would you meet me this morning in 1 Samuel chapter 23? We're going to be in. 1 Samuel 23. And uh while you're joining us, why don't I bring you greetings from Harvest Bible Chapel in Atlas, where I have the privilege of serving as an associate pastor? Uh we've prayed for you guys this morning, uh this week in our staff meeting and in our elders meeting on Friday morning. I hope, not because I was going to be here with you, but praying for you, Lindsay. I don't know if you get that later if you haven't gotten it already. But let's let it in that as we go into God's Word together. Let's let's pause and pray for our time together in 1 Samuel 23 Uh Father, it is good to be here this morning. It is a privilege to open up your word. We do believe that every single word of Scripture is inerrant and inspired by your Holy Spirit. It is profitable for our doctrine, for reproof, for our Trinity and righteousness. And so that we do ask now as we come to 1 Samuel 23 that you would be present and moving among us to challenge us and to encourage us to equip us, but ultimately to make us look more like our Savior Jesus Christ, your Son. It's in his precious name that we pray this morning. Amen. Well the accidental philosopher slash professional boxer Mike Tyson uh once said, Everyone has a plan until you get punched in the mouth. Found that to be true in your life. You had it all planned out, you knew how the things were gonna unfold, you had big plans up ahead, but then life happened. Maybe it was a medical diagnosis that disrupted your plans for the future. Maybe it was a coworker's lack of integrity that threw your plans for your career off track. Maybe it was the habitual sin of somebody close to you that derailed your hopes and dreams for all the happiness that you thought lie ahead. But for whatever reason, life happened. And at some point, metaphorically speaking, you got punched in the mouth Whether you like it or not, now you find yourself in the trenches of what can only be described of a physical, maybe, maybe a spiritual, maybe an emotional battlefield, and you're left wondering Now what? Because everyone has a plan until you get punched in the mouth, right? So often when we find ourselves living in the trenches of life, whether it's at church or at home or at work or in our communities, we take on a completely reactionary posture. We feel like we've been pushed off balance to the point where all we can do is live moment by moment and take the hits as they come and just do our best to keep our heads above water. We don't think there's any way that we could ever just survive. That's our hope. And we we certainly don't think there's any way that we would ever thrive again. That's out of our minds. King David could relate to that. In fact, he knew that feeling well. He was the man that God had chosen to be the next king of Israel, but at the same time he was also a man living on the run from the current reigning king of Israel. slashed his father-in-law, slash his best friend's dad, slash his former employer, so to speak But David knew what it was like to be pushed into the trenches, but he did not let the trenches of life dictate how he faced life Those of you who find yourself living in the trenches of life this morning, I want to submit to you that Scripture offers a better way forward than simply resigning yourself to living a purely reactionary lifestyle. Let's be real. You will not find a detailed blueprint in the back of your Bibles back after the maps of how to work your way out of whatever current situation you're currently facing But what if there were some guiding principles in Scripture that we could determine ahead of time to live by so that regardless of your circumstances, whatever you find yourself facing this morning, when you find yourself living in the trenches You'll be able to navigate life as a faithful follower of Jesus Christ. Well that's called wisdom. God's word is full of it, and that's what we are called to as God's people to live by. And so let's look for some wisdom for the trenches this morning. in 1 Samuel 23. And as we look there, we're going to see four guiding principles, four determinations that we can make ahead of time, if you will, to walk in the way of wisdom, regardless of what you're facing. So let's take a look first. The way of wisdom in 1 Samuel 23 says, I will do the right thing, even when it's not my responsibility. But I will do the right thing even when it's not my responsibility. If you have your Bibles open to 1 Samuel 23, would you look with me at the first five verses of that chapter? So here's what God's word says. Now they told David, behold, the Philistines are fighting against Heilah and are robbing the threshing floors. Therefore David inquired of the Lord, shall I go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go and attack the Philistines. And save Kiva. But David's men said to him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we go to Kiva against the armies of the Philistines? Then David inquired of the Lord again, and the Lord answered him, said, Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hand David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines and brought away their livestock and struck them with a great blow. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah. My passion picks up this morning with David on the run, just as he has been all throughout a bunch of 1 Samuel, and just as he will be for quite some time. But really in these first five verses, David is not the focal point of these first five verses. Right away, what the author is doing is he's drawing our attention to what's going on about four miles away from where David is in a little town called Keilah. Akilah was on the western edge, right next to Judah, right next to the Philistine border, and because of its location, Achilah was pretty isolated from the rest of God's people. That left it vulnerable to attacks. And not only was it vulnerable to these attacks, it was actually a pretty attractive target for everyone around them, because it was in a very agriculturally rich environment. In other words, the Philistines, the bullies next door, if you will, saw Keilah as a great opportunity to swoop in during the middle of harvesting season to bolster their food supply without having to do any of the hard work themselves. That's exactly what happened here. It's harvesting season in Keilah and the the Philistines have swept in not just to steal uh the Israelites' lunch money, but but to steal their lunch itself and probably worse Sometimes what scripture doesn't say in a particular situation says just as much as what it does say, and I think this is one of those times. So this is time for a pop quiz. I've already seen one of my former teachers here this morning. They uh they used to give us top quizzes. So I thought this morning would be a great opportunity to return the favor. There may be more than one. So this is the audience participation part of this sermon. So quick quiz. You can answer out loud. First question, number one Who is the current reigning king of Israel at this point? Saul. Good job. One for three. There's only three questions on this. Okay, so as the reigning king of Israel at this time Whose responsibility should it have been when God's people came under attack to do everything he could to defend them? Saul, two for two, great job. Final question We're already there running a passing grade here. Last question. Who's missing from these first five verses? Saul. But David's not missing. See, Saul shouldn't have been the one rushing in to protect his people from the Philistines, but he's missing an action. It's hard for me to imagine that as the king of Israel, he wasn't well aware of what was going on as his people were being attacked, but but he's too preoccupied with other things right now. Namely, he's preoccupied with killing David and preserving his own throne. But David, on the other hand, David heard about a people in need and decided to do the right thing, even when it wasn't his responsibility. Just think think about this for a second. When David heard that Tela was under attack, how easy would it have been for him to just barely look up from scrolling through whatever he was looking at on his phone and say, you know what? Last time I checked, I'm not the king of Israel yet. Like this is not my problem. I don't I don't feel any bit of responsibility here. I've got enough problems of my own right now running from Saul. So so I I'm not really interested in what's going on in the middle of nowhere. It would have been really easy for him to say that. But that's not what he did. When David heard what was happening, even though it wasn't technically his responsibility to do anything, he got on his knees He said, God, what do you want me to do? If you want me to go and get involved, I'll go and get involved. If you want me to stay here and not get involved, then I'll stay here and not get involved But I'm I'm here to serve you, Lord, so whatever you want And God said, yes, go. Get involved. Help them. But notice not all of David's men are on the same page with this. They kind of call sign out here and say, hold on, David, let's let's talk about this for a second Just in case you've forgotten, we're not a bunch of Navy SEALs. And let's break this down, David. We're scared of Saul's men, and Saul's men are the Philistines, so let's let's not get too ambitious here. But again. David was determined to do the right thing, even when it wasn't his responsibility, and even when it came with great personal risk and potential cost. So we went back to confirm this again with the Lord, and the Lord said, Yes, go, I've got this, I'm with you. And then David and his men went and fought the Philistines and saved Hewah. So listen, whether it's here at church or in your office at work or at home with your family, how often do you excuse yourself from doing the right thing by telling yourself it's not your responsibility? How often do you see a need to be met or a wrong to be righted or a soul to be comforted or a sin to be stopped? But then do you excuse yourself from taking action by saying something along the lines of, well, I'm not in charge around here. It 's certainly not my responsibility. Or you know, I'm I'm not a spiritual leader. I'm going to leave this one to the experts Or how about this one? I'm already living in the trenches. I've already got my own things going on. I don't have time or the energy or the resources to get involved with someone else's mess. Or maybe worst of all, you know what? I'm just not so sure that I care. They got themselves in that mess, they can get themselves out of that mess, not my problem. But friends, the way of the wisdom says, I will do the right thing even when it's not my responsibility. That's what we're called to. Not only is this the way of wisdom, it's the way of Jesus. See, our sin was not Jesus' problem. It was not his responsibility. But because he loves us, he made it his responsibility. He chose to step in. That's the gospel. That Jesus Christ, the very Son of God, temporarily set aside his glory in heaven and came to this earth to live a perfect sinless life that we could never live, and then went to the cross to die the death that we deserved. And then he was buried and rose from the dead three days later to make eternal life. reconciled to God available to us if we would repent or turn from our sins and place our hope, our trust, our faith in Him alone for salvation. If you happen to be here this morning and you've never done that and you don't have a personal relationship with Jesus, I would plead with you to do that this morning. Talk to somebody in this room who would love to talk with you about Jesus Christ, but run to Jesus and be saved. But friends, we are called to do the right thing even when it's not our responsibility. The way of wisdom is the way of Jesus. That's why We're commanded in Philippians 2, 5 through 8 to have this mind among yourselves. In other words, think like this Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking on the form of a servant Being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. In other words, he did the right thing, even when it wasn't his responsibility. He saw our need and stepped in when he could have just stepped back in heaven and left us alone, left us to our own demise, then we are called to do the same for others. We're called to step in. His friends, the way of wisdom says I will do the right thing even when it's not my responsibility. Second, the way of wisdom also says, I will submit to God's word even when I don't like what it says It says, I will submit to God's word even when I don't like what it says. If you would, uh, look back with me at 1 Samuel 23 and verses 6 through 14. The passage goes on and says this When Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, had fled to David techilah, he had come down with an ephod in his hands Not was told Saul that David had come to Keilah, and Saul said, God has given him into my hand, for he has shut himself in by entering a town that has gates and bars. And Saul summoned all the people to war to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men. David knew that Saul was plotting harm against him, and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the Esau here. And David said, O Lord the God of Israel, your servant has surely heard that Saul seeks to come to Keilah to destroy the city on my account. Will the men of Tila surrender me into his hand? Will Saul come down as your servant has heard? O Lord, the God of Israel, please tell your servants The Lord said, he will come down. Then David said, Well, the men of Kila surrender me and my men into the hand of Saul. The Lord said, they will surrender you. Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed from Kila, and they went wherever they could go. When Saul was told that David had escaped from Heilah, he gave up the expedition. And David remained in the strongholds in the wilderness in the hill country of the wilderness of Zip, and Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hands. Okay, if you read through the book of 1 Samuel, it's it's not really breaking news at this point that that Saul is trying to kill David That's been going on for a while now, and because it happened over 3,000 years ago and over 6,000 miles away from here, it's really easy for us to skim over what should be really shocking to us. And distance ourselves from the heartbreak of the situation. Remember, these are real people facing real life. And we look through Scriptures window into uh their real emotions, their real situations, and their real motivations. What we find is that that we're not all that different from these people So we're not all different from though, especially when we refuse to submit every area of our lives to the authority of God's Word. See in those three verses we just read, Saul and David's relationship to God's Word is held up next to each other side by side. So we can compare them. To sum up their relationships to God's Word, one of them looks at God's word and says, You know, I I know what you've said, but I'm going to do what I want to do. The other one says, I've heard what you said, and I'm going to do what you want me to do. And think how you want me to think. Let's take a look. First, let's look at Saul and how he relates to God's word. Throughout the book of 1 Samuel Saul has always had a difficult relationship with submitting himself to the authority of God's word. All the way back in chapter 13 Saul directly disobeyed what God had said about giving sacrifices because he thought it would be more convenient for him to do it himself instead of waiting for Samuel to get there Then in chapter 15, Saul directly disobeyed what God had clearly said about eliminating the Amalekites because he thought it would be uh it would be okay and even more advantageous for him to keep some of the spoils of victory for himself. And in both cases, Saul refused to submit himself to what God had clearly spoken. So God then spoke again and said, Saul, I'm done with you. That's it. The throne is no longer yours. You are no longer the rightful king of Israel. I'm removing my hand from your life and I'm going to place it on the life of another man, a man after my own heart. But of course Saul's not going to willingly submit to that either, and we haven't even mentioned something as as clear as thou shalt not kill. Saul would have known that, but he clearly does not care about that either. So here we are back in chapter 23. Sometime someone tells Saul that David's in Kila and look at David, Saul's response to that piece of information in verse 7. He literally says, Well God's given it into my hand. But he's trapped. God's given him to me. In other words, instead of Saul submitting himself to God's word even when he didn't like what it says, and saying something along the lines of, look, I know I really still want to be king. But God has spoken and I I'm going to submit to it and and I'm going to and I know that for me to continue down this path would be sin, so I'm just not going to go there. Instead of saying that, Saul literally says, what a blessing Do you see how God's working here? Praise the Lord. He's given me an opportunity to kill my enemy. He's given David into my hands. This is a total God thing. I can feel it. Friends, those are scary words. See, so often we try to justify our desires to sin by speaking on behalf of God, the opposite of what He Himself has already spoken very clearly. We should say that again. So often we we try to justify our desires for sin by speaking on behalf of God the very opposite of the things that He Himself has already clearly spoken. So here's what that looks like. Maybe you haven't taken any step towards it, but you've considered at some point maybe actively pursuing a what would be an inappropriate relationship. outside of the bounds of one man and one woman for a lifetime and and you instead of saying God has spoken and I will submit what you say is well God brought us together you wouldn't want us to be unhappy would you Or you sit down at the end of a long day where you're tired and and stressed about putting something on TV or pull something on your phone that that you know would be uh inappropriate or or or wrong and you know you are called to Scarve those appetites instead of feeding them and instead of saying, God has spoken and I will submit, you say, I've got this under control. I'm fine. I've earned this has been a hard week. Friends, that kind of thinking leads straight to sin and suffering. But that's how it's all related to God's Word He said, God, I know what you've said, but I'm going to do what I want to do. In other words, though, David, on the other hand, said, God, I know what you've said, and I'm going to do what you want me to do. See, when David heard that Saul was coming to get him, David David round up his men and say, Alright, boys, this is our chance. when he hears that Saul is coming, is get on his knees and go to the Lord in prayer using what is called the ephod, which is what the priests would use to discern the will of the Lord and and so it's how God would speak to his people during that time. And so David uses that and Then ask the Lord if Saul's coming to get him. The Lord says yes. So then David asks, Well, are people in Keila going to hand me over to Saul? Again, the Lord says yes. And then David and his men find themselves on the run again. They are pushed to flee back into the uncomfortable, unpleasant wilderness, listen for sure when it's not what they would have wanted. It's not what they would have been looking for, but that's what's happening here. And so you have to ask yourself why The reason is because pay attention to how David approaches God in his word. Everything, every time that David speaks to the Lord, he here he refers to himself as a servant. Verse 10 says, Oh Lord God, your servant has heard. Verse 11 says, But will Saul come down as your servant has heard? Please, God, tell your servants. See, there's only two postures you can take in your relationship to God's Word, the posture of a servant or the posture of one who demands to be served. The posture of a servant holds God's word up here and says, God has spoken, but the posture of one who demands to be served holds God's word down here below them and says, I have spoken. The one who chooses the way of wisdom and the trenches of life is the one who takes on the posture of a servant and says, I will submit to God's word even when I don't like what it says. Moving on number three this morning, the way of wisdom. I will live in biblical community even when I find it inconvenient. But I will live in biblical community even when I find it inconvenient. Look back with me at 1 Samuel 23. We see an incredible example of biblical community in verses 15 through 18. So look there. This David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Zith at Horush. And Jonathan, Saul's son, rose and went to David at Orich and strengthened his hand in God. And he said to him, Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul my father also knows this The two of them made a covenant before the Lord. David remained at Korash and Jonathan went home. Again, we know that David's been on the run at this point in his life, but let me just point out that in these four verses specifically, like David's on the run again. As in he isn't where he was just a few verses ago. So let's just put yourself in his shoes for a minute You've been pushed into the trenches when you've been called to the throne. You're in the wilderness scrounging for food, hoping for shelter, and honestly probably just clinging to life. How would you feel if you're in David's shoes at this point? Lonely? Discouraged? Anxious? Maybe questioning every decision you've ever made in life? Probably I know I would. Whether you're an introvert or an extrovert, God never designed you to face life in the trenches alone. What we see in these four verses is really an incredible picture of the blessing of biblical community in the trenches of life. So I wants to look here at David and Jonathan's relationship in this particular moment of their lives and see three realities about encouragement. First, encouragement is needed universally. It's needed universally. See in our culture, most of us are determined to never admit weakness, never and never let anyone know that you're struggling. Just keep it inside, survive your way through, just power through on your own. Not only is that unhealthy, it's unbiblical, we all need encouragement at times, even David Clearly David's afraid at least here because when Jonathan shows up, he says, do not fear. And why would Jonathan travel all that way to lead with do not fear if David wasn't afraid? Listen, even the manliest of men, the strongest of saints, and the most courageous of God's people will find themselves in need of encouragement at some point in their lives. One of my absolute heroes in life and ministry was the nineteenth century London pastor Charles Adams Burgeon. Known as the Prince of the Prince of Preachers, and it's not an exaggeration at all to say that he is probably one of the greatest pastors and preachers that the world has ever known, but even he was well acquainted with depression or what he called the dark night of the soul. Tragedy struck his church when someone who resented the growth of his ministry started yelling fire in a crowded uh church service of about 10,000 people, causing a stampede and causing several people to be trampled to their death And that sent Spirit into a a depression that was so deep that it he really battled it for the rest of his life. But what I think is one of the most impactful and important things he ever wrote He allowed himself to be vulnerable and talked about the depths of his depression and the need for encouragement in a chapter in a book that he wrote called Lectures to My Students. And that chapter is called The Minister 's Fainting Fits. All that to say, everyone needs encouragement. Even Spurgeon, even David, even you It is okay to not be okay. So let your guard down and let others into your life to encourage you. Ask for help. Share your struggles. Second, encouragement requires intentionality. Now some people, maybe it's you, I don't know, some people are naturally wired at encouragers, others have to work at it. But for all of us, if we want to be effective, successful encouragers in the body of Christ, it's going to require intentionality. I don't know if Jonathan was naturally wired or as an encouragement or if he's one people that had to work at it, but we can see right here in the text that he was being very intentional when his friends needed encouragement. Just think of how intentional he had to be here, how inconvenient it would have been for Jonathan to go encourage David. He would have had to sneak away from his father's men and travel out to the wilderness and in as if where there were no Marriottes, no Airbnbs. Like this is a big trip. It would have required planning and packing, and it would have come with plenty of risk for both Jonathan and David. In other words, it would have required intentionality. So what if we shared just a fraction of that kind of intentionality when it came to encouraging others? Like nobody's ever died from from over encouragement and we're lacking in it. So what kind of a difference could it make in the lives of others if every single day, every single one of us made it our goal to encourage someone else? Now the goodness for most of us is that will not require a journey out into the wilderness for a simple conversation like it did for Jonathan. But it might mean putting a reminder in your the calendar on your phone for maybe a particular time of day or uh a particular day in the week and then you the when that reminder comes up you scroll through your contacts in your phone and then Just say send an encouraging text to let somebody know that what what what they're uh what they're if you're praying for them That might mean you keep the post office afloat by buying a bunch of stamps and then writing some handwritten notes to tell people how much they mean to you. It might mean pulling somebody aside after church to encourage them and tell them how you see God working in their lives In time of crisis, it might actually mean getting on a plane or getting in a car to drive or fly to where your friend is to weep with them Listen, all of those might means require different levels of sacrifice, but all of them require intentionality. So encouragement is needed universally, it requires intentionality of third, encouragement points vertically. Points vertically. When most of us think of encouragement, we we think of a pet talk and a pat on the back to say, you can do it I I believe in you, you've got this, but that's not the type of encouragement that we really ever see in Scripture. That kind of encouragement might work on the little league field, but when you find someone deep in the trenches of despair, you're going to need a much deeper source of encouragement. That's why if you look at verse 16, it says that when Jonathan got there, it says he rose and went to David at Horash, and what? He strengthened his hand, not in himself, this is not a pepclock, but he strengthened his hand in God. This is more than just positive thinking. And here's the difference. The horizontal encouragement, the you can do it mentality, might push someone in a particular direction. It might influence them a bit, but vertical encouragement will lift their eyes to the Lord and give them hope. And that's what they need when they're down in the trenches to look up To have hope, to remember God's faithfulness, and that's what Jonathan does here. He strengthens David's hand in God. He encourages him vertically. How? By pointing him back to God's promises By pointing him back to the reality of what God has already said about this entire situation. In verse 17, he says, Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel. That's not wishful thinking. That's not saying you can do this. You're going to survive. I believe in you. That's God's promise, what God has already said William Carey, known as the father of modern missions, in the late 1700s, during the early years of his time as a missionary to India, he contracted malaria. Shortly after that, his five-year-old son Peter died of dysentery. He and his family were fifteen thousand miles from home, surrounded by millions of unbelievers, and the pressure of everything that they were facing got so bad that his wife's mental health heard deteriorating to the point where she became delusional. She accused William Carey of of committing adultery, and then she started threatening him with a knife one day. Like he for sure needed some encouragement So on October 4th, 1794, he received a letter from a pastor friend of his named Samuel Pierce, who knew how to strengthen his hand in the Lord. I just want to read that portion of that letter for you. Fritz Samuel Pierce said to encourage William Carrett, he said, brother, I long to stand by your side and participate in all the vicissitudes of the attack. An attack which nothing but cowardice can make unsuccessful Yes, the captain of our salvation marches at our head. Sometimes he may withdraw his presence, but never his power, to try our prowess with our spiritual arms and celestial armor. Oh, what cannot a lively faith do for the Christian soldier? It will bring the deliverer from the skies. It will array him as with a vesture dipped in blood. It will place him in the front of the battle and put a new song in his mouth. The song being, These made war with the Lamb, but the Lamb shall overcome them. Yes, he shall. The victory is sure before we enter the field. The crown is already prepared to adorn our brows, even that crown of glory which fadeth not away. And already we have resolved what to do with it. We will lay it at the conqueror's feet and say, Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to thy name give glory, while all heaven unites in the course, seeming worthy is the Lamb. That's vertical encouragement. You see how saturated the promises of God that letter is? Do you see how vertical it is? That's biblical encouragement in the arena of biblical community. And maybe you say, well, I'm I'm not that gifted with words, I'm not that well acquainted with my Bible. I could never do something like that. So here's what you do. You start yourself with encouragement toolbox. Get a notebook or a journal and as you read your Bible and come across encouraging, comforting verses, write them down. Put them in your toolbox so that when someone needs them, you can pull them out and give it to them. Again, that will require intentionality. Remember, the way of wisdom says I will live in biblical community even when I find it inconvenient. Fourth very quickly this morning, the way of wisdom says this. It says, I will press on in faith, even when it seems like a retreat. But I will press on in faith even when it seems like a retreat. One last time this morning, would you look back with me at 1 Samuel 23, verses 19 through the end of the chapter? Says this, then the Ziphites went up to Saul at Gideah, saying, Is not David hiding among us in the stronghold of Horetch on the hill of Hakilah, which is south of the Jeshemon? Now come down, O king, according to all your heart's desires to come down. And our part shall be to surrender him into the king's hands. And Saul said to me, May you be blessed by the Lord, for you had compassion on me Go make yet more shore. No one see the place where his foot is, and who has seen him there, for he has told me that he is very cunning. See therefore, take note of all the lurking places where he hides, and come back to me with sure information. Then I will go with you, and if he is in the land, I will search him out among the thousands of Judah. And they arose and went to Zith ahead of Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of Mayan and the Abrabah in the south of the Jehuman, and Saul and his men went to seek him. And David was told, so he went down to the rock and lived in the wilderness of Maeon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maun. Saul went on one side of the mountain and David and his men on the other side of the mountain. David was hurrying to get away from Saul. Saul and his men were closing in on David and his men to capture them. A messenger came to Saul saying, Hurry and come, for the Philistines have made a raid against the land. So Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. Therefore, that place was called the Rock of Escape. And David went up from there and lived in the stronghold of Vinyedin So Saul is continuing to close in on David. Apparently he has eyes everywhere because now he's conspiring with the locals to capture David. And David's in the wilderness of Zip, and the Ziphites have told Saul that he's there. Obviously that piece of information would have excited us all, but at the same time he knows that as the old song says, wise men say only fools rush in. So instead of just running right in, he asks the zipites for three more pieces of information. Saul wants to know where David usually goes. He wants to know who he's been hanging around with and where he normally hides. Long story short. Saul and David start playing a game of cat and mouse until verse 26 where they find themselves on the same mountain at the same time and Saul tells his men to split up and go around opposite directions around the mountain and they get way too close for comfort. But in a piece of providential timing, the Philistines invade Israel and that fools saw his men away and allows David to escape to a place called Ieti. So really the question here for us is not one of the best tactics for mountainous warfare. It's really what is enough enough When can David and his men stop running? How much more of this are they going to have to take? Because this is getting old. Remember, these are not professional warriors, they're not Navy SEALs, they're not trained and equipped for this. You wanna know who these men are to games travel? Well, back in chapter 22, verse 2, we're told that these men were everyone who was in distress. And everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was bitter in soul. In other words, we can appropriately name these people the misfit militia, who David has traveling with here , too he's in the trenches with. So I can just imagine the grumbling in the camp when they're on the run for like the 15th time that week. Like David, this journey seems like nothing but But adventuring setbacks and quite honestly I'm not sure how much longer I want to go through with this because that that last one was just too close for comfort. If you use your sanctified imagination, I can imagine somebody saying, well, let's just go talk to David about it. He's accessible, let's go talk to him. And so they do. I can imagine the whole group goes to find it in his tent, and the first guy, kind of the spokesman for the group, says, Hey David, where are we going this time? Where are we off to next? What's next for us? David says, we're going um going wherever. What do you mean, David? Where is wherever? Cut out the funny stuff. But be serious in time with this. And David just says, come on. You'll see. Follow me. The next guy says, David, I didn't I didn't sign up for this kind of stuff. You're putting us in some risky positions. And David says, I know. I know, but don't worry. I'm witness with you. Somebody else says, How are we going to get through? How are we going to survive, David? And on and on it goes. Questions from tired and discouraged men for their leader. Maybe that's how you feel this morning. You're tired and discouraged in life and quite honestly you've got some questions for your leader about how you ended up where you are right now You've been knocked down into the trenches of life in some way, and so you go to Jesus. See , you say, Jesus, where are you going to take me next? Where's where's this all going? What's next? And you're reminded that when Jesus called you, all he said was follow me. He didn't give a whole lot of details. So you lean in a little closer and you say, but in following you, Jesus, it just feels like I've signed my own death sentence. And Jesus says, yeah. In fact, whoever finds his own life will lose it, but whoever loses his own life for my sake will find it. So out of frustration we just say, well Jesus, I just I just didn't think it was gonna be this way. I didn't expect all these hardships, I didn't expect all these troubles, I didn't expect all these trials. It's not supposed to be this way. How am I gonna survive, Jesus? And so so Jesus is very quiet and softly. Takes you by the hand, looks you in the eye. He says, listen, I will never leave you and forsake you. Come to me, all you who are weak and heavy laden. I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, everything that you're carrying, and learn from me. For I am gentle and lowly and hardy, and you will find rest for your souls. Press on, even when it feels like a retreat. Here's what this passage is teaching us. It's in the laying down of our lives to serve and follow King Jesus that we join him on the path of suffering, knowing and trusting that in the end He will lead us home. The path that he leads us in is the way of wisdom and it's paved with the gospel. It's not smooth, but it's what we're called to Even when life gets hard, it may not be easy, but you are not alone. Jesus is with you every step of the way. And he will be faithful to get you home. So would you pray with me? Father, we are grateful for your word. We are grateful for your faithfulness. We do ask this morning that if there's anyone here in need of encouragement, Father, that you would make your spirit abundantly present with them, to encourage them, to lift them up. Only you can ultimately do that. We we ask that we would learn from your word about how to walk in wisdom in in the trenches of life. Again, as we pray at the beginning that you would make us look more like your son, Jesus, to to humble us, to walk in your ways. In Jesus' name. Amen.