And we are finishing up this week and next week, Lord willing, this very interesting. I hope you found this helpful. This focus on what what some refer to as disorders. There's all kinds of um you know professional helps and things that that people take advantage of in these situations. But folks, uh whenever we are looking at personality issues, disorders And things, um, just really weaknesses in our character, we need to turn to Scripture. It is Scripture where we find that help that we need. And certainly in the case of this, we're referring specifically to NPD, narcissistic personality disorder. Again, as I continue to see so much of this talked about in society, Constantly, it seems like the word comes up. I just felt like this would be a good time for our folks to see a concern within our society and world today and our tackling it. It through Scripture, through what the Bible has to say. That is the final word and helps us. As we look at these traits, what I've found is these traits, again, clinically, you have to be a diagnosis with at least five of these characteristics that we've talked about the last couple weeks. In order to be referred to as having narcissistic personality disorder. But I found that in all of these These traits, they are things that actually kind of hit close to home for all of us. I think there are struggles. Who doesn't struggle at times with jealousy and envy? Who doesn't struggle with pride? Pride and arrogance, who doesn't struggle with an inappropriate focus on our own Our own accomplishments and seek our own honor. We all struggle with these at times, but there are those at the same time. same time. So the point is we're not in this study trying to diagnose specifically. Again, since we've been talking about this, I haven't had people come up to me say, Pastor Bach, you really Here's a list of people that really ought to be, you know, examined for this. Okay, we're not doing that. Um there are there are people that know have avenues of of um professional help um if your family you and your family you see these things and you're concerned but really folk our our prime Primary focuses on scripture, as you would expect. And so we're talking about these uh uh sins that this this order um tends to to minimize. We all have that capability to try to minimize sin in our life and we can be very effective at it sometimes. With this case, with those that would be considered narcissists, they particularly struggle with minimizing envy. And we talked about envy last week. And jealousy. And really, when it comes to getting honor and praise, it's particularly ugly that way. Because these tend to so desire the spotlight and the honor and the praise for them themselves constantly. It's like their their food and water. They live for praise. That's ugly. That's wicked. It's inappropriate Appropriate. That's really folks desiring worship. And there's only one person that deserves our worship. And it's our Heavenly Father. And when you find yourself wanting a piece of that worship as well, the Bible has things to say. If you find yourself envying and wanting to do harm, Or maybe harming another's reputation because they're being honored more than you and they don't deserve it as much as you do. That ought to be a red flag. Oh no. Humble yourself. Yourself before the Lord. Let the Lord honor whom he will honor. Don't let envy, as it says in the Proverbs very picturesquely, don't make envy let your bones Rot. Don't let it have its way. Well, today we have another trait we're looking at, and like I said, there'll be one next week, and then in a couple weeks, we are Are finally on to the book of Revelation, and I'm looking forward to that. I think we need a picture now more than ever that Jesus is coming back. And that book gives it to us in a direct way. But with this study, there is a trait we're going to be talking about today. You're going to learn from many of you Isn't that exciting? Now, some of you that are cued into this and and you study these things, you probably already know this word. It is a very uh well-known and popular word in our culture today. You will be seen as with it if you know this word. You might even be a hit at the next party if somebody invites you to. Well, that's not the purpose of just teaching you a new word. This word, I'm making a little bit of fun with it. And when I hear it, when you hear it, if you've never heard it before, you're gonna be like, what in the world? What does that mean? But actually, folks, it does it does describe something that is very damaging and can be very damaging to homes. To ministries. In a general sense, I'll put it this way: we need to, as a church family, rather than give in to these tendencies, these narcissistic tendencies We've been talking about. We need to commit to also honest communication rather than manipulative tactics. One thing in my study that I've learned is there are a lot of manipulative tactics described in in disorders as the world calls them. And whether that's a thing or not, I do believe that people do try to manipulate Other people to have control over them and it's ugly and it's ungodly. And I could do a whole series just on manipulation and how people try to manipulate Those that are closest to them. It's not good. We won't do that for a while at least, but there is a lot there that I'm convinced does go On even in Christian homes. Well, this is one of those manipulation tactics. And this NPD trait number six is those that have these tendencies They tend to control those closest to them through something called gaslighting and other emotionally manipulative tactics. Gaslighting. What in the world is that? Well, it's actually a very well-known term in a lot of circles, and it describes a manipulation tactic that's actually very deep. And very damaging. And we need to know more about this today. I quote here from an article from it's from Psychology Today. Now, listen, folks, I know not for promoting that magazine. I don't regularly read that magazine. It's just the source that had the most succinct description of This manipulation tactic. So, this is not from me, this is from an article. Gaslighting is a tactic in which a person or entity In order to gain more power, makes a victim question their reality. And it works much better than you may think. Anyone is susceptible to gaslighting, and it is a common technique of abusers dictating Narcissists and cult leaders. It is done slowly so the victim doesn't realize how much they've been brainwashed. Where do they even get the term gas? What does gaslighting mean? Well, actually, it comes from an old movie. Many of you that like old movies, I don't know if this is the one you want to watch, because it doesn't sound that exciting to me, but it's from a movie called Gaslight in 1944. where a man manipul the whole point of the movie is a man manipulating his wife to the point where she thinks she is losing her mind. I don't that that doesn't sound very Very interesting to me. I won't be watching that. But so you know where this comes from, the whole point is that that picture of um in a marriage room Relationship of one person using manipulation to control the other person or manipulation tactics to control people closest to them to make them do what you do. Want them to do, folks. That's devious. I think we would agree, even before I get any further. We don't want to see that in our homes. And yet I'm convinced this does happen even in Christian homes. I'm convinced that there's gaslighting going on. And we need to understand, and if it is a tendency for any of us , Who are more control oriented and are using these tactics. Oh, folks, we need to be convicted of these things. Well, there is specific Traits of this manipulation tactic called gaslighting. First of all, it includes blatant lying. Just blatant. People don't even care that people know that they're lying because they're that obnoxious about it Because the people that many times they're lying to, they're trying to control. So basically it's like, yeah, I'm going to lie, and there's nothing you can do about it. Another aspect of this is they boldly deny things they have said or done. A spouse, a parent In a home, continues to promise things, or they say things that are ugly or mean, and then just a little bit later they'll act like Like they never heard. Now I know we all forget things, okay. That's not what we're talking about here. Or they'll say mean things, or they'll do things, and they'll do things in front of people the people that in their families or in front of others and they'll blatantly lie later on that they ever did it. Like, what are you gonna do about my lying? How are you gonna Yeah. It's not good. The tactic is that they use what is closest to them almost as ammunition. To control a spouse or to control a family member, a child in their home, they'll say negative things about that person that they're trying trying to control. Oh, you would be a good person, or you would you um would be successful. Or you um would be a good whatever if you would only do these things. And then also um Using kids as almost ammunition, trying to get your spouse or someone else, a family member, to do what you want them to do by by um pointing out something ab about the kids in a negative fashion or that the kids um are uh the kids are negatively oriented because of what that person. The kids are struggling with things specifically because of what that person has done. Not anything that the that the the um accuser has done. But if you would only do this, your kids would be better. And they do that in a mean and spiteful way. All of this tends to wear down people over time. Another thing about gaslighting is the actions do not match the words. They constantly, their whole lives, are pictures of saying one thing and doing something different. Because they're only saying those things just to get what they want and to manipulate. They can they can create confusion to weaken. Other words, they might give some praise at some point just to kind of lip the spirits, and then not too long after that, they'll be back into criticism. And negativity. It's a roller coaster ride with these people, and the only reason that they do that is because they're trying to control the Closest to them. So they make their lives miserable by having alternate reactions. And think again, thinking that you that they are supporting people that they love and then the next moment just you know um totally um leaving them on their own showing them No affection, whatever. These are cruel things, folks. And then they also manipulate others to thinking they are the crazy ones. They lie, they manipulate, and then they turn Why do you think that happened that way? It's not what happened. And thus they present themselves finally as the only one That you can trust. You can't even trust yourself. You thought I said this or that, and look at you. You're crazy. Or they'll look at others and they'll say when others try to objectively or you try to bring um others' opinions or other other um observations, other opinions into the mix, they'll basically point to everyone else and say, Oh, you can't trust them. Don't believe them. I'm the only one that you can trust. All the others are Liars. These are people, folks, that desire to be the hero of every story. In discussions, in their relationships with others In conversations, they're always the one that has to be the knowledgeable, the wise, the one that you can trust. In churches, It can be something like, look, I'm really the only one that knows about this or this. So just trust me. Don't Don't worry about what so and so said. Always trying to make themselves look like the one that you need, the one that you you can trust. I think you would agree, folks, that when people act in this way as a manipulation tactic, that gaslighting may sound funny But if it's in your home, there's nothing funny about that at all. Cruel manipulation tactics make life miserable. And are unloving in every way. You know, it may be a good marketing tactic to tout products that are the answer to people's problems We expect that. Commercials and ads. All right, all right. How is this going to change my life forever? We expect that. But folks, if we are, or if you as an individual, tout yourself in your ministry circle as the only one that's the answer. Folks, there is only one that has all the answers in ministry and in life. And it's not any of us. His name is Jesus Christ And when we portray ourselves as the one that is the one that everybody has to answer to, we're taken away from the glory of our Savior. And in your home, it's unloving. Well, let's look at a few scripture verses here to emphasize this. 1 Corinthians 13, 4 through 7. Turn there quickly. You see, lying and manipulating and using your Family members as pawns for your own control. Would you agree with me, folks? There's nothing loving about that. And as Christians, when we act in that way, we are not resembling what true love is. Well, what is true love? Well, we have that in First Corinthians thirteen, four through seven. You could probably recite this with me. Love is patient and kind. Love is here's interesting specifically. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way. Ultimately, people that are involved in gaslighting are insisting on themselves having the gas. Control and will do whatever they have to do to control their family and those closest to them and even people in their church. But love does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable or resentful, does not rejoice at wrongdoing. But this is so important in this topic. It rejoices with the truth. It doesn't blatantly lie to others and say, What are you gonna do about it? I've got a stronger will than you do. This is my reality And so you just need to acquiesce to what I said happens. No. We seek the truth. We rejoice. With what the reality of truth. We're not satisfied with controlling lies. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things. Endures all things. If you are showing love, if you are a loving parent, if you are a loving young person , The love that Jesus Christ showed you, you're showing others. You won't stubbornly lie just to get your way. You won't manipulate others. You won't make their lives feel like a roller coaster all the time with how your your your constant Varied responses to everything. I never know how they're gonna react to the this next thing. I never know how they're gonna react when something happens. I just don't know. No, love is stable. It is patient. It is kind. And the first anecdote to those that are comfortable with manipulation tactics Folks is to remind yourself what true love is from Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ does not manipulate us to control us. He does not Died for us so that we could live and he could show us his love. There's no control tactics in that. John eight. Turn to John eight, thirty-one through thirty two. Verse 31 of chapter 8. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, If you abide in my word, you are Are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth. And here is this beautiful phrase: the truth will set you free. You see, honesty and truthfulness in our relationship with our families and with our ministry sets people free From your control. And from your need to control other people. No, if we are a follower of Jesus Jesus Christ, folks, we embrace and love truth. And the last thing we do is is embrace deceit and manipulation To get what we want from those closest to us. Oh, that's not loving. And it's not a characteristic of a disciple. Follower of Jesus Christ. But the truth gives your family, those around you, your church, freedom. to follow after Jesus. It doesn't leave them in misery because of cruelty The gospel of Jesus Christ will set you free. It's a reminder again if there are those here today who have not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And as we've gone through these traits the past couple weeks of narcissistic tendencies. And you see that you are struggling with a lot of these folks, you can have victory over all of these if you have a relationship. With Jesus Christ. I call to you this morning to let the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ set you free from lying. And from control, trying to control. It's really deceiving ourselves, folks, because we don't have control of anything, let's be honest. But we like to deceive ourselves sometimes sometimes and we're cruel sometimes towards others to try to get that control. We're deceiving ourselves. God's in control of it all. Better to acknowledge that. Better to acknowledge, again, for those who still need relationship with Jesus this morning, that you are a sinner. That your envy and pride and selfishness and a whole list of ways that we break the Ten Commandments has separated you from a holy God who is sinless. And we are condemned for all eternity because of that pride and those sins, and yet the love of Jesus, not his manipulation and control, but his love. Brought him to earth, and he was submissive to his heavenly father as he lived a life of perfect obedience to his heavenly father, and he died. A perfect death for our sins, so that all of our pride and our controlling desire and jealousy and all these sins they could be dealt with and cleansed. And God raised him from the dead, giving providing victory over sin and over the enemy. And so, folks, truly, when you put your faith and trust in what Jesus Jesus has done, get ready, get ready to be free through our faith in him. And so certainly if the truth And the gospel mean that we are free from deceit and evil control techniques. We should be free from that. Then, folks, and I Just use parents as an example. Make sure that your home, if you are believers and you understand that the truth has set you free, make sure that your creation And if your kids feel like everything you do is to control them and to just um there is a way Way to encourage and disciple our kids, to encourage them to follow after Jesus Christ, but manipulation tactics to try to do So we need to be reminded of these things. James thirteen. James three, thirteen through eighteen. Just a couple more passages. This is one we read this morning, and this is, boy, this just gets to the heart of someone involved in manipulation techniques. Like gaslighting. This this really does show what God thinks. about controlling techniques like this. And these folks that include these that um That are guilty of these with those closest to them, they are not considered wise. Who is wise in understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show See, those that are wise are meek in allowing God to control them, rather than that them trying to control everybody. The controllers, including those that struggle with narcissism, if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition is in your heart. Hearts. Don't lie. Stop deceiving yourself. Stop being false to the truth. The truth has set you free. This is not wisdom that comes from above, and here's where it hits hard. It's earthly, unspiritual. Demonic, for where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder in every vile practice. If these things are being allowed to go forth, manipulation tactics in our home, folks, blatant lies, boldly denying what you've said or done after you've You've said them. Using those closest to you as ammunition, wearing people down over time, creating confusion in the lives of others. So you can have control. Then making others think they're the crazy ones who don't remember and don't know what's going on, and that you're the only solution. Folks, we What James is saying here is that comes from jealous people and envious people who are desiring control, and when they allow those things to go on On in their personal lives, they are not reflecting Jesus Christ, but they are reflecting the enemy Because those types of tactics are earthly, unspiritual, demonic, and they will produce disorder in every vile practice From extreme desires to control and envy and all of these things comes every kind of vile wicked practice. Folks, James is saying Here, this is insidious. This is an insidious way and um way of life To put those around you, to have to subject them to such a thing. Don't ever try to promote yourself as the only one That anyone can trust. Why? Because again, as believers, there is only one person that we trust, and it's Jesus Christ. And no one else is worthy to be put on his pedestal but him. My trust is not in government. Ultimately, my trust is not In myself as your pastor, my trust is not in leadership in this church and people that God has gifted and all of these things. No, my trust lies firmly in Jesus. Jesus Christ my Savior. And that is what anchors me. And if you want to be the anchor in your family, you need to point them to Jesus. And you need to ask God to convict and forgive you of manipulation techniques that do not reflect the Savior, but reflect the enemy, Satan. Himself. Let me talk just a few minutes to the victims. Those you may be here this morning, you may say, Yeah, I'm not going to talk about it. But I have been the victim of this in the past. I want you to know something. You need to pray for those that have manipulated and tried to control you. Because God knows. And God will deal with them at some point. Isaiah 32, 5-8. Can you turn there quickly with me? Isaiah 32. five through eight. These people that are involved in gaslighting, or if we have a tendency to want to do that This, we need to remember that we may think we have fooled everyone and we have um controlled and beat down those that are closest to us so they'll never talk about About our manipulation tactics, but folks, please don't forget God knows and He will deal with this in your life at some point. Because God says this this is not the actions of the wise person, but this is the actions of the foolish person. Isaiah 32, starting at verse 5, the fool will no longer be called no nor the scoundrels said to be honorable. These that are involved in these techniques are many times able to present themselves as honorable. They're good people. People you'd want to be like in any But when they practice these things, those closest to them know that it is a cruel way of the same thing. And God says they that they won't be able to pull the wool over everybody's eyes forever. For the spools the fool speaks folly and it's His heart is busy with iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the Lord, to leave the craving of the hunger unsatisfied, to deprive the thirsty of drink. As for the scoundrel, his devices are evil. He plans wicked schemes. Listen to this. What are those wicked schemes? To ruin the poor with lying words, even when the plea of the needy is right. Let's not aggrieve our soul. Folks, that there would be goings on to where those that are weak and are poor and are not as strong as others emotionally or whatever Are ruined by deceptive controlling tactics of others. Oh, they plea, they desire for relief. And that's right. But they don't receive that relief. Because the person that's gaslighting them is only concerned about themselves. God says, I know, and they will not, the point here is they will not get away with it forever, because I know. But he who is noble plans noble things and on noble things. Things he stands. If you want to be known as noble and well respected in this church, folks, be known for your submission and your meekness. and your obedience to God's word. And then let God honor you in due course. Don't manipulate the people around you To try to gain praise and honor and glory that you're not deserving of. So for the victims that are being gaslighted, First of all, folks, remember God knows, and in his time he will deal with it. And pray for the individual who is trying to manipulate you. That they will see the error In their ways before God has to deal with them in a very direct and strong way. You don't have to turn here. I'm going to finish with this Galatians 6, 7 through 9, we all know this. Do not be see, do not be deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, and the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. Let us not be weary of well-doing. For in due season we will reap if we do not give up. If there is someone here this morning who is guilty of manipulation tactics and you're very good at it, Folks, don't view your life as a success. But know you're not fooling God. He knows. And the cruelty that you're inflicting on your family, maybe on your spouse , on your friends , maybe people in the church. God will not let it go on forever. He will not be mocked. What you sow, you'll at one time reap. But the other part of that verse is for the victims of gaslighting. Okay. I want you to understand that even though those in your life that are controlling and manipulating you and saying you're nothing And you're worthless, and you're not contributing anything. And if you'd only just do this and this and this and this, maybe people would like you and care about you. If there are people in your Life telling you that you understand if you are serving in this church, as Paul continued, says, Do not grow weary of doing good. If you are serving in this church, your contributions are valued. You are valuable And if you have, and I pray that you don't, but if you have some of the most important people in your life telling you otherwise that you're not valued, then no f Folks, you have others in the Christian community who do value you and are ready to help you and are ready to show compassion. And the way that that person has struggles with. Speaking of compassion, as we get ready for our final Part of the series next week, we're going to talk about the lack of compassion that these folks tend to have with others. Let me encourage you today as we finish and as we get ready to pray. If you are involved in manipulating others, especially those that are closing Closest to you, your spouse, your kids, your friends. If you're guilty of this, cry out to the Lord this morning. Ask for forgiveness Forgiveness. Will he give you forgiveness for your lying and for your control tactics? He certainly will. Because, folks, the truth will set you free Experience the freedom of letting go of all those lies and manipulated behavior. Experience a true freedom of living your life In truthfulness and honesty and compassion for the people around you. Let go of the control. It's a fantasy world anyway. Nobody can control their lives. That's God's realm. He controls it. Let go. And let the truth set you free. And again, for those here today that need Jesus Christ, come talk to me after the service about you how you can have relationship with Jesus this morning. Let's bow our head and close our eyes. And as Leslie plays Let's have some time and just let the Holy Spirit work. If we have a tendency toward belief Blatant lying, manipulation and control. Give that up before the Lord this morning. And experience the freedom that That that brings for you and your family and your life. Because the truth will set you free. The truth of God's Word. Think on these things as listening. Leslie qua is a little bit more than a lot of people. What do you think? Father, help us not to exalt our own lives, but to survey The death of our Savior and all that He was willing to give up so that we could be set free by the truth. And help us then to live our lives not for ourselves, but for the one who gave us all for us and deserves all of our honor and glory. Lord, today let us take ourselves off the pedal pedestal Of worship and be ready to worship Jesus consistently for all that He's done for us. It's in His His name we pray. Amen. It's a good thing when you struggle with these things to take the focus off of yourself and put it on Jesus. We're going to sing the first two Verses of when I survey the wondrous cross. If you struggle with these things this morning, folks, look to what Jesus did for you. And it'll change you. Let's sing the first First two verses when I survey. You'll stand with me, please. When I survey the wandress All with suffrage glory My richest game I count And for content on all my price Save in the gentle Christ, my God All the big things that char I sacrifice them to his blood Let's pray. Dearly Father, we just uh thank you that that through you is all that we have to to be uh proud of, that nothing we do is individually is something we should be proud of. I just pray you take these the song that we just sang to heart and just remember to point to you and everything that we We do it in Jesus' name, Amen.