Passages that some pastors fear to tread in, but is necessary. Mike mentioned this morning, Paul's statement. Do you condemn Me for telling the truth. This is the truth that God has given to us. And so I am I have no um Concern or fear in this. This is God's word for us. But I do have a concern from the standpoint of many times We misunderstand, and certainly our unbelieving world totally misunderstands these passages, and yet they're so So important, folks, for our marriages and our families to reflect the relationship between Christ and the church. And so we must understand These things. As we read this passage, verse 22, and we immediately see that word submit and talk Talking about wives to their husbands, and sometimes we oh, what does that mean? That's not gonna go over well. Isn't there some sort of marketing campaign that we can come up with to kind of make this more palatable for our society? Well, folks, it it's God's word. But I also have heard the statement said before, well, it just seems like you know the Bible is against women. Well, that's That's not it at all. Correctly understood the Bible upholds and um uh and and makes uh a woman's role Significant in so many ways. No. And the Bible also says that men and women are equal before God. So what is all this going on? Well, we need to understand. Understand it. By God's grace, we'll understand that this morning. Let's read the passage that we're looking at, and then we're going to go through some basic principles that we have seen throughout the book of Ephesians that need So Ephesians 5, verse 22, wives submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. And then skip ahead to verse 33. It says, let the wife see that she respects her husband. Well, this needs some Understanding. And so, first of all, before we even get into these verses this morning, let's remember the governing principles that we have been giving about the Christian life. To understand what Paul is saying here, Paul is not against women in any respect. He honors them. Paul had many women in his own life that were very successful and instrumental tools in God's service, and he highly respected them. And we respect women today. And we acknowledge that in this society really that there are more opportunities for women to work and to have leadership leadership roles in things and maybe ever in world history. And so yes, the opportunities are there. So what is this all about? Well let's see, first of all, uh go back to chap. We're going to quickly go back through some Some phrases here in uh former chapters, chapter four, verse one. Remember that governing principle: walk in a manner worthy of your calling until we all attain to the the unity of faith to maturity. That is, is that each of us that God calls us in specific ways to walk worthy, to be a right example of Christ followers, of those who believe in Jesus. Jesus Christ. All of us are expected to walk in a manner to represent ourselves in the way that God calls us to, to be a proper representation. Of the church, of followers of Jesus Christ. And so that does mean that we submit to God's expectations for our lives. No matter whether they sound strange in our society or not, we all must walk in a manner worthy of our calling. Our calling, by the way, that is again a reference to a And the fact that our salvation and really our whole lives and where God directs us is His calling, is His word I appreciated again Dr. Erickson's emphasis this morning that he goes to the Ukraine. It's God's calling for his life. And he just is obedient to that. And we see all that Christ has done for us in his sacrifice, literally, of his body and his life for us. He is certainly worthy of us. of all of our submission. The second principle to help us is put off the old self and put on the new. And Paul had recently Urge the believers to walk worthy of God's calling and to put off the old way of living, the way of living that to the world seems natural. But Paul says, No, for the The believers in Christ, there's a new way to live. And so the things that seemed natural for us, we put off the evil, the old ways. We learn from God's word his expectations and be Because of the Holy Spirit within us, the power of Christ working within us, yes, we can live in a way differently from the world. And certainly, folks, wouldn't you not agree? That when it comes to our marriages and our family, oh, we need examples that are far different from what we see in the world today. Do we not? We need those examples. And so we put on the new. We put on the roles that God has intended for us in marriage. That was verses 22 through 24, and then chapter 5, another principle, verse 1: be imitators of God, follow his ways, and walk as children of the light. We walk in the light of God's truth. What God tells us in His Word, that we reflect, that we walk in. And that certainly includes these marital roles as well. Be careful as we walk, be wise, and then make the best use of our times Since the days are evil, redeeming the time, and thinking carefully considering, even in our marriages, giving careful consideration to what God's Word Has to say about how we should function. This should not be something that we ignore and that we're embarrassed about. Remember my quote: fools just do it, but wise people think through it. That ought to be a characteristic of our lives. And then this directly overarching, this guiding principle For the next part of this passage is submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. That's chapter 5. Chapter 5, verse 21. Before we ever get. To the roles of men and women in marriage, we have this overarching principle that we are supposed to be submitting to one another out of a reverence and respect for Christ. Again, that idea of submitting to one another does not, as I mentioned last week, we're not going to be selling t-shirts that say doormat on them. And and that somehow means that people we just let people walk all over us. It's not the principle here, but that has the idea of self denial for the sake of others and a lookout for others' interests and not just our own. Do we look around us, certainly in our church, but in our community, and notice that there are people around us that need to either trust Christ or to grow in Christ? Or are we so focused on our self-interests that we'd never notice the other people? Or worse, that people are just obstacles to us. I was reminded again as I was standing in a Walmart line recently, you know, and I'm I'm like behind four people and the lady uh two people ahead of me is really taking a long time putting those groceries in her plastic bag. I'm like, oh because come I could give you a hundred ways about how to do this faster. But I didn't. And then there was an elderly lady in front of me that was struggling getting some things out of the cart and the Lord just Just reminded me. Remember what you always say about being looking out for other people? And so I looked down and I said, ma'am, can I help you take these and move them up to the belt and to the counter and she appreciated that. Then she dropped something and she didn't notice that and I said, Oh, you know, you dropped this, and I picked it up and I helped her. Just noticing that people are there and they have needs. Putting others' interests over our own is the idea of submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ, out of awe. An amazement of the love that Jesus Christ showed us. Yes, we do have a responsibility to notice others and to be Ready to meet their needs as God calls us to do that. To sacrifice our time for the sake of others is submitting to them. And so wives, you do that for your husbands, but husbands also sacrifice. Submit and give of themselves for the church and for their families and for their wives We are submitting one to another. That is the governing principle in all of this. So as we get to these roles of submission, let's understand. Understand, it's not just wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord. No, we all are have a responsibility to submit. All of us do. The men Have a responsibility as well to submit to the Lord, to be aware of the needs around them, not lording over authority in some sort of domineering or ugly way. No, we all have a responsibility of submission. It's just different types of submission. And so that helps us then as we get into the specifics then in verse 25. 22 Yes, wives submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. And this does mean that submission is given by the wives. But it's really in effect a submission to Jesus Christ. Because Jesus, as Paul gives us these truths, and ladies We need to understand this. And by the way, this thought just came to mind too. How appropriate is it that we're talking about marriage roles in the midst of Valentine's Day coming up? Right? We get a chance to practice them even this week. So better than giving chocolates and roses and things like that to each other, how about we give to each other the gift of practice Practicing God's word to each other. That's a great, what a great emphasis for Valentine's Day. Okay. I can get back to the message now. Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as to the Lord. That just in our society today sounds awful. But what it really means is that, wives, you have the opportunity. To reflect the church's submission to Jesus Christ. It's not submission to a domineering, hopefully not domineering. Demanding person, but it is a wonderful opportunity to show a picture of the church's submission. And in fact, what we find out here in these few verses is that this is a way to give worship to Jesus. being willing to submit. Well, what does submit even mean? Even it just sounds terrible. Well the Greek word means not really a Forcing, demanding, you must obey, although this is Christ's command to us, it really means a choice to place oneself in a specific Rank or order, a choice to subordinate oneself under the authority and rank of another. See, ladies, those of you that are married, And you are your husbands are there. It is your choice when you get married, and the right choice to subordinate yourself. In the order that God has called us to. It's a choice. It's one that you must must make in order to be obedient to God. Well let me let me just further clarify what submission means by saying what it doesn't mean Okay, let's get real specific here because the world looks at this and say, oh, I I know what that means. That means that um the Bible, you know, uh expects, God expects, supposedly, that a woman puts herself Under the domineering, authoritative , prideful, arrogant leadership of another expectations. And but that's not at all the picture. here, folks. It's really not. In fact, there are some basic marriage submission principles, some things to give consideration to Here's what it is not. This is important. It's not the same sort of submission type of obedience that children owe. Oh, parents. That has been misunderstood in the past. Now we will get to that passage later on, children being submissive to their parents, and that is expected as pretty across the board and standard. And there are consequences for you not being obedient. But this submission that we're talking about with wives to their husbands is not the same as you expect from children. So the husband doesn't line up the kids and the wife and say, okay, everyone Now here's what I expect today, and all of you, including the wife, know it's different. Children are expected to submit And to do everything that they are told unless they're asked to do some grievous sin or error. But with a marriage. It is more of a relationship where the wife is able to give her opinion and give her perspective and the husband takes time to weigh and value that perspective and take it very seriously and they discuss together, but in the end, there needs to be one. After much prayer, that God that decides where they're going to go and the direction they're going to go. It's that type of communication relationship Relationship. It's different from children and parents. And another thing, to be clear Against what the world thinks. This is not a command of total submission to all men, but just one. One that's your husband Not everyone. Look what he says there. Submit to your own husbands. And God knows that's hard enough. But that doesn't mean women submitting to all men, but to their husband. Furthermore, number three, it's not a statement of inequality, because in other passages of Scripture, Paul makes it clear that both men and women are equal before God. They both share So it's not one of more value than the other, not one of more importance than the other. Men and women are equally valued, they are equally treasured, they have equal uh ability. To help in ministry, but just in different ways. So this isn't a matter of one being superior to the other. Superior in quality, but it is an order that God has expected of us. And then number four, this might be surprising, but there is a limit to that submission. Because what does it say, verse 22? Wives submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. So if the husband, and we pray this wouldn't happen, but the husband. We're involved in blatant sin. You know, he's trying to pull a Bonnie and Clyde. Let's go rob the bank together and uh break the law together. Well, guess what? The wife is not expected to submit to that. Because it's to the Lord. And so she could say, look, my submission offered to you, my husband, is ultimately to the Lord. It is first to Jesus Christ. Second to you. And therefore, if you are going to ask me to do something that's blatantly against God's word, that's not submission according to Jesus Christ, according to the Lord. So I can't I can't offer that. That wouldn't be offering as worship. Does that make sense? That really really blows up the whole concern that the world has in a lot of ways to this whole idea of submission. What is submission? Verse 23, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body is himself its savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ. So also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. This submission is this, folks. And laid It's giving deference to the leadership of the husband in order to provide harmony in the home and to correctly display portray a certain picture. It is not because the man always knows what's best and is superior in their intelligence and their Position. And so the man always knows what's right. No, that's not at all what the Bible's saying here. But the Bible's saying so much more important than a man's ego. Is the picture of Jesus Christ in the church. That's what's important here. And the picture of Jesus giving his all. For the church. He sacrificed his life, folks. He gave his all And so you would agree with me, right, that Jesus Christ is, he does have the authority, he does have the right to be the head. Oh, he's earned that. He has totally earned the right. to be the authority of the church. But it's no. It's not because he was angry and domineering and he could have, by the way. Philippians, it does say that Christ was totally deserving of the accolades of heaven. He could have demanded, come to earth and demanded that people worship and be authoritative, but no, he did. He came in love and gave of himself. And so our response then as the church is, of course, when I see all that Jesus has done, of course I would submit to him as My head. Why wouldn't I? He's done all this for me. He's provided me new life, eternity with Christ. He's provided me reconciliation with God. He's cleansed My life of sin. I'm not under the eternal condemnation of hell any longer. Oh, yes, I will serve my master. I will serve the head of the church. And folks, let me just say here again, as as we I want to do, let me throw in the gospel here again. Again, just briefly, I've already mentioned these things. But a lot of this may sound strange to some of you today if you are not in a relationship, a faith relationship with Jesus Christ. Which means, in order to be in that relationship, that you need to acknowledge that we're sinners and that we are face condemnation from the God of heaven because of our sin. We've broken his commandments. We deserve eternal condemnation. And yet God loved us. The Father loved us enough to send his son To live a obedient life that none of us could leave, live and literally earn obedience and righteousness. And then he sent that son to die and Shed his blood so that our sin could be dealt with and through dependence and trust in what Jesus has done and not our own works. His righteousness, his obedience is applied to us. We get his obedient record. He took all of our sin on himself. And he faced the agony of that sin, that condemnation of God, and his own physical agony. He endured it all. And so he is worthy to be our head. And our leader and our authority. And if you will submit and count Jesus as Lord and believe in all that He has done, not depending on any of your works or your own righteousness. Then you will be a child of God and you will be with him for all eternity. It's all that Jesus did, it's nothing that we can do. And then when we trust him , We submit to the roles that he describes in his word. So ladies, then that brings us back to this idea of submission But this submission then is done as an act of worship, not to your husband. But to the Lord, to be a picture. As we see a properly functioning marriage, we should see see a picture of Jesus Christ and his authority over the church and be reminded, wow, I need to submit to Jesus. As a church member, as one of the redeemed. Husbands, we don't lord our authority and this, we don't demand this submission. But we through the sacrifice and giving of ourselves. Now, God does require this in marriages, but still our families ought to look to us And see our sacrifice and love as Jesus sacrificed and loved the church, and say, Yes, I will subordinate myself to that authority as a worship. Worship offering to Jesus Christ for all He has done. There are many, many times where we as husbands Are unworthy of that kind of expectation request. But ladies, if you are in a marriage relationship, remember Remember, you're not ultimately doing this for your husband, but you're doing this for your Jesus, for your Savior. And that when your husband, as he will be, when he may Messes up and he makes mistakes, remember that God has sovereignly put you in that marriage, and you're not being called to put a hundred percent trust and dependence in your husband. But as you fulfill that role, and as you make the choice to give deference in the end to the authority in that marriage, That you trust God will work it out when you're not really sure of the husband's direction and what he wants to do. And you're maybe a little nervous and a little concerned. Unless he's asking you to go rob the bank or something like that. You give that over to the Lord and trust, Lord, you have put me in the situation, you have asked me to give deference to the authority, the husband. And so I will do that and I will trust you for the outcome. Because I understand that the picture Of submission to the church to Jesus Christ is more important than my own desires and concerns. You see, we worship the Lord. We don't, ladies, you don't give submission to your husbands because we deserve it. And husbands, we don't expect it and demand it. But it's something that God expects as a form of worship to Him. As a church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Submission is given as an example of the church Christ again is the authority over the church. He sacrificed himself for it, and therefore he has the right to ask for obey Obedience and submission. But again, men, it's not an I'm the boss mentality. But it's because you better, better is for the wife and the children to look at the husband and say, because of how he is sacrificed and his His reflection of Christ. We will gladly give deference and submit under him. Now, a couple things here before we're done. People read this and hear this preached, and they think, well, you know, Paul was a product of his times. And this is what society expected in Paul's times, and you know that that's so old school and so ancient thinking. But actually, we've been finding in our Research actually is something quite different. It is true that in Roman society the husband had legal authority as what was called the patria potesta. And that meant he had legal and social power, believe it or not, over his wife, children, and slaves. And that was a thing that was common. was a part of Roman society. And so people hear that and and as they think as they study that out, they say, well that's that's what Paul's thinking. Is he's biased because of this expectation that culture had that the husband had total power over his family and the bondservants and all of that. But actually, what we've been finding in more recently archaeological documentation is that there was a shift taking place in New Testament. Times and it was like this. There was actually becoming more opportunities, and toward the end of New Testament times, as the Bible was being written, there were many more opportunities. For women in roles in society and for women to become more prominent. Remember Lydia, one of Paul's friends that helped support the early church ministry? Well, she was a business owner. She was a businesswoman. And so there was more opportunity for prominent women. to become independently wealthy, pursue jobs in the workplace, and high positions in society. Remember, even as we studied the background to the this book in Ephesus, the major goddess that was worshipped and given homage to was female Diana. And people worshiped Diana and gave her reverence and homage so that then she would give things to them. And so actually, it does seem the more we study and the more we We find out evidence that Paul, much like today, was bucking the trends of society and calling for a woman's submission. Women were becoming increasingly more dependent, but Paul says if they want to marry and start a family, they must be willing to subordinate themselves. To make that choice, to do that, to get in the rank that God has called them to, not for domineering purposes, but to correctly portray. the relationship between Christ and his church. Then there's the argument, well, does Christ as head of the church, does that mean authority or source? Does it mean that Christ has authority, or does it just mean that he is the source of direction and of blessings and of All of these things. Well, I think, folks, naturally you can understand that yes, the head does have authority over the body. Because in a situation Where someone becomes decapitated, the rest of the body does all kinds of things that it shouldn't do, and eventually it quickly withers away because there's no head. Yes, there is a dominating principle here. that the head there is authority that it it it helps the rest of the body function. That's just innate in that illustration. But I do think it's both. The head is the leader and has the authority, but also provides provision for the rest of the body. And doesn't Jesus Christ do that? Doesn't He provide everything the body needs to survive And so men both are in view. Yes, we have leadership. God has given us an authority over our family. As they willingly, as the wife willingly subordinates herself to us, but we are also supposed to provide for our family. Take care. Cherish them, not dominate and demand. But that picture of Christ in the church Church, ladies, must be what's most important. I have known in Christian marriages A practice where both spouses they practice a type of co-authority. Now I've I've never Understood how that works, honestly. But I've heard of it. I've heard of a family of two spouses that have gotten together in our Christian home, we can somehow be closer authorities we can be equal authority. That may sound really good, but I really I really don't understand personally how that works itself out because what if one of the The co-authorities have a disagreement with the other authority, what do they do? How do they work it out? Well, I have authority. Well, I have authority too. And more importantly, regardless of how that works itself out, maybe some Some marriages have figured out how to make that work, but folks, isn't it even more important? Is that then a proper picture of Christ in the church? Two heads Co authority. Is that the picture of Christ in the church? Jesus, the one head? Would you not agree that two Two heads over the body is a spectacle? Is it not? No. There needs to be a head. And There is a picture here that is so important, much more important than the woman trying to assert herself over The man, but at the same time, the man not domineering, but showing his love and concern. Now, next week, men, if you notice in your scriptures, how many verses does it take to talk about the women? One, two, three. Then Paul spends a lot more time on the men. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine verses. So I hope we understand then that this isn't a ha ha. I told I've been telling my wife for years that that's what the Bible says. We have a greater, a higher expectation, and much more material that Paul has for us. Because, yes, as the wife chooses to subordinate herself. And folks, one more thing as far as an illustration in this context. The world hears this and says, well, the Bible is the Against women um leading leadership and and being prominent in society. Well, is it really? I know many situations I have friends, women, who are more prominent in their society, in their community, than their husbands are. I know of women That are small business owners. I know of one who started an independent, a nurse who started an independent Independent health clinic and is uh a a regular face in her community. She's well known, she's well respected. People don't know her husband As well. There are women that are CEOs. Again, there's more opportunity in this culture for women to lead than CEOs. The Bible isn't being negative towards that, but what the Bible is saying is that if you desire to be married and you see that God has called you You to marriage, then you must willingly in that marriage defer so that there is the correct picture Of Christ in the church. Marital roles are God's intended way to picture Christ in the church. So submitting to God's way is vital to be a proper testimony of Christ. But husbands must not revel in authority. But we must be ready to live sacrificially for our family. families as well. More about that next week. That you don't feel valued or that you feel somehow trodden upon. No. God has Given us women in our society and culture to be of great benefit. And we couldn't do it without you. But in marriage, that Picture of Jesus and the church must reign. That must have the final say in how we live and how we function in our marriages. With our families. Don't you want your children to see a good example of how we should submit to Jesus as our head. I'd say that's important. Let's pray that God gives us understanding and helps us to understand Understand the importance of these roles and be willing to relegate ourselves to however God calls us. Father, Thank you for this opportunity to explain something that in our world today seems controversial, but when we study it out in Scripture, it is a beautiful picture. Of what you have done for the church. So, Father, I pray that there's not any ladies, any wives here today that feel put upon, but rather they see. The need for a proper representation of the church's submission to Christ And that would not be odious to them, but that would be a feel they would feel a sense of privilege and as an act of worship, offer that to you. But Father, as well, I pray that for us as husbands, that as we prepare to see the data next week and what you have to To say to us that we would be ready not to be domineering do and authoritative and angry and prideful, but that we would lead by giving of ourselves and sacrificing. As Jesus did for the church. That above all of our grievances, that we would not desecrate the picture of Jesus and his love and his Authority over the church. love Help us to get in line as you have called us to do. And Father, if there is someone here who is not trusting And they, this doesn't make a lot of sense to them. I pray that today they would see their need for Jesus and put their faith and trust in Him. That they might be able to lead in their families with the love and long-suffering of Jesus Christ. As the piano plays this morning, let's give great consideration to these things