And marvel at all of those things. Children are getting ready to go to children's church. You turn to Ephesians Ephesians chapter five. And again, I didn't plan it this way, but But it is fitting. Last week, well, we're talking about roles in marriage and what God has ordained for those roles to be. And so right in the middle of this, we have Valentine's Day yesterday. And so last week we talked about the role of the wife in submission, and that's not such a scary word as what you might think of. When you hear that word submission, we went through all of that last week. Um, it is actually a way to show the right picture of Christ Christ in the church and our relationship to Jesus and the church and our submission to Him. But men, lest you think that You're off the hook, lest you think that you were listening last week and saying, All right, Pastor, you give it to them. I've been waiting years to hear you say that. Um, well, guess what? We have a Passage that's even more challenging for us as husbands and really as men. That last verse we just sang: all those who long to be like Jesus Christ must now Partake in his self-sacrifice. Take up your cross, endure the struggle now. Consider him and marvel at his loss, despising shame. Christ suffered in your place. Sufficient is his grace. Men, that song could be sung to us today as we reflect on the scriptures and what they have to say about our Role in marriage. So important, and we don't want to miss these things. Because You might say, Well, I'm the leader. And so now that we've established my authority, oh, but remember, there's only three verses With, well, technically four, with content for the wives. And there is from verse 25 to 33 eight verses. At least for the men. Jesus has a lot to say for the husbands and their roles. And we need to understand that That this morning. You see, although wives need to unconditionally respect and submit, and we talked about what that That means not in disobedience to God , but the wife choosing to place herself in submission to her husband because it's a picture of submission of Christ. Christ to the church, as the wife does that, the husband, look at verse 25 in Ephesians 5, the husband Must the husbands, all of us love your wives. We must love our wives. And as we I just stop There because we might stop there as husbands and say, Well, yeah, I love my wife. Pastor Brock, you should have seen what I did for her on Valentine's Day. I mean, I racked up some major husband points This last yesterday, and you know, even if you did or you didn't or you were an ultimate fail. Just what we think of as showing love to our wives, folks, really pales and is far insufficient. To what Jesus actually says. Again, you might say, Oh, I love my wife. I tell her that at least once a week. And I do all kinds of things for her. Well, let's see how Paul matches up our love With what it needs to be. Husbands, love your wives. Are you ready for this? As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such Thing that she might be holy and without blemish. In that same way, husbands should love their wives You see, folks, as difficult and as challenging as it may be for wives in this area of submission, Guys, we have the greater challenge. Oh, we only have to love our wives and others around us in the same sacrificial way that Jesus loves them. That's a tall order. And yet the husband's love should reflect Christ's love. To the church. Now, just in case, you're still not impressed, men, by what that means Let's take a look at this in a little more detail. What does this mean, love your wives? What is the example here that we are supposed to To follow, let's look. As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. Folks, this is none other than the unconditional love That Christ showed to those who were unworthy. And yet, he showed grace. He sacrificed. It was unconditional. Not based, and what I'm saying is on other people's actions or behavior or attitude. It was In grace that Jesus showed his love in his sacrifice. The very word, some of you might be thinking of this right now, the very word for love there, in the grace Greek is agape. And agape is used specifically for the sacrificial love that only God can show. to people. And that is applied to Jesus Christ because he gave up himself for her in the sacrifice. Of his very life. So here we have sacrificial love demonstrated. Christ gave his life for the church. And his shed blood and his sacrifice was fully sufficient. And this is why we saying consider him, because we ought to consider these things. And Paul is describing things that only Jesus can do. Let that sit in your minds for a minute. This is the love of God, sacrificial love of God, and only Jesus could accomplish this sacrifice by giving himself Up for people that were rebels against him, and providing them the righteousness that he earned in obeying God's law Right? He took all of our sins, all of our wrongdoings on himself, and he gives us his righteousness for those that put their faith and trust in him. in him and fully in him, not in anything that we do, not in any of our works. But in his grace he provides salvation and cleansing of sin. And the right to be called the sons and daughters of God and be able to live with God for all eternity by his grace When we were fully unworthy, when our actions, behavior, and attitudes were not worthy. So that's all we have to do, men. Show sacrificial love to our wives, to our families, whether or not their attitudes, behavior, or actions are worthy of it. That's a tall order. But then he continues. Jesus sacrifice as well. Verses described there our conversion, our salvation, that Jesus did everything that was necessary for us. us to be saved from our sin, to have relationship with Him, and to avoid the condemnation of eternality apart from God. We talked about this on Sunday school this morning. Terrible eternal judgment in the lake of fire. We escape that because of what Jesus said Accomplished. So he truly is fully sufficient to save us from that condemnation and cleanse us of our sins. He continues that cleansing throughout our lives in an experiential way, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present The church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. And so this describes as we trust Christ and we be become his children throughout the rest of our lives. This is the purification process. This is the progressive sanctification process. The continues And Jesus does this work in our lives through submission to the Spirit. We've talked about this in Ephesians already. The work of the Spirit that draws us and makes us more mature spiritually, Christ accomplished all of that through his sacrifice. It's both a completed action. He cleansed us uh in uh legally from our sins. Sin is no longer charged to our account. But he continues to give us victory over sin in our lives as well. The blood of Jesus Christ, we sang about that this morning, cleanses us from sin. We can be assured of that. It was a one-time act, and yet the Holy Spirit continues to purify us by helping us to understand and directing us in God's Word. And we've talked about all of that in our study. Jesus doesn't just save us and leave us where we are, but he directs and guides us through the Spirit on how to serve Him and before. more pleasing and walk in a worthy way. Jesus does all of this. And as we read this, we go back to then the context here. All of that, would you agree with me Is work that only Jesus can accomplish. And yet it says that husbands must love your wives In that same way. Well, the question, now that the weight of that, the reminder of all that Jesus has done, His cleansing us from sin and his continued purifying, giving us victory in this life till we see him face to face. And now that is seemingly put on our shoulders. Shoulders, men, you should, and it would be appropriate to ask the question how in the world can a husband accomplish this? What it almost, I'll say this carefully. But you could say it seems preposterous to set this kind of responsibility On any person or any man. How can we love in this way? And yet we are called to give of ourselves men For our wives and our families. And we'll describe more about what Paul is talking about in a minute. A mentor of mine, a pastor friend of mine in Greenville. put it this way. He said, even more important than dying for your wife, men, is living for her. None of us will be called Upon to give ourselves as a sacrifice in the way that Jesus was. And none of us can accomplish that atonement, that cleansing of sin. But men, we can live for ourselves wives. And we must show that kind of love. But how do we do this? Is this even possible? Well, Paul continues to give explanation here in verse 20. And I will say this, man, up front, I do believe that this is giving us responsibility to within Our power given through the Holy Spirit, given through Jesus Christ, to lead our families in such a way that we I do believe that we will present Them to Jesus one day. And although we are not responsible for the work that's done within them, we are responsible To say, Lord, to the best of my ability, I led and was an example of Jesus as I could be. And here is my family as my Responsibility. But still, men, we should feel the weight of that. I feel the weight of that. How can I How can I be what Christ is to the church? How can I really substantially be that way towards Christ? And Paul says later on in verse 32, oh, this is a mystery. We'll get to that. It is mysterious. Well, folks, I don't think what Paul is saying here, let's qualify I don't think that he's saying that that that that the wives should be out listening to this today and saying, huh, that's a pretty good deal. So No, if my husband comes home and at the end of the day I kind of check off the list, well, he wasn't like Jesus in this area, wasn't like Jesus in this area, certainly wasn't like Jesus in this area. Well, no love and respect for him. Try again tomorrow. I hope you understand that's not what Paul is saying here. Because Paul does say at the end that the wife must respect her husband, and that is unconditional as well. And it's not even this, certainly, that a wife shouldn't look at her husband and think something like You know, um, if if my husband is not able to help me be the best, best version of me possible. He isn't helping me with the secret sins in my life that that I need to you know to be better in in order to be a better person, then he's not getting any respect or love for me. No, that's not possible either. That's why David calls us , or David calls us to pray and ask the Lord to reveal Reveal sins. A husband can't be the ultimate revealer of the sins of your heart. And let's be candid here: a husband at his best. Can never fully comprehend or fix his wife's or his family's sinful tendencies of their heart. Paul can't be calling us To do that, because folks, that's only something Jesus can do. So men, maybe that will ease the tension a little bit. But we still have an important responsibility. No man can be a flawless reflection of Jesus to his wife and family. But he can strive to be submitted to the Holy Spirit, saying, by God's grace, I will be a reflection of Jesus. Would you agree with me, men, that it's really hard and it really goes against the Bible description here for us to take Any position of I'm the authoritarian and as God's word says, everybody submits to me, just listen to me, I know what's best, and you know, get in line. and uh you know just severe and authoritative. No. The Bible doesn't describe that at all. In fact, it blows up that whole idea by saying that we husbands must live and give ourselves sacrificially for our wives and for our families. Those two ideas are diametrically opposed, and the one sinful idea must give way. Submit, submit, submit. No, sacrifice, sacrifice. Sacrifice, sacrifice for my wife and family. Because I am the example of Jesus in my home. Well, I think Paul as well understands this is a hard ask. And so I think he qualifies it. I think you could say this. I think Paul says, now, since husbands, I've blown your minds with what I've just asked you to To do. And let me be clear, in this time period, in the New Testament time period, this would have been a mind blower. Like the idea of showing love to those under you and your family. Now I remember I I I know that I said last week or a couple weeks ago that in this society that the the woman becoming uh more uh prominent and dominant was happening, but still within the home the the the the husband was the master and people did what was expected of them and for Paul then to say uh husbands you need to love and sacrifice for your wives and your family would have been um a paradigm shift. This would have been something they had to really think on. And so Paul knows this and he says, okay, men, let me give you an example of how you accomplish This. No, you are not Jesus Christ. You cannot atone for the sins of your family. But here's something you can do. Verse 28, the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Paul says, here is a very practical way for you to accomplish this thing that seems almost preposterous. Say that. five times fast. That is this husbands. And he doesn't even he doesn't even condemn them. He's just stating it as a fact. Husbands Husbands, you take really good care of your own bodies. Take the same care that you take care for your own body for your wife's Husbands, do we not do that? We're really good about being zeroing in on our own needs and desires We come home, we're hungry. If you're blessed with a situation where a meal is cooked for you, you enjoy that meal. And then maybe we might go on to the next thing. Without ever really thinking, somebody's got to clean up after this meal. And by the way, as I'm saying that, I'm convicted too. There are areas that uh the Lord continues to work in My heart on this and things. I mean, the Lord, I feel like recently has kind of given me a wake-up call and and looking at things that I normally tend to do, and it's like, okay, wait a minute. If you're not just Loving your own body, but if you're loving your wife as your own body, would you do that? And I have to look and say, No , I wouldn't. When something's hurting man in our bodies, even if it's our if it's our little toe or you know we cut ourselves or something, we can tend to I don't know know about you. I'm not one that likes to make a big fuss when I'm sick or when I've hurt myself, but I let my wife know that there's something serious here and I need to deal with it right away. There are other guys that like to milk it a little bit. Now I'm not going to point anybody out here, but we like to let everybody know when there's something a problem. Because when we're hurting, we want it dealt with. Are we as receptive and as sensitive husbands when our wives are hurting? Are we as concerned for their hurts? Not just physically But spiritually, their emotions. You see, we as husbands, if we're not careful, can be very callous, and we can trample on their their emotional well-being. We're very careful about everything that we want. Oh, I need this me time to be able to relax and do this and this. And even in my own life, I'm thinking through, well, how much time has my wife been able to relax today? Thinking of her as part of my my body, and then the question may be, well, how why would I think of her? I mean, this body is mine, she has her own body. Why would I think of her in the same way? Oh, then Paul reminds us, oh wait, all the way back in Genesis, you remember what Moses said? Verse 31. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife. Cleave to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Oh yeah. We're one flesh. And again, Paul's not condemning the husband for being concerned about what's going on with his own. own body. He just expects that we will do that. But he says, remember, in marriage you, the wife, is a part of your body. Treat and respect her the way that you would treat and respect your own body. There's a lot of conviction in those words. Isn't there men? It's hard. We get so focused on our own schedule and our own routine and things that we need to do that are good, and I tell you, as one that that tends to get distracted I need to do better as well. And remembering, there's a second part. And in marriage, we're cleaved together in unity. What is she going through? What is she having to experience? In our own bodies, men, we can't always fix the hurt. Can we? We go to a doctor or we just suffer through it or whatever, but we are attentive to that hurt. It's not even that we can always fix everything, men, with our wives, and fix The hurt, but we ought to at least know about it. And wives, we're a little dull sometimes. I'm talking about the men. We might need you to point it out to us. I'm sorry to say. We might need a little help once in a while. But men, when we understand that our wives are hurting, we may Not always have the solutions, but we ought to have the concern and the tenderness to say, I'm sorry, can I do anything? If I can't, then let Let me know. 's I'll pray for you, whatever. However, I can help. Because it's the same as if we're in pain. If our wife is in pain, yes, we are in pain too. We share that. Because we're one. And somehow when we act in that way, we are an example Of Christ and his leadership in the church. That's all, guys. That's all you have to do. I think you would agree We need some more attention to that as leaders. We we we tend to be much more self-focused and unaware of the hurts and the concerns of our family and those around us, pastor included. We need to do better. So when I just throw my clothes Down or when I realize the bathroom might need a little bit of cleaning, well, somehow magically it will happen. Yeah, that magic might come from me instead of someone else. Well thankfully the Bible also gives us other indications, not just this. You might say, well, Pastor Brock, is that it? Well let me just briefly, because again we're talking about how is it possible for the husband to reflect Jesus Christ. Christ in his marriage to this extent. And in fact, I think you would agree with me that in many ways what Paul has described in these verses, it's impossible for the husband to do. Remember, ladies, that Paul isn't saying if your husband isn't the perfect example of Christ, then he's not worthy of your time. No. We are always going to fall way short of the example of Christ. And so Paul is giving these examples. He gives another example. Besides, hey, don't be so self-focused on your own body, men. Also realize That your wife is your body too. Pay attention to her. Be concerned for her. In Colossians 3:19, we read it in our scripture reading today: husbands, love your wives and do not be harsh with them. And then Peter chimes in in 1 Peter 3: Husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel. Oh, well that's helpful. Here are some more ways that we can reflect our leadership in the home as Jesus His leader over the church. Husbands , just stop being ornery and harsh with your family. With your wife. I will admit that I grew up in a home where, well How do I put this? That people were more free to vocalize their concerns and their frustrations in a vocal and maybe sometimes loud way. My wife, on the other hand, grew up in a home where the and I love my in-laws. Praise the Lord. I praise the Lord for my in-laws all the time. Things are quieter there. If there is a conflict, if there's a concern, the voices aren't raised very much, so they keep it at a certain level. So you you put two people together that are used to these different environments, and guess what? It's going to take a while to learn. That your what you're used to growing up could very well cause major damage to someone who's not used to that. And so maybe when I'm talking and I'm saying things in a strip Stern strict way that to me sounds actually and I I can be honest with this, as I always am, but it it to me it sounds like this is this is moderate. This is okay. And everything, and yet it may very well not be. It's just what I used to growing up with. And so I have learned, probably I think it has taken me too long long to learn, but I've learned be careful. If I think my voice is too strong and too angry, dial it down. Even if I don't think that. Be careful. I'm learning. But it's very practically. God says, don't be harsh, be gentle, be sensitive with your wife. And then do your best to understand them, men. That can be hard sometimes. You have different backgrounds, two different genders. You know, we tell our young couples this when we're counseling them before marriage. I uh we will Leslie and I will point out, even your vocabulary you will find In different homes is quite a bit different. The same words that you used in your home many times have a different meaning in someone else's home. And so when you You're saying things, you're like, this is what we always said, and this is what we meant, and then the other person is hurt by that. Like, why would you be hurt by that? I'd I've never considered that that would be the meaning of that word. That's not Not what I meant at all. I don't understand. That happens on both sides. There's a lot of communication and work That has to happen for us men to understand our wives. It doesn't come naturally. And here's what happens a lot of times. We get busy and we get we get intent on our own schedules and what we have have to do and we can tend to come home and be with our wives and our family and say, look, I'm trying to understand you, but I don't have time right now. Look, I have tried for the last five minutes to understand That's not what Peter is describing here. It means that as much as is possible Your whole lives, the rest of your married lives, husband, do your best. At least let her see you're trying to understand. Even if we never do. There may be some things that are a mystery to us in what our spouse does, and we may never fully understand. And yet they need to see that we're trying. I think I've mentioned that one once or twice, you know, uh in conversations that Leslie and I have had. I'm like, I'm I'm trying to understand. And showing honor to the woman as a weaker vessel. Now that's not part of our passage today, so I'm not even gonna go into the topic. Sorry, we don't have time today to talk about that. But I will say uh that that honor again is in total um contrast to what we tend to as men or in our society in the past has thought of as far as submission. The woman has to submit under my authority, and yet here Peter says no, um in your leadership you honor The wife. You be grateful for her. Be thankful for her. Give her the benefit of the doubt. Do your kids know? And this has always been a conviction to me when I think of this way: do the kids know that I am honor my wife in what I say and do. Man, I'm feeling convicted even now. But they should Now, men, the Bible gives us that list to help us to realize it still is a daunting task. But Paul is not calling us to be Jesus Christ in a way that only Jesus could accomplish. And we all know there's no way That I could. But we can in our lives follow these principles that We treat our wives as we treat ourselves. That we're not harsh, but we're gentle with them. That we do our best to try to understand what they're going through. And that we give honor to them. Oh, it's still hard. But with the power of the Holy Spirit, the power of Christ within us, it is I'm not going to give an example of all the times that I have failed in this because we'd be here too long. So I will give you one example of a time early on in our marriage where Where I did I did feel like I followed through on this. It was actually, I believe, our first year of marriage. And I was finishing up a master of divinity degree in seminary. At Bob Jones University, and Leslie was teaching Spanish at the university to help supplement our income. And so the university allowed us to stay in an apartment. They're in one of the guys' dorms. They still do that to this day. Young couples, first floor of the dormitory area, and let me tell you, that's a unique experience. When you're in bed trying to go to sleep at night and you can hear the the men wrestling above you and boom boom boom. I mean it's just totally unique. Well We had a nice little kitchenette there, and uh this was around Thanksgiving, our first Thanksgiving. And we were so excited because well we weren't excited that we didn't have family there, but it was like We weren't able I we're weren't able to travel to my family's in Florida or Leslie's family in in Maryland and we said we're gonna have our nice little first Thanksgiving as a couple and this is gonna be great. And Leslie, praise the Lord, she's a w wonderful cook. Her mother mentored her well. She does a great job. So I'm looking at all the things on the menu. I'm like, oh this is gonna be great. Look at all this. And the turkey, the turkey. Well, I'd also recently had a a um um a surgical procedure that had kind of I I had the uh It was care I had to carefully get around a little bit more. Um and so that morning I remember um getting up and Leslie got up early and was working in the kitchen and I trying to carefully carefully move my way to um the r the bathroom and got my shower and everything and all of a sudden as I was finishing up I heard the screech the not screech a scre A cry of discontent. And it scared me. But at the same time, I couldn't just rush right in, so I'm kind of hobbling in, trying to see what is going on. on and the first thing I see is a beautiful woman in tears and a turkey all over the kitchen floor and gravy everywhere. Now, folks, at that moment, I was not feeling the best physically. I was tired. I was looking forward to that meal. And yet the Holy Spirit impressed upon my heart, now is the time to choose your words carefully. And so, first of all, I said, are you okay? Are you okay? And there was a lot of tears. And she explained that the pan that she was using as she was Pulling it out, there's something with the stove. She was pulling it out, and sure enough, that turkey just slid right off that pan, right under the floor. I'm like, it's okay. Second thing I I said, if I remember correctly, was it's not a big deal. We can always order out. The most important thing is that you're okay. And you know, she was a Excited about making a big presentation for her new husband and all of this, and there it was on the floor. And so I got ready for the day and went in there and We took our time cleaning it up. And then we looked the turkey over, and we actually looked at it and said, you know, uh, you keep a really clean floor, Leslie. This turkey's gonna be okay. We did have it that day, didn't we? Yeah. And it was fine. And I saved a couple bucks at the restaurant. But I'll never forget that. Because in that moment I could have said, there's all kinds of things that I could have said. And yet I was careful to be gentle and not be harsh. Thinking, if this were me, how would I I want someone to treat me. And God got us through that. And we had a great, we had a great Thanksgiving. Wonderful memories. And that's just one of them. Did I do that all the time? No. And so as we look at this, as we finish up this morning, we still might say, but that That's a hard thing to do. And Paul addresses that in verse 32. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ in the church. But I also think Paul is saying this. He's saying the whole concept of Jesus being the head of the church. And a lot of times we come to this passage. And we get kind of preoccupied or distracted about Jesus and the church as his bride. Really, the real the the main emphasis here is Jesus as the head of the church. And as we think through this, we might think, well, how does my example as a husband and reflect Jesus in the church. And Paul says, well the whole thing about Jesus Christ being le the leader, the head, and the churches His body is true, but it's a mystery. We're never going to fully understand it. How can we understand fully the fact Jesus sacrificed His life for us and gave his all for the church, and now as a church we're his body, we do his bidding, but that whole picture we understand it, but it's still kind of wild Wow, that's we marvel at it. And so then how as husbands are we supposed to reflect that? Well, I think there's some mystery to that too. The mysterious nature of Christ and the church will reflect. remain complex for the husband as well. So what do we do? Men, we don't get it. Go back to the list. Ticket off. Have I honored my wife? Am I being careful with her? Am I treating her the way That I treat my own body. And Paul says at the end, it's a mystery. So let's go back to the basics in verse 33. You'll never fully be able to understand it. So, husbands, love your wife as yourself, as your own body. And wives, just respect your husbands Both of these are unconditional. And we may marvel and say, I'll never understand fully the picture of Christ as the head of the church. But somehow, husbands, when we honor our wives and show love in this way, and wives, when we show respect and in doing that, love to our our husband, somehow this picture is made clear, or this is a a good picture to the world of Christ in the church in ways we'll never fully be able to comprehend. But here's the incentive and the motivation as we finish this morning. When we submit to the Holy Spirit and we're walking worthy of the Lord, and husbands are honoring and loving their wives in this way, and that way Wives are submitting, choosing to submit and respecting their husbands. The world looks at that and says, that ain't normal. Something powerful is going on there. Look at the way that couple respects and loves each other. I want to know more about what's going on in that family. And by God's grace we're an example of Christ's love for the church. Who knows? By the very Every example of our marriages, we might have opportunity to direct someone to Jesus Christ. Isn't that worth it all? I think so. Father, this is good reminders for all of us, including myself You don't call us to be Jesus in a way that only Jesus can do. You don't call men, husbands, to atone and to cleanse Sin, no, but we somehow, in an almost mysterious way, are to reflect your love and sacrifice for the church. Thank you for these very practical Examples that you give us in Scripture to something that's almost incomprehensible. Father, help us as husbands to look beyond our own needs and see See the needs of our wife who is a part of us and be ready to meet her needs, and not to be stern or angry, but to be gentle and Lord, we need Jesus' help to do that. And then to honor our wives, to understand Understand. Lord, it's hard for any two people to really fully understand. You're the only one that understands hearts, and yet help us to live in a way where we are doing our best to be understood. Standing towards each other in our marriages and in our families and in our church. Lord, we we agree. We need your help. We need the power of Jesus Jesus to help us in this. So bring that today. Illuminate our hearts and give us understanding about how this is possible so that our marriages can be an example of the love of Christ. Christ, and we might be able to be a testimony to this broken dark world that so desperately needs an example of that. Lord, if there's someone here today who does not know Jesus as their Savior, may today be the day that they trust in faith Jesus Christ. Trust in Him for their salvation, their cleansing of sin, and they might better understand the sacrificial love of Christ. In their own lives. Folks, let's think and meditate on these things as the piano plays