Talks in there in that song about God's mighty arm. And in our passage that we're going to look at this morning, there is a young Young lady who is singing a song, and she sings of that powerful, mighty arm that is her salvation. Now If you think about young lady and you think it's Christmas, then you probably guess I'm talking about Mary. We're gonna look at Mary's song, as I like to call it, Mary's Christmas song. this morning. You can turn to Matthew to Luke chapter 1. And this is our focus, our Christmas message, and it'll probably Bill into just a little bit next week at the end of our service, our Christmas service. But the focus is on Mary this morning from God. God's Word, but it's not in the way many religions focus on Mary. We're not focusing on Mary this morning as some sort of patron saint. Who is sinless and therefore worthy of bearing the Christ child. See, Mary, by her own testimony, folks, will have none of that. We have a response. From this very vulnerable, probably young lady who receives this incredible message That her people have been waiting for for over a thousand years. And she finds out that she is going to be the blessed one who will give birth to the Messiah, the Savior. And we see what her responses are to what God is doing in her life. And so her first response is to an angel. Now, this isn't the text that we're going into to get to this morning, but uh I will assume that you are somewhat familiar with the story in verse 26 as this angel Gabriel And notice the trajectory here, the agenda that God has set forth. Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. And before that, we have all these details, and we continue to have all these details of the people and the times and the locations. Some people want to take the Christmas story and um take the literalness out of it and make it just an inspiring inspiring, perhaps, series of inspiring um stories that the church just came up with to make people feel good this time of year. But folks, the Bible Narrators don't allow us to do that. You can't make up you can't have a fairy tale that's inspirational but not real when you have specific dates and people and locations. This is either Real or it's a lie. You only have two options. And so we have specifics here. The angel's name is Gabriel, and he gives her Her this wonderful after he calms her down, this amazing greeting. Greetings, O favored One. The Lord is with you. And she was troubled, as you might be if you were in a room alone and meditating on your thoughts. And an angel appeared to you. You might be a little freaked out by that. And Mary had to get her wits about her, and she was discerning what's going on here. And the angel said, Don't be afraid, don't be worried. Mary, I am from God. You have found favor with God. And that doesn't mean in any way that she was some sort of sinless individual. As Mary Mary herself will point out here in a minute that she was then worthy to bear the Christ's child. It really has the idea that God had favored this young lady. God had chosen her. It was God's favor upon her because God chose and favored her in that way It was God's work, not her character. Although, from what we know of the life of Mary, she was certainly a devout person who loved God. This is God's favor on her. And he said, Behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Jesus, and he will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And so she gets this marvelous message, you will bear a king. You marry a very home Circumstances here in Nazareth. You're engaged to a carpenter , betrothed. You will bear a king, and he will reign For all eternity, and he is the Messiah. And can you imagine all the questions that would go through your mind? What must a God gone through Mary's mind. And yet the only question, her her response to this, is really very simple. First of all, she says, how will this be since I am a virgin? I am pure. I have kept myself for my husband. How is this possible? See, we need to understand this is not a sinful doubt. Like Zachariah experienced. But this is Mary not doubting, but she believes, and so in her belief, she says, wait a minute, how is this possible? I am pure. I have been an obedient servant. I've not given myself over to a man. I've waited till marriage. How can this be? Morally. That's where she believes. But things don't add up. And so her response is to be perplexed. And of course the angel tells her, oh, this will be a work of the Holy Spirit. Verse 35, the Holy Spirit will come upon And therefore the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. That's ever taken place in the history of the world, Mary. And God will do this through his spirit. So there's nothing immoral about this all. It's pure. And you will bear a son. And he is the promised one from the Lord. line of David. And then the g the angel base uh graciously gives her a sign behold your relative Elizabeth that in her old age has also come Conceived a son, and this is a six-month with her who is called barren. Mary, you didn't ask for one, but we're going to give you a sign. Your cousin Elizabeth Is going to have a son in her old age. And so that is a sign for you, Mary. If your elderly relative Elizabeth can have a child. then certainly God is going to produce this miracle in you as well. How can any of this be possible? Well That overarching, beautiful verse, verse 37, right? For nothing will be impossible with God. And there's no more question. God's going to do it. Okay. The response then from God's people should be expectation. And so still though, even with that understanding of what our response should be, I think there was quite a few. Few things going through Mary's mind, don't you? There had to have been. I'm sure there were many things that she wondered about. And yet, what is her response? It's beautiful in its simplicity. She doesn't ask any more questions. She says, okay, God's going to do it. So I submit. Verse 38. And Mary said, Behold, I am the Servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. God, do what you want. I'm your servant. I follow and I submit to whatever ye However, you want to use my life. Now, aren't those beautiful words, folks, for any servant of God at any time? But even more amazing for Mary with all the questions that she surely had. She humbles herself before God, and that is her first response to this incredible, amazing, once-in-a-lifetime, once-in-a-world history moment. Is that she submits and acquiesces and does not question what God is going to do in her life. Folks, God allows things into our lives that are far less spectacular and perplexing, and yet Many times we're tempted to question him and wonder why he is doing this, and maybe to get bitter or angry. I think all of us can learn a lot from this simple response from this simple servant. This lowly servant Mary, and how she responds to this incredible news. But what we want to focus on this morning is her second response. And so let's continue further in this chapter. And I think this what this tells us again is. Background here is that we can really relate to Mary because as she contemplates and as she travels to see Elizabeth, her relative, and she greets Elizabeth and of course Elizabeth is already with child and the baby leaps in her womb and Elizabeth is filled with the spirit Elizabeth Proclaims in a loud voice, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me to me. For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what had was spoken to her from the Lord. Mary responded in belief and Elizabeth now is honoring her not for her sinlessness not for her as being a candidate for some One that we pray to one day, but because of her simple faith, her trust and dependence in Jesus. You know, Mary and Elizabeth really their cultural experience isn't too far removed from her own. As I said before, I think Mary had to deal with questions about what God was doing in her life. Life. There were arrogant people in her society that rejected God, and that bothered her. She was of a populace of um those that were many times overlooked and disdained. She wasn't from a wealthy family. She wasn't from a famous distinct Distinguished family. And yet through all of this, she she was in some ways at A stage in life that was she was most vulnerable. She was the vulnerable, the overlooked in society. And yet, she is going to present a song this morning. That does not focus on any doubts or fears or misunderstandings that she has, but she's going to just simply I know there's been some modern songs out that reflect more on And Mary's doubts and her fears and her anxiety, and certainly she had to deal with that. But I think it is interesting, folks, and when it comes to a song of Mary from Scripture. There's none of that. It's joy and confidence about what God is doing in her life. So Mary's Christmas song Is her reflection on the coming of Messiah, and it should be our meditation and our reflection. Her song should be our song this morning as we look at it together. Verse 47 And we see here even the beginning of this song. By the way, in case, just to help a little bit here, in Latin it's called what? The Magnificant, right? And there's a reason for that in the first verse. And Mary said , says there that she stated, but this is a psalm. A song. of Mary. My soul magnifies the Lord and magnify in Latin becomes magnificent. And so that's where we get that today. This is Mary's soul. And she praises God for her work, for his work in her life. And Mary responds to God's blessing in her life. And she's overjoyed. Let's continue to read. My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior, for He has looked on the humble estate of His servant. For behold, from now on, all generations will Call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. Here she looks at what God is doing in her life. And there's not indicated any fear or concern or anxiety, but it's joy that God would bless her in this way. It's gratitude. She's overjoyed in her inward being. That's her soul. And because of that joy that wells up, as she can see the work of God, she's Her elderly relative that is with child, and the child leaps in the womb. And Mary says, This is happening. God is doing. He is giving me signs. And he's doing what he's promised he would do for our people for generations, and he's going to use me. And that doesn't make me arrogant. But deep within my soul and my heart, there's a joy And it just spills out of her in the psalm of faith and in her confidence in her God. Note again to contrast the modern idea of Mary. There's no praise and no self-glorification in this of her at all. She gives all the glory to God. And she's confident in the work that he is going to do in her. She says, For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. And from behold, and for behold, from now on, all generations will call me blessed. That idea of humble estate is Is one that comes from unnoticed or looked over society, people that weren't noticed very much, that had humble financial Financial situations that didn't have very much. You know, folks, you may be in that category this morning. You may not have a whole lot from a worldly perspective. You may not have great gains. Maybe you are in desperate straits this morning in many ways. And such you can't even talk about it or tell us about that. But what does Mary say, even as she says she looked he has looked on the humble estate of his service? Servant servant, and now all generations will call me blessed. Don't miss this. The more desperate straits we are in, the more we should anticipate Our Lord's coming. She is anticipating the coming of Jesus Christ. Even through all the things that she's had to suffer through. And folks, when we come to this time of year and we're depressed and we're discouraged about what's going on in our life, it really ought to push us to then rejoice and focus more on what's coming. Not on what's happening right now, but what's happening and what will happen in the future when Jesus comes. And Mary looks to that first coming as she will give birth to the Savior. But we today have an even greater source of contentment and joy, and that is that Jesus is coming Again. And so no matter how humble your estate is right now, be encouraged. Jesus is coming again. And he will bless us with the eternal blessings of heaven that'll be far beyond anything that we could experience. In this life. The more desperate you are, the more we anticipate our Lord's coming, and that will lift you from your despair. So from her innermost being, praise and exaltation again for God and His sovereignty and His plan, well up in her What does it mean to magnify the Lord anyway? Don't miss this. In the Greek, the word magnify means really to magnify Make God great in your own life and to lift Him up as your only focus of worship. Many times during the Christmas season, we tend to get very self-focused, don't we? Let's just be candid again. All that we have to do, all that we've lost, the difficulties that we're going through. Mary reminds us that we need to take the focus off of ourselves and magnify our Lord Jesus Christ. She has this uh focus that making him great in her own life and then offering Also witnessing and testifying to others of how great he is. And folks, if you can if if you can submit to what the Lord is doing in your life and you can Come to that point through dependence in Him that regardless of what you're going through, God is magnified and lifted up in your heart And you're able to give testimony of the goodness of God in your life, then despair and discouragement can't win. To be defeated by the worship of the Lord in our lives. And as she continued then to meditate on God's salvation, his saving plan. And she began to realize that she would play a part in it. That's what filled her life with joy. Again, my spirit, my soul, my innermost being rejoices in it in God, my savior. He's going to save his people through me and use me as the best to birth the savior. He's not going to save the world through her, but the savior will come through her. And she says, I'm not worthy of this. Who am I? I'm a nobody. Praise and glory to God for his marvelous plan. He, verse 49, who is mighty, has done great things for me. And holy is his name. No, there are another aspect of this, folks, if you're going through discussion. I believe this with all my heart. The more we meditate on the gospel and on God's saving plan, and the picture of all that's around us, the birth of Christ and his death on the cross, and his resurrection, and the power to cleanse us from sin and reconcile us with God, the more we focus on the power of God, the gospel. the more our hearts will set into the right spirit of Christmas and of the Christian life. Kingdom citizens should often reflect on the glories of the gospel. And so if we're here today and we're struggling and and we're We're going through some low points. Could I suggest to you that maybe you haven't meditated on the gospel enough? Maybe you haven't meditated on the salvation that comes through Jesus. Maybe this morning you've never trusted in Jesus as your Savior and you don't have that faith relationship. And of course then the meaning of Christmas would be dark to you and things would be dark because you You don't know him as your Savior. But for those of us that know him, our delight in his willingness to say Brings joy and awe and wonder. That is how we can best enjoy This time of year. The more we meditate on God's salvation plan this season, the more joy we will experience. And let me point out something else here as well. Go back to verse 47. Notice she says, My spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Don't miss that, because that's the counter to what people tend to do with Mary today. And in religion. What is Mary saying here? Mary is making it clear that she personally needs a savior. That she needs a savior from her sin. She's admitting she's a sinner as well. She needs a savior. The very one that she would birth give birth to. She needs She's not sinless. She's not someone that we should pray to, but she's someone in need of prayer, just like the rest of us. She's much more like us in a lot of ways than we realize. A lot of times. And Mary says, I need a Savior, and God is providing him, and so I respond in joy and his blessings and his work in my life. I'm overwhelmed. And then she continues to discuss the blessings. Again, her lowliest state. When she says the humblest Of her servant, of his servant. She's really saying, I don't deserve this focus. I don't deserve this honor. I don't deserve this favor of God. I'm just a small girl from a small town. I mean, who knows anything about Nazareth? Or later on we'll find out that it said, can anything good come out of Nazareth? Ew. And Mary says, I am of humble estate. God had no obligation to even notice that I existed. And he did, and he's going to make me the mother of The Messiah. She's overwhelmed. It boggles her mind. And she realizes that God is in the business of exalting those from a humble estate. She knows that God in his grace has given her a special honor. And she also senses in ways that she'll not be able to fully realize. I think she realizes more today that this is going to change her life forever. And it's really going to change the course of world history. folks and as she just even tries to think and meditate and marvel on that She is filled with praise and adoration for the God that could accomplish these things. Again, verse 48. When he has looked on the humble estate of his Servant, and behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. She's not bragging here. She's not in any way referring to the fact that one day people might pray to She's saying that God in his grace is going to do something amazing here, and people throughout the rest of history will know that he did something. And he used a common ordinary vessel to birth the Savior, the Messiah. She's not an any way arrogant over this. She's marveling. And she's realizing that this son that she's going to give birth to is going to provide salvation for generations. And that she will be remembered for her humility in God's favor and grace on her, not for her sinlessness. But she will be remembered as another vehicle of God's grace, because it's not all about Mary. Verse 49: For he who is mighty has done great things for For me, and holy is his name, the mighty warrior of Israel has done great things for her As we finish up this morning, we'll look more at the song in the weeks ahead. Well at least next week. I have a question for you. What is our response when we realize in our lives that God has graced us with blessing? Mary here is uh in just in awe of what God is doing in her life. But what is our response? You know, if nothing else God has visited us with the most amazing grace in sending His Son, Jesus Christ, for our sins that we can have faith relationship, that we can Can be cleansed and forgiven of our sins, and uh that we can have life with Him. Whatever else we're suffering through this morning, folks, we have the grace Greatest grace of all, and that is that we can have relationship with Jesus Christ. And so here's I think Mo Mary is pointing this out when God's grace visits us things are never the same again they can never be because God is such a great God and he gives such a good Gifts and when his grace visits us, that ought to change our lives forever. We should never be the same. And literally, when you put your faith in Jesus Christ this morning, folks, if you're here and you haven't done that yet, your life will change for eternity in a wonderful, beautiful way. When God shows us his grace, things are never the same. So maybe if we're discouraged or concerned this morning, maybe we just haven't reflected enough on God's good grace to our lives. And the great things that He has done. It's He who is mighty and done these things. She says, holy is his name, certainly holiness Implies sinlessness, right? We would expect God, sinless. But here Mary is really emphasizing his uniqueness and power and authority. I think she may be thinking back. to actually Psalm 50. Psalm 50 is a Psalm of Asaf, actually, and it became Begins in verse 1, the mighty one, God the Lord, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting. Our God comes, he does not keep silent. Before him is a devouring fire, around him a mighty Tempest, and um it talks about the mighty one, the warrior, and Mary is referring to him, he who is mighty The mighty warrior has come and done great things for me. And so he is unique in power and authority. The all-powerful, all authoritative, unique one has Has seen me in my insignificance and blessed me beyond measure. Oh, he's worthy of all my praise and all my song. I'm not worthy. If Mary could see some of the misinterpretations of her today, I'm certain she would be appalled. She rejoices and is glad because of what God has done in her life to someone who does not deserve it. And folks, are we that way as well this morning? Are we filled with wonder and joy because God has visited us things that we do not deserve? We should be. He is Almighty. He can do all things. This reminds me. Now I'm going from the sublime to the very Maybe insignificant, but I always like to throw a story in. We have. I've had the privilege of being a youth pastor here for many years. And before we left to go to New Hampshire. Um our youth group had grown to at times we'd have almost fifty, um, and that was a real blessing. It was it was had its own unique challenges too, but uh for a while while there. We we had a large group and I did this every summer and we actually did it this last summer. It was something I called um I forgot Destination unknown. And we would go on a Wednesday night, we would have singing, and we would have the message, and then I would announce an unknown destination that we would go to and enjoy food and fellowship. And one night in particular, it happened to be one of my favorite places. The Forest Hill, not Chick-fil-A, although I love Chick-fil-A. It was a Forest Hill And can you imagine squeezing all those young people and if you've ever been over there to that little place? That was quite an experience. And there was a lot of energy and everybody was excited, and the coffee was flowing, so there was a lot more. energy and we were having a great time. And the um the owners and the workers realized, you know, we have more people here in an evening than we probably ever had before. And they were Excited about it too. And one of the managers actually brought around a plate of munchkins and was happy, and he was giving them to us, and we were happy. It was a beautiful time. Happiness and joy. We had one young man, his name is Kent. Actually, next summer we'll have the privilege of marrying him and his fiance, uh Laura McCall. Anyway, if you know Kent, he lives in the house next to Restoration Farm. If you've ever seen him, he is a spitting image of Clark Kent, aka Superman. And he played uh football for um the the Saints, um for the FCA for for many seasons. Uh he he was a muscular guy. Not a tall guy, but he was a muscular guy and he looked apart. You put a pair of glasses on him. I mean, so we make Named him Superman, of course, and he um was excited to be there and he he started arm wrestling a bunch of the guys, those that were foolish enough to try, and he was beating them all. And so somebody got the bright idea and said, Pastor Brock, you should arm Russell Kent. I'm like, no way. But what Ken didn't realize in all of his preparation and muscularity was that I was a young father who had to carry babies and young boys all over the place and carry um carriages and all sorts of things. And beyond What I realized I actually had bulked up quite a bit. So I sat down, I guess it was the the peer pressure. I said, Well, this is gonna be quick, and we grabbed Arms or or hands, and we went back and forth, and he would get me down, and I would come back up because the coffee kicked in, and then I would get him close, and it was back and forth for over five Five minutes. And finally we just had to call it a draw. Because nobody could win because of our mighty arms Well, right before we left to go to New Hampshire, uh this was foolish of me, but I said, Kent, just for one last time, for old time's sake, let's do it again. Now I hadn't been carrying around babies and young children as much anymore. I was getting a little flabby, and so we did it, and there wasn't as many people around, thankfully. But it was really quick, folks. It wasn't any I mean it was basically so much so that his fiance, Laura, said, Why did you do that? It made him look so bad I said it's okay. Kent had a mighty arm. He could do mighty things. And our youth group could do Tell you stories about that. God had blessed him in that way. Well, folks, what Mary is saying here, we'll see this next week. As well. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. In the midst of the uncertainty of the details of what is happening to her, Mary is responsible Responding and is certain in the character of her God, Yahweh of Israel. And that confidence in his mighty arm. Causes a glad, joyous response within her. And I am convinced of this: that the more we meditate on the mighty arm of our God and less on our own circumstances, the more gladness and joy we will experience. Holiday season as well. Try it. Mary lets us know. Rejoicing in joy and singing God's Greatness are things that every child of God should be able to experience for those that don't deserve it. Father, thank you for Mary's song. We only got halfway through it, Lord. And yet it is a deep encouragement to us. This is a young woman who knew her frailty. Who knew her sin? But she had confidence in your plan for her life. She believed. She had faith. And that gave her great joy as she contemplated her great future because of her Savior. So, Father, my prayer is again today if there's someone here who has not trusted in the Savior, the one with the mighty arm Jesus Christ, that today and in this Christmas season they would humble themselves before you and put their faith and trust. In the babe and the manger, who is our savior, and will one day reign as King of the world, King of the mountain. Today may they put their faith and trust in Him And Father, for the rest of us, as we think again of your majesty and grace and sovereignty, let us be encouraged. And give us hearts of joy this season as we reflect on your power and your glory. As Leslie plays, you take some time to reflect on the power and glory of our great God.