That we started a couple weeks ago. So turn back to Luke chapter 1. And this last Sunday of December in 2024. It still seemed appropriate, certainly, to finish this out, but to see Mary's joy and her thoughts on the Savior. So Luke chapter one and verse forty six And this is Mary's Christmas song, in Latin known as the Magnificant. Quoted and recited many times. But you could say this is Mary's Christmas song, you could say this is her salvation song, as she recognizes the salvation that will come Through the one who she is bearing at that moment. The magnitude of that must have been astounding to her. I will again take for granted that you know the background. We covered this a few weeks ago. It is the Christmas story of the angel Gabriel appearing to Mary. And And Mary's first response to the news that she was going to be the mother of the Messiah, the Christ child, was her first response was not doubt, but it was almost Um it wa it was a matter of incredulity um from the standpoint of that she knew that she was a moral person, that she had followed God's law, that she had been obedient. Wasn't perfect, but she was morally pure. And so she asked, How can this be? I've been obedient to God. And the angel Gabriel made it clear Clear that it would be a miracle of God that she would conceive and bear a son. The Holy Spirit Himself would do this work. And so everything was above board and righteous and right. And that gave Mary great relief. And out of all the questions that she could have had, she merely received Responded to the angel with, let it be. Your servant is ready for whatever you would call upon me to do or to experience. And again, that's a Amazing, remarkable testimony, folks. Oh, that we had that in our lives on a regular basis. Instead of the complaining and the doubt. That many times comes up and that we experience and that we voice to others. So often, if we'd have Mary's spirit and just say, Lord, I don't understand it all, but Whatever you desire for my life, I submit to it. Um we would be even more useful servants. And what that did then, that brought a sense of pure, amazing joy to Mary's heart. And so she goes to visit Elizabeth and then she gets the second sign that Elizabeth is great with child, just like Gabriel the angel said, Elizabeth at her age, Elizabeth, a relative of Mary, with child. And as Mary approaches, the child within Elizabeth does, I don't know, a somersault Something of that nature makes it clear that there is something special going on here. And uh Mary just erupts then in a song of praise. And that's what we have in verse 46. We've covered half of this already, but we ought to go back to the beginning and make sure we have the basis for the rest of this. Verse 46, Mary said, My soul magnifies, it makes much of, I praise and exalt the Lord. And my spirit rejoices. There is a deep sense of joy and happiness in God, my Savior. And again, Mary Is making it clear here that she needs a savior too. She's not perfect. She's not immaculate. She needs, she's a sinner that needs the salvation. That will come from the one that she will bear. He is my Savior too, Mary says. For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant, and behold, from now Now on all generations will call me blessed. Not because she was deserving of that imperfection, but the fact that God was going to do an amazing thing. Work through this normal average vessel. And she says, that is what people will remember. For he who is mighty has done great things for me. And holy is his name, and his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. Her testimony is here that he has done power Powerful things in her life, things that she did not deserve. Mary is also making it clear here that she deserved none of this. And yet. God in his grace was willing to show his power in her life. And that he is the unique above all others, God. It is his name that he is going to magnify. And yet, in the midst of his purity and holiness, he has mercy for those who will follow, who will accept, who will bow before him. And you think of many in the Christmas story that bow before God, Mary herself, Joseph, the shepherds, eventually later on, two years later. The wise men. These are people that are acknowledging their need to worship God. And so she says, for those that will bow before him Him, fear him, who will worship him. , There is great mercy. And she's saying from generation to generation, what she's pointing out, it's not just me. Yes, this is my personal experience. But she's pointing out for all of those that will hear this song throughout the annals of time, this is for you too, for the generations that will follow and will follow and will hear my song. You can experience this mercy. You can experience this power. Not in the birth of the Christ Christ child, obviously that was a one But God can do powerful things in our lives as well. Well. And so this is her personal testimony. Mary is praising God for the work in her life. She's responding to God's blessings in her life. She's describing God's blessings in her life, but now she moves on to talk to us. She moves on beyond her own personal situation and says, God has things that he wants to do in his people's lives as well. She and she expands this to all of God's people. And she expands this thus to all of us today who are here. Trust in Christ. She is giving testimony to us as well of the things that God will do. And she will point out in the rest of her song. From verses, well, we've covered verse 50, but from 51 to 55, she will praise God for his work amongst all of his people, and she'll describe his mercy. Merciful work for his people. So back to fifty one. She's now talking to us Us. I have experienced his mercy and his power. You can experience this too. Verse 51. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from the Their thrones, and exalted those of humble estate. But he has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty I should go back to verse 50 and point something out here that that word mercy is a very special word. That word mercy in the Hebrew is. And you have to kind of get that worked up almost in the back of your throat. That's a kind of Hebrew word. Chesed. And it's a beautiful word that means God's loyal love that He shows To people that are undeserving, and yet he shows them his grace anyway. And that fiend can Continues throughout the rest of this passage. Those that will worship him, those that will submit to him, those that will bow the knee in fear and awe of his grace and His power. There is mercy for these people. And he will always be faithful to them. That verse 51 again, he has shown strength with his arm. That is a illustration, a picture. Of his omnipotence, his power, his power over all creation, over the world, over our lives. And his mighty arm can do all the most wonderful, powerful things. I gave you a couple weeks ago that story of the young person in our youth group, Kent, with that powerful arm that he would arm wrestle people and he would almost always win. And eventually he beat his youth pastor as well. Because God had given him strength and he was able to do Do marvelous things. Well, here Mary is pointing out that God is all powerful. If I could put it this way, he wins every arm wrestling contest. He's the unarguable winner. He wins every time. And she says that's good news for those like myself. That are humble, that have bowed before him, that have bowed the knee, that have recognized him as our Lord and Savior. That is good news for us. It's bad news News for those that rebel against him. It's bad news for those that shake their fists, the proud, that will not magnify him in their heart. The mighty power, the mighty arm of God is not good news to these people because he will bring correction and destruction. He will scatter the proud. He will not allow them to be king on the mountain, but they will fall, they will be scattered, they will run from him if they will not submit and acquiesce. To his lordship in their lives. Mary is calling for us to trust Verse 52, he has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. These mighty on their thrones are the Most powerful rulers at that time. And throughout world history. And she is saying, those that have had the greatest power in world history God will bring them down. They will not last forever. And if you think about world history at that point, it's fully Unarguably true. All the great empires that from that point before Mary had come on the scene and been given this miraculous message. You had the Assyrians, you had the Persians , you had the Babylonians, all of these world powers And these kings. We talked about Nebuchadnezzar, the great king, this morning, and how God humbled him and knocked him off of his throne. And God would do that with all of these great terrifying nations that God God would allow to be in power for just a little bit of time in the big picture of world history. And then God would scatter them, would bring them down. While Mary was living, the world was under the power of Rome. Rome, people looked at Rome and the Caesars and thought this. Many thought this must be the epitome of world power and strength, and some worship to the Caesars as gods, as you know. And yet, it wasn't but a few hundred years later, Rome was scattered and destroyed, and world history marched on. You think of The leaders today that we tend to be intimidated by. The world leaders throughout recent history , Hitler, Stalin, at the At their time, people were fearful of them, and they did terrible things to people, and they did a lot of destruction, and a lot of people, uh, thousands, millions of people lost their lives. And people cowered before these men, and yet in God's timing, they're no more. They're off the scene. Any ruler or nation that you're concerned about today Day or that causes you angst. Folks, they won't rule forever. That also reminds us that you the United States may not always be the major powerhouse of the world. God has done what he has decided in these recent elections, but we don't know what's going to happen in 2025. We don't Know how much longer the United States God is going to use us, how much longer we're going to be in existence. God brings down the mighty from their thrones. They have their time. For uh in his purposes, and they accomplish his purposes, and then he's done with them, because he truly is the mighty ruler that rules above all And no one may go to him and question him, as Nebuchadnezzar said. And so Mary is just merely pointing this out. The mighty people in my area, God will bring them down. But those that have trusted in him and his powerful arm, he will exalt those. Like myself, Mary is saying Who am I to even be noticed by God? A small town, girl. I'm not famous in any way Humble birth, humble beginnings. And this young girl says, Yet, my estate and those of those who have put the Their faith and trust in the mighty arm of God, we will be exalted. We exalt God, and one day he will honor us and exalt us because of his grace. And she is overwhelmed with joy over that. God will make his humble people the kings on the mountain. All these hungry world leaders throughout time, who have literally, some that I've just mentioned, they claw and they fight for every position of power. We have politicians like that today, don't we? That claw and fight and grasp to hold on to their positions of power. And one day they will lose it all. And when Jesus Christ returns, he will show that he is the King on the mountain. And a little tongue-in-cheek here, but we hear a lot about and are concerned about those. countries and those rulers that want to start some sort of new world order, right? A one -world government. Folks, who is the only one Who will come and establish a new world order? It is King Jesus. And he will be successful. In his new world order, and we will be glad and we will rejoice in that. So, whatever world ruler you're concerned about, whatever politician gets your goat and bothers you and calls you Causes you angst. Remember, folks, they're not king on the mountain. And all of those folks will one day bow the knee before the true king. and before his mighty arm. In the seminary I had a particular professor who was significant in my life. He uh he was very popular with his students. He was an Old Testament teacher, and he had insights about God's word that were fascinating and that really made us one of those teachers that really made you think beyond um a cursory reading of God's word and he he he encouraged us to get deeper in and give get better understanding. Well he was kind of a tall but but skinny man. And he gave the testimony that when he was in high school that he tended to be picked on, that he tended to be bullied, uh, because he was thin and skinny, and he wasn't As he had he he in his own words had a powerful mind, but he did not have a very powerful physique. And so he would be picked on on a regular basis. Until he finally, with his powerful mind, he began to think through things and he began to make some powerful friends. He began to help um many um guys that Were the lead athletes in their school, he began to help them with their homework. And he wouldn't cheat and do their homework for them, but he would tutor them and he would help them get a better understanding of the subject. So that they had, they after very quickly started to have an appreciation for this man while he was still in high school. And he eventually found to his To his delight, that when people started picking on him, all of a sudden he could look over to his powerful friends who he had just helped. And they would miraculously just come over and they would alleviate his situation. They would bring salvation to him. Because they didn't want this man who obviously was not very Powerful of physique. He was meaningful to them. They didn't want to see him hurt. He was valuable to them. And so he made friends with powerful people. And thus himself was protected. Salvation came to him, and he wasn't bullied hardly at all after that. But it wasn't because of his own people Intimidated by him and his own stature, it was who he was connected to, right? I think that's a great illustration from what Mary's trying to say here. Folks, it really is who you know. It's who you're connected to. And when you have a faith relationship with Jesus Christ, and you're one of God's God's children, as a result of that, you have the mighty, powerful arm of the God of the universe on your side. Do we ever then need to fear again? Turn that fear into rejoicing. God's gracious work, He will bring salvation, and He brings salvation through His son. Let's continue. Verse 53. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. We talked this morning in our Sunday school class about how God meets our needs. He doesn't always give us everything we want right away, but God will provide for our needs. He's promised that he will And Mary reminds us here that those that have needs that are truly hungry, either physically or spiritually That the Lord would bring substance. And the rich he has sent away empty. The rich is here is a picture, not that everybody that's rich is rejected by God. But the rich here is a picture of those that don't depend upon God and try to get through life and their own resources, which is foolish because God's given them all those resources anyway. But the rich here is a picture of those that have self-dependence, that depend upon themselves, on their own resources, maybe on their own righteousness. But folks, for those that would trust in the Christ child, the one that Mary would bear very Very soon. The one that that would grow and obey God perfectly in his law, the one that would be offered as the spotless lamb for our salvation Salvation would offer his shed blood on a cross for our sins and would be risen again and will one day return for those that put their faith and trust in him. We have all the spiritual sustenance we need. Do we not? We have all we need. Through that baby that became our Savior and died on the cross. We have all of our needs met that we need. And we could truly say He has filled us with good things. Because He's given us His Son, Jesus Christ, to cleanse us from our sin, to reconcile us with God. We of all people today, this morning, are filled with good things. Are you rejoicing in that this morning? I'm sure you've had a lot of good things this week. I hope you have. I hope this last week hasn't been miserable for everyone. Everybody. There's been some hard, some frustrating things, but there's been a lot of good things that we've experienced as a family. And I hope you've experienced some of those good things as well. But all those good things, those blessings, pale in comparison. Folks, to the blessings that we have that I've just mentioned in Christ and his salvation. We of all people are truly blessed. Verse 54: He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of Of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. And here Mary again reminds us. Of our inability to help ourselves, that we need someone to help us, certainly With our spiritual needs. And that God has chosen to help his people, not out of any um Not because not of any reason that they're deserving or any merit of their own. She says it's entirely because he is a God of mercy. Mercy and a God of grace. And so you don't have to work up God's pleasure upon yourself this morning. You don't have to somehow meet some sort of merit or level of attainment in order to uh appreciate and experience God's mercy and his grace upon your lives this morning, folks, because he gives it un Unconditionally to those who recognize their need. And that is another glorious blessing in truth. that we see in this song this morning. None of us deserve this grace, but all of us can have access to his mercy. Because he is merciful. And that word for mercy there means he will help even when we do not deserve it. He will end And he's made promises then, verse 55. He spoke to our fathers, he made promises to Abraham, he made promises To his people in the past, and the promises that he has made will have ramifications for his offspring forever, for eternity. And so, in a more general sense, this includes Us. That God has made promises to Abraham and the saints of the Old Testament, but He's also made promises that He will keep for all of those that are His children. And if you had trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior this morning, you are a beneficiary of many of those promises. And we will experience those promises as Mary says here for all eternity. Mary trusts God's promises to her. Because she sees God fulfilling the promises that he has to those in the past. Did God fulfill his promise to Abraham? Certainly he did. Did God fulfill his promise to King David? David, the list goes on and on. And if folks, if we see God making good on those promises to the saints that have gone before us, then we can trust that He will be steadfast to His promise. Promises to us today. And that is what Mary is saying to us as well. There is no room for doubt or discouragement. These things creep up. Because we're broken. But we don't have to be under the dominion of doubt or of fear of discouragement. Mary breaks through all of that in a song of joy. And would you not agree that this is a young woman who has a lot of uncertainties in her near future? Would you not agree with that? And we know a lot of what she ended up having to go through. As she sings this beautiful song, she really has no idea of what's headed for her. There's a lot of uns Certainties with Mary. And yet here's the one thing. How can she be joyful then and confident? Because she is certain. of the character of her God, Yahweh of Israel. And that certainty causes a glad, joyous response within her. Are you certain of the character of your God this morning? Are you certain of the mercy and the righteousness of your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? If you have that certainty, folks, there will be a joy that wells up within you. You will experience gladness and joy in this Christmas season and throughout 2025. We have no idea, do we, really, what we're facing in 2025. Five. We can make some guesses, but we really don't know. Doesn't that tend to fill us with anxiety and nervousness? New administration There 's a lot of expectations on this new president coming in. What's going to happen before the president gets into office? I mean, all these things. And we don't have the answers yet. any of those things. So how can we not just be reduced to nervous, I don't know, clumps, piles of jelly Well Mary tells us. Because whatever folks we face in the next year, in the next month For those who have relationship with Jesus Christ, we have the powerful arm of God that goes with us. And so we need not fear. But we rejoice in his work in our lives, whether it's painful or whether it's pleasant. Many of us have made plans in this room for next year. We don't know if they're going to come to fruition or not. But God goes with you. Jesus is your shepherd, he is your savior, and he will allow into your life what's best for you. And that should cause us great joy. If there's still someone here this morning who has no idea what I'm talking about when I say you need a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, come talk to me. If you're anxious and concerned and you your your life is driven by worries of the future and of uh what's going to happen on the political scene and what's going to happen in our world. Because you're not anchored in a relationship with Jesus Christ, you can trust Him today. You can know the Savior that provides all the good things that you need. To get through life and to spend eternity with God. And I would love to show you more about how to have a relationship Relationship with Jesus. Let's have a word of prayer. Father Thank you for this truth that Mary reminds us that we don't have to fear and we don't have to be anxious. As 2024 Is drawing to a close. We know that whatever we face, that God's children face it with your all-powerful, all-sustain Sustaining arm of strength. And Lord, let that really sink in this morning. For our folks. Give them joy. Give them peace. Give them that security that someone who is more powerful and greater than they has a keeps us and has us in his hands. Lord, let us go out from here this morning with The security of that thought. And Father, if there is one today that doesn't know Jesus, may today they be willing To throw all their dependence on their self away and choose and trust Jesus as their Savior